D_cument of
The World Bank
FOR oUTcL USE ONLY
Repet No. P-4157-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 13.8 MILLION
TO
THF. REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
December 24, 1985
:Tbkd dez  ut b  a nsutkdd didbuiu ma amy be .d by reipiens oly in the pofmumue d
:~~br             mml c-im   ,w sO  dwbe edd               ko  Ww  Ban  -mwbaf



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Calendar 1984        October 1985
US$1                035.9                ¢60
V.1               US$0.028             US$0.017
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA  -   Canadian International Development Agency
DHHT  -   District Health Management Team
EPI   -   Expanded Program of Immanization
NDPI  -   Management Development and Productivity Institute
'SFEP  -  Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOE   -  Ministry of Education
MOR   -  Ministry of Health
PER   -   Public Expenditure Review
PIL   -   Princess Marie Louise Hospital
P14U   -   Project Management Unit'
PNDC  -   Provisional National Defense Council
UNFPA -   United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF-  United Nations Children's Fund
USAID -   United States Agency for International Development
WHO   -  World Health Organization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GHAXA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                          i
PART I    THE ECONOMY                                                          1
Basic Structural Characteristics  .            - .     .     .    1
Past Economic Developments - The Inheritance       .     .2
A Program of Reforms    .3. .         . .    .                    3
Response of the Economy ...   .......................             4
The Budget ..4
Money and Credit   ... ... ... ...  ...  ...  ...  ...            5
Prices ..5
Balance of Payments                    ..5
Development Program ..   ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...        6
External Debt abd Creditworthiness.          ...  ...  ...  ...   6
PART II   BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA                                       7
Lending Strategy ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...           7
Past Operations  .... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...   8
Project Implementation Experience.         ...  ...  ...  ...     8
IFC Operations.                                                   9
PART III THE HEALTH AND EDUCATION SECTOR                                       9
Introduction   ..9
Population,Health and Nutrition ...  ...  .                      10
Policies and Programs.                     .10
Health Policy.. ... ...                                          11
Population Policy ...                    .11
Public Expenditure Program for
Population, Health and Nutrition .         ...  ...  ...       12
External Assistance to the Sector ..13
Policy Issues and Sectoral Needs (Health) .       .. ...         14
Bank Role ..  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...        14
Education                        ..15
Public Expenditure Program (1986-88) for Education .             16
External Assistance .17
Policy Issues and Sectoral Needs(Education) ...  ...             17
This docamet has a restritd distribution and may be used by recipents only in the performance of
teir official duts Its ontents may not otherwise be dsclosed without World Bank authorization.



GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMABRY
Borrower:      Government of Ghana
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Health (MOH)
Ministry of Education (MOE)
Managemen- Development and Productivity Institute (MDPI)
Amount:        SDR 13.8 lillion (US$15 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Project        The project represents the first secp in the long-term
Description:   rehabilitation of the health and education sectors.
Designed to address the most urgent needs of the two
sectors, the project would: (a) provide emergency assistance
to the health and education systems and to the Mnagement
Development and Productivity Institute (MDPI);  (b) re-
habilitate service delivery at the peripheral level of the
public health system; and (c) strengthen the manafgement and
planning capacity in the Ministries of Health and Education.
The project would provide funding for essential equipment
and supplies, instructional materials, civil works, studies,
technical assistance and training.
Project        The project would yield the following benefits.  The
Benefits       deterioration in the quality of the health and
and Risks:     educational systems would be arrested through provision
of urgently-needed imported equipment, materials and
supplies.   The delivery of primary health care would be
improved and expanded through strengthened community
outreach activities, the principal beneficiaries being womeen
and children.  The institutional capacity for management and
planning in the MOH and MOE would be improved; and special
studies in the health sector would contribute to the
preparation of a long-term sector plan. The project's main
risk concerns the implementation capability of the
ministries. The MOH may experience difficulty in
coordinating and implementing the many activities supported
by external assistance. To help mitigate this risk, the
project would provide 16 man-years of local and foreign
technical assistance to help the MOR. In addition, the MOE
may be hard pressed to oversee the printing and distribution
of a large textbook program envisaged under the project. To
alleviate this problem, about half of the textbook contracts
would be awarded through ICB, and the project would finance
training programs for supervisors and textbook distribution
and storage staff. The project would also support special
project management units in both ministries.



-il-
Estimated Cost:   (net of taxes and duties from which the project would
be exempt).
Local     Foreign     Total
- US$ Million-
Health Component
1. Strengthening Service Delivery
- Urban                                   0.5          1.1     1.6
- Rural                                   1.7         4.5      6.2
2.  Strengthening Ministry of Health
-  Infrastructure                         0.1         0.3      0.4
- Long-Term Planning                      0.4         0.8      1.2
- Medical Supplies, Drugs, etc.           0.0         0.1      0.1
SUB-TOTAL                              2.7         6.8      9.5
Education Component
1. Instructional Materials and Supplies
-  Primary and Middle School Textbooks    1.2           1.6     2.8
- Secondary School and University
Library Books and Journals             0.0         0.6      0.6
2. Strengthening Educational Planning
and Management                            0.1         0.3      0.4
3. Rehabilitation of MDPI                      0.1          0.3     0.4
SUB-TOTAL                                  1.4         2.8      4.2
Repayment of PPF                                  0.2          0.8     1.0 1/
Physical Contingencies                            0.1          0.4     0.5
Price Contingencies                               0.2          0.6     0.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         4.6         11.4    16.0
1/ Of the PPF total, US$0.125 million are for health component and
US$0.875 million for education component.



-iii-
Local     Foreign      Total
USS Million
Financing Plan:
IDA                                            3.6         11.4      15.0
Government                                      1.0         0.0        1.0
TOTAL                                      4.6         11.4      16.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY            86       87       88      89        90      91
US$ Million
Annual             1.5     6.5      4.5      1.5     0.5     0.5
Cumulative        1.5      8.0     12.5    14.0    14.5    15.0
Rate of Return:               Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:       None
Map:                          IBIRD 1921LR



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR A
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Ghana for the equivalent of
SDR 13.8 million (US$15.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a health and education rehabilitation project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana: Towards Structural Adjust-
ment" was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1985. A
summary of the economic situation is presented in this section. Basic
economic data and selected social indicators are summarized in Annex I.
3.        Ghana once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living compared with
most other West African nations. However, a declining gross national
income has combined with high population growth (estimated at about 3 per-
cent a year) to cause a substantial erosion in real per capita income. The
average per capita income in 1984 is estimated at US$350, which represents
a substantial decline over what it was a decade ago. The rate of unemploy-
ment is quite high and underemployment is widespread. Almost half the
population of about 12 million is now estimated to live in absolute
poverty. The country's basic needs indicators, once the best in Africa,
are now no better than those of other Sub-Sab-.a African countries with
comparable per capita incomes. Modern health services are available to
only about a third of the people, and only 47 parcent have access to safe
water. Although the education system is well established and primary
schooling has been free since 1962, 50 percent of adult men and 70 percent
of adult women have had no formal education.
Basic S-ructural Characteristics
4.        Ghana is comparatively well endowed with natural and human
resources. The country has valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold,
but also diamonds, bauxite, manganese, and offshore oil. There is further
potential for hydro power generation. Ghana has a relatively good supply
of land suitable for growing tree crops, most importantly cocoa, but also
oil palm, rubber, and coconut; cereals and starchy staples; and possesses
considerable fishing and forestry resources.
5.        Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for
about half of GDP. Approximately 11 percent of the land area is
cultivated. Previously, cocoa had covered about half of the cultivated
land, but acreage has declined greatly in recent years. Nearly 70 percent
of the population derive an income from agriculture or related activities.



- 2 -
The staple foods are maize, rice, millet, yam, cassava, and plantain but,
except for cassava, yields have stagnated in recent years. Per capita food
production in 1983 was only 61 percent of that in 1975. Prolonged droughts
in 1975-77 and 1982-83, inadequate support services, poor transport facili-
ties, and lack of fertilizers and other inputs contributed to the decline.
In recent years, Ghana has had to import 10 to 15 percent of its cereal
consumption (mainly rice and maize).
6.        Ghana's economy is highly dependent on primary products for
exports. Cocoa (of which Ghana is the world's third largest producer)
contributes about two-thirds of total export earnings, although production
has been declining. Mining, primarily gold, is Ghana's second largest
foreign exchange earner, contributing 20 percent of the total, although
production has fallen over the past two decades. Timber is also an impor-
tant export. Efforts to diversify the export base have not made much
headway.
7.        Industrial production and services currently account for 9 per-
cent and 40 percent of GDP, respecti-ely.  Manufacturing-including tex-
tiles, steel, tires, oil refining and simple consumer goods-contributed
5 percent of GDP in 1984 down from 11 percent in 1970 and provided full- or
part-time employment to just over one-tenth of the labor force. Manufac-
turing in Ghana remains heavily dependent on imported inputs.
8.        Ghana used to import all of its petroleum, mostly in the form of
crude oil, which is refined domestically and used chiefly as fuel for
transport. Recently, some oil deposits have been discovered and commercial
exploitation has commt.. ced. Production of crude is now about 600 barrels
per day, satisfying only a minor share of the country's requirements.
Hydroelectric power meets most of Ghana's non-transport commercial energy
needs. It was drastically affected by the drought during 1983-84, but
production is now returning to more normal levels.
Past Economic Developments - The Inheritance
9.        Throughout the 1970s, Ghana's economy was poorly managed.  Large
budget deficits, necessitated partly to support a sprawling, inefficient
public sector, led to a marked acceleration in domestic inflation. Given
the reluctance to move the exchange rate, the fixed nominal rate became
grossly overvalued, shifting relative incentives away from exports into
import trade, and more specifically from cocoa, Ghana's main export, into
subsistence food production. The resulting deterioration in export perfor-
mance, combined with a growing disenchantment on the part of aid donors
with Ghana's performance, caused a perpetual foreign exchange crisis that
pushed successive Governments into increasingly restrictive import regimes.
What was once an economy with ample imports became one starved of the main
fuel for its growth. The erosion of the tax base due to declining exports
and imports, and the related drop in economic activity forced severe
cutbacks in Government operations and maintenance and capital expenditures.
There was a marked deterioration in what was once a fairly well developed
economic and social infrastructure. This, in turn, further reduced the
country's productive capacity.



-3-
10.       A tendency to respond to shortages with controls and rationing
worsened the problem by eroding the incentives to produce and save, dimin-
ishing the capacity of public sector entities to maintain the level and
quality of services, and creating a vast parallel black market with its
related corruption, smuggling and tax evasion. Declining real wages,
political instability and reduced economic opportunities led talented and
skilled Ghanaians to leave the country, depriving it of scarce managerial,
administrative and technical resources.
11.       To add to all its difficulties, Ghana was subjected in the early
1980s to three other problems. First, a prolonged and severe drought
created the worst food shortages since Independence. Second, the external
terms of trade sharply deteriorated following the increase in petroleum
prices, and a softening in prices of Ghana's major exports (cocoa and
gold). Third, the sudden return of over one million Ghanaians from Nigeria
severely strained the food and employment situation. The cumulative effect
of the downward economic spiral and these most recent "shocks" to the
system can be seen in the trends in key economic indicators between 1970
and 1982: per capita real income declined by 30 percent; import volumes
fell by a third; real export earnings fell 52 percent; domestic savings and
investment declined from 12 and 14 percent of GDP, respectively, in 1970 to
almost insignificant levels; inflation ran at 44 percent per annum over the
period.
A Program of Reforms
12.       The Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC) came to power
under the leadership of Flight Lieutenant Rawlings on December 31, 1981.
An Economic Recovery Program was developed by the Government in close
coordination with the IMF and the World Bank. The program has been sup-
ported by two IMF Standby Arrangements, totaling SDR 419 million, the
latter extending through December 1985; SDR 179 million in purchases from
the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF) on account of both a shortfall in
merchandise exports and an excess in the cost of cereal imports; and two
IDA Export Rehabilitation and two Import Reconstruction Credits, in all
totaling some SDR 187 million. Policy measures were aimed at a realignment
of relative prices in favor of production (particularly cocoa, timber, and
minerals), an improvement in the Government's financial position, and the
encouragement of private investment. The most important measure taken was
the movement towards a more realistic exchange rate. The cedi depreciated
from ¢2.75 = US$1.00 in April 1983 to 050 = US$1.00 by December 1984.
Further adjustments occurred during 1985, the most recent being a move to
060 = US$1.00 in October 1985. Administered prices have been adjusted to
reduce the distortions arising from the overvalued exchange rate, the most
critical being a near doubling of the cocoa producer price announced in May
1985. Petroleum prices have been raised steadily in line with changes in
the exchange rate. In addition, price controls are being dismantled. Only
8 items are now subject to price and distribution controls compared to 23
in April 1983. Interest rates have been adjusted in stages to the point
that they are near-1y positive in real terms. The rate on 12-month time
deposits has doubled since October 1983 to the present level of 18 percent.
The maximum lending rate is now 23 percent, up nine percentage points since
October 1983. In the area of fiscal policy, the Government's efforts have



concentrated on eliminating subsidies; resource mobilization through
improved tax collection and selective increases in consumption taxes and
charges; and more adequate provision for maintenance and capital expendi-
tures. In addition, public sector salaries and wages, and statutory
minimum wages have been raised to offset partially the drastic erosion in
real income. Even after the adjustments, real wages in the public sector
are less than half their 1978 level.
13.       Following che announcement of this program, the Bank, in consul-
tation with the Govet.wtent, decided to reactivate the Ghana ConsulwaZive
Group which had lain dormant for 13 years. There has been a good response
to this initiative. The Group met in Paris, first in November 1983, and
then again in December 1984 and November 1985, and has broadly supported
the GovernmcLlt's program.  Given the new aid commitments of about $478 mil-
lion that materialized following the 1984 meeting and the existing pipe-
line, disbursements during 1985 are estimated to be about US$300 million,
helping to finance the increase in imports, thereby stimulating domestic
production and exports.
Response of the Economy
14.       The initial response of the economy to the policy reforms was
temporarily crippled by the severe drought in 1983 and a lag in aid in-
flows. Nevertheless, the government continued and even broadened the
reform program. After a real decline in output in 1983, economic perfor-
mance sharply improved on several counts in 1984, benefitting to a large
degree from the return to normal rainfall, but also from better policies.
The economy grew by nearly 8 percent. Agriculture led growth because of a
sharp expansion in foodcrops (output more than doubled for several crops),
while cocoa production rose by only 8 percent from the historical low of
the previous crop year. Wholesale and retail trade, and manufacturing
output increased in line with overall growth, reflecting higher import
levels and the restoration of power supplies. Preliminary estimates for
1985 indicate a grouth in GDP of about 5 percent, spurred primarily by
higher output in forestry, mining, and manufacturing. Given the higher
base, growth in agriculture is expected to be less, but cocoa output in
likely to rise to 200,000 tons in the 1985/86 season, an increase of
16 percent over 1984/85.
The Budget
15.       The Government's fiscal position improved markedly in 1984.
Revenues as a share of GDP rose from 5 percent in 1983 to 8 percent in
1984. The gain primarily reflected the impact of the depreciation of the
exchange rate on the tax base and on the profits of export sectors.
Although a lower than expected level of imports caused a shortfall in
revenue in several categories, this was more than made up by higher bank
profits (reflecting the deregulation of interest rates), major gains in
income tax collection, and a sharp increase in nontax revenue. Recurrent
expenditures rose modestly from 7 percent of GDP in 1983 to 8 percent in
1984. Development expenditures and net lending increased to 1.7% of GDP,
somewhat less than planned. As a result of these trends the overall budget
deficit narrowed to 1.7 percent of GDP and reliance on bank financing was



- 5 -
halved to only 0.6 percent of GDP. Although the overall budget deficit is
expected to increase to 2.3 percent of GDP in 1985, primarily because of a
much needed expansion in development expenditures, it is expected that
nearly two-thirds of it will be covered by foreign financing, enabling
domestic bank financing to be contained below the 1984 level.
Money and Credit
16.       The massive exchange rate depreciation since April 1983, together
with the credit ceilings which are part of the government's program under
the DMF Standby Arrangement, resulted in a severe liquidity squeeze in the
banking system during 1984. While the demand for cedi credit to finance
imports expanded sharply, the growth of broad money (M2) declined from
49 percent in 1983 to 29 percent in 1984. Domestic credit rose by 32 per-
cent in 1984, compared to 41 percent in 1983. The slowdown primarily
reflected lower growth in net credit to the government. Although private
sector credit more than doubled (from a very low base) in 1984, the in-
crease was inadequate relative to needs.
Prices
17.       Higher food supplies and the resulting sharp drop in prices was a
major reason for the deceleration in inflation in 1984, from an annual
average increase of 123 percent in 1983 to 40 percent in 1984. This trend
continued during the first half of 1985. The June 1985 point to point rate
was only 7 percent, despite an exchange rate depreciation of about
50 percent in this period. This confirms that prices already were
reflecting scarcity values and the tightness of current fiscal and monetary
policies.
Balance of Payments
18.       The current account of the balance of payments showed a deficit
of 2.7 percent of GDP in 1984, close to the 1983 level. This outcome was
considerably lower than had been expected, almost entirely due to a large
import shortfall because of the continued tight foreign exchange situation
during the first half of the year. Export earnings rose by about 30 per-
cent, reflecting higher world prices for cocoa and an increase in
electricity sales. On the capital account, in spite of some initial
delays, aid disbursements rose sharply; net aid increased from 0.9 percent
of GDP in 1983 to 3.4 percent in 1984. Allowing for other official and
private capital movements, the overall deficit in 1984 amounted to
$121 million. This was financed by net IMF purchases of $214 million. The
balance of Fund resources was used to reduce arrears and to build up
foreign exchange reserves. In 1985 both exports and imports are expected
to recover further and the current account deficit is projected to widen to
5.5 percent of GDP. Higher capital inflows are forecast, enabling the
overall deficit to decline from the 1984 level. Expected IMF repurchases
would be sufficient to cover the deficit and to clear more payment arrears.



-6-
Development Program
19.       In addition to achieving an appropriate incentive framework,
public expenditure policy is an equally important component of the Govern-
ment's development strategy. The neglected state of Ghana's economic and
social infrastructure has become a critical bottleneck to the reform
v~ program's efforts to generate a strong supply response.  Recognizing this
weakness, the Government's Economic Recovery Program for L984-86 initiated
rehabilitation programs in key sectors - cocoa, timber, gold mining, and
transport infrastructure. At the same time, the Government has begun to
prepare a three-year rolling development program, beginning in 1986, based
on a review of public expenditures conducted jointly with the Bank in the
spring of 1985. ihe highest priorities in the area of recurrent expendi-
tures are to restore the viability and efficiency of public administration
and to expand significantly support to health and education. In addition,
adequate allocations need to be provided for operations and maintenance.
To meet these needs, the annual average recurrent expenditures during
1986-88 would have to be about 20 percent higher in real terms than the
levels budgeted in 1985. The initial work on the capital side indicates
substantial rehabilitation needs of the strategic economic sectors -
agriculture, mining, and economic infrastructure. Consequently, there is a
large number of projects with high returns on incremental investments. The
only area where significant new investments have been identified is oil
exploration, which would be financed primarily by foreign investors.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
20.       Ghana's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding
and disbursed at end-1984 amounted to $1.1 billion, about 20 percent of
G1DP. Bilateral creditors account for slightly less than half of the total,
multilateral sources for about 40 percent (Bank loans and IDA credits
comprise 28 percent of total debt), and suppliers credits for only 10 per-
cent. Despite the predominance of soft loans, Ghana's debt service burden
in the coming years is likely to be very heavy, for several reasons: first,
amortization of previously rescheduled debt began in 1983; second, there is
a relatively large amount of short-term debt, including $230 million of
payment arrears at end-1984 which are to be cleared by 1988; and third, the
reported debt excludes the use of Fund credit under the recent Standby
Arrangements. The debt service ratio doubled from 14 percent in 1982 to
29 percent in 1984. Including IMF charges and arrears payments, the share
was 44 percent. In 1985-86 the debt service ratio is expected to be about
44 percent, 60 percent including IMF charges and arrears payments.
21.       In spite of the considerable gains which have been made, Ghana's
economic situation remains difficult. That consideration plus the coun-
try's dependence on, and hence vulnerability to, fluctuations in cocoa
earnings, make it desirable that future debt service obligations be kept as
low as possible. In addition, Ghana's per capita income is relatively low
($350). Consequently, Ghana will have to depend on IDA resources for Bank
Group borrowing over the next few years. In order to help ensure an
adequate flo-w of toreign exchange into Ghana and to supplement the coun-
try's resource mobilization efforts, it also would be appropriate for
donors to finance a significant portion of local project costs.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
Lending Strategy
22.       The principal objectives which now guide the formulation of the
Bank's assistance program to Ghana are: (a) to support the adoption of
policies designed to adjust the structure and improve the efficiency of the
economy and return it to a path of growth; (b) to help rehabilitate and
improve capacity utilization of the country's existing productive assets;
(c) to stimulate agricultural and industrial production, particularly for
export promotion and efficient import substitution; and (d) to improve the
country's essential infrastructure (transport, water, petroleum, power) and
relieve major bottlenecks to increased production. The Bank Group is
undertaking a substantial program of economic and sector work to broaden
and deepen understanding of the constraints which are likely to impede the
recovery process and to provide direction to future lending and the design
of project components. An economic memorandum (Report No. 5854-GH dated
October 7, 1985) has been prepared and, in preparation for the Second
Reconstruction Imports Credit, the Government budget and import program for
1985 were reviewed in detail. A public expenditure review, an agricultural
sector review and an industrial sector study have been completed. An
energy assessment is currently being carried out. In both lending and
economic sector work, attention is being given to ways of strengthening the
institutions responsible for economic management and development spending.
The Bank's dialogue has been most effective, and the Government continues
to be both receptive and responsive to the Bank's advice.
23.       In response to the Government's announcement of a major economic
reform program in April 1983, the Bank Group reopened its lending to Ghana
which had been put in abeyance for nearly two years due to political and
economic uncertainties and lack of proper economic policies. The Executive
Directors approved a US$40 million Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC) which
aim to meet emergency import requirements for the agricultural and trans-
port sectors and is now approaching successful completion. A second RIC
for US$60 million covering the agriculture, transport, mining and manufac-
turing sectors was approved in March 1985 and supplemented with a Special
African Facility Credit of US$27 million in September 1985. Two credits
were also made for export rehabilitation and related technical assistance.
To date, despite some expected initial problems, the performance on
projects approved after April 1983 has been satisfactory.
24.       In the near term, IDA expects to support programs for rehabili-
tation of Ghana's main ports as well as an agricultural rehabilitation
project emphasizing cash crops. Similarly, in industry, the rehabilitation
and restructuring of key subsectors is envisaged. In brief, projects with
major rehabilitation components are likely to absorb the bulk of IDA
resources for the next few years as these are likely to show the highest
benefits and quickest returns. IDA is also maintaining a dialogue with the
Government for a possible structural adjustment credit in the near future.
The extent to which the Bank Group can provide financial and technical
assistance to support such a broad-based program will be conditioned upon
the performance of the Government in carrying through its economic recovery



-8-
program. However, implementation of the recovery program and of the
rehabilitation-related projects also depends on improvement in the social
sectors. The proposed project is IDA's first attempt to rehabilitate the
badly deteriorated health and education sectors.
Past Operations
25.       Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has mtade 10 loans totalling US$189.7 million and 30 credits
totalling US$595.2 million (including two Special African Facility Credits
for US$37 million). In addition, Ghana is a beneficiary of a Bank-financed
regional clinker project covering three countries (Togo, Ivory Coast and
Ghana). An IFC investment of US$55 million in Ashanti Goldfields
Corporation in Ghana was approved in June 1984. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of September 30, 1985.
26.       Energy has been a major focus of Bank Group lending to Ghana
(23.5 percent of commitments). Projects financed in this sector include
three hydro power generation projects and three power distribution
projects. A project aimed at strengthening Ghana's technical capacity to
accelerate petroleum exploration was approved in May 1983. A second
project in the sector, approved in March 1984, provideg technical assis-
tance and financing of immediate requirements for rehabilitation of Ghana's
sole refinery. The second most important sector in the Bank Group's
program in Ghana is transportation (18.2 percent of commitments) with four
road projects and a railway rehabilitation project. The two Reconstruction
Import Credits and the Export Rehabilitation Project are also providing
partial emergency assistance to the road transport and port subsectors.
The Accra District Rehabilitation Project supports the transport subsector
in the Accra area as well as the strengthening of the administrative and
financial basis of the Accra City Council and the improvement of a poorer
section of the city. In agriculture (17.4 percent of commitments), the
main thrust of the Bank Group's operations has been tc assist the country
in achieving self-sufficiency in agricultural production, particularly food
and raw materials for agro-industries, and rehabilitating the cocoa
subsector. In the field of water supply, three projects (in 1969, 1974 and
1983) have helped increase and improve water supply in the Accra/Tema
metropolitan area and adjacent rural areas, with the most recent one
helping to carry out emergency repairs and maintenance on main water
pipelines. In the manufacturing sector, two DFC operations (in 1975 and
1979) have financed investment projects in manufacturing and agro-industry
undertaken by small and medium enterprises.
Project Implementation Experience
27.       The country's economic difficulties in recent years have
adversely affected a number of Bank Group-financed projects. Dwindling
Government revenues have denied projects needed local financing, and the
lack of foreign exchange has resulted in a severe shortage of imported
materials and spare parts required for completed projects. The mass exodus
of qualified Ghauaians to neighboring countries, and demoralization,
absenteeism and low productivity among the remaining work force have also
adversely affected project performance. The unusually adverse conditions



- 9 -
surrounding Bank Group-financed projects and their generally poor perfor-
mance have been described in greater detail in the Project Performance
Audit Reports. Overall, the main conclusion of the reports was that
macroeconomic and sectoral policy constraints were the major factors
responsible for poor performance of the audited projects. Because of
delays experienced in the implementation of a number of Bank Group-financed
projects in Ghana, disbursement performance is behind appraisal estimates.
Annual gross disbursements over the four-year period FY81-84 have averaged
about 20 percent of outstanding loan/credit commitments and as of
September 30, 1985, US$365.6 million remained undisbursed. The Bank Group
has held periodic implementation reviews with the Government to identify
steps which could be taken by borrowers and the Bank Group to accelerate
disbursement on ongoing loans and credits.
IFC Operations
28.       IFC approved an investment of US$55 million in the mining sector
(Ashanti Goldfields Corporation Ltd. (AGC)) in June 1984. This is IFC's
first investment in Ghana. The loan will help finance a US$158 million
rehabilitation project designed to increase gold output from about
255,000 oz. in 1984 to 400,000 oz. in 1989-90, a level of production AGC
last achieved in the early 1970s before the deterioration in Ghana's
foreign exchange situation began to affect production at the mine.
PART III - THE HEALTH AND EDUCATION SECTOR
Introduction
29.       The economic decline of the past decade in Ghana has had a
particularly serious impact on the social sectors. The health and
education systems have severely deteriorated in urban as well as rural
areas.  Macro-economic constraints have limited expenditures in both
sectors which, together with the Government wage policy, have contributed
to manpower deficits, inadequate support services and ineffective
administrative capacity. Skewed resource allocations have resulted in more
emphasis on hospital and curative care rather than primary health and
preventive care and on university training rather than primary education.
Since the constraints affecting Government expenditures in health and
education are likely to continue, the health and education sectors must
improve the use of existing human and financial resources and introduce
cost recovery measures to help meet part of the required operating costs.
Further deterioration in the health and education systems should be
prevented by a meaningful rehabilitation program, for which a significant
increase in external assistance is required.
30.       The Bank has recently carried out a Public Expenditure Review
(PER) on a broad spectrum of the Ghanaian economy. The results of the
review have been discussed with the Government. Based on the discussions,
the priorities and target areas in the health and education sectors have
been established. The project has been formulated on the basis of these



- 10 -
priorities and addresses as well the emergency aspects of the health and
education sectors.
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Policies and Programs
31.       Status.  The economic difficulties of the past decade have led to
a marked deterioration in health care services and general impairment of
health. Although the allocation for health expenditures has been
maintained at 7 to 10 percent of the national budget, the per capita
expenditure in the health sector has been reduced in nominal terms from
about US$10 in 1974 to US$4 in 1984. In real terms the decline has been
even greater. The budget is unbalanced with urban facilities receiving
more than 80 percent of the total budget allocation. Moreover, Government
expenditures in the health sector in recent years have been almost
exclusively on wages, with limited support for critical non-wage items and
vIrtually none for capital expenditures. Very low wages and poor working
conditions have contributed tc- the exodus of physicians and nurses as well
as to low morale. For example, between 1981 and 1984 the number of
physicians in Ghana dropped by one half-from 1,665 to 817.  Limited
expenditures on budgeted non-wage items have resulted in inadequate support
(logistics, supplies, communications). Lack of foreign exchange has
severely limited imports of spare parts, equipment and drugs. Con-
sequently, hospitals, health centers, training institutions and storage
facilities are in disrepair, and vehicles are poorly maintained.   The
Ministry of Health's national radio communications network has broken down.
In essence, the disruption in service delivery is the result of a general
breakdown in the administrative and support systems. Nonetheless, many MOR
workers, especially at the peripheral level in rural and urban areas and at
the specialized referral hospitals treating severe malnutrition cases, have
persevered in delivering some degree of health care under very trying
conditions.
32.       Vital statistics have not been updated since the end of the
1970's and do not reflect accurately the dramatic effect of the deteriora-
tion. Recent reports indicate that mortality has increased, especially in
infants and children. Provision of health services has been disrupted by
lack of supplies and manpower, thus reducing the utilization of such
services in most facilities. The decreased production of food crops,
drought conditions, declining purchasing power and dramatic increases in
food prices in recent years have adversely affected nutritional status,
particularly among pregnant and lactating mothers and pre-school children.
Since the impact of these factors on food consumption is not well
documented, there is need for better information on nutritional status and
for comparing basic indicators over time.
33.       The MOE delivery system is orgunized into 10 health regions, each
with 3 to 10 Government districts-a total of 68 districts nationwide. Two
teaching hospitals, 9 regional hospitals and some 50 district hospitals
serve as referral centers and provide tertiary and secondary care services.



- 11 -
The MOH (1985) personnel staff includes about 460 doctors, 10,000 nurses
and 27,000 other workers (principally non-health providers). The organiza-
tion and delivery of health services is based on a three-tier system in
each of the districts. The district (Level C) is responsible for planning,
monitoring, supervision, data collection, budgeting and finance and is
headed by a District Health Management Team (DEKT) consisting of a medical
officer, public health nurse, health inspector, health administrator and
medical officer-in-charge of the district hospital. The health stations
(Level B), which cover a population of 5,000 to 20,000 within a five-mile
radius, are responsible for the first level of referral and supervision of
community-level workers and are staffed by one or more community nurse
midwives, environmental health workers and auxiliaries. The community
(Level A) consists of community-based workers (community clinic attendant,
traditional birth attendant and community environmental development worker)
who are selected and compensated by the community and work with the Volun-
teer Health Brigade overseen by the Local Health Committee. (An organiza-
tion chart of the MOE is found in Annex VII.)
34.       Health Policy.  In 1978, Ghana formulated a primary health care
(PEC) policy and strategy within the context of the WHO Alma-Ata Declara-
tion. The goal was to provide PEC services to 80 percent of the population
by 1990 and to focus on common health problems that account for 80 percent
of avoidable mortality and morbidity. Despite the policy statement and
subsequent endorsement of the PHC strategy in 1982 by the PNDC Government,
initial efforts to promote PHC in 25 of the 68 districts failed due to
inadequate training, lack of essential support systems (equipment, trans-
port, supplies) and poor supervision. Nevertheless, in view of renewed
Government interest in community outreach programs, including the PlC
concept, and the availability of external assistance, the MOH has outlined
a sector strategy to:
a)   restructure the delivery of health services with the health
station (Level B) as the focal point;
b)   promote community involvement in health services management; and
c)   generate revenues to help meet operating costs through user fees
and the sale of drugs.
In order to implement the strategy, the MOH has developed a short-term plan
for 1986-88 (para. 36) and intends to develop a long-term plan on the basis
of carefully-conducted sectoral studies.
35.       Population Policy.  In 1969, Ghana established the first official
population policy in Sub-Saharan Africa. A population program was begun in
the early 1970's to help meet the country's demographic goal of a
population growth rate of 1.8 percent by the year 2000. However,
achievement has fallen far short of the goal. The population growth rate
remains high; contraceptive practice is low (5 to 7 percent); and desired
family size is still large. In addition, the Government entity responsible
for planning and coordinating population programs in the public and private
sectors is practically moribund. The Ghana National Family Planning
Program (GNFPP) Secretariat tried, unfortunately, to become an operational



- 12 -
rather than coordinating body, creating in the process a cadre of family
planning nurses with special allowances. As a result, mny health
providers in the Ministry of Health, especially nurses, consider family
planning an "additional task" rather than an important element of maternal
and child health services. Because of the limited public sector activity,
non-governmental organizations, particularly the Planned Parenthood
Association of Ghana, have been the major, albeit limited, providers of
family planning information and services. The NOR now plans to take
responsibility for the delivery of family planning services in the public
sector. The goal is to increase contraceptive usage through the MOH from
two to six percent by the end of 1987. 1/
Public Expenditure Program (1986-88) for Population, Health and Nutrition
36.       During the Public Expenditure Review (PER), the mission and MOH
officials agreed to construct a three-year expenditure program based on the
Ministry's needs, rehabilitation strategy and program priorities. The
major focus would be on the infrastructure support required to rehabilitate
existing facilities in order to build a viable base for the PHC system,
particularly in rural areas. The specific priority activities identified
were maternal and child health and family planning; expanded program of
immunization (EPI); diarrheal disease control; health and nutrition educa-
tion; malaria control and sanitation. To strengthen and improve the
implementation of these programs the MOHB's principal needs were determined
to be: (a) rehabilitation of rural health stations, urban health centers
and selected hospitals; (b) in-service technical and managerial training at
the regional, district and health center levels; (c) improvement of the
logistical system, including the cold chain for vaccines and distribution
of supplies, drugs and contraceptives; (d) development of a basic health/
management information system; and (e) implementation of cost recovery
measures. It was further agreed that preparation of a long-term health
sector plan should start as soon as possible to serve as the basis for the
second phase of the MOB rehabilitation and health services improvement
program.
37.       The three-year (1986-88) expenditure program, which represents a
preliminary estimate of the financial requirements for the first phase of
the MOH's rehabilitation program, totals some US$390.0 million, of which
US$ 304.0 million are for recurrent expenditures. The projections are
based on: (a) an approximately 50 percent increase in MOR salaries by 1988
in constant 1985 prices to improve incentives for qualified staff; (b) a
more than two-fold increase by 1988 in support of non-wage expenditures;
(c) generation of revenues equivalent to 15 percent of total recurrent
expenditures in 1986 and remaining at that level euzrough 1988; and
1/   If the commercial sector, through some 3,000 commercial outlets and
with external assistance (USAID), goes fron virtually nothing at
present to 7 percent, and the non-governmental organizations remain at
about 3 percent, the cortraceptive prevalence rate of the combined
programs is expected to reach 16 percent by 1988.



- 13 -
(d) continued subvention to church-run hospitals, more than doubling
through 1988.
38.       The Government is expected to finance about 60 percent
(US$190.0 million equivalent) of total recurrent expenditures and cover an
additional 15 percent through cost recovery measures. If total recurrent
expenditures reach US$304.0 million, then the amount financed by Government
and generated by cost recovery would be US$190.0 million and
US$42.0 million respectively. As for capital expenditures, it is assumed
that the Government could finance at best 15 percent (US$13.0 million
equivalent) of the total. Assuming a US$390.0 million program for
1986-1988, the external financial requirements would be US$145.0 million.
Of this amount, other donors are assisting the health sector with some
US$50.0 million, or about one-third of the financial gap. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that the Government would undertake a cost
recovery program which would generate revenues equivalent to at least
15 percent of total recurrent expenditures of MOR in 1986, 1987 and 1988.
External Assistance to the Sector
39.       The external assistance of US450.0 million is based on known and
anticipated support from a number of multilateral and bilateral donors. 1/
(Details of the external assistance are provided in Annex IX.)
(a) UNICEF has approved a US$8.4 million five-year project to support
immunization and diarrheal disease control nationvide, and health and
nutrition activities in about 25 percent of the districts.
(b) UNFPA has funded a US$3.0 million four-year project, of which half is
for maternal and child health and family planning, and half is for
data collection and analysis of the 1984 census. Pendting approval by
the UNFPA is an additional project to assess the impact of the
national population policy and prepare a multisectoral plan for
population, human resources and development planning.
(c)  USAID has approved a US$7.5 million three-year project to support the
distribution of contraceptives through the MOB infrastructure and the
private commercial sector. USAID will also support In-service
technical and managerial training for health providers and improvement
of the MOH logistics system.
1/  Not included in the US$50.0 million is the indirect support to the
health sector from the Federal Republic of Germany which approved a
DM 33.0 million (approximately US$10.0 million) three-vear loan in
January this year to expand the manufacturing capability of GIHOC
Pharmaceutical Company, which manufactures essential drugs for the
MOH.



- 14 -
(d) WHO, which provides US$1.2 million in biennial support to Ghana,
recently funded missions to study the organization and management of
the MOH and the system of drugs procurement, storage and distribution.
(e) CIDA approved in 1984 a US$2.5 million five-year project as part of
the integrated development program in the Northern Region to
strengthen the MOH infrastructure and support PHC and immunization
programs in rural areas.
(f)  The Swiss Government provided a loan of US$1.0 million to purchase raw
materials for local drug production.
(g) The Japanese Government recently extended its support to the Noguchi
Memorial Institute for tropical disease research for another
five years at approximately US$0.5 million annually.
(h) The Saudi Fund for Development has offered a US$10.0 million loan
which the MOH has requested be used to finance the rehabilitation of
teaching and regional hospitals, or alternatively, to construct
modified health stations at the "B" Level.
(i) The African Development Bank (ADB) has approved a study loan of
US$1.7 million to conduct feasibility studies and prepare detailed
specifications for five district hospitals, the two-teaching hospitals
and a regional hospital. The ADB would carry over US$13.0 million
into 1986 to fund rehabilitation of some of the hospitals.
Despite the amount of external assistance anticipated, it remains signifi-
cantly short of the sectoral needs as projected in the public expenditure
program.
Policy Issues and Sectoral Needs
40.       To summarize, the major policy issues and program constraints in
the health sector relate to: (a) skewed allocation of resources favoring
the hospital sector over primary health care and urban over rural areas;
(b) present limited non-wage expenditures and virtually no capital expendi-
tures; (c) manpower constraints-shortages, maldistribution and
over-specialization, lack of technical and managerial skills, overstaffing
of non-technical health personnel; (d) limited cost recovery; (e) lack of a
long-term health sector plan; and (f) increasing need for closer
coordination of government and foreign donor efforts. The priority
sectoral needs are to prevent further deterioration of, and thereby raise
morale in, the MOH health care system; provide badly-needed foreign
exchange for the rehabilitation and re-eqeipping of facilities basic to the
delivery of PHC, particularly at the peripheral level in urban and rural
areas; and provide support for management, planning and sectoral analysis.
Bank Role
41.       Beyond providing financial assistance to the investment program,
the Bank can make a significant contribution to the health sector in Ghana
by: (a) assisting the Government in c3ordinating external assistance and



- 15 -
targeting it to priority areas; the recent PER mission is an example;
(b) supporting the development of long-term planning, including studies
leading to possible policy changes; in this the Bank has a comparative
advantage, particularly on studies related to cost effectiveness and health
care financing; and (c) seeking cofinancing for non-wage recurrent expendi-
tures essential for operating the aystem. The disruption of the management
and support systems in the health sector precludes at this stage, of
course, the implementation of an ambitious development program. Thus, the
proposed project is aimed mainly at the most urgently-needed aspects of the
sector requirements, while establishing a firm basis for longer-term
support for sector rehabilitation and development with assistance from the
Bank and other donors. In order to effectively assist the Government in
coordinating external assistance, agreement of the MOE was obtained during
negotiations to (i) review annually with IDA (a) the investments made by
the Government in the health sector during the 12 months immediately
preceding the date of any such review, and (b) the investments proposed to
be made by the Government in the health sector during the 12 months
immediately following any such review; and (ii) provide data and other
information enabling the determination of the recurrent cost implications
of the Government's investments in the health sector by the Government and
IDA. The proposed project, coupled with consultations on the investment
program, is aimed at ensuring that the priority recurrent and capital
requirements in the health expenditure program are met even in the event
that the remaining financing gap is not fully covered by additional
external assistance (para. 38).
EDUCATION
Policies and Programs
42.       Status.  Ghana has neglected its educational system for over a
decade. During the 1970's education expenditure as a proportion of GDP
averaged 3.4 percent which was below the average of 5.2 percent for--ether
Sub-Saharan Anglophone countries. This situation has worsened in the
1980's. Expenditures on education were estimated at 1.0 percent of GDP in
1983 and 1984, and are budgeted at 1.7 percent of GDP in 1985. (Recent
education expenditures are found in Annex X.) While primary school enroll-
ment ratios have been maintained at about 73 percent (77 percent for boys
and 70 percent for girls) largely through the momentum of past efforts, the
impact of this reduced inflow of resources has manifested itself in various
ways. First, there is a very high drop-out rate at both primary and
secondary levels, and the number of places available at the upper end of
the first, the second and third (college and university) cycles are
limited. Thus, less than 7 percent of Ghanaian children gain admission to
secondary schools; only 1.1 percent get into sixth form and Q.8 percent
into university.- In addition, in the upper cycles, particularly in the
sciences and technical courses, equipment has gone unrepaired and
unreplaced, while chemicals and supplies are in extremely short supply. At
the same time, teachers' incomes have eroded, leading to an exodus of
trained and experienced teachers from the educational system. The inevit-
able result has been a deterioration of the quality of education in Ghana
from that achieved in the 1960's and 1970's.
43.       Financial allocation, particularly foreign exchange, for the
provision of instructional materials (e.g. textbooks, stationery, library



- 16 -
books, journals, pens, pencils, laboratory supplies, etc.) has been ex-
tremely restricted since 1980. For those imported supplies it is estimated
that during 1980-1984 the Government was able to provide only about US$2.8
million out of a requirement of US$20 million for primary and middle
schools, and only US$3.6 million out of an estimated requirement of about
US$20 million for secondary schools. Allocations for post-secondary
institutions and universities were even smaller. In all educational
institutions, the impact of these low funding levels of non-wage
expenditures is pronounced. Many schools have no books at all, or at best
very sparse stocks of old and out-of-date books. The problem appears to be
be more serious in rural than urban schools, where an expensive second-hand
market exists for those who can afford the inordinately high prices. In
rural areas even the second-hand option is often not available.
44.       While the first priority is to increase the volume of resources
going to education, even within the limited resources available, the
Ghanaian system of education finances is confronted with several serious
problems. These include: (a) budgetary allocations have been heavily
skewed in favor of higher levels of education; (b) the unit costs of second
and third cycle education are high; (c) teacher salaries account for more
than 90 percent of recurrent expenditure at first cycle; (d) local
authorities have been unable to finance capital development of the first
cycle; and (e) there is a lack of cost recovery measures at all levels of
the system, especially third and second cycles. Regarding the allocation
of Government expenditures, about one-third of total education expenditures
in 1984 was in primary schools where nearly two-thirds of the total
students are enrolled, while university education with less than one-half
of one percent enrollment accounted for over 17 percent. The high unit
costs associated with second and third cycle education are due in large
part to boarding costs and other government subsidies. Annual boarding
subsidies to second cycle institutiGus are estimated at US$7.2 million,
more than actual non-wage expenditures on primary education in the recent
past. The relatively low student/teacher ratios in all types of second and
third cycle institutions also raise unit costs, even though these are
relatively low when compared to other anglophone African countries.
45.       At present, cost recovery measures are negligible at all levels
of the educational system, and cost savings measures have not been intro-
duced. While nominal fees are charged for books and supplies at first and
second cycles, these amount to less than one percent of actual costs. The
government fully subsidizes boarding and other services in the third cycle,
charges no fees for tuition, and in some cases pays student allowances. As
a result of these increased financial costs and the general squeeze in the
budget, wages as a percentage of total expenditures in primary and middle
schools have increased in the 1980's to over 90 percent, resulting in
shortages of textbooks and materials at all levels. In addition, local
authorities have been unable to build new primary schools as well as
maintain existing schools. Under present fiscal arrangements, local
authorities do not have the tax base to carry out these functions. This is
both a short and longer term policy issue facing fi-st cycle education in
particular.



- 17 -
Public Expenditure Program (1986-88) for Education
46.      'The Bank has recently been involved in reviewing the overall
resource requirements of the education sector over the 1986-88 period in
the context of the Public Expenditure Review (PER) mission. The PER
mission has recommended a total "core" program in the education sector of
US$457 million over 1986-88. This would represent an increase of
4.1 percent per annum over the 1984 allocation. This is only a modest
increase, considering that the education sector's allocation constituted
only 1.0 percent of GDP in 1984. The findings of the PER mission will be
further refined during preparation of a medium-term sector project
currently underway.
External Assistance
47.       The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), UK Overseas
Development Administration (ODA), various religious-based relief
organizations, British Council (which operates a modest textbook program
primarily for secondary schools and universities), and UNICEF provide
assistance to Ghana for education.
Policy Issues and Sectoral Needs
48.       The major policy issues with regard to education include:
(a) the limited volume of resources directed to the sector, when considered
against the importance of human resources development to the Government's
overall rehabilitation and future development plans; (b) the lack of
investment strategy for recovery and eventual growth in the sector,
including appropriate policies on cost recovery and criteria for allocating
resources among various subsectors within the system; and (c) the need to
improve sector management. Implicitly, through declining investment in
education, the Government is pursuing a policy of divestment in human
resource development. This is quite possibly a consequence of the lack of
long term investment strategy for the sector and of an analysis of how the
educational system in its entirety and through specific subsectors is
related to development. For example, the importance of linking
agricultural development to the educational system seems neglected, as does
the importance of basic education. These gaps are reflected in skewed
resource allocations as well as the declining resource pool for the
educational system.
49.       The Ghanaian education system needs imediate rehabilitation to
prevent further non-recuperable losses of both capital and human resources.
The thrust of any future rehabilitation program should be to revitalize
deteriorating capital stock and to arrest the declining quality of inputs
and outputs of the sector at all levels. The Government has developed
strategies for strengthening and reforming the educational system over the
medium term, and is, through its education commission, still working on
their elaboration. Most significant among these is the decision to change
the structure of the school system, and reduce the pre-university cycle
from 17 years to 13 years. The Government also intends to embark on a
program of curriculum reform (especially for the Grade 7-9 level of basic
education) to ensure that education is more relevant and practically



- 18 -
oriented to the local environment. Additionally, the Government plans to
ensure that all students have access to textbooks and other essential
supplies, while taking appropriate steps to ensure that the students
eventually pay for these. Finally, the Government plans to ensure that, as
soon as possible, students living in hostels will pay the full cost of
their board and lodging. Certain policy issues, mostly pedagogical, still
remain under consideration. Included among these issues are: the degree
to which prevocational subjects should be taught; the methodologies used to
teach prevocational subjects; the number of books that are required; the
amount of time by which the school year and school day can be lengthened to
aid in providing more effective teaching and learning; and the extent to
which the number of non-teaching staff can be reduced throughout the
educational system.
50.       Ghana's large public sector has enormous needs for in-service
training and management improvement to increase its productivity. Civil
service training centers provide for the training of lower-level staff;
higher levels are served by the Ghana Institute of Management and Public
Administration (GIMPA) and by the Management Development and Productivity
Institute (MDPI), as well as a small private sector capacity. MDPI's
objectives are to improve management, efficiency and productivity in both
public and private sectors in industry, commerce and agriculture through
the provision of management training, consultancy and research services;
over the past two decades over 12,000 managers and supervisors have been
trbined, three-quarters from the private sector, and 150 consultancy
assignments completed. Annex VIII sets out the objectives and functions of
MDPI.
51.      MDPI has recently convened several high-level committees to
evaluate its past activities and map out a strategy to enable it to play
its intended role. The new strategy would consist of:
(a)  transfer of MDPI to the responsibility of the PNDC Coordinating
Secretary, establishment of a policy-making and supervisory
board, and increased autonomy for MDPI management;
(b) change in mix of activities to emphasize consultancy and training
at the expense of research, and modernization of management
systems at the expense of secondments and restructuring
exercises;
(c) expansion of professional staff by 50 percent over 2-3 years,
with a corresponding rundown in excessive administrative staff to
restrain personnel costs;
(d) increased self-financing through consultancy and training fees
from the present 10 percent, to reduce dependence on Government
subsidies;
(e) provision of emergency needs to enable MDPI to function properly
in the short-run; and of technical assistance to enable it to
prepare its future plans; and



- 19 -
(f) decisions on the completion of campus complex.
Bank Role
52.       The Government is formulating policy guidelines and a medium and
long term recovery strategy, including (a) major policy guidelines for each
subsector, and (b) investment priorities for 1986-88. Bank assistance to
address medium-term needs is currently under discussion (para. 46). In the
meantime, Bank-funded emergency assistance is essential to prevent further
deterioration of the school system and begin building the required
institutional capacity to manage sector rehabilitation. The components
which have been identified for emergency support were selected on the
following criteria: (a) they address the most pressing needs of the
sector; (b) they are designed to strengthen key institutions; (c) they are
simple in design and easy to implement; and td) they consist mainly of
imported equipment and materials in order to alleviate the scarcity of
foreign exchange allocated to the sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       Following a Government request the project was identified by a
Bank mission in April 1984, prepared by the Government with the assistance
of the Bank, and appraised in May 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington from December 2 to 6, 1985; the Ghanaian delegation was headed
by Mrs. V. Yeboah, PNDC Undersecretary for Education, and included
representatives from the Ministries of Health, and Finance and Economic
Planing, and MDPI. Supplementary data are presented in Annex III.
Project Objectives
54.       The proposed project would be the first Bank Group operation in a
social sector in Gfana. It would address the most urgent rehabilitation
needs in health and education. Moreover, it would serve as a key element
in Bank support for Ghana's economic recovery program by helping to arrest
the rapid deterioration of the social sectors and by establishing the basis
for longer-term assistance from the Bank and other donors. The project
objectives are threefold:
(a) to provide emergency assistance to the health and education
systems and to MDPI;
(b) to rehabilitate service delivery at the peripheral level of the
public health system, with special emphasis on immunization,
family planning and nutrition; and
(c) to strengthen MOH and MOE management and planning capacity and
support the development of planning and analysis functions
required in both ministries for further sectoral adjustment
(financing, manpower, organizational).



- 20 -
Project Description
55.       To fulfill these objectives, the project would provide financing
for two main components:
Part A: Health
56.       Strengthening Service Delivery.  The project would strengthen the
most immediate and cost-effective means to expand health, nutrition and
family planning services. The project would re-equip and provide essential
supplies to about 100 rural health stations (about 50 percent of the total
irmber in Ghana) and to 7 urban health centers in Greater Accra and 4 urban
centers in Kumasi. It would also provide for rehabilitation of two of the
urban centers in Kumasi. By supporting these institutions, the project
would provide much needed general support for primary health care delivery
and strengthen commnity outreach activities to the villages and to satel-
lite "clinics" (held in schools, stores, garages, etc.) in the two major
cities (Accra and Kumasi).  Moreover, since these institutions are the
first level of referral and responsible for the supervision of community-
level workers, support to them would expand the linkages between the
community and the NOE and thereby increase the number of referrals to all
levels of service delivery.  Similar assistance would-go to about 50
percent of the district health management teams (DE=T) which are;key-tosthe
training, support and supervision of health station personnel. The project
would also complement UNICEF's support in rural areas for training, mitri-
tion education, grinding mills for weaning food production at the community
level organized by local women's groups, and water and sanitation.
57.       In addition to the general support for primary health care (PHC),
the project would strengthen specific MKO priority programs, such as
imminization, family planning and nutrition.  The project would support
MOH's efforts to increase immnization coverage among children and comple-
ment, as needed, UNICEF's contribution to the expanded program of immuniza-
tion by improving the organi-zation, management and logistics of the
expanded program of immunization (EPI) through the provision of technical
assistance and cold storage facilities for vaccines.
58.       To complement the support for training and the provision of
contraceptives by USAID and UNEPA, the project would support the promotion
of family planning as a health intervention. By increasing awareness and
involvement of health providers in the delivery of family planning
services, one of the major obstacles to an effective fami1y planning
program would be addressed, i.e., convincing health workers that family
planning is an important element of maternal and child health services.
The project would provide financing for workshops, a pilot study (to design
and test a family planning classification of high-risk women and referral
system), technical assistance and short-term observation training overseas.
In addition to family planning, a population policy and program development
scheme of MUFPA will be supported (para 39(b)) in the event the UNF-A does
not have sufficient resources to fund it. This scheme would assess the
impact of the national population policy and provide for studies and



- 21 -
workshops leading to a multisectoral plan for population, human resources
and development planning. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
would be the executing agency. An estimated US$500,000 required for
technical assistance, local and overseas training, studies and workshops
has been allocated under the project.
59.       The proposed project would assist nutrition-related activities in
MOE health centers and stations (para. 56) and rehabilitate the referral
hospitals specialized in the treatment of malnourished children, namely,
the Princess Marie Louise (PML) Hospital in Accra and the Child Welfare
Center in Kumasi. These hospitals also offer nutrition education and
family planning to mothers.  In addition to civil works, each hospital
would be provided with medical and technical equipment, furniture, supplies
and vehicles. Finally, the project would support, in collaboration with
UNICEF, the improvement of nutrition surveillance and the establishment of
benchmark indicators to aid in long-term monitoring of nutritional status
through surveys, workshops and technical assistance.
60.       Strengthening the Ministry of Health.  To improve the overall
capability of the NOR, the project would address training, staff
recruitment, technical assistance, transportation and communications
requirements. Funding would be provided for twelve ten-month fellowships
in the fields of planning, management and economics, short-term observation
training overseas for MOB personnel working in priority program areas, and
16 man-years of local and foreign technical assistance. (The local and
foreign consultants are listed in Annex V.) The project would rehabilitate
the national communications network between MOR headquarters, the medical
stores, the 10 regional officer, 2 teaching hospitals and the rural
training school by providing a new radio communications system. The
project would also support operating costs of health services through
provision of equipment, supplies, consumables, drugs, and raw materials.
61.       Sectoral Adjustment and Policy Reform. The project would focus
on critical studies for policy reforms and the preparation of a long-term
investment plan. The studies would be conducted by NOR staff assisted by
local and foreign consultants. Studies would cover health manpower
(quantity, quality and training ), health care financing, (cost recovery
and insurance schemes), the drugs system (cost effectiveness of making
greater use of local manufacturers for essential drug production and of
using the private sector for procurement, storage and distribution), an
inventory of health delivery, trainung and storage facilities and pro-
totype design of urban and rural health centers. During negotiations,
assurances were received that the Government would: (a) no later than
March 31, 1987, using the findings from ongoing studies, furnish to IDA a
preliminary long-term investment plan for the health sector including cost
recovery measures satisfactory to IDA, and (ii) no later than December 31,
1987 complete the studies and the long-term investment plan for the health
sector.
62.       Of the above sectoral studies, the most critical is health care
financing. The MOH has just introduced a cost recovery program based on
hospital user fees and the sale of drugs. Outpatient charges are graduated
to favor the rural population. Hospitals, health centers and health posts



- 22 -
are to retain 50 percent of all revenues generated and to establish a
revolving fund. The MOR is exploring ways to strengthen fee collection,
financial control and monitoring of the cost recovery program and plans to
identify other measures with support from the project, such as insurance
schemes, to help finance health care.
Part B: Education
63.       The project would also provide a fast injection of urgent-
ly-needed instructional materials to the school system, and essential
back-up funding to support services, such as distribution, supervision and
project implementation. Technical assistance and additional inputs to
strengthen the MOE's capability to design and implement projects are
planned under the PPF for a follow-up project which is now under discus-
sion. UNDP has also expressed interest to provide technical assistance
staff for this purpose. In particular, the proposed project would assist
in the printing of primary and middle school textbooks that had been
prepared by the Ministry's Curriculum Research and Development Department
(CRDD) but had not been printed due to lack of foreign exchange. The new
texts, which are pedagogically better prepared and more suitably -illus-
trated for Ghana's schools than the older texts, would improve learning
efficiency in primary and middle schools. Specifically, the project would
finance the following elements:
(a)  Primary and Middle Schools. Printing and distribution of text-
books and teachers' guides in three core subjects (English,
mathematics and science) at the ratio of one textbook for two
students for primary and middle schools. Manuscripts for all
books (over 30 titles) were developed by CRDD and publishing
arrangements have been completed in collaboration with local
publishers.
(b) Instructional supplies. Basic instructional materials (exercise
books, pens and pencils) in sufficient quantity to cover the
needs of all primary and middle school pupils for two years.
(c)  Secondary and University Books and Journals.  Core books for
Government secondary schools. The books would be selected from
the standard Government-approved list of textbooks commonly used
in secondary level institutions in Ghana. Thirty textbooks would
be procured for each of the principal subjects in the secondary
school curriculum for each of the approximately 300 secondary
level institutions in the country. The project would also
finance subscriptions to a core set of university journals and
limited number of library books for the three Universities.
(d) Education Planning and Project Implementation. Strengthening the
Ministry of Education's capability for project preparation and
implementation. The project would provide basic equipment,
supplies and local training to MOE's Division of Planning and
Statistics which would serve as the focal point for the



- 23 -
preparation of future projects; the Supplies Division would be
heavily involved in the distribution of textbooks and school
supplies to be procured under the project.
(e) Management Development and Productivity Institute (MDPI).
Meeting the emergency needs of MDPI to repair and refurbish its
temporary buildings, procure vehicles for essential transport and
office equipment and supplies, to enable it to function properly
in the short run; and provide technical assistance to enable it
to prepare its future plans. (MDPI is described in Annex VIII.)
Project Costs and Financing
64.       The summary cost tables for the health (Part A) and education
(Part B) components are presented separately in Annex XIV. Total project
costs, are estimated at US$16.0 million equivalent, of which
US$10.6 million are for health and US$5.4 million for education. Foreign
exchange costs are estimated at US$11.4 million (about 73 percent). Base
coats are adjusted to October 1985 prices. Cost estimates for civil works
are based on recent contract awards for similar works in Accra and Klumasi.
Medical equipment lists and costs are based on comparisons with standard
lists and prices developed by UNICEF. The costs of technical assistance
and overseas training are based on Bank experience and judged appropriate
and adequate. Contingency allowances have been applied as follows:
(a) physical contingencies of 15 percent on the base costs of civil works
and 10 percent on all other non-construction goods and services; and
(b) price contingencies on foreign costs at the rate of 7.0 percent in
1986, 7.0 percent in 1987 and 7.5 percent in 1988; and on local costs at
the rate of 15 percent in 1986, 10 percent in 1987 and 10 percent in 1988.
65.       Of the proposed US$15.0 million credit, US$10.0 million is for
the health component aa US$5.0 million for the education component. Of
the total project costs of US$16.0 million, the proposed credit of
US$15.0 million would finance all foreign exchange costs and 78 percent of
local costs, representing about 94 percent of total project costs net of
taxes.
Procurement
66.       Procurement arrangements for the health and education components
are summarized in Annex XII.
Part A: Health
a)   Civil Works. Since construction materials are in extremely short
supply, the project would finance the importation of construction
materials not available in the country (estimated to cost
US$650,000) following locally-advertised competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Association. The winning supplier
would be required to deliver materials to the four project sites
in accordance with the construction program. For the PML



- 24 -
Hospital, a labor and local materials contract (estimated value
US$300,000) would be negotiated with the State Construction
Corporation as this contractor is already employed on site. For
the minor construction works at the three sites in Kumasi,
contracts for labor and local materials (estimated value
US$125,000) would be awarded following competitive bidding from a
minimum of three contractors per contract.
b)   Equipment, Furniture, Materials and Vehicles.  Procurement of
these items (estimated value US$5.6 million) would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accor-
dance with IDA guidelines, except as follows: contracts costing
less than US$10,000 equivalent (total aggregate limit US$200,000)
would be procured through shopping procedures acceptable to the
Association; and contracts costing less than US$75,000 equivalent
(total aggregate limit US$800,000) would be awarded following
locally-advertised competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Association.
c)   Technical Assistance and Training. The MOR would contract for
local and foreign consultants (estimated value US$1.2 million) in
accordance with IDA guidelines; the MOH would also select candi-
dates for overseas training (estimated value US$0.2 million)-
following procedures acceptable to the Association. The same
procedures would be followed for population policy and program
development component if IDA funds are utilized for it
(para. 58).
d)   Recurrent Costs.  Of the total recurrent costs of US$1.3 million
funded by the Association, US$0.6 million would be used for
vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance and spare parts.
Sundry costs of US$0.6 million, including local travel and
supplies would be disbursed from the project account in
compliance with approved statement of expenditure procedures.
Part B: Education
a)   Civil Works. Minor repairs to regional and district textbook
depots (estimated value US$100,000) and renovation of MDPI
facilities (estimated value US$140,000) would be undertaken
through locally negotiated contracts.
b)   Textbooks, School Supplies, etc. The manuscripts for over 30
titles (textbooks) have been prepared by the Ninistry of Educa-
tion in collaboration with six local publishers. Printing
contracts would be awarded through ICB, except those that are
below $75,000 (totalling about US$1.1 million) which would be
awarded to local printers through LCB procedures which will be
reviewed by IDA to ensure that they conform to Bank guidelines.
Instructional supplies (exercise books, pens, pencils, etc.) for
primary and middle schools (estimated value US$0.7 million) would
be procured from UNICEF. In order to expedite delivery of these
supplies during the school year, a Project Preparation Facility



- 25 -
(PPF) advance has been authorized. Secondary school textbooks
and university books and journals (estaimted value
US$0.6 million) would be ordered directly from the publishers or
their agents.
c)   Equivment and Vehicles.  Equipment and vehicles (estimated value
US$200,000) would be procured through prudent shopping procedures
acceptable to the Association.
d)   Training and Recurrent Costs.  Short-term local training (esti-
mated value US$332,000) and costs of office supplies and vehicle
operation and maintenance (estimated value US$155,000) would be
paid directly from the project account in compliance with
approved statement of expenditure procedures.
Disbursement
67.       The estimated schedule of disbursement is found in Annex XIII.
Funds from the IDA Credit of US$15.0 million would be disbursed per Table I
below. However, US$0.4 million of the Credit under the MDPI component
would be disbursed only after MDPI has submitted a two year work plan
satisfactory to IDA.
68.       Two separate foreign exchange Special Accounts-one for the
health component and one for the education component--will be set up in a
commercial bank under terms acceptable to IDA. The initial amounts would
be US$1.0 million equivalent each for health and for education. The
accounts will be operated by the respective project management units and
funds would be replenished on the basis of withdrawal applications to be
submitted quarterly. Claims for expenditures against contracts of less
than US$10,000 equivalent and all local training activities would be
submitted under statements of expenditure, documents for which would be
retained by the Borrower for inspection. All other clTAms would be fully
documented.
Accounting and Reporting
69.       The Ministries of Health and Education would establish and
maintain separate accounts for all project expenditures in accordance with
sound accounting practices. Such project accounts, including documentation
in support of statements of expenditure, would be audited annually by
independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, and annual audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank as soon as available but not later than nine months
after the end of the Government's fiscal year. Overall monitoring and
reporting of the project would be the responsibility of the respective
implementing agencies which would prepare and submit semi-annual progress
reports to the Bank. In addition, as part of its six-month report, the NOR
would provide information on parallel activities in areas assisted by
UNICEF. Six months after the closing date, the project manager in each
ministry would submit a project completion report (PCR) to the Bank.



- 26 -
Amun of Crd±*-I                  of
Al3od MS                bmiilaw. t
Part A. Himikh
1. CLVldl bdo                  1,000          100 of fm2p  -
-wbE ad
75 of local  _m-
dLbwm
2. Equ14mmt, Eztbwc,           5,600          I OE fontp  -
IftZa1.s, V*&I"                                1mau    ad
ad ma1ia1 swum                              95 iE bed aq
3. TacIomlca hiaLstam          2,200          100 oE tot
ad T?mltm
)  PM atoff, h-IUdN         100           90 GE total
mkraim
b) Otlur, .lo&              1,00            90 if total
sob-oal               9.900
Part :  1Atkn
5. C,wl                          2 00         100 a E fer4p OL-
-           5   loa
6.  1Tbdcs, Jmab asd           3,300          100 oE o        -
Libazy B1                                      pult ad
90 oE local    _-
7. Fqmo ad Vddeles               1D0           100 of forup er-
siditos ad
95 of 1la eupt-
8. lac l TM--I                   230           M0 of tmotal
9. Opect1i F   ta                230           90 of tot
9S.ib-tol             4,100
10. Reud  f PHf                 1,000*
70?L               15,000
* US$ OO5,000 for 1mlb         ard 1 $875,000 fwr adst5n a       .



- 27 -
Project Organization and Management
70.       The MOB would be responsible for managing the health component of
the proposed project. The Director of Medical Services would have overall
responsibility for project implementation.  A Project Managesent Unit (PMU)
would be formed in the MOH and attached to the Director's office. The PMU
would monitor project costs, keep project accounts, and authorize all
project expenditures. Key staff of the PHU would be the project manager, a
procurement officer, an accountant, an architect, a quantity surveyor, and
three secretaries. As a condition of effectiveness, the MOH will establish
the PMU, including provision of appropriate accommodations, and recruit and
appoint a project manager, an architect and accountant with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to IDA.
71.       The project would provide 186 man-months of technical assistance
and 150 months for fellowships (120) and overseas observation training (30)
for the health component. The MOH would enter into contractual arrange-
ments with foreign and local consulta:ts in accordance with IDA guidelines.
The selection of candidates for the fellowships would be made by a
subcommittee chaired by the project director, with representatives from the
MOH, universities and the Manpower Division of the MFEP. The overseas
observation training would be programmed and managed by the PMU.
72.       As for the education component, the MOE has assigned a senior
official of the Ministry to serve as project manager. He will be assisted
by an accountant and other support staff as needed. As a condition of
effectiveness, the MOE will establish the PHU and would assign a project
manager and project accountant with experience and qualifications
satisfactory to IDA. To assist the project manager in supervising the
distribution of instructional materials and generally to enhance the
efficiency of project implementation, essential office equipment, vehicles
and supplies would be provided. The MDPI component would be implemented by
the director of the MDPI.
Status of Project Pr eparation
73.       IDA has approved a Government request for a PPF advance totalling
US$1.0 million for health and education, of which US$125,000 is for the
health component. The MOB has requested vehicles, equipment and supplies
under the PPF and identified local consultants to be approved by the Bank.
A Bank consultant has prepared the terms of reference and scope of work for
the MOR architect. The balance of the PPF, US$875,000, is for the educa-
tion component. The funds are primarily for the purchase of instructional
materials, plus equipment and supplies for the MOE and MDPI. The MOE has
made a detailed inventory of their stocks; procured new trucks to transport
the educational materials to be distributed; and made arrangements with
private truckers to supplement the Government' s available transport. All
preparations in both sectors should be completed in time for the scheduled
start-up in March 1986.



- 28 -
Project Benefits and Risks
74.       The project would result in the following benefits to the health
and education sectors. In the health sector, the accessibility and cove-
rage of health services would be expanded and the cost effectiveness of
service delivery improved through the rehabilitation and re-equipping of
the health centers in the two major cities and about 50 percent of the
health stations in rural areas as well as the strengthening of about one
half of the district health management teams. The improved community
outreach activities of the expanded PHC program, including immunization,
family planning and nutrition, should cover about one fourth to one third
of the total population. The primary beneficiaries will be women and
children. Mortality from malnutrition in urban areas would be decreased
through rehabilitation and upgrading of the two children's hospitals
specialized in the treatment of severe malnutrition cases. A long-term
sector investment plan would be prepared as a result of special sectoral
studies conducted by the MOH. In the education sector, the deterioration
in the quality of the school system would be arrested and the instruction
in primary and secondary schools improved through the provision of
urgently needed instructional materials (e.g. books, supplies). The
institutional capacity in the MOE and MDPI for management and planning
would be improved and thereby the capability for project preparation and
implementation and the provision of Government management and consultancy
services.
75.       The project's main risk concerns the implementation capability of
the Ministries of Health and Education. The MOB may experience difficulty
in coordinating and implementing the many activities supported by external
assistance. To help mitigate this risk, the project would provide 16
man-years of local and foreign technical assistance to help the MOR. In
addition, the MOE may be hard pressed to oversee the printing of the
relatively large quantities of textbooks for nationwide distribution urder
the project. To alleviate this problem, only books costing less than
US$75,000 would be printed locally; the rest (estimated at US$1.7 million)
would be awarded throuch ICB. The project would also finance training
programs for supervisors and textbook distribution and storage staff.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit wculd comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
WashingLon, D.C.
December 24, 1985



-    ANNEX  I
7age 1of 6
GHAMA                 - guCAL KinSITNA M)  1
GHANA                               RE     A 60w MWClxtowW  A        )
IDSI                     (Wt"  UCO31 KSTUW%IE  ^
'W1 NT                   AFRICA          3A3 IS. UF
i,%Ak       MoLb1                  go~3t,~sut" tw bA     AF1CA U. Ur 111146
AMA (1361116 SQ. in)
TOTAL                             230.S       MS         223.5
ACRICILTURAL                       62.3       41.4       62.2
W PE CEIA TA                           ..         ..        2 10.0            233.                    1042.6
jmmmi c03w?If MR CAPITA
(KILOGA  OF OIL Q"UVAtLEN)         71.0       130.0      140.0              42.3                    501.5
PoPtoRAxTI 6D-YKt   (THMuhm)   6832.0       8*20.0    12DU.0
UwU  POPLATion CZ Or TOAL)         22.3       29.       3J.1                20.1                      2.
PoFImAT1I IROICIlo0s
popATIOW  N toIAR 2000 (MILL)                           23.1
STATXOUAfT POPFUlATIO  ('ILL)                            2..0
PoPUATION  2.                                            2.
FAOUTIOW Dst?
q. 61.                      28.1        24.1       53.7              33.2                      ml1
pU SQ. Km. IA1R. UJI            109.7      160.3       197.5             1124                     12.4.
IPOPOIATtOU MM STUCTt3Z (S)
o-14 V3S                        46.5       45.7        47.9              41.0                     45.6
15-4 VWS                         52.        51.5       46.4               50.8                    51.5
65 AND AMW                        2.5        2.6         2.4               2.9                      2
POPUATIO GWu PAE (CZ)
TOTAL                              *         2.3         3.1               2.4                      a.9
Ull                               9.2        4.4         5.0               4.                       5.1
Cwu  trN. RATS (123 TNuS)          30.2       50.2        69.3              *7.2                    47.0
cwg MRE RAT (cPE T2o0a)           -17.3       14.3        10.0              17.8                    15.0
c08S aRODIETON tATE               2.5        2.4         2.4               3.3                      3.2
AMLY ILANWI
ACCT0S. MIIL (TIOI)              ..          .3        352.5
m  CZ OFa ARUID 'O     )          ..         1.5        10.0 _             3.3                     4.4
woe AND MmX
10  OF FOOD FW0. M CPITA
(1969-71-100)                      93.0      101.0       63.0               63                       2
PER CAPITA SOPYLt or
caIO    ts oC     R rUTUNTs)     97.0       97.0        W9.0              r7.7                    93.5
13025138 (Gt1 FM DAT)          4,.0         50.0       40.0               51.9                     55.
orf W1HIM  UINDAL AiM  FOUR     12.0       t7.0        15.0 /c           13.7                     10.5
CUrLD (ACES 1-*) DWATE IAmS        23.6       21.4        12.0              23.1                     14.6
3-g
LIF XEC1. AT IRUN (tEuA)           4B.5       52.2        58.9              47.    .                50LO
2WAMlr MtM. RATE CP   30)         143.0      122.0       97.0              119.5                   LO14
ACCSS TO SAFE WAl (210P)
TOAL                              ..        35.0        47.0              27.1                     42.4
UU8A                              ..        86.0        72.0 oj           a3.5 s7.5
RURAL                             ..        16.0        33.0 a            19.3                     3.6D
AeSS To ESCTA DISPOSAL
(Z or POPULATION)
TOML                              ..        S50         27.0/o            26.5                    2D.9
UZRIN                             ..        92.0       *7.0 7j5.4                                 57.7
L                                 ..        40.0        17.0              20.                      20.
POPULATION PR P3P  S            21690.0    12120.0     7140.0            27901.7                 11791.7
M. ER SIICG PRSOI                5410.0 /4  1070.0       770.0            3301A                   2459.4
POP. E NOQSPTAL BD
TOTAL                          1230.0      7J0.O       50.0            1272.6                     otU I



ANNEX I
_ 3o -.                        NThat of 6* 2
C1A                    - SOCIAL TNDICATORS DATA 
GHANA  *.nRF I  CGOUPS (WELCNTKD AVRA.KS) /
HUST                     (MOST StCrT EStIMATE) 1b
i960I,  10KW !lT      LOW INCOM  AFRICA         MIDDLE INCOME
ESTDrAT          SOUTH OF SAMBA        AuCA S. OF SAHAR
ADJUSTED etnROLItST RATIOS
PL4AER:  TOTAL                    31.0        64.0        7b.0              67.8                      95.7
HALE                   32.0        73.0        65.0               77.6                    100.0
TOM&3                  25.0        54.0        66.0              54.9                      33.2
SECONDARTs TOTA.                   5.0        14.0        34.0              13.5                      17.3
MALI                    9.0        21.0        42.0               17.9                     25.0
FrALt                   3.0         8.0        26.0               9.1                      14.5
vocAToNAL CZ OF SECOtN)              3.3        23.3         1.9              13.2                       5.9
PUPfL,TEAORSK PATIO
PRINALf                           31.0        30.0        3L.0              44.9                      41.1
SUCOIDAAY                         16.0 ,L    17.0         22.0              27.4                      25.5
PASBENUtR CAITSOSND   POP            3.0         4.6         6.3 Ic            3.8                      2U.8
RADO  uCmIVZS/NOUSAD PP             42.6        61.6       170.9              33.                      107.6
TV ZSCIVERSITROUSAND IPOP            0.1 /b      1.9         5.9               2.6                      20.8
NUMPAP  ("DAILY  CgNAL
INTIMSU) CItSlATIO
PERt TSAND POPULATION              29.9        58.0        30.9 Id            5.0                      16.4
C073  ANNUL ATTKNDAICEUCAPITA        1.6         2.2        0.4 71             0.5                       0.4
LAME YO
TOTAL LANDS FORCE (CIRUS)         2931.0      3424.0      45ZLO.
WWZ  (PRCZNT)                     42.6        42.1        41.3              34.2                      36.2
SRII:ULTR  (PERCuT)               64.0        58.0        53.0 l           77.5                      54.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.0        17.0        20.0 7;            9.7                       8.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             42.9        39.7        35.6              39.3                      36.e
MALE                              50.0        46.6        42.1              50.9                      47.1
mALE                              36.0        33.0        29.4              28.1                      27.2
ECONOMIC DPEDNCI RATIO               1.1         1.2         1.4               1.3                       1.3
_ -
P.R or PFIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED B
HICHEST Sx or WP SUOLDS            ..          ..
HIGEST 202 oF NO wOLD              ..          ..          ...
LOWES!2OF IIOUIULDS                ..          ..          ....
LOBS 402? orSE0      DS            ..          ..         ..                 . 
SnT  C-
SIAD  Ason  PoRltwl    Ln
Lzsc (US Sn CApIT)
URBA                               ..          .         307.0 11           165.5                    590.7
RDRIL                              ....                  150.0 T7           95.0                     275.3
ESTUmAD RELATIVEPOVERTY INOE
LEV  ClSS mPE CAITA)
UltsA                              ..          ..        156.0 11           113.1                    545.6
RUSL.                              ..          ..        130.0 7            67.6                     201.1
ESTDtAU POP. RELOW ASSOLUTE
POVER't INCOME LEVEL (I)
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..               36.6
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..               61.8
NOT AVAILAI       -
NOT SPLICAtE
NO T E S
/a   The grup averqpa   for each indicator are populatlan-vlghted aritlutic mans. tweragp of ccantrie
saog the ntdicators depends on availability of data and is not ulfor_.
lb   Uclss otbenise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to s*q year beween 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betmveem
1969 and 1971; and dta for "Mat  Racet  tlta_a" betwee  1981 and 1983.
Ic  1977;  ld 1979;  le 1980;  /f 1962; Ia Public eodcation  ly; A   1964; A  1978.
JUtE. 198s



31-                                  ANNEX I
DEFINIMOrdS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noun: Although the data are drawn rfom ourt generaly judgd the most authonative and reliable. t should also be noted that they may no be mntrnationmsll
comprable bemuse or the lack of stndardied ddiniions anAl conepts used by dillernc cutncs in collacung the data. The data are nonethels. useful to
descibe orders of magnitude, medcate tres, and diaractenze crtatn major diffrnc  betwem counties.
The refence groups are IEl the sait country group of the subjeet country and (21 a country group with somewhat higher avenge income than the country
grouW of te subject iountry (exocpt for -High Itncome Oil Expo,ters group where -Maddle Income North Africa and Middle East" is choen beause of stonger
socio-cltural affinstiel. In the refene grup dat he averag are population weighted arithmeuc -mcns for ecch indicator and shown only when majority
of'the countmes in group hs data for 'hat tadcaor. Sinr the coverage ofcountries among the indicaton depends on the availability of data and is not unifonnr.
caution must bczcinsedm relating a  one indicator to another Ticw averas are only uscrul in comparing the value of one indicatorata timcaiongl
rte country ad refice group
AREA (thousand sq.km.n                                            Crdr hinh Rore (pershmusaa)-Number of live births in the year
Teal-Total surface area comnprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 dtal                                         Cri Death Rate (per hrtaand)-Number of deaths in the year
ArimeuruI-EstimIat  of agriCUItu   .rea used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-ycar population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
permunently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gram Reprodtio Raze-Average number of daughters a woman
lie faDlow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she cxperiences
present age-specific ferility rates; usually fiSe-year averages caing
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by sane conversion method as World    F,aniy PLumuing-Acceprors. Amal (thanusds4-Annual num-
SBnk Ariar (1931-83 basis). 1983 data.                           ber of accptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning progrm.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       maly Pfimiiy-Lsr (percent ofm-ried ime-ea-The pee-
petrolum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal dcec-   tage of married wnmen of cbildaring age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilogras of oil equivaknt per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicingany form ofcntraception. Women
y982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are geneally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other agc
POPULATION AND VITAL STATlSTICS                                  groups.
Tota Popurwim, Mid-Year (rhassastJ-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRION
and 1983 data.
Index ofFoodProdwct. Per G*Ci (1969-71 = 100)-Index of per
Mrp Populaio  (perc en    toael)-Ratio of urban to total         capita annual production of all food commodities Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  ecudes animal feed and seed for agrculture. Food commodities
ability or data among countries 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       incueimary comdie (e.g srgaricae ised cofmsugar
-   -                                         t~~~~~~~~~~~~~ncludc primary cofftnoditie (e.& sugace  knsled of sugar)
,&2idt  Prion                                                     which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Populao nf in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   cxdudedk they comprise cerals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetabls fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates. morality rates, and  lvestock p oducts. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on dhe basis of genealized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Capta SMWpy efCalri (percent ofrequareasem)-Comput-
Stationary popxdatior-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from caloric equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously tknaired at replacement Lvel  tion. iniports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= I). In sucb a population, the birtb rate is  exdude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age strscture is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on thc basis of the projected characteistics of  and health considcring environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and alowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                       waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
PopudaIwIn Monramwn-Is the tendency for population growth to     PFer Capa Spply of Proroh (grams per dar -Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has beet  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momnentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for rminimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fcrtility renmains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards. are lower than those of
nent level from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Papivlatiam Deusity                                               average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita PJoein Supply &om Animal and Pio-Protein supply
Per sqlm. agrcultural Iand-Compatted as above for agricultural   of food derived from aaimals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 d-ata.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Aopron Age Structure (percentj-Children (0-14 years). work-       Cild (ages 1-4) Death Rate (perthoumsad)-Numberofideaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the samc age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1483 data,                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pop.rl.rion Gremark Rate (percentr)-toral--Ananual growth rates of  from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALIH
Popultn Growth Rae (percent)-arban--Annual growth rates          Me Expecrancy at Sink (pyewr)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-32-                             .  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay he same througbout its life;  Pupi-teacher iatio  primary.  d secon&ar-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     roled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbes of
lfaw Matdy Rowe (pe *1.aaaudj-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corrcsponding lIcels
before rching one year of age per thousand live births in a gven
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 deta.                               CONSUMPTION
AceCssi to So  War (pff qc  f pJpI  dlts)-wih  w_, aid        Passag Cas (per thosad jvpua.J PhisienIer cars Com-
rw&4-Number of people (totaL urba  and runl) with rasonable   prise motor cars seating ms than cight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (iludea ted surface water or      arm. hans  and military vhicls
untreated but unntc minated water such as that from protected  jAjo Re_dsm  (per thad p*aui-All types of receiven
boreolcs sprins and saitay well) percentages of their repec-  for radio broadcau to general public per thousand of population;
tive popuations In an urban am a pubbic fountain or standpost    exclud  un-licensed receivers in countries and in yea  when
located not more than 200 meten fim a house may be oudered    registration of radio sets was in efact; data for recent year may
as being within reasonble acoo of tht house. In rual area     not be compasbc sio  most couo      bosisd licesisn.
reaonable m   would unply that the housenfe or menbers of thebe
housdhold do not have to pnd a disproportionate pat of the day  r'TV dv A   (per                      cin nr for bradcast
in fetching tbe filuLay s wau neeL                            to general public per thousad poputon excludes unlicnsed TV
Aeching to                                                 recEivers D    f f 4fP4st)0 ul,  iiin countries and in year when registrtion of TV et ws
Access to E.rut Dhpesu (jpmrat of irpusatodM)-4014atal,wham   in effeCtL
_d rmwl-Numbcr of people jtotal, urban and rural) served by
xcrta diposal as percntages of their respectivc populations.  Newpar Cfrcumeu* (per shossioup.poIu.)-Shows the aver-
Excra disposal may iiclude the collection and disposal. with or  age ciculation of 'daily general intes newspapeyr. defined as a
without treatment, of human eacret. and wast-water by water-  penodcl publication devoted primaily to recordinggeral news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is conidered to be 'daily" if it appeas t least four imes a week.
Rbpdhd. per Pji_dm-lopulation divided by number of pnc-       Cime Asmua Atenduce per Capit pr Yw-Baned on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.    number of tickets sold during the year, including admu ions to
Fbpuaou per Nwiag Ptn-Population divided by number of         drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
pracicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurscs.
pracical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Popuia. per Hospit-toeali whoa, mud rwal-Population           Toal Labk  Force (ruusands)-Econornically acive persons, in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding houewvives.
hospital beds available in public and private, general andspestudents. etc.. covering population of all age  Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation center. Hospitals ate cstablishments  vanous countnes are not comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
permanendy staffed by at last one physician. Establishments prov-  Femak (peream)-Female labor force as pentape of total labor
iding princpay custodial care are not induded. Rural hospitas.    fotc.
however. include bealth and medical centers not pemanently staffed  Agneabwe (percent -Labor force in farminL forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medicl asistant. nurs, mnidwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
whicb offer in-paticnt accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical faclities.                                        Igusuy (percent)-Labor force in minnin, construction. anun-
Ad.dasios pgr Hos;al Bed-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentasg of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.     force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pwrdpaf  Rae (perce ,)-otA mu, indL...          rcpat o
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates arc computed as total, male, and female br  force
Averae Sie of Houehl (po- pw              rea,   a,           as percentages of totaL male and female popuation of all ag
adAm el-A houseold consists ofa group ofindividuals who share  respectively. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.Teare bused on ILOs
living quarters and their main mcals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the popubain, nd
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes  long inse trend. A few estimates are from na l sou
Average Nmbegr of Paios pa' Reooa-ees4, arbanmd ural-         Ecoinoic Dependey Ratio-Ratio of population under IS, and
Average number of perso  per room in al urban. and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Peceag of Dwlin  wmk Elctvicry-toral. amrb   and rral-        Percage .1 Toed Dispabek Iwme (bot in cms ed  udm)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Acruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings -espectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4jucd Enrolwa Rarios                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures of poveny
Prmary scsool - towal. male and female-Gross total, male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolhment of all ages at the primary levd as pertages of  Esnat;ed Absoltae Prqt Income Level (USS per cet  )-arbw
respective primary schoolage populations. While many countries  and rral-Absolute povery income level is that income lvel
consider prinary school age to be 6-11 yea. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For sme countries with unival  Esrmwted Relatie Pov  Income Leve (US per capia)-_arbam
education. gross enrollent may exceed 100 percent since some  ,ad carat-Rural relative poverty income level is one-thira of
pupils art below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban kvel is
age.                                                          denved from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. mal and female-Computed as above   living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pn-  Esnnmated Pbpdaiou Bekw Absolte Poverty  cme Leverd (per-
mary instruction; provides general, vocationaL or teacher training  centj-.an and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocatonal Exrolbnau (percent of secandar,v-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industiaL or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independendy or as depariments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
GNe PE  aprE  iN 1984: lS$350 1/
GM)ss NATIM& DIX    IN M184 I/                                                A . PAME CE GM
CZ cimtmt PdEeS)
Cedis MI1.                                 1979-84
GOP at Market Prim                        287,507             100.0                    -2.0
Grow Dmeatic IzS estmen                    21,068               7.3                    -5.9
Gross Na:t1 al Savig                       13,267               4.6                   -14.7
Carrent Acot Balance                        7,801               2.7                      -
Hqport of Goods, NES                       21,356               7.4                   -10.4
lurt of Goods, NES                         28,911             10.1                     -8.7
JUT AM) TAJR KRKZ
OatXit in 1984                        Labor Force, 1983
Cd!s M£L.              %               Ml. 
Agriclture                                 141,904               51.3            2.584       57.2
iustry                                      23,434               8.5            0.691        15.3
Services                                   11115l90             40.2             1.242       27.5
CDP at Factor Cost                         276,488              100.0            4.517      100.0
.W   FINANE
1983                           1984
CediNil.       Z of   7 y2/     CedisMMl       Zof Wy21
Total Reverve and Grants                    10,241          5.3            22,641           7.9
Total Fcpeoditure aad Net ITng              15,178          7.9            27,485           9.6
O0eral Deficit (-)                         -4,937          -2.6           -4,844           -1.7
EY, aRJ Am) PlIS 3/
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982   1983    1984
)kiley and Quasi-coney            3,044   5,131   5,942   7,949   12,029  14,837 20,803  31,962
Bank Cedit to Public Sector       3,203   5,636   6,537   8,480  14,043  17,140 29,392  41,747
Bark Credit to Private Sector   - 560       739     796      940   1,342   1,558  2,838   5,978
(Prcentes or Iniec Numbers)
M1neyand Quasi-umoeyas % of GD    27.3    24.4    21.1    19.4    15.7    16.7    9.8    11.1
Genera]l Price Index (1977=100)   100.0   173.1   267.3   401.2   868.6  1062.4 2367.4 3,307.3
1/ Staff Estimates.
2J Ratios ae calculated on a recently revised GDP series.
3/ Fu IFS



-34-
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
a
BEALAS OF PAMR1S                                     )nA1CISE EDflS (AVE3AL  1980-84)
1983     1984 /
(US MM1)                                         US$ mnm        I
Trade Balm                    -100      -102          Coa Beam & Products         458.2       66.9
FIrts f.ob.                  439       566          GoLd                         134.0      19.6
Tiports c.i.f.               539       668            esidmal Oil.               32.9        4.8
TIte                         24.3       3.5
Insldbles (Nt)                -130      -113          Electric:ty                  13.0        1.9
Servai                      -147      -186           ese                          7.2        1.0
Trasfers                      17        73          Di                            5.6        0.8
All Otber Goods              10.1       1.5
Chren    -alm                 -230      -215
Total                       685.3     100.0
Capital Acwut
GtB                           72       141
Offidial Captal (Net)         28        88         ESfNAL DM, ff     CED M  1984
Private Captal Net)           14       -12
Capital n.e.s. 2/           -127      -3                                                 15$ mi.
Overall Balace 2/             -243      -M            Total Chstazxtrig and
Disbed ISI                         1,122.4
Arrears Payments               -34       -61
GrossTtentca
Reserves (bAx of Period) 3/   217      393
DET SEYVRIM    fD Of  1984 41 
Febus  1973 - Jute 18, 1978                           Total (bstaxtbg and
US$1 - ¢1.15                                    Dbrsed MISLT                         29.3
Total Otsatdii  an!
Sire Akg. 26, 1978,  US$1      ¢ 2.75                  Dishursed rIC. pynt arears            39.3
Sie  prfil 21, 1983, US$1  8'¢24.69
Sire Oct. 10, 1983,  US$1  - 030.00                   IB&/ID& IENDIN  (ne 30, 1985)
sire Mard 25, 1984, US$1  s 035.00
Sinre k,st 25, 1984, US$1  - 038.50                                                I11 ID
Sire DecS,e 3, 1984,US$1    050.00
Sire April 19, 1985, US$1  - 053;00                    ktstazx1irg & Disbursed    122.31   206.56
Simre Akust 12, 1985, US$1  =57.00                    Umdlsbursed                   5.80    178.86
Sire Oct. 7, 1985,   US$1    060.00                    ktatsaxlfg, inl.
UrtsbdNrsed               128.11   385.42
1/ Provisioial est:hetes sbject to chne
y Tywixdes errors and ouLssions.
3I Tcnlinrg gold at national vahnticn.
4/ As Z of eqxrts of goods and nm-factor services (wrcJdes short-tern debt).
October 1985



- 35 -
AIMEX II
ME SIMS OF BA2IM Q     PERAaIS 3N GIANA 1/
SMEN OF BAII LAS AM M, CEDITS (As of Sqece 30, 1985)
Iom or                                                         Amxmt IJSOf1Iim)2/
Credit   Fiscal                                               Less Cancelation
Number   Year      Borrower               Puapose                k  M   Urdisbsd 3/
Nine loamsand hrtee redxits fully disbcsed                    166.7 107.4
1122{1-  1975     Post & TelecP1-
maiir-atiOt       TePe 11mnxdcations       23.0           3.9
901-1G  1979     Republic of (hana  Secwd NIB                      19.0      2.4
1009-al  l980     Republic of Qana  Volta Regi  Ag.Dev.             29.5    22.1
1029-Q   1980     Republic of Quna  Thrd Mimay                      25.0      2.4
1170G-    L981    Republic of  iana  Paiay                          29.0    13.8
1327-al  1983     Republic of Qiana        P        C]WO             9.3      9.1
1342-a   1983     Republic of  iana  Water Supply                   13.0      6.4
1373-al  1983     Republic of amna  Energy Project                  U.0       8.1
1393-G   1983     Reublic of 1hana  Ri port Cr.                     40.0      6.8
1435-a   1984     RepUblic of Qiana  T:port Realit n                40.1    33.2
EJ09-Gl  1984     Rqxeblic of Qia    Export R     1hailitation      35.9    34.1
1436-a   1984     Repblic of (ana  Eqport        abiln
Tecimical Assistame         17.1    11.6
1446-GH  1984     Republic of Ghana  Petroleun Refinery Reabb.
and Techrncal Assistance      6.9      5.6
1498-al  1984     Republic of  iana  Second Oil Palm                25.0    22.8
L564-    1985     Republic of aiana  Accra District Rdbab.          22.0    23.6
1573-aH  1985     Republic of Chana  Secd 
iorts, Credit              60.0    54.7
A003-QI  1985     Republic of aima  SeconRc
lirports Credit 4/          27.0    27.0
1601-GH  1985     Republic of Ghana  Road  hilatin and
IWjntenance 4/               40.0    40.0
AOLX-QG  1985    RBeglic of Qiana  Road  aehili         n a
xaintenance 4/               10.0    10.0
1628-GH   1986    Republic of Qana  Power System
Reabilitation 4/            28.0    28.0
Total                                      189.7 595.2  365.6
of wbich has been paid                      64.9   4.5
Total now outstanding                      124.8 590.7
Amount sold                 0.4
of which has been repaid    0.4             0.0   0.0
Total now held by Bank & IDA               124.8  590.7
Total undisbirsed                            3.9  361.7 365.6
1/  The status of the project listed in this part is described in a separate report on all
BbkJIDM-financed projects mn execution, which is updated tisce yearly and circulated to
the Exeaitive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustnents.
3   Callated at the eKchanW  rate applicable on September 30, 1985.
4/ Not yet effective as at September 30, 1985.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DUTA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Identification:  A health reconnaissance mission in April, 1984 and
identification mission in June, 1984 initiated health sector discus-
sions with the Goverment. The education component was identified
in April, 1984 and project preparatiuon conducted in November-
December 1984. In May, 1985 the Public Expenditure Review Mission
assessed priorities and needs in the health and education sectors;
and in May-June, 1985 a joint appraisal mission reached agreement
with the Government on the project components.
(b)    Project prepared by: Ministry of Health: May-June 1984
Ministry of Education: November-December 1984
(c)    Date of appraisal
mission:            May 1985
(d)    Date of completion
of negotiations:    December 1985
Ce)    Planned date of
effectiveness:      March 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)    Conditions of effectiveness:
(i)  In the health component, establishment of a Project Management
unit (PMU), includiag provision of appropriate accommodations,
and appointment of a project manager, architect and accountant
with experience and qualifications satisfactory to IDA (para.
70); and
(ii)  In the education component, establishment of a PMU (para. 72)
and appointment of a project manager and project accountant
with experience and qualifications satisfactory to IDA (para.
72); and



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)    Other Conditions:
(i) MOH to (a) no later than March 31, 1987 (using the findings
from ongoing studies) furnish to IDA a preliminary long-term
investment plan for the health sector including cost recovery
measures satisfactory to IDA, and (b) shall no later than
December 31, 1987 complete the studies and the long-term
investment plan for the health sector (para. 61).
(ii) MOH to undertake a cost recovery program which win generate
revenues equivalent to at least 15% of total recurrent
expenditures of MOH in 1986, 1987 and 1988 (para. 38).
(iii) MOH to (a) review annually with IDA (i) the investments made by
the Government in the health sector during the 12 months
immediately preceding the date of any such review, and (ii) the
investments proposed to be made by the Government in the health
sector during the 12 months immediately following such review;
and (b) provide data and other information enablimg the
determination of the recurrent cost implications of the
Goverrment's investments in the health sector to be thoroughly
considered and determined by the Government and IDA
(para. 41).
(iv) The IDA to disburse US$0.4 million of the Credit under the MDPI
component only after MDPI has submitted a two year work plan
satisfactory of IDA (para. 67).



- 38 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
HEALTH COMPONENT
A.    Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1   A Primary Health Care Strategy for Ghana," Ministry of Health,
Accra, August 1978 - Document #227 491
A.2 -The Health Policy of Ghana," Ministry of Health, Accra, April
1982 - Document #227 492
A.3 Situation Analysis of Women and Children: Ghana, UNICEF,
Accra, July 1984 - Available from Mr. B. Carlson
A.4 Ghana: Report of Mission on Needs Assessment on Population
Assistance, UNFPA, Report No. 68, New York, July 1984
Ref. Document D 00142
A.5 -Ghana: Public Expenditure Reviewr-Green Cover Report," The
WJorld Bank, Washington, D.C., August 1985 - Ghana B/R
B.     Reports and Studies Related to the Report
B.1 -Plan of Operations: Services for Children and Women in Ghana
(1986-90)," UNICEF, Accra, January 1985 - Document #227 493
B.2  "Project Paper:  Ghana - Contraceptive Supplies Project,'
USAID, Washington, D.C., August 1985 - Document #227 495
B.3 -Ghana:, Support of a Population Programme," UNFPA,
DP/FPA/PROJECTS/REC/16, New York, March 1985 - Document
#227 494
B.4  "Review of Hospital Fees," Ministry of Health, Accra, 13 March
1985 - Document #227 496
B.5 -Action Plans - 1985," Ministry of Health, Accra. December 1984
Document #227 497
B.6 -Proposals for Areas of Immediate Term Cooperation between the
Ministry of Health and the World Bank," Ministry of Health,
Accra, May 1984 - Document #227 498
B.7 "Report on Cold Chain for Vaccines: Expanded Programme for
Immunization E.P.I.,, UNICEF, Accra, May 1985 - Document
227 499
B.8  "Ghana's Proposed PHC/EPI Service Delivery Strategy, Ministry
of Health, Accra, April 1985 - Document #227 500
B.9 "Plans for Strengthening Health Care Delivery System
(1986-1988), Ministry of Health, Accra, June 1985 - Document
#227 551



- 39 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
B.10  'Ghana:  Interim Trip Report  (#0-45), Chapel Hill, N.C.,
April 1985 - Document #227 502
5.11  'Ghana:  Mission to Study System of Drugs Procurement, Storage
and Distribution," WHO, Geneva, June 1985 - Document #227 503
C.     Staff Working Papers
C.1   Archltect's Notes
C.2   Detailed Cost Estimates                      Available from
Mr. B. Carlson,
C.3   Reconnaissance, Identification and           PHND2
Post-Appraisal Mission Reports, May and
July 1984 and August 1985 respectively.
EDUCATION CO!PONENT
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1   Country Paper on Development of Education, 1981-83, Govermnent
of Ghana, Prepared for the Thirty-Ninth Session of the
International Conference on Education, October 1984
Document #00143
A.2  Northern Ghana Literacy Project:  An Internal Assessment,
Summer Institute of Linguistics, Dallas, 1982 - Document
#00144
A.3  Ghana:  Education Sector Review and Proposed Investment
Strategy, IBRD, 1985 - GH Ed Sector B/R August 9, 1985
A.4  Ghana:  Technical and Vocational Education:  Sub-sector Report
on Ghana, IBRD, 1985 - GH-Ed Sector B/R June 1C, 1985
A.5   Digest of Educational Statistics.  Ministry of Education
(1981 through 1984) - Document #227 504
A.6  Ghana:  Public Expenditure Review, IBRD, August 1985
(Green Cover Report) - GH-Sector B/R August 1985
A.7   Population Census of Ghana:  Preliminary Report, Bureau of
Statistics, Accra, 1984 - Document #00145
A.8  Guidelines Towards a National Education Policy, Accra, 1982
Document # 227 505
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Report
B.1   Textbook and School Stationery:  An Assessment of Needs, Book
Development Council, London, Eagland, November 1985
(Preparation Report) - Pop B/R November 1985
B.2   Survey of Textbook Warehouse and Storage Facilities, May 1985
Pop B/R November 1985



- 40 -                     ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
C.     Staff Working Papers
C.1  Detailed Cost Estimates - Document #227 506
C.2   Architect's Report on MDPI - Document #227 507
C.3   Project Brief (filed February 11, 1985), Preparation Report on
an Appraisal mission detailed Aide-Memoire and Post-appraisal
(August 13, 1985) report on MDPI



- 41-                          ANNEX V
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CONSULTING SERVICES
HEALTH COMPONENT
(person months)
Yr   Yr   Yr  Total
Component                                Description             1    2    3
A. Expatriate Technical Assistance
Strengthening Ministry            Specialist to assist
of Health-Infrastructure          in development of
national iimunization
program                  12   12       24.0
Strengthening Ministry
of Health-Planning
Specialist to assist
in development of
planning capability      12   12       24.0
Specialist to assist
in analysis of health
policies                  2    1        3.0
Other specialists        7.5  5.5       13.0
Sub-total                                                                     64.0
B. Local Consultants
Strengthening Ministry            Architect                18*  12        30.0
of Health-Planning
Quantity Surveyor        16*  12       28.0
Management Consultant    3*   1          4.0
Policy Analyst            6*   2         C.0
Health Planner           10*   2        12.0
Economist                10*   2        12.0
Information Analyst       8*   2        10.0
Pharmacist                6              6.0
Other Specialists         6    6        12.0
Sub-total                                                                122.0
TOTAL                                                                  186.0
* Includes person-montbs prior to project start-up.



- 42-
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCAIION REHABILITAIION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE -   HEALTH COMPONENT
Pre-       Year   Year    Year
Project  j   1        2        3
Project Preparation/Coordination
-   Establishment of PMU
-   Establishment of Project Accounts
-   Appointment of Consultants
Civil Works
Working Drawings, Tender Documents
-   Bid Period and Contract Award                       I-H
-   Construction
o  PML Hospital
o  Child Welfare Center
o  Health Center                                     H
Urban Program
-   Purchase of Equipment, Furniture
and Supplies
-   Procurement of Vehicles
Rural Program
-   Purchase of Drugs, Dietary
Sapplements, Equipment                           I-]
-   Training--Levels "A- and  B'                             -
-   Village Surveys
-   Procurement of Vehicles, Motor-
cycles and Bicycles                               H-I
-   Design and Testing of FP
Classification/Referral System



-.43 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
Pre-      Year   Year      Year
Project               2         3
EPI
-   Appointment of Consultant
-   Purchase and Installation of
Cold Chain equipment
Infrastructure
-   Procurement and Installation of
Radio Coumunications System
-   Procurement of Vehicles
-   Purchase of Office Equipment
and Supplies
Preparation of Investment Plan
-   Appointment of Consultants
-   Analysis of Health Policies
-   Studies on Health Manpower,
Financing and Drug System
-   Inventory of MOH Facilities
-   Design of Prototype Health Centers                        H
-   Monitoring of Cost Recovery Program
Training
-   Fellowships                                             -   l    -l I-I
-   Short-term Observation                                               j -l



- 44 -
OWAZAN  KaOF 7m maFm orB
PLNRM.. Momm   umIJATm  WA      MN 11    SEffW iAID RU
F~~ig1 ;[;;
EVA=C                            SUE               PUI  . I M
-    ~~~~~~Mm~r
'nc ~MS          ~ JRf                                IDAQ D9
-3AaG         N      SIIDEPu3 MemQL UIZ
!    !   *                   |~~~~~~~~AC M
PIM    EiFLUrN     Ia I  WAdLLE       _  I ;1-0 AI               FUM
IuEr        11na                     SIPE      I    .    jrI 
., mr=HEMi
Io.L"                AVSf
DIS          S      DE:A1R II
1l r=l
~~~~ y  IaI



- 45 -         ~~ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
Management Development and Productivity Institute (MDPI)
1.        Ghana's large public sector has enormous needs for in-service
training and mangement improvement to increase its productivity. Civil
service training centers provide for the training of lower-level staff;
higher levels are served by the Ghana Institute of Management and Public
Administration (*GIMPA) and by MDPI, as well as a small private sector
capacity.  GIMPAts training and research activities are to be assisted by
UNDP, while the Government has requested urgent IDA assistance for
emergency needs of MDPI as well as assistance in enabling HDPI to play its
intended larger role.
2.        MDPI was established in 1967 by the Government with the
assistance of UNDP and ILO. Its objectives are to improve management,
efficiency and productivity in both public and private sectors in industry,
commerce and agriculture. Its professional staff of about 50 persons
(excluding recent secondments to Ministries and other public agencies)
provides management training, consultancy and research services; over the
past two decades over 12,000 managers and supervisors have been trained,
three-quarters from the private sector, and 150 consultancy assignments
completed.
3.        At the suggestion of IDA, MDPI has recently convened several
high-level committees to evaluate its past activities and map out a
strategy to enable it to meet the high expectations Government has of its
future role. The elements of the new strategy are expected to be:
Ca) Transfer of MDPI to the responsibility of the PNDC
Coordinating Secretary (equivalent in Ghana to Prime
Minister), establishment of a policy-making and supervisor
board, and increased autonomy for MDPI management;
(b)  Change in mix of activities to emphasize consultancy and
training at the expense of research, and modernization of
management systems at the expense of secondments and
restructuring exercises;
(c)  Expansion of professional staff by 50% over 2-3 years, with
a corresponding rundown in excessive administrative staff to
restrain personnel costs; housing and transport incentives
may be necessary to achieve this expansion and improve
conditions of existing staff;
(d)  Increased self-financing through consultancy and training
fees (the former well below private sector competitors) from
the present 10%), to reduce dependence on Government
subsidies; projections show that well over half of
expenditures could be met from MDPI's own earnings within
2-3 years;



- 46 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
(e) Provision of emergency needs to repair and refurbish MDPI's
temporary buildings, procure vehicles for essential
transport and office equipment and supplies, to enable MDPI
to function properly in the short-run; and of technical
assistance to enable it to prepare its future plans; and
(f) Decisions on the completion of the core (classroom and
administrative) buildings on MDPI's new permanent campus,
and on the subsequent completion of the whole campus
complex, all presently held up for lack of funds.
4.        The requirements under (e) are being met from some US$0.47
million under the proposed project, including US$100,000 out of the Project
Preparation Facility. This amount will be repaid out of the proposed IDA
credit.
5.        With the stabilization aspect of Ghana's economic reform program
being successfully transformed into a more growth-oriented medium-term
effort, the Government urgently needs an improvement in the management
capability both in public and private sectors. Although MDPI has suffered
from shortages of foreign exchange and local currency allocations, it has a
commendable record of producing highly trained professionals who now occupy
key positions in the economy. If the improvement strategy as described in
para. 3 above is followed, MDPI's function as a key consultant institute to
serve both public and private sectors will be restored in the near future.



- 47 -
ANNEX L't
DE riAL ASSIStANCE M 7u BEA    SE=
IN   M BY ACr.tV     FACtLY AND AGcr
(1985L-198)
(US$ Million)
AM      CMD     EG FE   AP.  SADI ED SUISS UWPA   lICEF USAM    UD       1UT7AL
kctivity
Rababdlitation of Hospitals   x       x      x              x
Health Omters
mc                                                                               x
Dni Pro&ctLcn                                C                     x
EPI                                                                              x              x
Et:                                                                              x       x
VAaxlari OmtIrol                                                                 x              x
"I2P                                  x                                   x      x       x      X
Nutrition                                                                        x              x
PlazIMP  Orgn !4Izr-                  x                                          x       x      x
ReserchfStuies                                    K                                          x
Water and Smitatin                    x                                          x
Facility
civil Ibriw                   x       x      x              x
Dnps, cwtraCaptives,
Rai Materials                       x                            x      x       x 
ftpet, ftafre
Vebicles,l teeial            x      x      x      x       x             x       x      x      x
Tedmiacal Asaistane Training          x             x                     I      X       I      X
Fuodhg level (Est.)
Camdtted                      1.7    2.5  (10.0)*  2.0    -        1.0    3.0    5.0    7.5    2.0    24.7
Articip.tsl                   13.0    -                 10.0       -      1.5    -                      24.5
Total                          14.7    2.5  (10.Ol*  2.0   10.0    1.0    4.5       .      7.5    2.0     49.2
*This amount is not included in totals as indicated in para. 39.



- 48-                     ANNEX-
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
EDUCATION EXPENDITURES AS PER CENT OF TOTAL GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITURES AND GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT
(CEDIS Million)
1978         1983        1984
GDP (current prices)      20,986.1    215,181.0   325,402.0
Total Government
Recurrent Expend. (G)      2,322.2    13,403.0    22,700.0
G as Percent of GDP           11.1          6.2          7.0
Education Recurrent
Expend.                      553.1      2,175.2      3,454.5
Percent of G                  23.8         16.2         15.2
Percent of GDP                 2.6          1.0          1.1
Source: World Bank Tables and Government of Ghana



GIIANA
HEALTII AND EDUCATION REIIABILITTATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENT, NUMBER OF TEACHERS AND PUPIL:TEACHIER RATIO
BY LEVEL AND REGION
1983-1984
REGION                 PRINARY                   NIDPLE               JUNIOR   fANY                  SECONDARY          CR?,. "A" =11. 1R0.
ENROL.  TCIMS.    P/T    ENROL.  TIRS.    PIT   EOL.  TCIIt.   PIT    EROL. TOLS.    P/T   ENROL. T01S.   PIT
ACCRA        155870      4111    37.7    65819      2385    2,.6    1034        52   '12.6    22491    1121    20.0       515    S1    11.0
VOLTA        184446      6757    27.9    78819      3334    23.6    2259       190    11.9    17404      971    17.8    2237    161    13.9
EASTERN      271354      9080    30.5   111909      4946    22.6    2817       2aS   10.9    22321    1107    20.2    2317    Is?    11.7
CNiTRAL      160172      4664    34.3    62993      2837    22.4      128       as.   12.2    16651      764    21.0    1238       89    13.9              4
WESTERN      139891      4499    31.1    51076      2067    24.7    20S2       105*   19.5    13987      636    20.'      8S3      62    13.8              1
ASIIANTI     305815    11064    27,6   125409       5610    22.3    3143       269    11.7    26594    1324    20,1    2782    216    12.9
B/AIIAFO     131168      6129    21.5    54843      2S59    21.3    1764       122.   14,5      351S     515    17.1    1035       66    15.7
NORI  1N 45085           3390    13.3    15297       896    17.1    1338        95    13.7      5099     289    17.6    1051       65    16.2
WI'b.ER       1.8047     2'.'J    19.3    15396     1016    15.2l   2261       173.  1.3.1.    9110      366-  21..9    71.1    61.   12.1
NATIONAI.   1052458    52208    27.8   581461    256S5    22.7   17502    1365 . 12.8   142478    7156    19.9   12893    960    13.4
Note: P/T + Pupil:Teacher Ratio
S*.iravce: Hliiltry of Education, Planning Division



- 50 -
ANNEX XII
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements (US$ Million)a/
Part A: Health Component
Procurement Method                Total
Project Element          ICB        LCB       Otherb/    N/A      Cost
A.  Civil Works                0.7        0.4          -         -        1.1
(0.7)     (0.3)        (-)       (-)      (1.0)
B. Equipment, Furniture        4.6        0.8         0.2        -        5.6
Materials and Vehicles  (4.6)       (0.8)      (0.2)       (-)      (5.6)
C. Technical Assistance         -          -          1.5c/      -        1.5
,_,       (-)        (1.5)      C-)      (1.5)
D.  Training                     -         -          O.6C1     0.4       1.0
C-)       (-)        (0.6)     (0.4)    (1.0)
E.  Project Management          -          -          0.1        -        0.1
Unit                     (-)        (-)       (0.1)       (-)     (0.1)
F. Recurrent Costs              -          -           -        1.3       1.3
C-)      C-)         (-)      (0.8)    (0.8)
5.3       1.2         2.4        1.7     10.6d/
Total                      (5.3)      (1.1)       (2.4)     (1.2)   (10.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the IDA credit.
a/   Costs include. physical and price contingencies.
b/   Other means of procurement include prudent shopping (off-the-shelf
materials); Bank guidelines (technical assistance); fellowships;
training overseas.
c/   Population policy and planning component cost of $0.5 million includes $0.3
million in technical assistance and $0.2 million in training.
d/   Government contribution totals US$600,000 toward cost of civil works
and local wages.



- 51 -
ANNEX XII
Page 2 of 2
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements (US$ Million)a/
Part B: Education Component
Procurement Method               Total
Project Element          ICB        LCB       Other"/    N/A      Cost
A. Civil Works                  -          -         0.3         -        0.3
(-)       C-)        (0.2)      (-)      (0.2)
B. Texbooks, School            1.7        1.4         1.3        -        4.4
Supplies, Library       (1.7)      (1.1)      (1.3)       (-)     (4.1)
Books and Journals
C.  Equipment and               -          -         0.2         -        0.2
Vehicles                 C-)        C-)       (0.2)       ()      (0.2)
D.  Local Training and          -          -           -        0.5       0.5
Recurrent Costs          C-)        C-)        C-)       (0.5)    (0.5)
1.7       1.4         1.8       0.5       5*4c/
Total                      (1.7)      (1.1)      (1.7)      (0.5)    (5.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the IDA credit.
a!   Costs include physical and price contingencies.
b1   Other means of procurement include prudent shopping (off-the-shelf
materials); Bank guidelines (technical assistance); fellowships;
training overseas, and procurement through UNICEF.
c/   Government constribution totals approximately US$400,000 toward cost of
civil works and local printing.



- 52 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements (US$ Million)
Part A: Health Component
Fiscal Year/      Disbursement    Accumulated  Accumulated   Undisbursed
Semester          Per Semester       Amount       Percent        Balance
1986
2ndal               1.0               1.0          20             4.0
1987
lst                 1.8               2.8          56             2.2
2nd                 1.7               3.5          35             6.5
1988
1st                 2.0               5.5          55             4.5
2nd                 2.0               7.5          75             2.5
1989
lst                 1.0               8.5          85             1.5
2nd                 0.5               9.0           90            1.0
1990
1st bl              0.3               9.3          93             0.7
2nd cl              0.2               9.5           95            0.5
1991
1st                 0.5              10.0         100             0.0
a/ Expected date of effectiveness: March 31, 1986
b/ Expected date of project completion: June 30, 1990
c/ Closing date: December 31, 1990



- 53 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 2 of 2
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements (US$ Million)
Part B: Education Component
Fiscal Year/      Disbursement   Accumulated  Accumulated    Undisbursed
Semester          Per Semester       Amount       Percent       Balance
1986                1.0               1.0          20            4.0
2nda/
1987
Ist                 1.8              2.8           56            2.2
2nd                 1.7              4.5           90            0.5
1988
1st (b)             0.5              5.0          100            0.0
a/ Expected date of effectiveness: March 31, 1986
b/ Expected date of project completion: June 30, 1989
Closing date: December 31, 1990



GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financing Plan by ProJect Components
(US$ '000)
Part A:  Health Component
GOVERNNENT Elc
I 0 A          GHANA           Total                   Local
----'-----------~~  ~~~~~~~~  --------------              (Excl.   Dutiss A
Amount   Z    Amount  Z    Aaount   Z   For, Exch.  Taxes)    Taxis
'A STRENGTHENING OF SERVICE DELIVERY
URDAN                                             10719.0  08A4   225.3  l1.C   io944,3  18.2    !9262.0   682.3
RURAL                                            6W218.7  94.4    367,3   5.6   6.586,0  61.8      4,901.0  1,685.0
Sub-Total STRENGTIENING OF SERVICE DELIVERY          70937.7  93.1    592.7   6.9   8.530,3  80.0     6P163.0  2t367.4         -
BD STRENGTHENING OF HINISTRY OF HEALTH
INFRASTRUCTURE                                     452.5  91.0      44.9  9.0      497.5   4.7       365.6    131.8         -
LONG TERM PLANNING                                1i507,8 100.0      0.0   0.0   1.507    14.1       970.5    537.3         -
Radical Supplies
DrugsoRa Materials
Consuiables Etc.                                  0.2  10.0       1,4  90.0       1.6  0.0          1.6        -         -
_-- -   ----   -- -- -   -- -   --- - -   -- -   -- - -- -   --- __   _ 
Sub-Total STREWGTIIENING OF nINISTRY CF HEALTH       1960.5  97.7     46*4  2.3  2.006,9  18*0    1433748   669.1              -
C. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                        124.S 100.0        -     -    124.5   1.2         49.7     7448         -
Total Disbursement                                   10.02267  94.0    639.0   6.0  10*661.7 100.0      76550.4  3,111.3         -
:=---=-w Magna =:=:Sz=:2* ::: a :::::===     =====wt  ttSt:s=  =52===ta
----------------------------33  333---333-------------------7----------------------------------------------------------------  -  --------
ah



- 55 -
ANNEX XIV
Page 2 of 4
GRAMA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financipg Plan by Summery Components
(UsS '000)
Part A: Health Component
10 A          lEtoW                                Loca
tbs~~~~~~~~~li.  hbti. 
bawt   t         At   Z      _At    Z   Fa. Exch. Tan)   Tam
Z. IDUESnT COSTS
it, DaO
Contngtim                              957.5 VA.6   111.6 10.4  1069.1  10.0          M.9   480.2
s-Toa CWIL MC                             957.5 19.    111.6 10.4  1,06f.1 t0.0         58.9   460.2         -
3. EIIMEWJIjFUIIWTlR
DEfCIt SWLhES
blical Ea,airmm                       I,0533 100.0       -    -  iP53S.3  9.9    1,053.3         -
Oftice Ee.ij.t                         229.9 100.0       -    -    22L1;!  2.1       228.?       -        -
redmucal £isoA                         705.3 100.0       -    -    705.5  6.6        705.5       -        -
Usbicles aidrrnocs                    t.12.6 100.0       -    -  1#1:2.6 t0.4    1.112.6
ateials &id S',lims                    774.4 100-0       -    -    774.6  7.3        56.1   26S.5
Sunm and Vurla_m                       431.7 100.0     0.0  0.0    431.7  4.0        M4.4   290.3         -
Latrins                                 167.6 100.0      -    -    167.6  1.6            -   167.6        -
llZical Swei.                         1t06.5 100.0       -         1- 0.6 10.1 1.0O60.           -         -
SuL-Total ElUlWl fTU[liMT
MIERIALS AnU  ENIOS
miUL  SwwLm                           S,54.9 100.0     0.0  0.0  5.5S4.8 52.1    4821.4   726.4            -
C. TEDIIC.L ASSMiAME
Anl TRAJIIU                A
Fortinm Cnsultars                      749.1 100.0       -    -    749.1  7.0        749.1        -        -
Local Camltants                        421.6 100.0       -    -    421.6  4.0            -   421.6         -
Oersrn ?rvinins                         183.3 100.0      -    _    188.5  1.        IUl.5       -
Lanl Trainitn                          441.1 100.0     0.0  0.0    44.1  4.1         1055   J3S.7
Fellw.smin                             241.5 100.0       -    -    241.5  2.3        218.9    22.6         -
PrOACt           Ihit                   142. 100.0       -    -    142.9  1.3            -   142.9         -
Sub-Total tWUICM. ASSISTANCE
An TRIB                               214.7ri00.0       0.0  0.0  2W1O4.  20.5    t,261.9   922.1          -
Totl UMIESTIEIW COS                        I.h97.0 96.7   111.4  1.3  PBI8A.6 82.6    6,679.3  2,129.4          -
II. ECrT COSTS
A. IItMTIU AND AMllEIWICE
vehicle a a A                         625.2 93.4      9.8  1.6    635.1  6.0        275.1   359.9         -
aim                                    105.9 17.0   516.1 83.0    622.0  5.8            -   624.0
Other                                 594.6 n9.s      1.4  0.2    596.0  5.6         6.O                 -
Sub-Total IPJIT   IMD A   iJ.w          1i325.7 71.5   527.4 28.5  1,853.1 17.4        871.2   9B1.P
otal RElIT COST                            1,t25.7 71.5   527.4 28.5  1,853.1 17.4         971.2   991.9
Total Disburs"et- 10,022.7 94.0   639.0  6.0 10,661.7 100.0    74550.4 3.111.3                                   -



GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financing Plan by Project_Components
(us$ 'boo)
Part B: Education Component
8OVERN"INT OF
I D A           GHANA          Total                      Local
--                                                          (Exel.   Duties I
Akount    Z      Amount   Z    Asount    Z    For, Exch.  Taxes)    Taxs
:-:2    3__    38:::33  *_      U   3,33g:33   333#333   3333 _    = -  =s--_
A. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
PRIMARY AND MIDDLE SCHOOL                            24922,0  69.5    342.4  10O.5  3264.4  60.4        2.48004    784.0           -
SECONDARY SCHOGL AND UNIVERSITIES                      605.8 1o0.0         -      -    605.0  11.2        549,8      56.0          -
Sub-Total INSTRUCTIONAL KATERIALS AND SUPPLIES          3.527,8  91.2    342.4   8.8  34870.2  71.7        34030.2    940.1           -
B. STRENGTHENING EDUCATIONAL PLANNING
AND NANAGEKENT                                         232.5  88.5      30.3  11.5    262.8   4.9          132.5    130.3          -
C. MANAGEMENT DEVT PRODUCTIVITY INSTITUTE                 367.0  93.3      26.3   6,7    394.1   7.3          261.7    132.4          -
Do PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                           873.9 100.0          -     -    873.9  16.2         737.8    136.2          -
Total Disbursesent                                        5,002,1  92.6    399.0   7.4  5.401#1 100.0        4r162.1  1,239.0           -
--------333-33333-3--
:::a:  XU:   :Jg:I  =_:  ::::  =::   =====    -::==:::=
____________ ...........................,.___........ ___....._.__..... ._. _ __ ......_  .  __ .  ___..___..... _ __......  __ __ __  _ ................... _ __  _-"  ___ " ______
:N 
01-4



- 57 -
ANNEX flY
Pe o
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financing Plan by Suasry Components
(USS '000)
Part B: Education ComPonent
IDA OAS                    Total                 LoO
*  _  _ _      ---                    {~~~~~~Ead,l   Mif I
Abemat   Z    bnurt  Z   buS nt   Z   FOr. Exc.. T7 )   Tow
I. D     ff Cam
CmistrUCtim                         242.1 SW.7    37.2 13.3   279.3  52         146.7   132.6       -
Sb-Total VOWS                          242.1 86.7    37.2 13.3    79.3  5.2       1467   132.6         -
_. EmIUDIthFlr.lUE
IMTgIMS No vIENIC
iAbt                         -       61.7 100.0      -    -    61.7  1.4        61.7       -        -
Taot look Prodam                  20736.6 89.4   331.5 10.4 Jt115.1 57.7    2v391    719.n
Sdho  Swlio                         737.9 100.0      -    -    37.  13.7        737.m      -
Inks - Library                      46.3 100.0       -    -   466.3  8.6        423.1    43.1
Jmmhnls                             139.6 100.0      -    -   IN.   2.6        126.      12.9       -
Vehicles                            116.8 100.0      -         11J   3.5       169.5   17.3
Su.-Ttu EIUPMWFNT I[
rAWI LSNO E     MEICLIS           4,378.7 93.0   331.5  7.0 4,710.2 87.2    3,917.1  M7.
C. TE0iIICm  A6SIS1WI
An.  TlAW=
Proj_tL N   iai.mt Uhot 215   91.6    19.7  8.4   234.7  4.3                       -   234.7
sut-Total TEDzCIL AssrsrAICE
AlllIIn L                           215.0 91.6    19.7  1.4   234.7  4.3           -   234.7        -
Total D     lE1T  CUMTS                4,135.B  92.6   3S.4  7.4 5,34.2 96.7    4063.  110.4              -
rI. 3ENMT CSTS
A. S9uies
office Swrliin                      33.1 100.0      -    -    33.1  0.6         26.9     6.2
liscellaou                           6.5  30.0    1.6 20.0      B.1  0.2        6.6      1.5       -
Sb-Total S91lies                       39.5  96.1    1.6  3.9    41.2  0.8        33.5     7.7        -
B. Whicle Opertion
d aintuomA                        -
Vehicle lbintmm                     52.9 95.4     2.6  4.6    55.4  1.0           -    55.4
Vehicle  eratin                     73.9 92.1     6.4  7.9    80.3  1.5        64.8    15.s        -
Sit-Total Vehice IberatUan
Sad huintOant r                    126.8 93.4      8.9  6.6   U5.7  2.5         64.8    70.9       -
Total ° _SNT COSTS                       166.3 94.0    10.6  6.0   176.9  3.3         98.3    78.6        -
Total 0iuuummt                          5.002.1  92.6   3.0  7.4 5,401.1 100.0    4,162.1 19239.0         -
S-~ ~~ .                                                    m                      -      3



IBRD 19211
REGION (*
GBHUA NA                I,.
HEALTH AND EDUCATION
REHABILITATION PROJECT
'%\* ~           NORTHERN                         REGION                                  C r    Hospita
{ 5 .',, \fiE,55"~~~~~~~~~~~~~U   -h,dmV  Haslu
Health Centera
'  \-  - nj)4  z   n   ~<  V  *    Regional Health Office.
Z-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~iIhlU                      ~       5)w Radio Communication
Rural Heat Training 9Dt
91                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~School
\  B +luipe/j    \ -     }        iabK         '- Primary Roads
>    \   . ,/ \_,~~~~~~~ ; --   {    / (CiK ~~~~~Mrajr Second-y Roods
IVORY    \                                                                     K\  L             Roh
COAST                                                                                            Reg 0 r  <9 *<  iona Hedart
~~ -2       *~~ NotoalmCapitol
-8                                                                   ChhdfrIp  }             -/ 1   J   /   >  \    -    _    htegiond Boundies
AFO    R    ON                                   ' J | ,    VvNumbers indicate number of
facilities at lation.
rt  2!   jS                      r  /-                  L             ~~~~~TOGO  
WESERN               '                E~TR         RG   o^zPNMgeo
;EGION                     TiF-,.   ___              7 * *|H      t         '                         7
, ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ -                      0   0  40 60   8 0 lOMiEfS
.---    ~ Gulf  of    Guinea .   We=fere
~~~~~r.                          -         --_   r1-  .
SEPTEMBER 1985
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lo



