CREDIT NUMBER 1653 GH
-0dNMiENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Health and Education Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   '       LA                  , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1653 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     .AL0     -&                     , 1986,
between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(B) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Con-
ditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the res-
pective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(b)  "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(c)  "MDPI" means the Borrower's Management Development and
Productivity Institute;
(d) "PMU" means a Project Management Unit to be established
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(e)  "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(f) "Project Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(g) "Project Manager" means a Project Manager referred to
in Section 3.01 (c) of, and Section II of Schedule 3 to, this
Agreement;
(h) "Project    Accountant"  means   a   Project  Accountant
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of, and Section II of Schedule 3
to, this Agreement;
(i)  "Project   Architect"  means   the   Project  Architect
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of, and Section II of Schedule 3
to, this Agreement; and
(j)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated July 11, 1985 and
September 6, 1985, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirteen million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Lhe Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special accounts in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. One
of the Special Accounts shall be for Part A of the Project and
the other for Parts B and C of the Project. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the pulposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1996, and ending December 15,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Fxecution of the Project
and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOH (Part A), MOE (Part B) and MDPI (Part C) with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, public health, educational and management practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall open and maintain in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association two
project accounts, one for Part A of the Project and the other for
Parts B and C of the Project. The Project Accounts shall be used
exclusively for payment for goods and services required for the
Project.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall establish and maintain in MOH
and MOE two Project Management Units, each in a form and with
functions and staffing satisfactory to the Association, and (ii)
shall appoint and assign: (A) to each PMU a Project Manager and
Project Accountant, and (B) to MOH's PMU the Project Architect.
Further provisions relating to the PMUs are set out in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section  3.03. The   Borrower: (i) shall no      later  than
March 31, 1987 (using the findings from ongoing studies included
in Part A (9) of the Project) furnish to the Association a preli-
minary long-term investment plan for the health sector including
cost recovery measures satisfactory to the Association, and (ii)


﻿-5-
shall no later than December 31, 1987 complete the studies
included in Part A (9) of the Project and the long term invest-
ment plan for the health sector.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall undertake a cost recovery
program which will generate revenues equivalent to at least 15%
of total recurrent expenditures of MOH in 1986, 1987 and 1988.
Section 3.05. The Borrower: (i) shall review annually with
the Association, (A) the investments made by the Borrower in the
health sector during the 12 months immediately preceding the date
of any such review, and (B) the investments proposed to be made
by the Borrower in the health sector during the 12 months immedi-
ately following any such review; and (ii) sLall, for the purposes
of the said review, provide data and other information enabling
the recurrent cost implications of the Borrower's investments in
the health sector to be thoroughly considered and determined by
the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of MOH, MOE
and MDPI and any other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Project Accounts and
the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of each such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section  5.01.   The  following  events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the establishment of the PMUs; and
(b) the   appointment  of   the  Project  Managers, Project
Accountants and the Project Architect.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02, The date ninety (90) days after the date    of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Provisional National Defence Council
Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Provisional National Defence
Council Secretary
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M 40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECONOMICON                          2205 MIFEP GH
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address.                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/4 0C OL0oo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the a-location of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) Part A of the        740,000    )
Project                        )
)     100% of foreign
(b) Part B of the         95,000    )     expenditures and
Project                        )     75% of local ex-
)     penditures
(c) Part C of the         95,000    )
Project                         )
(2) Equipment, furni-
ture, materials
and vehicles and
medical supplies:
(a) Part A of the      4,880,000    )
Project                         )    100% of foreign
)     expenditures and
(b) Part B of the         95,000    )     95% of local ex-
Project                         )    penditures
(c) Part C of the         95,000    )
Project                        )
(3) Technical assis-
tance and train-
ing:


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(a) Part A of the                    )
Project:                        )
(i) population       460,000    )
stu,ies and                 )
training                    )     100%
(ii) other items    1,565,000    )
(b) Part B of the          95,000    )
Project                         )
)
(c) Part C of the          50,000    )
Project                         )
(4) (a) Textbooks,           2,485,000          100% of foreign
teachers'                             expenditures and
guides and                            90% of local ex-
school sup-                           penditures
plies under
Part B of the
Project
(b) Journals,             550,000          100% of foreign
periodicals                           expenditures
and library
books under
Part B of the
Project
(5) Project Operat-
ing Costs:
(a) Part A of the       1,015,000    )
Project                         )
(b) Part B of the          95,000    )     90%
Project                         )
(c) Part C of the          45,000    )
Project                         )


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Refunding of Project       930,000          Amount due
Preparation Advance                        pursuant to Sec-
tion 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated:
(a) Part A of the         430,000
Project
(b) Part B of the          80,000
Project
TOTAL             13,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of'the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "Project Operating Costs" means the operating
costs defined in the Annex to this Schedule, said Annex being
subject to modification by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b)  in respect of expenditures under Categories (1) (c),
(2) (c), (3) (c) and (5) (c) in paragraph 1 above, unless MDPI
has furnished to the Association a two-year work plan satisfac-
tory to the Association.


﻿- 12 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Project Operating Cost3
The term "Project Operating Costs" shall mean with respect
to:
(A) Part A of the Project: (i) the costs of operation and
maintenance of vehicles including fuel and spare parts,
(ii) salaries and wages of, and housing assistance for,
the Project Manager, Project Acountant and other staff
of PMU, (iii) travel and related allowances, (iv) costs
of printing project related materials and costs of
office supplies, and (v) sundry other costs as deter-
mined by the Borrower and the Association;
(B) Part B of the Project: (i) textbook distribution costs,
(ii) costs of operation and maintenance of vehicles
including fuel and spare parts, (iii) travel and
related allowances of PMU staff and of other textbook
distribution personnel, and (iv) sundry other costs as
determined by the Borrower and the Association; and
(C) Part C of the Project: (i) costs of operation and main-
tenance of vehicles including fuel and spare parts,
(ii) travel and related allowances of MDPI, and (iii)
sundry other costs as determined by the Borrower and
the Association.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist the Bor-
rower in preventing further deterioration in its health and edu-
cation systems; (ii) strengthen the Management Development and
Productivity Institute (MDPI); (iii) expand health, nutrition and
family planning services in the urban and rural areas; and (iv)
strengthen management and planning in MOH and MOE.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Health
1.   Strengthening of   primary health care delivery     and
extension of community health outreach activities to
the villages and to satellite "clinics" in Accra and
Kumasi including: (i) re-equipping of, and provision of
essential supplies to, about 100 rural health stations,
7 urban health centers in Greater Accra and 4 urban
health centers in Kumasi, and (ii) rehabilitation of 2
of the health centers in Kumasi.
2.   Rehabilitating the Princess Marie Louise Hospital in
Accra and the Child Welfare Center in Kumasi, including
the provision of medical and technical equipment,
furniture, supplies and vehicles.
3.   Strengthening of MOH's district health management teams
responsible for the training, support and supervision
of health station personnel.
4.   Improvement of MOH's program of training, health and
nutrition education in the rural areas, including sup-
port for weaning food production, water and sanitation
surveys, and construction of latrines.
5.   (a) Improvement   of  MOH's   family  planning  program
through the design and testing of a classification
and referral system.


﻿- 14 -
(b) Assessment, as necessary, of the impact of the
Borrower's national population policy; and imple-
mentation of supporting studies and workshops
leading to a multisectoral plan for population,
human resources and development planning.
6.   Strengthening the UNICEF supported expanded immuniza-
tion program, including the rehabilitation of the cold
rooms at the Kotoka International Airport and at the
Kumasi regional muadical stores and the installation of
solar-powered refrigerators.
7.   Supporting a program of improved nutrition surveillance
and the establishment of benchmark indicators to aid in
long-term monitoring of nutritional status.
8.   Strengthening of MOH's ability to manage and execute
primary health care programs through the provision of:
(i) fellowships for MOH staff in planning, management
and economics; (ii) short-term overseas observation
training for MOH staff; and (iii) the installation of a
new radio communications system covering MOH head-
quarters, the medical stores, the 10 regional health
offices, two teaching hospitals and the rural training
school at Kintampo.
9.   Supporting studies and planning through:
(a) an analysis of health policies and studies on
health manpower, health care financing (including
cost recovery and insurance schemes) and the drug
system;
(b) an inventory of health delivery, training and
storage facilities in MOH;
(c) a design of prototype urban and rural health
centers; and
(d) preparation of a long-term investment plan for the
health sector.
10. Financing of operating costs, such as equipment, sup-
plies, consumables, drugs, raw materials and other
essential items requiring foreign exchange.


﻿- 15 -
Part B:   Education
1.   Printing and distribution of English, mathematics and
science textbooks and teachers' guides for primary and
middle schools.
2.   Provision of basic instructional supplies (exercise
books, pens and pencils) to cover needs of primary and
middle school pupils for two years.
3.   Provision of textbooks for libraries of second cycle
institutions.
4.   (a)  Strengthening of MOE in the preparation and execu-
tion of education projects.
(b) Provision of basic equipment, supplies and train-
ing to MOE's Departments of Planning and Statis-
tics and of Supplies and to PMU; and minor repairs
to MOE's regional and district textbook depots.
(c) Provision of core journals, library books and
periodicals for the universities.
Part C:   MDPI
Strengthening of MDPI, including the expansion and
improvement of its management training, consultancy and
research services, office rehabilitation and provision of
necessary office equipment and supplies and vehicles.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a) Works for the Child Welfare Center and the two urban
health centers in Kumasi, construction materials for Part A of
the Project and printing of teachers' handbooks for Part B of the
Project may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Works for the Princess Marie Louise Hospital in Accra
shall continue to be executed by the State Construction Corpora-
tion of Ghana in accordance with procedures, and on terms and
conditions, satisfactory to the Association.
(c) Repairs to regional and district textbook depots and
renovation of MDPI facilities may be carried out under contracts
awarded on the basis of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 17 -
2.   (a)  Instructional supplies for primary and middle schools
(exercise books, pens, pencils etc.) may be procured through
UNICEF in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
(b) Secondary school and university textbooks and publica-
tions may be purchased directly from publishers of such textbooks
and publications.
3.   (a) Except as provided in Part C.1(a) hereof, goods for
Part A of the Project estimated to cost an amount equivalent to
$75,000 or less but $10,000 or more (up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding an amount equivalent to $800,000) may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
(b) Except as provided in Part C.2 hereof, goods for all
Parts of the Project estimated to cost an amount equivalent to
less than $10,000 (up to an aggregate amount not exceeding an
amount equivalent to (i) $200,000 for Part A of the Project,
(ii) $100,000 for Part B of the Project, and (iii) $100,000 for
Part C of the Project) may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Contracts satisfactory to the Assocation for the printing of
textbooks and teachers' guides estimated to cost an amount equi-
valent to $75,000 or less (up to an aggregate amount not exceed-
ing an amount equivalent to $1,400,000) may be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures, and a model bidding document, satisfactory to
the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 18 -
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost an amount equivalent to $500,000 or more and each
contract for goods estimated to cost an amount equivalent to
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
any such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Associa-
tion pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of the said Appendix shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding subparagraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
any such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information re-
quired to be furnished to the As. ,iation pursuant to the said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to Lu Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants (including the Project
Managers and their assistants, the Project Accountants and the
Project Architect) whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with prin-
ciples and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Project Management Units
A.   Health
1.   The PMU shall be attached to the office of the Director of
Medical Services who shall have overall responsibility for the
execution of Part A of the Project. PMU's functions shall include
the monitoring of project costs, the keeping of project accounts,
authorization of all project expenditures, administration of the
contracts of both local and foreign project consultants, and the
programming and management of overseas training.
2.   PMU's staff shall include a Project Manager, a procurement
officer, the Project Accountant, the Project Architect, a quan-
tity surveyor and 3 secretaries.
3.   The PMU shall have a technical subcommittee consisting of
representatives of MOH, the Universities and the Manpower Divi-
sion of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. The tech-
nical subcommittee shall be responsible for selection of candi-
dates for training under Part A of the Project.
4.   Meetings of the technical subcommittee shall be chaired by
the Project Manager or, in his absence, such other person as
members of the subcommittee shall determine.
B.   Education
1.   The PMU shall be attached to the office of the Provisional
National Defence Council Secretary of Education     and shall be
provided with adequate office equipment, vehicles, supplies and
staff.
2.   PMU's staff shall include a Project Manager, a Project
Accountant and such other staff as shall be necessary for the
efficient carrying out of the PMU's functions.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in each of the two Special Accounts pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligi-
ble expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Sche-
dule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 21 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into a Special Account shall be made
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit    allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to an amount equivalent to twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from tne Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow such procedures as -the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for any


﻿- 22 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the qvidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  3   A     day of6  wa
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


