Report No. 1735-IVC                                                          IHLE  COPY
Appraisal of
A Second Grand-Bereby Rubber Project
Ivory Coast
April 28, 1978
Regional Projects Department
West Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =         CFAF franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                  =         CFAF 245
CFAF 1,000                -         US$ 4.08
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer            2  -         0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km ) =          0.39 square mile
*1 hectare (ha)           =          2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)           =         2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)          =         2.205 pounds
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ARSO            Autorite pour l'Amenagement de la Region du Sud Ouest
BEI             Banque Europeenne d'Investissements
(European Investment Bank)
BNDA            Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
(National Bank for Agricultural Development)
CCCE            Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(French Economic Cooperation Agency)
CFAF            Communaute Financiere Africaine Franc
(the com;mon currency of the Monetary Union)
CSSPPA          Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des
Productions Agricoles (Agricultural Price Stabilization
Agency)
DPBCG           Direction de la Planification, de la Budgetisation
et du Controle de Gestion (the planning and financial
control agency of the Ministry of Agriculture)
FED             Fonds Europeen de Developpement (European
Development Fund)
IRCA            Institut de Recherches sur le Caoutchouc
(Rubber Research Institute)
SAPH            Societe Africaine de Plantations d'Heveas
(African Rubber Plantations Company)
SATAC           Societe d'Applications Techniques Agricoles et Caoutchoutieres
SOCATCI         Societe des Caoutchoucs de la Cote d'Ivoire
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .i-vi
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                               1
II.    BACKGROUND .............................................                  2
A. General.                                                              2
B.   The Agricultural Sector ...........................                 2
C.   Institutions  ......................................                3
D.   Development Strategy ..............................                 4
E.   The Rubber Subsector ..............................                  5
F.   Performance under the First Grand-
Bereby Rubber Estate Project ....................                6
III.    THE PROJECT ............................................                  7
A. The Project Area.                                                      7
B.    Summary Project Description .......................                9
C.   Detailed Features .................................                 9
D.   Outgrowers' Program ...............................                13
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ............................    14
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ...........................    18
A. Cost Estimates .18
B.    Proposed Financing ................................    20
C. Procurement .21
D. Disbursements .22
E.    Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements  .... ....    22
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RETURNS  ....             ........    23
A. Yields and Production .23
B.   Marketing and Prices ..............................                23
C.   Financial Results  .................................               24
D.    Benefits to Outgrowers  ............................              24
VII.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....................    25
VIII.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ..........................    27
This staff report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, comprising
Messrs. R. Simsolo, A. Green and S. Weed (Bank), and R. Chambe (consultant),
which visited the Ivory Coast in April/May 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.   Progress of Agricultural Projects Financed by the Bank
2.   Performance under the First Project
Table 1 - Comparison between Appraisal and Actual Performance
Table 2 - Investments and Development Costs as at September 30, 1976
3.   Agricultural Operations
A - Development and Exploitation Technique
Table 1 - Schedule of Operations
B - Choice of Planting Material
C - Meteorological Data
Table 2 - Rainfall Data
4.   The Outgrowers Program
Table 1 - Cash-Flow for 1 Ha of Rubber
Table 2 - Credit in Kind and Cash, Development and Exploitation Costs
Table 3 - Credit Arrangements
5.   Costs of Plantation Establishment
Table 1 - Land Clearing and Preparation
A. Felling
B. Land Clearing
C. Preparation for Planting
Table 2 - Access Roads
A. Construction
B. Maintenance
Table 3 - Planting Materials
A. Germination Beds
B. Maintenance of Budwood Gardens
Table 4 - Polybag Nursery
A. Year N-1
B. Year N 0
Table 5 - Planting and Maintenance
A. Field Planting and Maintenance (NO)
B.  Maintenance (N+1)
C.  Maintenance (N+2)
Table 6 - Maintenance and Preparation for Tapping
A.  Maintenance (N+3)
B.  Maintenance (N+4)
C.  Maintenance (N+5)
D.  Preparation for Tapping (N+6) and (N+7)



ANNEXES (Continued)
6.   Other Detailed Costs
Table 1 - Professional Staff
Table 2 - Other Staff and Non-Agricultural Labor
Table 3 - Other Operating Costs
7.   Project Costs
Table 1 - Summary of Project Costs
Table 2 - Maintenance of Initial 7000 ha and Preparation for
Tapping
Table 3 - Development Costs 6500 ha
Table 4 - Vehicles and Equipment
Table 5 - Village Infrastructure
Attachment: Detailed Unit Costs
Table 6 - Training
Table 7 - General Administration
Table 8 - Outgrowers Program
8.   Processing
Table 1 - Summary of Costs
Table 2 - Processing Investment Costs
Attachment A - Housing
Attachment B - Vehicles
Table 3 - Program of Yearly Investments
Table 4 - Processing Costs - Unit costs
Table 5 - Processing Costs - Yearly costs
9.   Cash-Flow and Debt Service
Table 1 - Project Cash-Flow
Table 2 - Estimated Yearly Schedule of Commitments for Co-lenders
Table 3 - Debt Service for all Loans
Table 4 - Debt Service for IBRD Loan
Table 5 - Schedule of Disbursements
10.   The Market for Rubber
Table 1 - World Production, Consumption and Trade of Natural Rubber
Table 2 - World Consumption of Natural and Synthetic Rubbers
Table 3 - Value of Rubber
Table 4 - Estimated Yields and Production
Table 5 - Market Value of Estimated Production
Il.   Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Summary of Rates of Return Calculations
Table 2 - Economic Costs and Benefits Initial 7000 ha
Table 3 - Economic Costs and Benefits Extension 6500 ha
Table 4 - Summary of Net Present Value Calculations



ANNEXES (Continued)
12.   Audit Terms of Reference
13.   Reporting Requirements
Table 1 - Budwood Gardens
Table 2 - Germination Beds and Seed Supplies
Table 3 - Polybag Nurseries - Clones
Table 4 - Polybag Nurseries - Details of Operations
Table 5 - Land Preparation
Table 6 - Field Planting Program
Table 7 - Planting - Details of Operations
Table 8 - Maintenance (NO)
Table 9 - Maintenance (N+1)
MAPS
13092 - Population Map of the Ivory Coast and Project Location
13093 - Project estate, planting program per year and location of villages



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background
i.        The Government of the Ivory Coast has asked the Bank to help finance
the follow-up development of the rubber plantation at Grand-Bereby, in the
Southwest. The project was prepared by the Government, with assistance from
the Bank's Regional Mission in West Africa. This report is based on the
findings of a Bank mission which visited the Ivory Coast in April/May 1977.
ii.       The first project (Loan 938-IVC) started in 1973, and had a phys-
ical target of 13,500 ha to be planted by 1979. It ran into problems caused
by technical difficulties, unsatisfactory management, labor shortage and
inflation. Objectives had to be reduced, and plantings are now expected to
cover 7,000 ha, to be completed by 1978. The follow-up project would bring
the estate to the originally planned 13,500 ha over a five-year planting
period. During this period, some areas planted under the first project would
come to maturity, and initial processing facilities would be established.
Proiect Areas and Summary Project Description
iii.      The project area, some 75 km west of San Pedro, covers some 50,000
ha of which about one-third is suitable for rubber planting. Within this
area, an initial concession agreement provided sufficient land for a 13,500
ha estate. However, some 2,300 ha of the original concession have subse-
quently been withdrawn and reallocated to village settlements reducing the
area suitable for rubber to 13,000 ha. Additional prospection is now under
way to make available sufficient land to complete the planting program, and
no problems are envisaged.
iv.       The project, to be implemented over seven years, would comprise:
(a) maintaining immature trees planted under the first project
and related access roads;
(b) clearing, opening access roads for, and planting an
additional 6,500 ha, and maintaining these during the
project period;
(c) providing housing for estate workers and staff, and
building and equipping schools, dispensaries and other
necessary social infrastructure;
(d) provision to farmers of loans and extension services for
an outgrowers' pilot project covering about 500 ha of rubber
plantings on land cleared by the farmers;



- 1.] -
(e) provision of heavy civil work equipment, vehicles and
other equipment necessary to carry out the project;
(f) provision of management and technical services including
their operational costs; and
(g) building and equipping the first stage of a processing
factory, together with housing for factory staff and
the transport fleet necessary to collect the crop and
deliver the finished product to San Pedro.
The planting program would be spread over five years, with 350 ha planted in
PY1, 1,750 ha each year in PY2 to PY4 and 900 ha in PY5. The factory would
need to be commissioned in PY3 with an initial daily capacity of 11 tons of
block rubber, increasing to 66 tons by PY7 and subsequently to 154 tons a
day to process the peak production from the 13,500 ha plantation at full
maturity.
Project Implementation
v.        Societe des Caoutchoucs de Cote d'Ivoire (SOCATCI), the Borrower
under the first project, was a State corporation established in 1973 to
operate in the rubber sector. To execute the first Grand-Bereby Rubber Estate
Project, SOCATCI entered into a technical assistance and management contract
with SATAC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Michelin. SOCATCI delegated all
its powers relating to the implementation of the first project to SATAC.
In September 1977, Government announced a number of policy decisions in the
agricultural sector designed to further emphasize smallholder development
and including the replacement of crop-oriented state enterprises by regional
organizations with full responsibility for integrated rural development.
While most of the details relating to these changes are still being worked
out, an immediate consequence of these new measures was the dissolution
of SOCATCI. Control of the project was assumed directly by the Ministry
of Agriculture, which initiated procedures to take over the Management Con-
tract which had been signed between the now-dissolved SOCATCI and SATAC.
Government arranged for the interim financing of the project through the
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA - the Ministry of Finance agency entrusted
with foreign debt service), which would also be the channel for disbursements
of the Bank's loan (938-IVC), as well as the funds of the other colenders of
this project. Government's contribution to project costs, which are allocated
yearly through the Development Budget, are also to be channeled through CAA.
These arrangements were considered satisfactory and Government became the
Borrower of Loan 938-IVC, under a Substitution Loan Agreement, which was
approved by the Board in March 1978.
vi.       Technical and financial supervision is now carried out by one of
the six new Directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture, the "Direction de
la Planification, de la Budgetisation et du Controle de Gestion (DPBCC)."
DPBCG is staffed with a number of accountants and auditors, and monitors
the financial performance and audits the accounts of all State-owned com-
panies involved in the agricultural sector, and is directly responsible for



- iii -
the financial supervision of Grand-Bereby. Furthermore, DPBCG has set up
a special unit, "Cellule Hevea," for the technical supervision of this and
all other rubber development projects. These arrangements are considered
adequate for implementation of the agricultural development period of the
second project. However, the responsibilities of a revenue-earning opera-
tion, which the Estate would become once processing and marketing activities
begin, are somewhat outside the normal functions of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. Therefore, a new structure responsible for financial and commercial
operations of a producing estate would have to be set up and should be in
place by the time construction begins on the processing facilities; Govern-
ment is expected to reach a decision on its form by the end of 1978.
vii.      Project execution remains the responsibility of SATAC.  The Proj-
ect Manager, appointed by Michelin with the approval of the Government, the
Bank and colenders, would continue to have the necessary autonomy in the day-
to-day management of the project and in the appointment of staff, except for
the heads of the operating departments, and would be responsible for keeping
the controlling organization informed of project developments. The Ministry
of Agriculture would retain overall control with responsibility for approving
annual budgets, development programs, and the appointment of the Project
Manager and the heads of the operating departments.  The financial and ad-
ministrative skills of the SATAC Management team have been recently upgraded
and improved accounting procedures have been introduced to overcome the defi-
ciencies which hindered the execution of the first project. SATAC îs now
considered fully competent to implement the second project.
Project Costs and Financing
viii.     Project costs are estimated at US$60.4 million, of which the foreign
exchange component would be US$28.3 million or 47%. Debt service during the
project period, net of surplus generated by the sale of production, amount
to an additional US$12.1 million. Cost estimates, based on mid-1977 prices,
are net of duties on goods imported specifically for the project but include
other direct and indirect taxes amounting to US$6.8 million or 11% of total
project costs. Physical and price contingencies amount to 27% of total cost.
ix.       In addition to the debt service, Government would finance the equiv-
alent of US$22.1 million of project costs from its own resources. The re-
mainder of the financing would come from the Bank, US$20 million, the Fonds
Europeen de Developpement (FED), US$5.5 million, the Banque Europeenne
d'Investissements (BEI), US$4.5 million, and the Caisse Centrale de Coopera-
tion Economique (CCCE) of France, US$8.3 million. While CCCE would finance
pari-passu with the Bank all project components except processing investments
which would be financed exclusively by EIB, FED would not finance the main-
tenance of the 7,000 ha planted under the first project.
x.        The Bank loan would be made to Government for a term of 17 years,
including a four-year grace period, at the present rate of 7.5%. The other
colenders' loans are expected to have different grace periods and maturities
than the Bank's and interest rates vary: FED's would be 1% (10 years grace
and repayment over 40 years), BEI's would be 5-1/2% (4-1/2 years grace and



- iv -
repayment over 10 years), and CCCE 5-1/2% (6 years grace period and repayment
over 8 years). The Bank loan would finance 37% of project costs excluding
taxes, 33% of total project costs (less than the foreign exchange costs), or
28% of costs including debt service. The percentages covered by the total
external financing of US$38.3 million would be 70%, 63%, and 53%, respectively.
All loans would be disbursed during a five-year disbursement period after
which Government would have to provide additional financing estimated at
CFAF 3,738 million (US$15.2 million) to bring the plantation to maturity, to
provide additional processing facilities necessary for the project production,
and to ensure debt service.
Outgrower Arrangements
xi.       Implementation of the pilot outgrower project would be contingent
on the results of a feasibility study carried out by SATAC with the assistance
of the "Cellule d'Hevea" of the Ministry of Agriculture. Participation in the
outgrower scheme would be conditional on the farmer's agreement to follow,
throughout the development period, the technical advice provided by the ex-
ecuting agency. It is expected that settlers established to the southwest
of the project area would form a nucleus program. Outgrowers would receive
credits in cash and kind from the executing agency at an interest rate of
8.5%. Producer prices would be fixed at a level (currently estimated at
CFAF 130/kg) which covers the cost of Government's investment in the program,
while providing adequate incentives to the outgrowers.
Procurement and Disbursement
xii.      Procurement.  During the five-year disbursement period, the fol-
lowing procurement arrangements would be in force. Contracts of US$100,000
equivalent or more would be made through international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Goods so procured are estimated to cost
US$6.0 million, consisting mainly of vehicles and equipment (US$3.2 million)
and fertilizers (US$2.8 million). Contracts not exceeding US$100,000 would
be awarded on the basis of local tenders, under a procedure acceptable to the
Bank (total cost estimated at US$0.5 million). Most of the housing and other
construction (US$4.0 million) and land clearing and access roads (US$3.1
million excluding cost of equipment which would be procured under ICB) would
be carried out on force account. The procurement for the rubber plant (civil
works and equipment) and other ancillary equipment totalling US$4.5 million,
to be financed by the European Investment Bank, would be carried out under
this institution's guidelines. The remaining project costs, US$26.8 million,
would be mainly for salaries (expatriate staff and management fees US$5.3
million, local staff US$3.8 million, labor US$9.3 million) and agricultural
work and other operating costs (for vehicles, agricultural tractors and
electricity generators, US$6.3 million, buildings maintenance, US$0.8 million,
and other miscellaneous, US$1.3 million).
xiii.     Disbursements.  The Bank loan would be disbursed to cover 49.5%
of the following: (a) direct agricultural costs for the maintenance of the
existing 7,000 ha and for the extension of 6,500 ha, including land clearing
and access roads: (i) procurement of agricultural inputs, including sprayers,



-v -
fertilizers, and chemicals (US$1.5 million); and (ii) agricultural labor and
other operating costs (US$4.9 million); (b) construction costs for housing,
villages and social infrastructure (US$1.5 million); (c) procurement of
vehicles and equipment (US$1.3 million); (d) extension services for the
outgrowers' program and loans in kind and cash to participating farmers
(US$0.2 million); and (e) staff salaries, including expatriates', and other
operating expenses (US$6.1 million). US$4.5 million would be unallocated.
Disbursement for (a) (i) and (c) would be fully documented. Disbursements
for the other categories would be against certificates of completion and
expenditure, the documentation for which would not be submitted for review
but would be retained on the estate for inspection by supervision missions.
Markets
xiv.      Project production is expected to be exported as block rubber which
has the advantage that its technical qualities can be specified accurately,
and thus it is in demand by manufacturers. Other types of rubber could also
be produced but a decision on this would be taken at a later stage in project
development when market demand for special types of rubber could be evaluated
better. A final decision would not be needed until 1982. No difficulty would
appear in the disposal of project production in view of the anticipated world
growth in demand for natural rubber. During negotiations, Government stated
that it intends to entrust CSSPPA with the sales of rubber produced on the
estate; assurances were received to the effect that the Bank would be given
the opportunity to comment on any marketing agreement prior to its conclusion.
Financial and Economic Benefits and Justification
xv.       Primary benefits would be increased production and export of rubber,
which at full development would amount to about 31,000 tons (33% of projected
Ivorian production at that time), and annual net foreign exchange earnings of
US$24 million. The project would provide employment for about 4,500 workers,
adding a total population of 15,000 to serve as a focal point to the develop-
ment of supporting services and other economic activity in the project area.
A successful outgrower component could further help to stabilize the region's
population and improve rural opportunities.
xvi.      Operating surpluses (after loan interest and repayment costs) before
taxes or dividend distribution would begin in 1985, at US$2.1 million annually,
and increase to about US$6 million in 1987 after debt service.
xvii.     The economic analysis is based on efficiency prices in constant 1977
terms, with foreign costs and benefits taken at full value at the official
exchange rate of US$1 = CFAF 245 and domestic costs, net of taxes, adjusted by
the standard conversion factor (0.83). The rate of return on the full 13,500
ha is estimated to be 19%. The estimated rate of return to bring the initial
7,000 ha into production is 21%, while the incremental rate of return for the
6,500 ha expansion is expected to be 17%. As in most projects of this type,
the rate of return is relatively insensitive to changes in costs or benefits,
falling about 3 percentage points for a 15% increase in costs or a 15% decrease



- vi -
in benefits. The outgrowers' program represents a very minor part of total
project costs and, since it is primarily in the nature of a pilot project,
was not included in the overall rate of return. However, for illustrative
purposes, a separate rate of return was calculated, yielding approximately
18%.
Risks
xviii.    In view of the experience under the first project, the possibility
of cost overruns under the second project cannot be completely ruled out, if
only because a recurrence of the worldwide inflationary spiral of 1973-74
cannot be foreseen. Nevertheless, since the current cost projections (with
the exception of the factory component) are based on actual recent experience
at Grand-Bereby, the 15% range taken in the sensitivity analysis should ade-
quately test this risk. A greater degree of uncertainty must be attached to
the availability of labor in the sparsely populated region. Recent improve-
ments in recruitment efforts, more timely provision of housing and social
infrastructure, and an increase in the minimum wage for estate workers, have
resulted in a substantial improvement in the situation, but there is no guar-
antee that the labor shortages experienced in 1975 will not reoccur. A gen-
eral improvement in the availability of labor in the Southwest Region is
expected from an increase in the number of economic activities (such as the
SODEPALM Project) and the fact that the Grand-Bereby estate has seen an in-
crease in the amount of spontaneous recruitment. Furthermore, the annual
planting target would be only 1,750 ha per year, in line with current and
expected labor availability, as compared to the first project appraisal
estimate of 3,000 ha expected to be planted in 1979. The result of the
outgrower component is also uncertain, due primarily to the lack of in-
formation on the availability and degree of interest of potential participants.
Nevertheless, such a pilot program is justified to determine the potential
role of rubber cultivation as a means of increasing the incomes of the exist-
ing population.
Recommendation
xix.      With assurances and condition outlined in Chapter VIII, the proposed
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$20 million.



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Ivory Coast has asked the Bank to help finance
the follow-up development of the Rubber Plantation at Grand-Bereby, in the
Southwest. The first project (Loan 938-IVC) started in 1973, and had a target
of 13,500 ha to be planted by 1979. It ran into technical difficulties com-
pounded by unsatisfactory management. When these two constraints were alle-
viated, cost overruns and labor shortages reduced its planting rhythm and
the project objectives had to be scaled down so as to bring them within funds
available. Plantings are now expected to cover 7,000 ha and to be completed
in 1978.
1.02      A seven-year follow-up project would include the planting of 6,500
additional hectares of rubber trees, thus completing the estate up to 13,500
ha, and the maintenance of all immature plantings. During the proposed proj-
ect period, areas planted under the first project will come to maturity, and
processing facilities would be established. Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE), the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED) and the Banque
Europeenne d'Investissements (BEI) would participate in project financing.
1.03      The follow-up project was prepared by the Government with assis-
tance from the Bank's Regional Mission in West Africa (RMWA). This report
is based upon the findings of a mission which visited the Ivory Coast in
April/May 1977, composed of Messrs. R. Simsolo, A. Green and S. Weed (Bank)
and R. Chambe (Consultant).
1.04      The Bank has made 11 loans for agricultural development in the
Ivory Coast: three totalling US$17.1 million in 1969 for oil palm and
coconut development (Loans 611, 612 and 613-IVC); a loan of US$7.5 million
in 1970 for smallholder cocoa production (Loan 686-IVC); two loans totalling
US$7 million in 1971 for oil palm and coconut (Loans 759 and 760 - IVC); a
loan of US$8.4 million in 1973 for the first rubber project (Loan 938-IVC);
and a loan of US$2.6 million in 1974 for oil palm smallholder and estate
development (Loan 1036-IVC). Loans for a second cocoa smallholder project,
US$20.0 million (Loan 1069-IVC), and for a cotton areas rural development
project, US$31.0 million (Loan 1077-IVC), were made in 1974 and 1975, respec-
tively. A Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project Loan (1382-IVC) was made in
1977. Notwithstanding some initial difficulties, particularly concerning
the first rubber project (para. 2.16-2.22), all these projects have been
completed or are now progressing satisfactorily.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      The Ivory Coast covers about 324,000 km . Tropical rain forest
stretches across the southern half of the country, in a belt reaching about
200 km inland from the Atlantic Ocean. Further north, the forest is gradually
replaced by savannah, which covers the other half of the country.
2.02      Population, estimated at 7 million (mid-1975), has been growing at
about 4.3% annually, including 1.3% from immigration. GDP growth has been
high, averaging 7% a year in real terms over the past decade. The country's
economy, and its rapid progress, have been based on the production of coffee
and cocoa, palm oil, bananas and pineapples, on the exploitation of the forest
resources, and an expanding industrial sector (which now accounts for 12% of
GDP). These activities are concentrated in the south, where the capital and
industrial center, Abidjan, is located. The northern savannah, with half of
the country's area and 35% of the population, has a less favorable resource
endowment and livelihoods there depend on cotton, food production and some
livestock.
2.03      Overall, per capita income is currently about US$610.  Rural per
capita incomes average about US$235, but regional disparities are large.
Incomes in the savannah zone average about US$150. In the forest zone, due
to cash crops such as cocoa, coffee, and oil palm, the average exceeds US$290.
However, in the sparsely populated southwest, where cash crops are much less
developed, average incomes approximate those of the savannah. These income
disparities account in part for rural-urban and inter-regional migration and,
within the next decade, population is projected to grow in cities at around
10% per annum, in the forest zone at about 4%, and to decline in the savannah
by about 0.5% per year.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.04      Agriculture and forestry account for about 75% of the country's
production, a situation which will persist for many years to come. Abundant
land, good labor supply and generally favorable world markets for its prod-
ucts assured rapid agricultural growth in the Ivory Coast. About 70% of
the population depends on agriculture and forestry. The estimated value
of agricultural production in 1976 was US$2.1 billion, of which industrial
crops accounted for about US$1.5 billion, food crops US$400 million and
livestock US$150 million. From 1974 through 1976 annual exports averaged
US$1,400 million of which the three main commodities--coffee (29%), timber
(20%), and cocoa (25%)--accounted for about 74%.
2.05      Until recently the Government has concentrated its efforts on
increasing the area devoted to export crops. But growing urbanization and
the increasing demand for food has drawn the Government's attention more



- 3 -
towards integrated regional development. New programs have been designed
to include food crops in the same areas where export crops are developed.  A
case in point is the food crops and cotton program in the savannah region
which started in 1974 with Bank assistance (Loan 1077-IVC).  Over the past few
years the importation of foodstuffs per rural inhabitant has declined from 200
kg to 160 kg, indicating that these measures are proving effective. This
approach is also expected to help alleviate rural poverty and reduce regional
income disparities, thereby slowing the urban drift.
C. Institutions
2.06      Overall development planning is in the hands of the Ministry of
Planning while detailed agricultural development programs are the responsi-
bility of the Ministries of Agriculture and of Livestock. Execution of these
programs was previously entrusted to autonomous development agencies 1/ set
up by the Government to promote one or more specific crops. However, as part
of a general reorganization of responsibilities in the agricultural sector,
Government has decided to implement agricultural projects through three
regional agencies. Thus CIDT (the cotton development agency) is assuming
responsibility in the northern part of the country, with SATMACI (cocoa
and coffee) in the center and SODEPALM (oil palm and coconut) in the south.
This approach is expected to facilitate development of smallholders projects
aimed at improving the regional distribution of income (para 2.12) and is
basically sound. Although some of the other crop-specific agencies have been
dissolved, including SODERIZ (for rice) and SOCATCI (rubber), the status of
the remaining agencies has not yet been determined. Moreover, while responsi-
bility for rice will probably be shifted to the regional agencies, implementa-
tion of Governnent rubber projects are now under the direct responsibility of
the Ministry of Agriculture. For a more detailed discussion of arrangements
for the proposed rubber project, see Section IV.
2.07      The Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Productions
Agricoles (CSSPPA) is responsible for carrying out Government agricultural
price support policies. It supports producer prices for cotton, cocoa,
coffee, palm oil and copra in a conventional manner, paying a guaranteed
minimum price fixed annually, controlling the sale of the commodities on the
world market, and absorbing profits or losses on its operations. CSSPPA
surpluses have partly been used for new investments, mainly in the agricul-
tural sector.
2.08      Agricultural research is undertaken by several French organizations
under a bilateral agreement. Programs and budgets are reviewed and approved
by the Ministry of Scientific Research, and costs are shared equally by the
two countries. Rubber research is undertaken by the Institut de Recherches
sur le Caoutchouc (IRCA), which acts also as the Technical Advisor to the
Ministry of Agriculture for the implementation of the rubber development
program.
1/   Societes de Developpement (SODEs).



2.09      The Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole (BNDA), the
main source of agricultural credit, has so far been active in short-term
credit using a line of rediscount with the Banque Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO). For other agricultural activities it has
operated through the SODEs which administer the credit in their respective
subsectors. BNDA has used its equity, and in some cases international funds
such as CCCE's participation in the first rubber project and IBRD funds under
the Cocoa Project. BNDA is active in establishing branches in the rural
areas with the purpose of dealing directly with farmers and farmers' groups.
2.10      The Autorite pour l'Amenagement du Sud-Ouest (ARSO) was created
in 1967 to act as the development authority for the southwest; one of its
immediate duties has been the resettlement of villagers displaced by the
Kossou Dam. Recently it concentrated its attention on the development of
San Pedro as a port and regional focal point, leaving other development
activities to be carried out by the specialized state-owned companies.
D. Development Strategy
2.11      The Government's primary goal has been, until recently, to promote
rapid growth. The focus of this goal was agricultural export crops and for-
estry, although a policy of fiscal incentives designed to promote private
investment supported industrial growth. While adhering to this goal, the
growth objective was hampered by three considerations. First, diversification
was required to increase the stability of export earnings and of the economy.
Thus, in addition to coffee and cocoa, new export crops, such as oil palm and
rubber, were promoted. Second, it was recognized that growth had been uneven
and that regional income disparities (para 2.03), which were detrimental to
national unity, existed and should be reduced. Finally, in the long run,
reliance on foreign factors of production should be reduced and labor and
capital should be gradually Ivorianized.
2.12      With the generally rapid growth of the economy (para 2.02) and in-
creasing incomes (GDP per capita reached $610 in 1976) and, therefore, a more
substantial basis with which to generate savings, investment, and future
growth, Government has become increasingly concerned with improving the
distribution of income. The reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture
(para 2.06), with its emphasis on regional development, is a reflection of
this concern. In dealing with income disparities, Government's policy now
gives special emphasis to increasing agricultural productivity in less devel-
oped areas through projects adapting service delivery systems to reach the
smallholder in annual crops, and the development of smallholder coraponents of
more traditional perennial crop projects. The Cotton Areas Rural Development
Project (Ln 1077 IVC) is an example of the first approach, while the small-
holder component of the Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project (Ln 1382 IVC), a
recently appraised smallholder rubber project in the southeast, and the pilot
smallholder component of the proposed Second Grand-Bereby Rubber Project are
examples of the second.



E. The Rubber Subsector
2.13      Commercial rubber production started in 1962 when plantings made in
1955 came into bearing. The total planted area has grown at a modest rate,
reaching about 23,350 ha by the end of 1977. Of this, about 14,300 ha were
in production, although only half had reached peak yield. There are some 200
ha of smallholder plantings, and the remainder consists of plantations operated
by three separate organizations. A French company (Compagnie de Caoutchouc
et de Pneumatiques - CCP) owns and operates 2,600 ha; Societe Africaine de
Plantations d'Heveas (SAPH), in which Government is in majority partnership
(60-40 respectively), owns another 13,000 ha, and Government itself owns 7,000
ha and 600 ha are operated by IRCA. In 1977, total production amounted to
18,000 tons, 90% of which wes exported, representing less than 0.5% of world
natural rubber production. The country's industry is well advanced techno-
logically since it has taken advantage of the experience gained in other
producing countries and is supported by effective research.
2.14      IRCA (para. 2.08) has been active in the selection of high yielding
plant material, studies concerning nutrition of the crop, the development of
new tapping systems and other production techniques, and advising Government
on rubber development. IRCA operates also in Cameroon and carries out consul-
tancy work in several other African countries.
2.15      Government rubber development plans involve:  (a) the completion of
about 700 ha of smallholder rubber in association with IRCA and the Anguededou
estate; (b) planting of 2,000 ha of estate and 3,500 ha of outgrowers' planta-
tions in the southeast for which a possible Bank project (SAPH Rubber Project)
has been appraised; and (c) in the southwest, completion of (i) the Rapid-Grah
project (to 4,500 ha); and (ii) the Grand-Bereby project (to 13,500 ha) which
is the subject of this report. Further possible developments in the southwest
might be about 15,000 ha in the Lower Cavally area (at Grabo) some of which
could be smallholder operated. If the already planned development program is
completed in full, it would increase the country's rubber area to about 60,000
ha by 1985. This area would have an annual production potential of nearly
108,000 tons by the turn of the century although by 1985 production would
amount to only about 30,000 tons most of which would be exported. This
tonnage would represent less than one percent of projected world natural
rubber exports for that year.



- 6 -
F. Performance under the First Grand-Bereby Rubber Estate Project
2.16      Performance under the first project, financed under Loan 938-IVC,
which originally envisaged the planting of 13,500 ha of rubber between 1972
and 1979, is summarized below:
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   Total
----______________----------ha…-----…---------------
Planned Planting
Program             -    500    750  1,250  2,000  3,000  3,000  3,000  13,500
Cumulative            -      -  1,250  2,500  4,500  7,500 10,500 13,500  13,500
Program Achieved    20    258    784  1,311  1,102  2,100  1,425*         -   7,000
Cumulative            -    278  1,062  2,373  3,475  5,575  7,000*        -   7,000
Deficit                    222    188    127  1,025  1,925  3,500  6,500   6,500
*  Estimates based on information available end-1977.
2.17      Difficulties in planting techniques and management problems were
largely responsible for a late start and for the failure to achieve the
planned rate of development. Moreover, the impact of these factors was
compounded by inflation during 1972-75 which reached a rate unforeseen at
the time of appraisal. In 1976, recognizing these difficulties, the program
was reduced to 7,000 ha to be planted by the end of 1978 (Memorandum to the
Executive Directors R-76-240 of September 29, 1976). This target should be
achieved within the financing available under the first project.
2.18      Agriculturally, operational difficulties have necessitated changes
in planting techniques. The most serious of these have been rodent damage
in fields planted with seed and transplanting losses in fields planted with
budded stumps. Nevertheless, the development of the young trees has been
very good, and there should be no problems in bringing areas into tapping on
schedule or in attaining the forecast yield of 2.3 tons/ha at full maturity.
2.19      There have been large cost overruns which, to some extent, were
attributable to the reduced rate of planting and to mismanagement during the
start-up period when the inexperienced executing agency allowed overstaffing
and excessive administrative costs. But, to a large degree, the cost overruns
were due to insufficient provision for price contingencies in the appraisal
cost estimates. The inflation index used in appraisal (1972) was an even 5%
yearly which produced a compounded factor of 34% by 1977. The actual infla-
tion that prevailed during the same years resulted in a compounded factor of
94% for the same period.
2.20      Applying the real inflation factor to the appraisal cost estimates,
the cumulative cost of developing one hectare by 1976 would have been CFAF 1.1
million (US$4,500) as compared to CFAF 0.8 million (US$3,265) at appraisal.
The actual cost for developing one hectare, by end of 1976, is CFAF 1.3 mil-
lion (US$5,147):



Year                   1972      1973      1974    1975      1976     1977
------------ -CFAF Million------------------
Cumulative Appraisal
Cost Estimates           466.4    940.4  1,566.7  2,449.1  3,541.1  4,628.9
Estimated Cost per
hectare Planned                    1.881   1.253    0.980    0.787    0.617
Cumulative Cost
Estimates (properly
inflated)                482.8  1,036.6  1,890.4  3,184.4  4,733.2  6,840.3
Estimated Cost per
ha planned (inflated)              2.073   1.512    1.274    1.052    0.912
Cumulative Project
Actual Costs             152.3    541.8  1,640.6  2,960.9  4,383.5  6,165.5
Actual Cost per ha
Planted                            1.949   1.545    1.248    1.261    1.106
2.21      Assuming the 7,000 ha would be completely planted in 1978, the total
cost would average CFAF 970,000 (US$3,959) per ha as compared to CFAF 821,000
(US$3,350) if appraisal cost estimates had been correctly inflated; an actual
cost overrun of 18%.
2.22      When calculating the economic rate of return for the first project,
the appraisal report used as reference price for rubber US$0.19/lb. In 1977,
the price was US$0.435/lb, and when deflated by the same factor used in the
comparison above, a price of US$0.225/lb is obtained in 1972 terms, which is
also 18% higher than the reference price used. Therefore, the lower economic
rate of return now expected for the completed 7,000 ha first project is due
primarily to the fact that it is supporting the costs of an infrastructure
designed for 13,500 ha. Completion to 13,500 ha would improve the expected
rate of return considerably, although it would still be somewhat lower than
the original appraisal estimate as a result of the lag in the planting pro-
gram (para. 7.03).
III. THE PROJECT
A. The Project Area
Physical Characteristics and Climate
3.01      The project area is 75 km west of San Pedro and lies between the
coastal towns of Grand-Bereby and Tabou (see map); it covers some 50,000 ha
of which about two thirds is too wet or topographically unsuitable for rubber
planting. The vegetation is rain forest with dense undergrowth, most of the
exploitable large trees having already been removed. The plantable soils,
ranging from sandy loams to sandy clays, are freely drained, strongly acid,
and low in available nutrients. The mean altitude of the plantable areas is
about 50 m above sea level.



3.02      Annual rainfall averages about 2,000 mm but is markedly variable
from year to year. The principal dry season is in January and February and
there is a second small dry season in July and August. Mean temperature is
around 26 0C and the diurnal range is small. The prevailing winds, from the
southwest, although not of such a velocity as to preclude rubber cultiva-
tion, are su,ficiently strong to necessitate care in the selection of wind
resistant clones. While sunshine and radiation records are unavailable,
evidence from the first project confirms beyond doubt the suitability of the
Grand-Bereby environment for the cultivation of rubber.
3.03      Land Tenure.  In the area surveyed (para. 3.01), a concession was
granted to SOCATCI under an initial agreement that provided sufficient land
to ensure a plantable area of not less than 13,500 ha. However, some 2,300 ha
of the original concession have subsequently been withdrawn and re-allocated
to village settlements, reducing the area suitable for rubber to about 13,000
ha. Therefore, additional prospection is underway outside the concession to
ensure that the area required to complete the planting program would be avail-
able. During negotiations an assurance was received from Government that the
limits of the concession would be extended by December 31, 1978, to include
this area.
3.04      Communications and Utilities.  The project area is linked by road
to the small town of Grand-Bereby and also to the port at San Pedro, from
which estate production will eventually be shipped. The San Pedro road is
in poor condition, and the necessary improvements would be made by Government
to upgrade the road connection between the project area and San Pedro by
December 31, 1978. An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotia-
tions. Utilities such as power and water supplies, which are not yet avail-
able from the public sector, would be provided to the estate under the project.
3.05      Labor and Social Services.  Labor shortages were partly responsi-
ble for the slow rate of development under the first project (para. 2.16).
Because of the low population density in the project area, virtually all of
the laborers came from elsewhere (rather more than half of the present work
force consists of immigrants, principally Voltaics). Since SOCATCI was not
able in the first years of project execution to provide the housing and social
infrastructure needed to attract workers to such an isolated region, recruit-
ment and retention were difficult. However, the Grand-Bereby plantation is
now able to provide the standards of housing, schools, shops, and medical
facilities available on plantations elsewhere in the Ivory Coast. Further-
more, the various organizations engaged in plantation activities in the
Southwest agreed, in late 1976, to pay a premium (about CFAF 60) over the
official daily wage of CFAF 390 to help compensate for the disadvantages of
working in the region. The combination of higher wages and better living
conditions led to a substantial improvement in the labor situation in 1977.
The turnover rate declined, spontaneous recruitment increased, and, by the end
of the year, the absentee rate had declined sharply. Therefore, although one
year does not necessarily constitute a trend, the labor situation for the
second project is expected to be better than for the first. Moreover, the
proposed planting program has been geared to a realistic assessment of future
manpower availability.



- 9 -
B. Summary Project Description
3.06      The project would be implemented over seven years and would comprise:
(a)  maintaining immature trees planted under the first project
and the related access roads;
(b) clearing, opening access roads for, and planting with rubber
an additional 6,500 ha of land, and maintaining these
during the project period;
(c) providing housing for estate workers and staff, and build-
ing and equipping schools, dispensaries and other necessary
social infrastructure;
(d) provision to farmers of loans and extension services for an
outgrowers' pilot project covering about 500 ha of rubber
plantings on land cleared by the farmers;
(e) provision of heavy civil works equipment, vehicles and other
equipment necessary to carry out the project;
(f) provision of management and technical services including
their operational costs; and
(g) building and equipping the first stage of a rubber pro-
cessing factory, together with housing for factory staff
and the transport fleet necessary to collect the crop and
deliver the finished product to San Pedro.
The planting program would be completed in five years, with 350 ha planted in
PY1, 1,750 ha each year in PY2 to PY4 and 900 ha in PY5. The factory would
need to be commissioned in PY3 with an initial daily capacity of 11 tons of
block rubber, increasing to 66 tons during the project period and subsequently
to 154 tons a day to process the peak production from the 13,500 ha plantation
at full maturity.
C. Detailed Features
Field Establishment
3.07      Land clearing is one of the primary activities in which adjustments
can be made for shortages of labor. Therefore, project costs are based on
the assumption that, as in the first project, felling and clearing operations
would be mechanized, using the existing fleet of heavy tractors plus additional
tractors to be provided under the project, mechanical saws, and tractor-mounted
hole diggers (details are at Annex 3). However, actual implementation will
take into account the most efficient use of available resources.



- 10 -
3.08      The principal clones would be the same as were selected for the
first project. However, to avoid overdependence on the clone GT 1 (Annex 3),
it will be necessary to re-graft the project's budwood gardens at an early
date. Seeds are provided by IRCA, and assurances were obtained that adequate
and timely supplies would be made available. The estate should, in any event,
soon be able to meet its own requirements with seed harvested from the 1972/73
plantings.
3.09      Under the first project (para. 2.17) three planting methods were
practiced--seed at stake where the seedlings are grafted in the field the fol-
lowing year, budded stumps, and plants raised in polybags and budded in
the nursery prior to field planting. The planting of budded stumps has
not given good results, and this method would not be pursued in the second
project. There have also been heavy losses due to rodent damage in areas
planted with seed at stake. However, areas of high-density rodent population
are restricted and definable, and some planting of seed at stake would be
accepted under the second project, if necessary to achieve the scheduled
planting program. However, sufficient nursery area would be allowed for the
planting of the full 1,750 ha each year with polybag material. Planting
density would be reduced from 600 points per ha to 550 and only one polybag
plant would be planted per site. This economy of material appears fully
justifiable in view of the uniformity in the areas already planted.
3.10      Thinning would be carried out in two stages, in the second and
fourth years after planting, reducing the stand first from 550 to 500 and
then to 450 trees; fields would be opened for tapping in Year 6 or possibly
earlier in exceptionally vigorous areas.
Exploitation
3.11      In costing the proposed project, it has been assumed that all areas
would be tapped twice weekly, during 45 weeks each year, using the half-spiral
system in association with stimulants. As there is currently a good deal of
research underway aimed at further improving tapping techniques, such as
micro-tapping, and developing better stimulants, methods of exploitation
would continue to evolve in the course of the project. The impact of such
further developments on tapping costs is likely to be favorable.
3.12      Appraisal estimates have been based on the assumption that the crop
would be collected as liquid latex and transported to a central factory. How-
ever, in recent years rising labor costs have led to the development of alter-
native methods, in particular the periodic collection of latex coagulated in
plastic bags. While there are some disadvantages, such as lack of homogeneity
and the development of unpleasant odors, it seems probable that the method
will eventually be commercialized on a large scale, and would be adopted by
the estate.
3.13      A single, centrally located, processing factory of about 150 tons
daily capacity would provide the most economical installation for the treat-
ment of the Grand-Bereby crop at full development. At peak periods, this
would involve the transport of some 375 tons of liquid latex and 75 tons
of coagulated rubber every day. Liquid latex would be collected in tanks



- il -
transported either by trucks or, where practical, by tractors equipped with
trailers. Substitution of tractors for trucks for short distances (less than
5 km from the factory) would result in some savings in vehicle investments,
but the degree to which this can be done will depend on the final layout of
the estate road network.
3.14      The estate would produce block rubbers of various grades.  The
grade mix would depend on tapping systems, the use made of stimulants, the
policy with regard to collection of low-grade scrap at different price levels,
and other factors which cannot be precisely defined in advance. It is esti-
mated that 75% of the crop would be collected as liquid latex, giving a qual-
ity at least equivalent to SMR 5, 20% as cup lump and tree lace at SMR 10,
and 5% as low-grade scrap possibly rating as low as SMR 50.
3.15      Crumb rubber would be produced from all grades, and drying would be
done by steam-heated equipment rather than by individually fuel-fired dryers.
Although more costly in terms of the initial investment, steam dryers would
be operated on firewood, a low-cost natural resource available in large
quantities; thereby reducing the recurrent cost for imported petroleum fuel
throughout the life of the plantation.
3.16      Special care has been taken when designing the plant to avoid
polluting local water resources. The purification of factory effluent would
be assured by ponding and suitable treatment; the necessary equipment has been
included in the cost of the processing facilities.
Food Crops
3.17      To increase the amount of food available for the plantation labor
force and, at the same time, afford workers an opportunity to achieve a degree
of self-sufficiency, additional land would be cleared in the immediate vicin-
ity of each of the estate villages and allocated for food farming. The estate
would also make available the seeds and other planting material required. The
production of food crops by village farmers in the region, for sale to the
plantation workers, could also be encouraged. An obviously suitable area for
such cash crop production would be the 2,300 ha of land recently excised from
the concession for the resettlement of villagers.
Training
3.18      The project would continue the training program which has been suc-
cessful under the first project. Agricultural labor, through the level of
overseer, is given on-the-job training supplemented by more formal instruc-
tion conducted by SATAC technical staff for certain skilled labor categories
such as budders (and eventually including tappers and specialized factory
workers). Field management staff goes through a period of up to one year
of formal and on-the-job training, in a special division supervised by the
training officer, before appointment at the division level (canton level staff
would be selected from the ranks of division managers). Four divisional level
staff have been trained under the first project and an additional six divi-
sional staff and two cantonal level staff would be trained under the second
project. The primary source for division level recruits is the Agricultural



- 12 -
School at Bingerville, while candidates for senior agricultural management
positions are generally assigned by the Ministry of Agriculture from among
the graduates of the Agricultural Institute of Bouake. Project costs include
provisions for the continuation of scholarships at these two institutions and
for possible additional training for other management positions (para. 4.12).
Field Trials
3.19      Basic research in support of the rubber industry would continue to
be the function of IRCA, which has the necessary highly qualified specialists
with technical resources and laboratory facilities at its research center.
However, on an estate the size of Grand-Bereby, there is always a need for
field experimentation aimed at resolving problems peculiar to the estate
itself. This program of applied research would be the responsibility of the
Agronomic Director (para. 4.12) and cost estimates would be included in the
annual budgets prepared by SATAC. All trials would be expected to be properly
designed and adequately documented. Regular progress reports would be sub-
mitted and the final results and conclusions to be drawn from each project
would be reported in full. The advice and assistance of IRCA would be avail-
able as and when required under existing arrangements.
Housing and Social Infrastructure
3.20      There are two types of accommodation for estate workers.  During
the preparation and planting period, workers are housed in temporary wooden
villages, which can be dismantled and reassembled as the planting program
progresses from division to division. During the period between planting
and entry into production, the reduced labor requirement for plantation
maintenance is assured by workers in permanent canton villages of concrete
block construction. During the exploitation period, when labor requirements
are again increased, division level villages are reconstructed on a perma-
nent basiLs. A division level village consists of approximately 130 two-room
units (each housing one headman, one married laborer or four bachelors) and
twelve houses of slightly higher standard for overseers, clerks, drivers,
warehousemen and dispensary orderlies. Separate kitchen/shower and sani-
tary facilities are provided for each housing unit. The village also con-
tains covered market and assembly areas, housing and office space for the
division chief, shops, and a two-room dispensary which serves as the link
between the workers and the estate hospital. Permanent villages also have
pumped water and electricity. Canton villages are similar to those at the
division level, with the addition of a canton office, storage shed, and a
three-room school, plus housing for the instructor (assigned and paid by the
Ministry of Education). Under the proposed project, two canton villages and
three permanent division villages would be constructed and the four existing
temporary villages would be moved a total of five times. Housing and other
facilities for factory workers would be provided in the central estate vil-
lage (details are provided in Annex 8).



- 13 -
D.  Outgrowers' Program
3.21      In line with its increased emphasis on income distribution (para.
2.12), Go-;ernment promotes smallholdings in conjunction with estate develop-
ment in the southwest to achieve a proper balance in regional development.
But, because of low population density, a smallholders rubber program would
have to begin modestly. Recently, Government resettled most of the original
population of the project area on the southwestern part of the concession,
consisting of 2,300 ha, half of which appears to be suitable for rubber plant-
ing. The settlers, mainly Kroumen, are predominantly hunters and fishermen--
but they cultivate small plots of subsistence crops. Before an outgrowers'
program would be implemented, the extent of farmers' interests and capacity
for participation in such a program would be ascertained, land tenure arrange-
ments identified, and the organizational, credit and other support require-
ments determined. A feasibility study, leading to a small pilot project,
would be carried out by the Agronomic Department of the Estate, with the
support of the Ministry of Agriculture's "Cellule Hevea" (para. 4.08).
An assurance was obtained from Government that arrangements for the study
(draft terms of reference at Annex 4) would be agreed by not later than
December 31, 1978.
3.22      The study and other preparations for the pilot project, including
recruitment and training of appropriate extension staff, would take about two
years. Therefore the pilot planting program could not begin before PY3. For
the purpose of estimating the cost of such a pilot program, it has been assumed
that the planting would progress as follows:
PY3      PY4       PY5      Total
Area planted             50 ha    150 ha   300 ha    500 ha
Assuming the initial planting of one-half to two hectares per family (with
the possibility of additional plantings later on, if the program is continued)
the three-year program would involve some 400-500 families.
3.23      Participation in the outgrower scheme would be conditional on the
farmer's agreement to follow, throughout the development period, the technical
advice provided by the executing agency. Members of existing villages would
be encouraged to plant rubber, and it is expected that settlers established
to the southwest of the project area would form a nucleus program. Selection
of participants would be done by the extension agent in consultation with
the village chief. Participation would not preclude a village from other
economic activities such as growing food crops for subsistence and sale to
the plantations, supply of labor for plantations and other outlets. Details
of selection arrangements and maximum size of individual holdings would be
worked out on the basis of prevailing conditions, including the nature of
village participation.
3.24      Outgrowers would receive credit in cash and kind from the executing
agency, with each disbursement conditional on the proper implementation of the
technical recommendations during the previous period. The amounts and terms



- 14 -
thîs credit as well as the price to be paid for the raw rubber remain to
determined by the findings of the feasibility study (para. 3.21).  The
guiding principle would be the full recovery of credit amounts (in real terms)
and a producer price which covers the cost of Government's investment in the
program while providing adequate incentives to the outgrowers. Tentative
calculations of the outgrower financing scheme are at Annex 4, and assume a
credit to farmers of CFAF 137,250, based on the estimated value of inputs to
be supplied (seeds, fertilizers and equipment for tree and tappers, totaling
CFAF 88,050), and the cash value of labor during the immature years, costed
at CFAF 300/man day (totaling CFAF 49,200), an interest rate of 8.5% and a
farmgate price of CFAF 130/kg for raw rubber delivered to the plant.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      SOCATCI, the Borrower under the first project, was created in 1973
and dissolved in October 1977. As a State corporation, Lts functions were
the creation and exploitation of industrial rubber estates and the conduct
of all related commercial, industrial and financial operations. It had a
10-member Board of Directors, and was managed by an Ivorian General Manager;
the position of Technical Deputy Director was filled from the beginning by
an expatriate technical adviser, provided and financed by FED.
4.02      Since personnel sufficiently experienced to manage and staff the
project were not available in the Ivory Coast, where rubber cultivation was
started only recently, SOCATCI entered into a technical assistance and man-
agement contract with SATAC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Michelin, to im-
plement the first project. SOCATCI limited its function to disbursement,
channeling the funds provided by Government and the colenders to SATAC.
4.03      The early project years were marked by staffing and management
problems which led to a slippage in implementation and, together with the
1973-75 inflation explosion, resulted in considerable cost overruns (para.
2.16 to 2.21).
4.04      Financial problems developed as the result of organizational and
managemental weaknesses. Accounting methods were inadequate, making finan-
cial control of the operation difficult. This was due to lack of competent
accounting staff, a problem that the executing agency has recently resolved.
Control over project disbursements was undertaken by FED, acting on behalf
of colenders. Disbursements were made on the basis of estimated fixed costs
(forfaits). This, added to the inadequacy of the accounts, resulted in dif-
ficulties in correctly identifying the utilization of funds. Since SATAC's
spending was regularly in excess of the sums calculated according to the
fixed cost formulas, it received for each of the last four years total re-
payments from colenders and Government which were below actual expenditure.
It was expected that, by December 31, 1977, SATAC would have spent CFAF 6,750
million (US$27.6 million) against which only CFAF 6,118 million (US$25.0 mil-
lion) would have been disbursed as project costs. The difference of about



- 15 -
CFAF 630 million (US$2.6 million) is accounted for by stocks accumulated by
the executing agency and to differences between actual costs for agricultural
work and the estimated fixed costs. Government is aware of these differences
and has taken steps to cover the discrepancy from its own funds, thereby
increasing its contribution to project costs.
4.05      SATAC's performance in general has improved, particularly in the
technical implementation of the project, and is now satisfactory. Quality
of the agricultural work is very good, and administration practices are more
efficient. In October 1977, SATAC submitted detailed accounts as of September
30, 1976, including a statement of the use of funds channeled to the project
(Annex 2, Table 1). The balance of funds available under the first project,
estimated at January 1, 1978, at CFAF 750 million (US$3.1 million) would be
sufficient to complete the plantings to 7,000 ha and to cover administrative
and other expenses on the estate up to June 30, 1978.
4.06      In September 1977, Government made a number of policy decisions
in the agricultural sector designed to favor smallholder development and
replace the traditional reliance on crop-oriented state enterprises by re-
gional organizations with full responsibility for integrated rural develop-
ment (para. 2.06). While most of the details relating to these changes are
still being worked out, an immediate consequence of these new measures was
the dissolution of SOCATCI. Control of the project was assumed directly by
the Ministry of Agriculture, which initiated procedures to take over the
Management Contract which had been signed between the now-dissolved SOCATCI
and SATAC (para. 4.02). Government arranged for the interim financing of the
project through the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA - the Ministry of
Finance agency entrusted with foreign-debt service), which would also be the
channel for disbursements of the Bank's loan (938-IVC), as well as the funds
of the other colenders of this project. Government's contribution to project
costs, which are allocated yearly through the Development Budget, would also
be channelled henceforth through CAA. These arrangements were considered
satisfactory and Government became the Borrower of Loan 938-IVC under a
Substitution Loan Agreement which was approved by the Board in March 1978.
The effectiveness of this Substitution Loan Agreement would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
4.07      Technical and financial supervision is carried out by one of the
six Directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture, the "Direction de la Plani-
fication, de la Budgetisation et du Controle de Gestion (DPBCG)" which carries
out instructions and performs under the direct control of the Minister.  DPBCG
is staffed with a number of accountants and auditors, and is entrusted with
monitoring the financial performance and auditing the accounts of all State-
owned companies involved in the agricultural sector. The financial super-
vision of Grand-Bereby falls within its field of action. Furthermore, DPBCG
has set up a special unit called "Cellule Hevea" (whose staff includes the
former Technical Advisor of SOCATCI - para 4.01) for the technical follow-up
of this and all other rubber development projects.



- 16 -
4.08      These arrangements are considered adequate for implementation of the
agricultural development period of the second project. However, the responsi-
bilities of a revenue-earning operation, which the estate would become once
processing and marketing activities begin, are somewhat outside the normal
functions of the Ministry of Agriculture. Therefore, a new structure respon-
sible for financial and commercial operation of a producing estate would
have to be set up and should be in place by the time construction begins on
the processing facilities; Government is expected to reach a decision on its
form by the end of 1978. An assurance was obtained during negotiations to the
effect that, by December 31, 1978, Government would discuss with the Bank its
plans with respect to the institutional arrangements required to be imple-
mented to achieve the project's objectives. An agreement on steps to be taken
would be achieved and implemented, not later than December 31, 1979.
4.09      The Bank has recently appraised a third rubber project in the Ivory
Coast, the SAPH Rubber Project (para 2.15). Together with the completion of
the Grand-Bereby estate to 13,500 ha, this would bring total rubber plantings
in the Ivory Coast to about 45,000 ha. The rubber industry would thus have
expanded to the point requiring the introduction of an overall planning and
coordination program.
4.10      A case in point is the need to ensure continuity in the level of
rubber production over time. Rubber production would be concentrated in two
distinct areas: (a) the southwest, composed of Grand-Berby (13,500 ha) and
Rapids-Grah (5,000 ha) which would have been planted at roughly the same time,
and (b) the southeast3composed of existing plantations plus the new SAPH
project which would total about 25,000 ha planted at different intervals. As
each estate has its own processing facilities designed for production during
peak yields, some of the factories would be used substantially below capacity
if replanting is not properly coordinated. Consequently, the replanting
schedule for the southeast must be well prepared in advance while ensuring
regular and adequate flow of raw material to the factories in the southwest
would require the prospection and planting of addition areas before the time
comes to replant the older areas. Government agreed during negotiations to
prepare and submit a policy paper on the development of the rubber subsector
to be discussed with the Bank by December 31, 1978.
Estate Management
4.11      Project execution remains the responsibility of SATAC.  The Project
Manager, appointed by Michelin with the approval of the Government, the Bank
and colenders, would continue to have the necessary autonomy in the day-to-
day management of the project and in the appointment of staff, except for
the heads of the operating departments (para. 4.12), and wculd be responsi-
ble for keeping the controlling organization informed of project developments
through monthly progress reports and financial statements. The Ministry of
Agriculture would retain overall control with responsibility for approving
annual budgets, development programs, and the appointment of the Project
Manager and the heads of the operating departments (para. 4.12).



- 1 7 -
4.12      The heads of the four operating departments, also Michelin ap-
pointees but subject to the Government's and the Bank's approval, report
directly to the Project Manager: the Administrative Director, in charge
of finance, accounting and administrative matters; the Technical Director,
responsible for machinery and equipment, the building program, construction
and operation of the factory; the Director of Operations, responsible for all
agricultural activities associated with the development and exploitation of
the plantation; and the Agronomic Director, responsible for soil survey,
topography, agronomic research, the food crop component and, eventually, the
rubber smallholders program.
4.13      Under the Director of Operations, the agricultural operations would
be managed by six Canton Chiefs, each responsible for some 2,000-2,500 ha
of plantations and assisted by two or three Division Chiefs. In addition,
there would be a Tapping Controller - of Canton Chief status - with overall
responsibility for exploitation, and a Training Officer (para. 3.18).
Staff and Labor Recruitment
4.14      It would be expected that the best recruits to the middle management
team would eventually graduate to more senior positions within the organization.
At this stage, on-the-job training and internal promotion are the most likely
means of creating the professionally competent and dedicated group required.
4.15      The Ivorianization of the five key posts enumerated above (paras
4.11-4.12) is not scheduled to take place during the project period but it
has been assumed, in preparing the longer term plan, that all posts would be
filled by Ivorian nationals by the end of the next decade. In the context
of a growing economy like the Ivory Coast, the difficulty is seen more as
one of attracting staff of the required calibre to remote areas than of
providing an adequate training once suitable personnel have been recruited.
With a rapidly expanding plantation subsector the problem of training and
building-up of a pool of professionally competent managerial staff is one
that should be approached at the national level, anticipating the country's
future needs for qualified people to serve in the oil palm, coconut and
rubber industries. The curricula in existing colleges and technical insti-
tutes are under review to take account of the changing needs of the agricul-
tural sector. The general problem of appropriate numbers of qualified people
required at all stages of management of large agro-industrial and other
enterprises would be addressed by the National Committee for Human Resources,
the organization of which is being discussed with Government in connection
with the preparation of a possible third Education Project.
4.16      Since there is no available pool of skilled labor for rubber estates
in Ivory Coast, most of the labor force have to be recruited as unskilled
workers and given the required training on the estate (para. 3.18). Every
effort would therefore be made to stabilize the work force and so build up the
necessary numbers of tappers and other specialists without incurring dispro-
portionately high training costs. Despite the higher costs of social services
and housing, an adequate proportion of married workers, with their families,
must be attracted to the estate in order to create an acceptable social en-
vironment. The estate would continue to provide a qualified medical officer



- 18 -
and the necessary ancillary medical staff to ensure the health of the estate
workers and their families. Schooling would also be available in the Canton
villages, with the estate providing the buildings and the Ministry of Educa-
tion providing the teaching staff.
Status of Women
4.17      The provision of social services, and support for food crop produc-
tion by workers' families, would help improve the condition of women as well as
other members of the estate population.  However, actions intended to directly
raise the status of women through paid employment have been constrained by the
strongly entrenched traditions of a clearly defined separation of tasks by
sex. Nevertheless, in an effort to increase labor availability, the estate
management has been able to mobilize female labor by assigning it to new tasks
(such as hand trimming of the cover crop at the base of the rubber trees) not
previously performed by men. It is hoped that the stabilization of the estate
labor force and the accompanying increase in female population, and the pro-
gressive breaking down of traditional barriers will make it easier to increase
women's access to employment.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Project costs during the seven-year investment period are estimated
at CFAF 14.8 billion (US$60.4 million) of which the foreign exchange compo-
nent would be CFAF 6.9 billion (US$28.4 million) or 47%. Debt service during
the project period, net of surplus generated by sale of production, would
amount to an additional CFAF 2,964 million (US$12.1 million).
5.02      As in previous agricultural projects, Government would exempt all
goods imported specifically for the project from duties during the development
period. Cost estimates, based on mid-1977 prices, include other direct and
indirect taxes amounting to CFAF 1,662 million (US$6.8 million) or 11% of
total project costs, and contain the following contingencies:
(a) physical contingencies of 10% on civil works and build-
ing costs and 5% on all other costs except salaries;
(b) price contingencies compounded as follows: for civil
works and construction, 9% each in 1978 and 1979 and
8% thereafter; for agricultural inputs, equipment and
vehicle, 7-1/2% each in 1978 and 1979, and 7% thereafter;
and for all remaining costs, including loans to outgrowers,
7% for each year; these contingencies have been calculated
on base cost estimates plus physical contingencies.
5.03      Total contingencies calculated on the foregoing basis amount to 27%
of the total project costs or 38% of base line cost estimates. Detailed cost
estimates are in Annex 7, and are summarized in the following table.



- 19 -
Summary of Project Costs
Foreign
CFAF _million          US$ million   Exchame
Local  Foreign  Total Local Fnreign Total   %
I.  Maintenance of Initial 7,000 ha
1.  Direct Agricultural Costs          729      378   1,107   3.0   1.6    4.6   35
2.  Vehicles and Equipment              79      225      304   0.3   0.9    1.2   75
3.  Infrastructure                     397      254      651   1.7   1.0    2.7   37
Total I                    1,205      857   2,062   5.0   3.5    8.5   41
Il.  Extension 6,500 ha
1.  Direct Agricultural Costs        1,526   1,082   2,608   6.2   4.4   10.6   42
2.  Vehicles and Equipment              73      445      518   0.3   1.8    2.1   86
3.  Infrastructure                   _264   _ 164   _ 428   1.0   0.7    1.7   41
Total Il                   1,863   1,691   3,554   7.5   6.9   14.4   48
III.  Estate Management and
Administrative Services
1.  Staff Salaries                   1,377      626   2,003   5.7   2.5    8.2   30
2.  Operating Expenses                 808      569   1,377   3.3   2.3    5.6   41
3.  Management Fees                     57      278      335   0.2   1.2    1.4   85
Total III                  2,242   1,473   3,715   9.2   6.0   15.2   39
IV. Outgrowers' Program
1.  Extension Services                  53       13       66   0.2   0.1    0.3   33
2.  Credit in Cash and Kind             53        4       57   0.2    -      0.2    -
Total IV                     106       17      123   0.4   0.1    0.5   20
V.  Processing Facility
1.  Main Plant                         258      816   1,074   1.1   3.3    4.4   75
2.  Auxiliary Investment                55       44       99   0.2   0.2    0.4   50
3.  Vehicles                            12      113      125    -    0.5    0.5  100
Total V                      325      973   1,298   1.3   4.0    5.3   75
TOTAL BASE COSTS                     5,741   5,011  10,752  23.4  20.5   43.9   47
Phyical Contingencies 1/                      259      259      518   1.0   1.1    2.1   50
Price Contingencies i/                      1,873   _,661   3,534   7.6   6.8   14.4   47
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         7,873   6,931  14,804  32.0  28.4   60.4   47
Debt Service /2                               -      2,964   2,964    -   12.1   12.1  100
TOTAL including Debt Service                7,873   9,895  17,768  32.0  40.5   72.5   56
1/   See para. 5.02.
2/   Debt service on loans disbursed for the first project and loans to be mobilized
for this follow-up project, net of surplus generated by sales of production.



- 20 -
B. Proposed Financing
5.04      Four foreign lenders, together with Government, would finance the
project. A Bank Loan of US$20 million equivalent is proposed. In addition,
Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED), Banque Europeenne d'Investissements
(BEI), and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of France would
participate in the financing in the following amounts: FED, US$5.5 million;
BEI, US$4.5 million, and CCCE, US$8.3 million. While CCCE would finance pari-
passu with the Bank all project components except processing investments which
would be co-financed exclusively by BEI, FED would not share in the mainte-
nance of the 7,000 ha planted under the first project. Conditions of effec-
tiveness of the Bank Loan would be the effectiveness of the FED and CCCE
loans, and an assurance that the BEI loan shall be forthcoming, not later than
January 1, 1979.
5.05      The financing would be as follows:
Bank     CCCE       FED       BEI    GOVT      Total
-----------------(US$ million)…-----------------…
A. Maintenance of
Initial 7,000 ha       3.3       1.4                   -     3.7        8.4
B.  Extension 6,500 ha    5.9         2.5      3.6         -      2.4       14.4
C. Estate Admin-
istration              6.1       2.5       0.6               6.0       15.2
D.  Outgrowers              0.2       0.1        -         -      0.2        0.5
F. Processing
Facilities               -         -         -       3.3     2.0        5.3
15.5      6.5       4.2       3.3    14.3       43.8
Unallocated            4.5       1.8       1.3       1.2     7.8       16.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        20.0      8.3       5.5       4.5    22.2       60.4
Debt Service 1/                                                  12.1      12.1
TOTAL with Debt Service                                         34.2       72.5
Percentage, including
debt service               28       il         8         6      47        100
Percentage of
project costs 2/           33       14         9         7      37        100
Percentage net
of taxes 2/                37       15        10         8      30        100
1/   Debt service on loans disbursed for the first project and loans to be
obtained for this follow-up project, net of surplus generated by sales
of production.
2/   Excluding debt service.



- 21 -
5.06      The Bank loan of US$20 million would be made to Government for
a term of 17 years, including a four-year grace period, at the present rate
of 7.5%. The other colenders' loans are expected to have a different grace
period and maturity than the Bank's and interest rates vary: FED's would be
1% (10 years grace and repayment over 40 years), BEI's would be 5-1/2% (4-1/2
years grace period and repayment over 10 years), and CCCE's 5-1/2% (6 years
grace period and repayment over 8 years). The Bank loan would finance 37%
of project costs excluding taxes, 33% of total project costs or 28% of costs
including debt service. The percentages covered by the total external financing
of US$38.3 million would be 70%, 63%, and 53%, respectively.
5.07      The loans are estimated to be disbursed over a five-year period
(PY 1 to PY 5) during which new plantings would be completed. Costs for that
five-year disbursement period are shown in Annex 7, Table 1, and the colenders
application of the proceeds of their loans to these costs are shown in Annex 9,
Table 2. During that period, the balance of project costs and amounts needed
to ensure debt service, estimated at a total of CFAF 4,416 million (US$18 mil-
lion), would be made available by Government on a yearly basis. After the
five-year period, Government would have to provide additional financing esti-
mated at CFAF 3,738 million (US$15.2 million) to bring the plantation to
maturity, to provide additional processing facilities necessary for the
project production, and ensure debt service for the loans used to finance
the first project and this follow-up project (Annex 9, Table 1). Assurances
concerning these financial arrangements were received at negotiations.
C. Procurement
5.08      The following procurement arrangements will be in force during the
five-year disbursement period. Contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or more
would be made through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Goods so procured are estimated to cost US$6.0 million,
consisting mainly of vehicles and equipment (US$3.2 million) and fertilizers
and chemicals (US$2.8 million). Individual contracts not exceeding US$100,000
would be awarded on the basis of local tenders, under a procedure acceptable
to the Bank (total cost estimated at US$0.5 million). The following civil
works would be carried out on force account: most of the housing and other
construction work (US$4.0 million) scattered over a large area remote from
important centers and subject to a slow implementation schedule, and which
in the past did not attract outside contractors' effective participation;
land clearing and access roads (US$3.1 million excluding cost of equipment
which would be procured under ICB) for which the planting rhythm and the par-
ticular specifications of the work to be achieved make it difficult to bring
in outside contractors. Procurement for the rubber factory (civil works and
equipment) and other ancillary investments totalling US$4.5 million to be
financed by the BEI, would be carried out under this institution's guidelines.
The remaining project costs, US$26.8 million, would be mainly for salaries
(expatriate staff and management fees US$5.3 million, local staff US$3.8 mil-
lion, labor US$9.3 million) and agricultural work and other operating costs
(for vehicles, agricultural tractors and electric generators, US$6.3 million,
buildings maintenance, US$0.8 million, and other miscellaneous US$1.3 million).



- 22 -
D. Disbursements
5.09      The Bank loan would be disbursed during the first five years of the
project period to cover 49.5% of the following:
(a) Direct agricultural costs for the maintenance of the
existing 7,000 ha and for the extension of 6,500 ha,
including land clearing and access roads;
(i) Agricultural inputs, including sprayers, fertilizers and
chemicals (US$1.5 million);
(ii) Agricultural labor and other operating costs (US$4.9
million);
(b)  Construction costs for housing, villages and social infra-
structure (US$1.5 million);
(c)  Vehicles and equipment (US$1.3 million);
(d)  Extension services for the outgrowers' program and loans in
kind and cash to participating farmers (US$0.2 million); and
(e)  Staff salaries, including expatriates', and other operating
expenses (US$6.1 million).
US$4.5 million would be unallocated. A schedule of estimated disbursements
is at Annex 9. Disbursement for (a)(i) and (c) would be fully documented.
Disbursements for the other categories would be against certificates of
completion and expenditure, the documentation for which would not be sub-
mitted for review but would be retained on the estate for inspection by
supervision missions.
E. Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements
5.10      SATAC would update the estate accounts, and keep records consistent
with sound accounting practice and adequate to reflect their operations and
financial situation. These records would also show the accounts of the re-
spective project components and the position of the outgrowers' loans and
repayments. Government would cause SATAC to appoint independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and their reports would be of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank may reasonably request; Audit Terms of Reference are at
Annex 12. These reports would be sent to the Bank not later than six months
after the closing of the financial year. An agreement from SATAC that it would
fulfil these obligations is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
5.1l      In addition, monthly progress reports (para. 4.08) would be required
to keep Government and the co-financers informed of project progress. Annex 13
indicates the types of information necessary; the exact format of the reports
would be agreed during the first supervision mission.



- 23 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, AND FINANCIAL RETURNS
A. Yields and Production
6.01      Project yield estimates are based on actual results obtained in the
Ivory Coast and other countries from plantings of the clones that are used at
Grand-Bereby. A project yield and production schedule is at Annex 11, Table 1.
At peak yields during the 1990's yearly output is estimated at about 31,000
tons.
6.02      Yields are estimated to increase gradually from 600 kg/ha in the
first year of tapping (N+6) to 2,300 kg/ha after 19 years; to remain at the
latter level for a further 9 years; and thereafter to decline progressively
to 1,400 kg/ha by the end of the tapping period (year 41). The estimated
yields are above average by present day standards but should be achieved given
the technology that would be employed.
B.  Marketing and Prices
6.03      Project production is expected to be exported as block rubber,
which has the advantage that its technical qualities can be specified accu-
rately, and thus it is in demand by manufacturers. Other types of rubber
could also be produced but a decision on this would be taken at a later stage
in project development when market demand for special types of rubber could
be evaluated better. A final decision would not be needed until 1982. No
difficulty would appear in the disposal of project production in view of the
anticipated world growth in demand for natural rubber. During negotiations,
Government stated that it intends to entrust CSSPPA with the sales of rubber
produced on the estate; assurances were received to the effect that the Bank
would be given, by a date not later than December 31, 1979, the opportunity
to comment on any marketing agreement prior to its conclusion.
6.04      Annex 10, based on a report prepared by the Bank's Commodities and
Export Projections Division in May 1977, analyzes the world market supply and
demand for rubber. Natural rubber production, which had fallen considerably
in 1975 as a result of low market prices and government-sponsored production
controls in some key producing countries, was slow to react to a changing
market situation. The recovery in total rubber demand was spurred in 1975 by
the sharp upturn in industrial activity in developed countries which account
for about 70% of total world consumption--showing a demand increase of 7.5%,
and producing an increase in prices of natural rubber of more than 30% in
1976. The current price of natural rubber is US$0.44/lb and the projection
of the likely future trend indicates that it should be selling in 1980 at
US$0.436/lb in constant 1977 terms. Furthermore, the relation between the
forecast production and consumption trends indicates that natural rubber
prices are projected to be by the mid-1980's at roughly the same level--in
constant 1977 terms--as in 1980. For the economic analysis of this project,



- 24 -
a price of US$0.432/lb for 1980-1984 and of US$0.426/lb from 1985 on have
been assumed. Annex 10, Table 3, gives details of the price calculations
used in this analysis. Bank price projections are for RSS 1. However, SMR 5
is currently selling at a premium, and SMR 10 and 50 at a slight discount, so
that with the expected composition of output (para. 3.14) the average price
should equal that of RSS 1.
C. Financial Results
6.05      A Government cash flow is at Annex 9, Table 1.  Costs up to 1982
include the physical and price contingencies used in the project cost tables.
Beyond 1982 costs are expressed in terms of 1982 prices, inflated by a com-
pounded factor of 7% for each year. Sales income has been calculated on the
basis of the Bank's forecast of rubber prices in current terms, up to 1985,
and thereafter inflated by the same factor.  The cash flow shows that annual
operating surpluses (before debt service) would arise first in 1985, and
amount to CFAF 505 million (US$2.1 million), increasing to CFAF 1,441 mil-
lion (US$5.9 million) in 1986 and to CFAF 2,993 million (US$12.2 million)
in 1987. After debt service, the first surplus will occur in 1987 and amount
to CFAF 1,459 million (US$6 million).
D. Benefits to Outgrowers
6.06      Expected benefits for outgrowers under the project have been esti-
mated on the basis of a model for one hectare of cultivation, and are detailed
in Table 1 of Annex 4.
6.07      The estimated average value of rubber ex-factory is CFAF 200/kg
(in 1977 terms), from which CFAF 25 have to be deducted for processing costs
and transport, bringing the value of raw rubber to CFAF 175/kg. Cost to the
estate of the extension service provided to the farmers amounts to another
CFAF 45/kg, leaving CFAF 130 for distribution to the outgrower for each kg
of raw rubber collected on his farm. Production on an outgrower's holding
would begin in the sixth year after planting, when 34 working days would be
required to maintain and tap one hectare of rubber; the return per manday,
after debt repayment, would be CFAF 1,066 (US$4.35). This would increase
gradually to CFAF 2,354 (US$9.60) per manday for 70 workdays after 10 years,
and reach a maximum of CFAF 2,622 (US$10.70) per manday, again for 70 work-
days, when debt-service is completed, 13 years after the trees have come
into maturity. This return to labor is satisfactory compared with the offi-
cial agricultural minimum wage of CFAF 350/day (US$1.43) and is comparable
to the return for other crops, such as oil palm and cocoa, which could be
grown in the area. Many outgrowers would certainly combine rubber with food
crops. An average rubber outgrower, holding 2 ha, would generate at full
development a total annual income after debt-service of approximately CFAF
338,000 (US$1,380), in 1977 terms as from Year 12; his income would be CFAF
367,000 (US$1,498) after full repayment of debt by Year 20.  During the



- 25 -
first six years of plantation, when no income is received from production, the
cash component of the credit will assure the outgrower an income of CFAF 300
(US$1.22) per workday--although during that time he would have additional
income from his food crops.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The proposed project would further Government's program of agricul-
tural diversification and of regional development of the southwest. Primary
benefits would be increased production and export of rubber which, at full
development in 1993, would amount to about 30,000 tons (33% of total proj-
ected Ivorian production at that time) and generate annual net foreign ex-
change earnings of CFAF 6 billion (US$24 million). The project would also
provide employment for about 4,500 workers, adding a total population (includ-
ing family members) of 15,000 to serve as a focal point for the development of
supporting services and other economic activity in the project area. The
outgrower component could further help to stabilize the region's population
and improve rural opportunities.
7.02      The economic analysis (Annex 11) is based on efficiency prices in
constant 1977 terms, with foreign costs and benefits taken at full value at
the official exchange rate of US$1 = CFAF 245 and domestic costs, net of
taxes, adjusted by the standard conversion factor (0.83). The rate of re-
turn on the incremental investment now proposed to bring into production the
full 13,500 ha of rubber plantation given the 7,000 ha already planted is
estimated at 19 percent. The option of completing only the investments
required to bring the initial 7,000 ha into production would yield a return of
21 percent and the rate of return on the 6,500 ha expansion would be about 17
percent. These estimates would be reduced by about three percentage points
for a 15 percent increase in costs or a 15 percent decrease in benefits.
In order to verify the justification of expanding the area to 13,500 ha, net
present values (NPV) were also calculated (at a discount rate of 10%). The
NPV obtained from bringing the 7,000 ha into production is CFAF 6.8 billion
(US$27.9 million), while expanding to 13,500 ha increases the NPV to CFAF 11.7
billion (US$47.9 million). The NPV calculations show a positive benefit from
the expansion to 13,500 ha for all discount rates up to 17%, thus this expan-
sion is justified.
7.03      In order to compare the results now expected with those of the first
project as (a) originally appraised (13,500 ha) and (b) reduced to 7,000 ha
(Board Resolution R76-240), the rates of return over the entire first project
period beginning in 1972 were recalculated with the following results:



- 26 -
7,000 ha                13,500 ha
Efficiency prices                      10%                       12%
Market prices (net of taxes)            9%                       11%
Shadow prices 1/                       10%                       12%
First Appraisal Report                  -                        13%
Memo to Board (September, 1976)        9-10%                      -
The slightly lower rates of return for the full 13,500 ha, as compared with
the original appraisal estimate, reflects the impact of a slower planting
rhythm.
7.04      The outgrowers' program represents a very minor part of total proj-
ect costs and, since it is primarily in the nature of a pilot project, was
not included in the overall rate of return. However, foi illustrative pur-
poses, a separate rate of return was calculated, yielding approximately 18%.
A separate social analysis was not carried out for this project. However,
previous work in the Ivory Coast plantation sector 2/ indicates that the
social rate of return would be expected to be somewhat higher than the effi-
ciency price calculation.
Risks
7.04      In view of the experience under the first project, the possibility
of cost overruns under the second project cannot be completely ruled out, if
only because a recurrence of the world wide inflationary spiral of 1973-74
cannot be foreseen. Nevertheless, since the current cost projections (with
the exception of the factory component) are based on actual recent experience
at Grand-Bereby, the 15% range taken in the sensitivity analysis should ade-
quately test this risk.
7.05      A greater degree of uncertainty must be attached to the availability
of labor in the sparsely populated region. Recent improvements in the estate's
recruitment efforts, more timely provision of housing and social infrastruc-
ture and an increase in the minimum wage for estate workers have resulted in
a substantial improvement in the situation, but there is no guarantee that the
labor shortages experienced in 1975 will not reoccur. A general improvement
in the availability of labor in the southwest region is expected from an in-
crease in the number of economic activities (such as the SODEPALM Project) and
the fact that the Grand-Bereby estate has seen an increase in the amount of
spontaneous recruitment. Furthermore, the annual planting target would be
only 1,750 ha per year, in line with present and expected labor availability,
as compared to the first project appraisal estimate of 3,000 ha expected to be
planted in 1979.
1/   As used in the first project's Appraisal Report:
Foreign exchange = 125% of official rate, shadow wage = 50% of
market wage, rubber price 15% lower than current projections.
2/   Economic and Social Analysis of Projects - A Case Study of Ivory Coast.
World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 253, May 1977.



- 27 -
7.06      The result of the outgrower component is also uncertain, due pri-
marily to the lack of information on the availability and degree of interest
of potential participants. Nevertheless, such a pilot program is justified
to determine the potential role of rubber cultivation as a means of increasing
the incomes of the existing population.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
points:
(a)  the road connecting the project area to the port of San Pedro
would be upgraded before December 31, 1978 (para 3.04);
(b)  Government would cause IRCA to make available to the estate
adequate and timely supplies of seeds (para 3.08);
(c)  a feasibility study would be carried out for an outgrowers'
pilot project on the basis of arrangements to be agreed upon
not later than by December 31, 1978 (para 3.21);
(d)  Government would discuss with the Bank, not later than by
December 31, 1978, its plans with respect to the institu-
tional arrangements required to be implemented to achieve
the projeet's objectives; an agreement on steps to be taken
would be achieved and implemented not later than December
31, 1979 (para 4.08);
(e)  a policy paper on Government's views on the development of
the rubber subsector would be discussed with the Bank by
December 31, 1978 (para 4.10);
(f)  Government would provide additional financing, after the
five-year investment period, to bring all the 13,500 ha
to maturity, to extend the processing facilities to handle
the whole project production, and to ensure debt service
for loans obtained under the first project and for this
follow-up project (para 5.07); and
(g)  the Bank would be given an opportunity, by not later than
December 31, 1979, to comment on any marketing agreement for
the estate production, prior to its conclusion (para 6.03).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  that the Substitution Loan Agreement 938-IVC has become
effective (para 4.06);
(b)  the effectiveness of the FED and CCCE loans providing
co-financing for this project (para 5.04);



- 28 -
(c) an assurance, satisfactory to the Bank, has been provided
by Government that the BEI loan shall be forthcoming
not later than January 1, 1979 (para 5.04); and
(d) the Executing Agency has confirmed that it shall take all
measures necessary to maintain proper accounts and have
these accounts properly audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish copies of the accounts
and audit report not later than six months after the close
of the financial year (para 5.10).
8.03      Under these assurances and conditions, this project would be suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$20 million, with a repayment period of 17 years,
including a grace period of four years.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Progress of Agricultural Projects Financed by the Bank
A.   Loan 611-IVC - Palmivoire US$3.3 Million Equivalent (June 13, 1969)
1.        The project consisted of establishing and bringing into production
4,000 ha of oil palms at Ehania estate to bring the estate to 10,000 ha of
oil palms. The loan became effective on December 30, 1969. Planting was
completed in 1972 and plantation maintenance has been satisfactory. Plant-
ing costs were slightly lower than estimated at the time of appraisal, and
the project is now completed.
B.   Loan 612-IVC - Palmindustrie US$4.8 Million Equivalent (June 13, 1969)
2.        The project financed the construction of a palm oil mill to service
the 10,000 ha Ehania estate and some outgrowers. The loan became effective
on December 30, 1969. The mill was constructed with an initial capacity of
40 tons/hour ffb, in two processing lines, and these are functioning satis-
factorily at full capacity. Costs were within appraisal estimates. An
addition of a 20-ton/hour processing line was provided for in the project,
but Palmindustrie requested the Bank to approve a change in plans involving
two satellite mills of 20-ton/hr each with expanded central mill service,
instead of the addition. The change in plans was approved but, because
increased revenues had become available to Palmivoire, the Bank limited its
participation to the residual funds (US$700,000). The project is now
completed.
C.   Loan 612-IVC - Sodepalm US$9.0 Million Equivalent (June 13, 1969)
3.        The project consisted of the establishment and bringing into pro-
duction of 12,000 ha of outgrower oil palms, the establishment and maintenance
until 1974 of 3,500 ha of estate coconuts and 3,000 ha of outgrower coconuts,
the provision of credit and supervisory services for oil palm and coconut
outgrowers and the necessary infrastructure associated with the 3,500 ha of
estate coconuts. The loan became effective on December 30, 1969. Project
coconut estate plantings were due to be completed in 1971. Due to shortage
of planting material (because of disease), the Bank agreed to extend the
planting period of 1972. All plantings have now been achieved, and the
project is now completed.
4.        The above three laans were the first Bank operations in support
of the oil palm sector in the Ivory Coast. After a relatively slow start,
disbursements of the Bank loans have accelerated and are now all disbursed.
On the other hand, physical progress has been very good. The production of



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Ail palms, now increasing steadily, has reached about 70% of the potential,
and yields of both estates and outgrowers are well in line with appraisal
estimates.
D.   Loan 686-IVC - Cocoa Project US$7.5 Million Equivalent (June 5, 1970)
5.        The project originally consisted of the planting of 18,800 ha of
cocoa and the rehabilitation of about 38,000 ha of existing cocoa plantations
and became effective in November 1970. The project was amended in July 1973
to reduce the rehabilitation component to 15,500 ha; this revised program
has been completed. Approximately 10,000 ha had been established under
the new planting program by the end of 1973 and about 6,000 ha in 1974. The
project had proceeded satisfactorily except for administrative problems which
have delayed the submission of requests for reimbursement. However, the
administration of this and the second cocoa project (Loan 1069-IVC) were
combined and an estimated 3,200 ha of cocoa were planted under the second
project. Savings of US$2.2 million resulting from the smendment and the
merging of the two projects were cancelled at the date of signing of the
second project. Disbursements for the reduced program have now been com-
pleted and an additional balance of US$0.5 million remains undisbursed; on-
going exchange of views with Government may lead to its cancellation.
E.   Loans 759-IVC and 760-IVC - Sodepalm and Palmindustrie US$7.0 Million
Equivalent (June 22, 1971)
6.        The project consists of (a) planting 4,500 ha outgrower oil palms,
(b) 4,500 ha of outgrower coconut palms, (c) 8,000 ha of coconut palms on
Government-owned estates, and (d) construction of a palm oil mill. The
loans became effective on November 15, 1972. The oil mill was commissioned
in December 1972, and is operating satisfactorily. The planting programs
have been achieved on schedule and the project is now completed.
F.   Loan 938-IVC - SOCATCI Rubber Estate US$8.4 Million Equivalent
(October 23, 1973)
7.        The purpose of the loan was to finance, pari passu with CCCE and
FED, the planting of 13,500 ha of modern rubber estates and the establishment
of auxiliary services under the management of "Etablissement Michelin", a
French tire manufacturer. The project ran into infrastructure problems
immediately on inception and was also slowed by inefficient management. When
these two constraints had been taken care of, shortage of field labor reduced
its planting rhythm and the project objectives had to be reduced so as to
bring them within the original cost estimates. Plantings are now expected
to cover about 7,000 ha and to be completed by 1978.
G.   Loan 1036-IVC - Sodepalm and Palmivoire US$2.6 Million Equivalent
(July 31, 1974)
8.        This loan became effective in August 1975.  The loan is a followup
to previous Bank loans for oil palm. The project provides for the planting
of 5,000 ha of oil palm by outgrowers and 5,500 on SODEPALM estates. Imple-
mentation of the project has been completed satisfactorily.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
H.   Loan 1069-IVC - Ivory Coast Government Second Cocoa Proj,ect US$20.0
Million Equivalent (January 10, 1975)
9.        This loan, which became effective in September 1975, is a follow-up
to the first Cocoa Project (Loan 686-IVC). Implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily and on schedule, although disbursements continue to lag due
to administrative delays; streamlining of CAA procedures would improve the
rhythm of disbursements.
I.   Loan 1077-IVC - Ivory Coast Government Cotton Areas Rural Development
Project US$31.0 Million Equivalent (January 17, 1975).
10.       This loan became effective in June 1975.  Its main purpose is to
increase cotton-growing areas from 57,000 ha to 80,000 ha and to expand the
areas of food crops grown in rotation with cotton from about 9,000 ha to
71,000 ha. The overall physical progress is satisfactory, but disbursements
are behind schedule also due to CAA administrative delays (see remark on
Loan 1069-IVC above).
J.   Loan 1382-IVC - Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project US$20.0 Million
Equivalent (March 30, 1977).
11.       The purpose of this loan was to finance, together with the Ivory
Coast Government, SODEPALM's development of estate plantations in the South-
west. A substantial outgrower's component complements the project. Imple-
mentation is proceeding satisfactorily and plantings are on schedule. How-
ever, the loan is not yet effective, because of the ongoing reorganization
of the agricultural sector, and this might cause a further delay in effective-
ness, until institutional issues involving the executing agency are clarified
with Government.



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Comparison between Appraisal and Actual Performance under the First Project
1978       1979
Costs                    1972     1973      1974     1975     1976     1977      Subtotal   Projected  Projected  Total
…---------------- -----------------(in   CFAF   million)--… _
Plantation Development:  AppraisaIL/ 54.5   109.6    189.6    300.3    473.8    591.6        1,989.4     634.7        392.5
Actual expenditure         33.6   112.7    331.9    459.8    572.5    698.0        2,208.5
Eguipment:  Appraisal               154.4      65.9     92.3    166.6    155.6      36.3       671.1       40.0         8.7
Actual expenditure         53.6     52.0    223.2    198.0    129.4    131.0         787.2
Infrastructure:  Appraisal          162.0      92.3     77.5   108.4    105.2       36.2       581.6       75.8        22.0
Actual expenditure          2.1     62.8    336.2    275.2    194.4    375.0       1,245.7
General Expenses:  Appraisal          81.7   186.5    240.5    273.5    313.2   364.7        1,46o.1      382.5       427.6
Actual expenditure         41.6   139.8    178.8    344.0    487.2    538.0        1,729.4
Michelin Fees:  Appraisal             13.8     19.7     26.4      33.6     44.2     59.0       196.7       62.0        70.6
Actual expenditure         21.4    22.2       28.6     43.3     39.1      40.0       194.6     _
Total Appraisal           466.4   474.0    626.3    882.4  1,092.0  1,087.8        4,628.9   1,195.0        921.4  6,745.3
Total Actual Expenditure  152.3   389.5  1,098.7  1,320.3  1,422.6  1,782.0        6,165.4
Savings (Cost overruns)   314.1    84.5   (472.4)  (437.9)  (330.6)  (694.2)
Cumulative                         398.6    (73.8)  (511.7)  (842.3)(1,536.5)
Planting program (ha)                -      500      750     1250     2000      3000                  3000
Cumulative                                          1250     2500     4500      7500                 10500
Cumulative Appraisal Estimate     466.4   940.4  1,566.7  2,449.1  3,541.1  4,628.9                  5,823.9
Average est. cost/ha                     1.881    1.253    o.980    0.787    0.617                    0.555
Planting prog. achieved (ha)       20      258       784     1311     1102      2100                  1425
Cumulative                                 278      1062     2373     3475      5575                  7000
Cumulative actual costs           152.3    541.8  1,640.6  2,960.9  4,383.5  6,165.5                  6,792.5
Avg. cost/ha planted            7.615    1.949    1,545    1.248    1.261    1.106                   0.970                 H x
App. costs w/inflation            482.8    553.8    853.8  1,294    1,548.8  2,107.1                 1,775.9
Cumulative                               1,036.6  1,890.4  3,184.4  4,733.2  6,840.3                 8,616.2
Average est. cost/ha                      2.073    1.512    1.274    1.052    0.912                   0.821
1/  All appraisal figures include contingencies as calculated in appraisal report.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
IVORY COAST                     Page 1
SECOND GRAND-BERRY RUBBER PROJECT
Investments and Development Costs at Sept. 30, 1976
(under the First Project)
I.  Agricultura1 Costs                                           CFAF '000
Costs, including development, planting material
and subsequent maintenance for areas planted in:
1972                                    143,1481
1973                                    409,251
1974                                    693,261
1975                                    837,879
1976 (1)                                238,051
Costs not yet allocated:
Nurseries       1974                                    165,870
1975                                     84,764
1976                                     29,029
Budwood garden  1975                                     11,368
Topographical survey                                    174,926
Development costs for future plantings                          329,1764
Subtotal        3,017,644
II.  Infrastructure                           CFAF 1000
Workshop buildings                         15,609
Administrative buildings                   66,355
Social buildings                           46,1450
Water stations buildings                   19,851
Management housing                         93,011
Workers housing                           344,850
Land development for future buildings    84,o48
Wooden huts and sheds                      35,200
Ongoing investments                        89,123              794,497
III.  Vehicules, equipment,  furniture and miscellaneous
Pover and water stations                 117,091
Workshops equipment                        33,396
Vehicules                                  31,335
Trucks and station-wagons                109,519
Civil work equipment                     269,393
Agricultural tractors and other            57,530
Office furniture and equipment            23,340
Housing furniture and equipment           43,377
Firefighting equipment and misc.           6,737               691,718
Total     4,503,859
(1)  Not yet final, pending dietribut ion of unallocated expenditure.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 2
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Investments and Development Costs at Sept. 30, 1976
(under the First Project)
CFAF million
Total Investments and Development Costs
at end of September 1976                                               4,504 (1)
This amount has been financed by:
a)  Loans disbursed
IBRD                                                               9 3
European Development Fund                                          962
Caisse Centrale de Coopération                                     943
2,848
b) Ivory Coast Government's contribution                               1,021
c)  Overdraft at BNDA                                                    635
CFAF 4,504 million
(1)  This amount is higher than the total as at end of CY 1976, as shown in
Table 1, since it includes expenditure that has not been recognized by
the colenders as legitimate project costs.
Over and above this amount, SATAC has invested about CFAF 300 million in
inventories of spare parts. This investment is covered by suppliers
credit.



Annex 3
Page 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS
A. Development and Exploitation Technique
Identification and Mapping of Plantable Areas
1.        SATAC has made full use of the special expertise of its parent
organization, Michelin, in carrying out a detailed topographical survey of
the concession area. The work was completed during 1977. The costs, at
8,500 CFAF (US$35) per plantable hectare, have been somewhat higher than
the estimate of 5,770 CFAF (US$24) in the first appraisal report (PA-129a
of 3-6-1973), and are borne entirely by the first project.
Felling and Clearing
2.        As with the first project the methods proposed for land clearing
take into account the scarcity of labor in the region and are mechanized
wherever possible. The terrain is irregular and the areas to be cleared
are first divided up into small parcels of land (panneaux) of as nearly as
possible uniform aspect and slope. This facilitates the subsequent opera-
tions and reduces the risk of soil erosion by ensuring that lines are opened
across the principal slope in each parcel. Specially equipped tractors
permit opening rubber lines and sub-soiling in a single operation.
Lining and Holing
3.        The planting density of 550 trees per hectare is achieved by opening
lines 8 m apart and spacing plants at 2.27 m in the row. In most areas plant-
ing holes can be prepared mechanically using a tractor mounted auger and the
use of this method has been assumed in calculating costs.
Cover Crop
4.         Pueraria grows with exceptional vigour at Grand-Bereby and can
be established at well below costs generally incurred. The current method,
which will also be used in the second project, is the broadcast sowing of 5 kg
seed per hectare. Neither heat treatment nor innoculation of the seed is
necessary and no fertilizers are applied specifically to the cover crop.
Planting Technique
5.         In the first project three methods of planting were employed:  seed
at stake, stumps and polybag plants. Data on relative performance of the



Annex 3
Page 2
three techniques are scarce.  Some figures provided by IRCA from measurements
on estate material (not in statistically designed trials) in January 1977
indicated that at 2-1/2 years of age both stumps and field budded material
were better grown, in terms of girth, than polybag derived trees:
Girth at 1 m        Cross section area
Type of Material                  cm       % (c)         cm4      % (c)
(a)  Budded stumps                    22.2       121         39.2      147
(b)  Field budded seedlings           22.2       121         39.2      147
(c)  Polybag                          18.4       100         26.9      100
However, the data were derived from areas planted in 1974.  Since then the
polybag nursery technique has been improved and serious difficulties have
been encountered in the implementation of the other methods under the con-
ditions obtaining at Grand-Bereby -- heavy losses in the budded stumps due
to transplanting shock and in the seed at stake due to rodent damage. These
practical problems resulted in recommending anly the polybag system in the
second project.
Maintenance of Immature Areas
6.        The first project has suffered from a scarcity of labor and the
methods used for maintaining the areas of young rubber have been selected
with a view to minimizing the amount of manual labor required. Mechaniza-
tion is possible on a limited scale, e.g. the use of tractor mounted rotary
slashers for the maintenance of plot boundaries, but in the main reliance is
on chemical weed-killers.  Diuron, 2,4-D and MSMA are used for pre-planting
weed control in the rubber lines; a mixture of 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T is used
in the interlines prior to cover crop sowing and MSMA is used for preventing
invasion of the young rubber trees by pueraria. The spraying schedules
currently found to be effective have been taken as a basis for cost cal-
culations but the program must be flexible to take account of localized
weed problems such as Siam weed (Eupatorium odoratum) or competitive grass
species, particularly Setaria, so both costs and choice of herbicide will
vary from area to area.
Disease Control
7.        The only major root disease expected to present a significant prob-
lem is Fomes and regular inspection rounds are allowed for from N+2 until
N+14. The policy will be to eliminate atacked trees, neither prophylactic
nor curative treatments being considered economic at the present time.
However, this situation could change as new control techniques evolve.



Annex 3
Page 3
Tapping System
8.        The choice of tapping system remains to be finally resolved.
The method recommended in 1972 for the first project differs from what is
being proposed now for the second, and on-going research into the use of
stimulants and the response of individual clones to particular techniques
may call for further changes before the areas to be planted under the second
project actually come into tapping. The principle will be to achieve the
target yields without jeopardising the current growth and future productivity
of the trees and to obtain those yields as economically as possible in terms
of labor utilization and bark consumption.
9.        Costs have been calculated on the assumption that trees will be
tapped on a half-spiral system, twice weekly, for 45 weeks a year, i.e.
S2 d3/d4, 90 tappings a year. This system has been demonstrated by IRCA to
give very satisfactory results with clone GT1 at least during the first six
years of exploitation. Opening will be at 1.20 m when trees have reached a
girth of 50 cm at a height of 1 m above the graft union. An eventual balanced
combination of upward and downward half-spiral cuts should ensure an economic
life of at least 36 years without having to tap second renewal bark. The
tapping intensity is equivalent to only 50% of the "standard" S2.d2 system and
stimulation with Ethrel 3-4 times a year or perhaps Ethad will be necessary
to achieve the required yields at this reduced intensity. Panel diseases,
the most serious of which is Black Stripe, require to be controlled by the
application of suitable fungicides during the wettest period of the year. The
cost will depend on when the rest period from tapping is intended. For pur-
poses of cost analysis it is assumed that there will be 20 applications a year
of 1% Difolatan.
Tapping Tasks
10.       The area per tapper will in practice vary from year to year accord-
ing to the number of tappable trees. For cost calculations the following
average values have been assumed:
Year                     Trees in Tapping   Tapping Task   Area per tapper
per ha         No. of trees          ha
6                             300                 520              5.2
7-14                          400                520              3.9
15 onwards                    350                450              3.9



Annex 3
Page 4
Year 6 (6 months only)        52 tappings       30 working days/ha
Year 7-14                     90 tappings       73* working days/ha
Year 15 onwards               90 tappings       75* working days/ha
*includes time for panel maintenance
Care of Panels
Black-stripe control          1% Difolatan at FCFA 2,000/liter
1.3 liters per round 20 applications a year
FCFA 520 per hectare per annum
Wound dressing                Petrolatum at FCFA 150/kg
1.7 kg per ha
FCFA 255 per hectare per annum
Yield stimulation
Ethrel                        2.5% Ethrel formulation at FCFA 600/kg
0.8 kg per ha per application
Years 7-14                    3 applications
FCFA 1,440 per hectare per annum
Year 15 onwards               4 applications
FCFA 1,920 per hectare per annum
Crop Collection and Processing
i1.       In the first project it was recommended that the polybag system
of collection be adopted. However, a number of technical problems are not
yet resolved and there are still quality defects in rubber produced under
the periodic collections associated with the polybag technique. While not
excluding an eventual return to polybag collection, which would have substan-
tial cost advantages, current planning is based on liquid latex collection
and processing. Therefore field to factory transportation and factory equip-
ment have been selected on the assumption that liquid latex will be processed
into block rubber. These subjects are discussed in greater detail in Annex 8.
Nutrition
12.       The unusually low fertilizer budget stems from the results of field
trials carried out on the estate by IRCA since 1972 and the fertilizer sched-
ules are based on their recommendations. There is an ongoing program of ex-
periments which, together with periodic foliar analyses, should ensure that
the nutritional needs of the different plantings are adequately catered for.



Annex 3
Page 5
Fertilizer Schedules - kg per ha per annum
Muriate of
Urea      Rock Phosphate         Potash
Established budwood gardens            340          900                 250
Polybag nurseries N-1                   -         1,200                 340
NO                  470           -                   -
Immature plantings NO                   40           -
N+i                 40           83
N+2                 40           83
N+3 + N+4           -            -
N+5                 -            -                   36 1/
Rubber in tapping  N+6 onwards                       -
B. Choice of Planting Material
13.       When the First Grand-Bereby Project was initiated it was agreed
to give first priority to the planting of the clone GT 1. Although nothing
was known of its long term potential under local conditions it had a good
record in the Far East, in particular for its precocity and vigorous early
growth, and had performed well during the first three to four years in
tapping on estates in the South Eastern Region of the Ivory Coast. Amongst
otber clones to be included were PR 107, PB 86 and 5/51, Avros 2037 and
RRIM4 600. At the end of 1976, with about 3,500 ha planted, 85% of the area
was under GT 1 with 10% of PR 107 and 5% of PB 86.
14.       For the proposed second project it was proposed, after consultation
with IRCA, to introduce some newer clones not previously included and to drop
some of the original selections; RRIM 600 in particular is now considered too
wind susceptible for these conditions. The following list indicates a tenta-
tive distribution of clones over the eventual 13,500 hectares:-
i/   Average over all, most areas would not require additional potash.  The
absence of any provision for the regular manuring of trees under Ethrel
stimulation may be criticized. However, soil analysis has indicated that
available potassium is around 40-50 kg per ha, with probably an annual
increment from subsoil weathering and slow-release processes of a further
15-20 kg per ha. Since it has been estimated that the annual removal of
potassium in a 2.3 ton crop from stimulated trees is only about 20 kg
per ha any requirement for additional potassium in the form of fertil-
izer would be very small. Field trials to determine the profitability
of manuring bearing areas would be initiated as soon as the first
planted areas come into tapping.



Annex 3
Page 6
Clone           Percent                     Clone            Percent
GT 1              25                       PB 5/51              5
PR 261            18                       PR 255               5
PR 107            10                    HARBEL 10, 29, 60       3
AVROS 2037          10                        PB 28/59            2
PB 217            10                       RRIM 600             2
PB 235            10
15.       The 1977 program will already bring the total area of GT 1 mar-
ginally over 25% of the total 13,500 ha and greater diversification of
material is now becoming a matter of importance. Despite its many good
points GT 1 has some weaknesses. For example, in Malaysia its response to
stimulation is reported as only average as is its girth increment during
tapping. The bark renewal is below average and it is more than averagely
susceptible to Phytophthora. PR 261 (Tj 1 x PR 107) is expected to be as
high yielding or possibly better and has better bark renewal but it too is
susceptible to Phytophthora and also to Oidium. PR 107 remains one of the
best stand-by clones, despite being a slow starter it yields well at maturity,
girths well, has good bark renewal and recovers well from wounding .   Avros
2037, although not yet recommended for very large scale planting, has some
valuable qualities including vigorous early growth, good virgin bark, good
bark renewal and excellent response to stimulation. PB 217 and 235 are both
recommended for moderate scale planting; PB 235 gives very high early yields
and PB 217 appears outstanding in its ability to girth well during tapping.
Although not yet well proven in Africa and therefore only included for up to
5 % of the area at Grand-Bereby, PR 255 is recommended for large scale estate
planting in Malaysia. Of the same parentage as PR 261 (Tj 1 x PR 107) it
has given outstanding early yields and responds as well to stimulation as
Avros 2037 and RRIM 600. PB 5/51 is not well suited to the planting pattern
that has been adopted at Grand-Bereby. Because of its symmetrical growth habit
it does not react well to close spacing within the planting row. Of the
remaining minor constituents of the program little need be said. PB 28/59,
although giving exceptional early yields and showing more resistance to
Phytophthora than the other clones selected, girths poorly once in tapping
and is prone to dryness.
16.       Given that the eventual planting program does not differ substan-
tially from that shown in the foregoing list there is every reason to expect
that the forecast yield of 2.3 tons a hectare at maturity will be achieved.
C. Grand-Bereby Meteorological Data
17.       At the time of first project preparation in 1972 a tentative
forecast of rainfall distribution was based on existing data accumulated
over 30 years relating to four stations surrounding the Grand-Bereby site.
These figures are given in Table 1 and compared with actual records made
on the estate over 1975-1976. While the general pattern is in acccord with



Annex 3
Page 7
expectation there is great variability from year to year both in the total
rainfall and in the magnitude of the seasonal peaks and troughs. No data
are available on either potential evapotranspiration or soîl moisture capa-
cities at Grand-Bereby but on the basis of reasonable assumptions (see table
2) it appears that, in each of the years 1975 and 1976, there has been a
substantial rainfall deficit, this despite above average total precipitation
in 1976. These results must raise doubts concerning the wisdom of planting
late in the year, even with polybag material, and justify the decision to
limit the annual programs to 1,750 hectares a year.
18.       It was earlier recommended (1972) that rainfall records be sup-
plemented by data on sunshine, temperatures, humidity and wind velocities.
Not all of these observations are yet being made but they are a normal re-
quirement and should be instituted as soon as possible. The Campbell-
Stokes sunshine records should be supported by data on solar radiation.



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Schedule of Operations During Immature Period
(in hectares)
Detailed
Cost Tables      PY 1          PY 2        PY 3           PY 4        PY 5
(Annex 5)
I. Maintenance of Existing 7,000 ha
1. Agricultural Maintenance
(including feeder roads) Ni  1/    Table 5B        1,864         1,930          -             -
N2        Table 5C       1,452         1,864       1,930            -
N3        Table 6A         982         1,452       1,864          1,930         -
N4        Table 6B         589           982       1,452          1,864      1,930
N5        Table 6C         163           589         982          1 452      1 864
Subtotal                                  5,050         6,817       6,228          5,6         3,794
2.  Preparation for tapping  N6          Table 6D          20          163         589            982       1,452
N7        Table 6D         -              20         163            589         982
Subtotal                                     20           183         752          1,571      2,434
-I. Development of 6,500 ha
1.  Felling                              Table lA       2,250        1,750       1,750            750         -
2.  Feeder roads                         Table 2A       2,250        1,750       1,750            750         -
3.  Land clearing and sub-soiling        Table 1B         350        1,750       1,750          1,750         900
4.  Preparation for and planting 2/    Table 1C           350        1,750       1,750          1,750         900
5.  Polybag nurseries N-1 3/             Table 4A          20            20         20             12         -
6.                     N-O 3/            Table 4B         -              20         20             20          12
7.  Budwood gardens                      Table 3B         -              25.7       25.7           25.7        25.7
8.  Agricultural maintenance Ni          Table 5B         -             350      1,750          1,750       1,750
9.     "              "       N2         Table 5C         -            -           350          1,750       1,750
10.                            N3         Table 6A         -             -          -              350       1,750
11.     "              "N4                Table 6B         -             -          -              -           350
Subtotal Agr. Maintenance                            -             350       2,100          3,850       5,600
1/  Maintenance costs of CFAF 2075 ha/year, Table 2, Display B.
2/  Planting year is NO and includes maintenance costs for that year.
3/  Including germination beds, CFAF 262,946 per hectare, Table 3, Display A.



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Rainfall Data (Precipitation in mm)
Jan.      Feb.      Mar.     Apr;       May      June    July       Aug.    Sept.       Oct.    Nov.        Dec.   TOTAL
A. LONGTEBM FORECAST  1/
Soil Reserve                170         85         9        0         29      200     200        164       121       200     200        200         -
Precipitation                55         50       115      164        312      297     104         97       246       214      160       110      1924
Evapotranspiration          140        126       140      135        124      120     140        140       135       140      135       140      1615
To reserve                   85          9         0       29        200    .200      164        121       200       200      200       170         -
Surplus                       -          -         -        -         17      177       -          -        32        74      25          -       325
(Deficit)                                       (16)                   -        -                                                                 (16)
B.  1975 ZIR  2/
Soil Reserve                130         0         0         0          0      42      200        108         0       43        0          0         -
Precipitation                 O         76      -71        80        166     382       48         16       178        93     112         99      1321
Evapotranspiration          140        126      140       135        124     120      140        140       135       140     135        140      1615
To reserve                    O          O        O         0         42     200      108          0        43         0       0          0         -
Surplus                       -          -        -         -          -     104        -          -         -         -       -          -       104
(Deficit)                  (10)       (50)      (69)      (55)         -       -        -        (16)        -        (4)    (23)       (41)    (268)
c.  1976 ZIR
Soil Reserve                  o         o         0         9        41      200      200        129       101        0        0          0         -
Precipitation                22        83       149       167        612     797       69        112        18        44     129         40      2242
Evapotranspiration         140        126       140       135        124     120      140        140       135      140      135        140      1615
To reserve                    o         o         9        41        200     200      129        101         0         0       0          0         -
Surplus                      -          -         -         -       329      677        -          -         -        -        -          -      1006
Deficit                   (118)       (43)                             -       -                          (16)      (96)      (6)      (100)    (379)
1/   Derived from technical annex in IBRD's Grand-Bereby Rubber Estate appraisal report 1972.
2/   Estate meteorological center
Assumptions - Potential evapotranspiration  4mm/day in May & June  4.5mm/day all other months
Soil moisture reserves 200mm maximum



Annex 4
Page 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
OUTGROWERS' PROGRAM
Terms of Reference for the Feasibility
Report on the Outgrowers' Program
1.       In assessing the feasibility of incorporating an outgrowers'
component into the Second Grand Bereby project SATAC would pay particular
attention to the following points:
(a) the availability of a sufficient area of land suitable
for rubber planting within economic transportation
range of the processing factory;
(b) the degree of interest amongst local farmers in par-
ticipating in such a venture;
(c) the impact on traditional farming practice of the
introduction of the new culture; and
(d) the time required for the planting, maintenance and
eventual exploitation of rubber relative to the time
available within the family unit.
2.        Assuming a favorable outcome to these preliminary investigation
SATAC would then proceed to identify individual farmers deemed acceptable
as participants in the scheme. This would involve cheeking on the applicant's
status within the local community and assessment both of his farming ability
and the suitability of his land. SATAC would also have to be satisfied that
interested farmers fully understood their responsibilities under the scheme
as well as the benefits they would receive.
3.        Once convinced that a smallholders' program could be successfully
launched SATAC would prepare a detailed schedule of operations which would
require the approval of the Bank before any disbursements could be made under
this part of the project.



Annex 4
Page 2
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
OUTGROWERS' PROGRAM
Development and Exploitation Costs
It is very difficult, in a region where there is at present vir-
tually no farming activity, to estimate how the rubber smallholders' program
may evolve.  In elaborating the accompanying table the following assumptions
have been made:
Development
1.   The rubber development would be integrated with the
traditional farming system: in the planting year and
the two subsequent years the farmer would grow food
crops in association with his young rubber. These
food crops would occupy 75% of the land areas in years
NO and Ni and 50% of the area in N2. The farmer would
be compensated, by cash advances paid six monthly,
only for work satisfactorily completed and directly
attributable to the planting and maintenance of the
rubber trees.
2.   After year N2 no further intercropping would be allowed.
lIn N3 cover crop would be planted and from N3 to N5
inclusive all work would be assumed to be for the
benefit of the rubber.
3.   Polybag planting material would be planted at a den-
sity of 550 trees per ha with an allowance of 30 trees
per ha as replacements.
4.   Fertilizer policy would be similar to that adopted on
the plantation but would be continued one year longer,
to offset the effects of the intercropping.
5.   Equipment of the trees would require spouts and
supports only since harvesting would be by the poly-
bag system.
6.   The farmer would be provided with tapping tools.



Annex 4
Page 3
Exploitation
1.   Tapping would be half-spiral, twice-weekly (S2 d3/d4)
during 45 weeks a year (90 tappings). Since polybag
collection would be employed it is assumed that a task
of 750 trees per day would be possible throughout.
2.   The crop would be collected every 4 weeks.
3.   No stimulation would be allowed during the first 3
years of tapping. From year 4 onwards, it is assumed
that Ethrel would be applied 3 times a year.
Finances
1.   Cash advances and materials supplied to the farmer
during the development period with an interest rate
of 8.5% capitalized during 6 years to be repaid from
N6 onwards.



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
OUTGROWERS' PROGRAM
Cash-flow for 1 ha in CFAF
(Constant Terms)
Estima-  Estimated   Credit given   Less: Devel-                    Debt
Year  ted Pro-  Revenue      in kind        opment and/or    Gross        Service     Yearly Net    Man    Revenue per
duction      at        and cash       Exploitation   Earnings         2/         Revenue       Days      Manday
t/ha    130  F/kg        2/            Costs 1/
NO                            79,200          61,200         18,000        -             18,000       60           300
NI                            17,550           8,550          9,000        -              9,000       30           300
N2                            11,250           5,850          5,400        -              5,400       18           300
N3                            14,150           6,950          7,200        -              7,200       24           300
N4                             4,800           -              4,800        -              4,800       16           300
N5                             4,800           -              4,800        -              4,800       16           300
N6     o.4       52,000        5,500           9,680 3/      47,820       12,480         35,340       34         1,039
N7     0.7       91,000        -              11,165         79,835       11,666         68,169       53         1,286
N8     0.9     117,000         -              10,820        106,180       13,471         92,709       70         1,324
N9     1.1      143,000        -              12,460        130,540       14,781        115,759                  1,653
N10    1.3     169,000         -              12,430        156,570       14,551        142,019                  2,029
Nll    1.4     182,000         -                            169,570       14,203        155,367                  2,220
N12    1.5     195,000         -                            182,570       13,751        168,819                  2,412
N13    1.5     195,000         _                                          13,221        169,349                  2,419
N14    1.5                     _                                          12,632        169,938                  2,428
N15    1.5                     _                                          11,993        170,577                  2,437
N16    1.5                     -              11,470        183,530       11,319        172,211                  2,460
N17    1.5                     _                                          10,625        172,905                  2,470
N18    1.5                     _                                           9,915        173,615                  2,480
Nl9    1.5                     _                                           8,594        174,936                  2,499
N20    1.5                     _                                           -            183,530                  2,622
1/ See details on Table 2
2/  See details on Table 3
3/  Only year with both development and exploitation costs
CXx
j e-



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
OUTGROWERS' PROGRAM
Credit in Kind and Cash, Development Costs
and Exploitation Costs
(in CFAF)
Unit    Total
Quantity    Cost    Cost         NO       Ni       N2        N3       N4       N5       N6
Development Costs
Plants (delivered to site)       580        90     52,200    49,500   2,700
Fertilizers kg av.
(delivered to site)            650       45      29,250    11,700   5,850    5,850    5,850
Cover crop seed kg                 5       220      1,100        -        -        -       1,100
Equipment of trees               300        15      4,500        -        -        -         -                         4,500
Equipment of tapper              -       1,000      1,000        -        -        -         -                         1,000
Subtotal credit in kind                          88,050    61,200   8,550    5,850    6,950                          5,500
Cash advances                                    49,200    18,000   9,000    5,400    7,200    4,800    4,8oo
Total                                           137,250    79,200  17,550   11,250   14,150    4,800    4,800   5,500
N6         N7       N8       N9    N10 to N15   N16 on
Exploitation Costs
Fungicide                                             4oo        800      800      800       800       800
Stimulant                                                        -        -      1,500    1,500    1,500
Renewal of tree equipment                                        540      720      810       780       700
Renewal of tapper equipment                                      750      750      750       750       750
Polybags for collection                             3,780      7,200   8,550    8,600    8,600    7,720
Equipment of trees                                             1,875      -        -         -         -
Total                                             4,180    11,165  10,820   12,460   12,430   11,470
====   ====  ===== =====   ====  ====
(D0



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
OUTGROWERSr PROGRAM
Credit Arrangements
(FCFA/ha)
NO         Ni           N2           N3         N4         N5           N6       TOTAL
Total Credit
in constant terms       79,200       17,550      11,250       14,150       4,80O      4,800       5,500    137,250
Total Credit
in current terms        84,744       20,093      13,781       18,548       6,732      7,204       8,832    159,934
Value beginning at year
N6 at 8.5% interest    138,217       30,220       19,100      23,686       7,924       7,816      8,832    235,795
REPAYMENT SCHEDULE
(in CFAF)
Proportion     Repayment on   Balance Remaining    Interest        Total Repayment   Deflator        Total Repayments
to be Repaid     Principal      at Beginning of       (8.5%)                            (7%          in Constant
Year                                            Compounded)       Terms
N6           0                 0           235,795           20,043           20,043           1.606           12,480
Nf           O                 0           235,795           20,043           20,043           1.718           11,666
N8           2             4,716           235,795           20,043           24,759           1.838           13.471
N9           4             9,432           231,079           19,642           29,074           1.967           14,781
N10          5            11,790           221,647           18,84o           30,630           2.105           14,551
Nll          6            14,148           209,857           17,838           31,986           2.252           14,203
N12          7            16,506           195,709           16,635           33,141           2.410           13,751
N13          8            18,864           179,203           15,232           34,o96           2.579           13,221
N14          9            21,222           160,339           13,629           34,851           2.759           12,632
N15         10            23,579           139,117           11,825           35,404           2.952           11,993
N16         il            25,937           115,538            9,821           35,758           3.159           11,319
N17         12            28,295            89,601            7,616           35,911           3.380           10,625
N18         13            30,653            61,306            5,211           35,864           3.617            9,915
N19         13            30,653            30,653            2,606           33,259           3.870            8,594    3
1-Di



IVORY COAST                                                         AINEX 5
Table 1
SECOND GRAND BSREBY RBBBER PRO7ECT
COSTS OU PLANTATION ESTABLISh'MENT
Land Clearing sud PrPearsetie (CFAF pe- hectare)
A Felling Operotions
Sechocicu i
SHOOTS                                   Gecerul Labor         SH-y-e           Sec Operation           Heavy Equipmeet            TOTAL
LNIT COSTS
Daye       FCPA      DoYa    PCFA       Days      FCFA          Houes       FCFA           FCFA
OPERATIONS                                                  -           915        -      1200       -        2574            -         9388            -
Henovatilos cf block bcocdorits                       (0 5)       488                 -                  -                           -            488
Mechasical Felling                                      _          -        (3)    3600       (1.5)    3861           (3.83)    35956           43417
Cleartig cf plot bouedaries                             -          -        (3)    3600       (1.5)     3861            -            -           7461
TOTAL pet hb  gr.s.                                        (0.5)       488        (6)    7200       (3.0)    7722           (3.83)     35956         51366
TOTAL per ho set                                           (0.6)        574      (7.1)   8471       (3.5)    9085           (4.51)    42301          60431
B. Locd Clearing
Mechanical
INPUTS                                   GeCeral Labor .        ssyer           Soc Orerotioc           Hev.v  Esoip.eut          Tr-ck Trsport              TOTAL
U'NIT COSTS
Soya       FCFA        Soya   UCPA       Hoys       FCFA Ko                                             FCFA          UCFA
OPERATION-                                                             975                1200         -       2574           -         9388            -            70            -
Urepar-ti-o for burning                                (5)       4875          -      -          -        -             -          -              -                         4875
Horeisg                                                (1)        975          -      -                   --                                      -             -            975
M-oritg cf rc-e  and boudarlos                         (1.25)   1219           -      -          -        -             -          -            (9)            630          1849
Uceparaties foc opening lices                           -          -         (2.5) 3000        (1.25)   3217            -                         -             -           6217
Opesicg lises and sob-sollis                                                  (1)  1200          (0.5)   1287         (1.28)     12016            -             -          14503
Cosipletios                                            (6)       5850         (2)  2400         (1.0)   2574                                                               1 -  -  _  >0824
'rota1 pr ho grose                                         (13.25)  12919          (5.5) 6600        (2.75)   7078          (1.28)     12016          (9)           630          39243
'otol par ho set                                           (15.6)   15199         (6.5) 7765         (3.24)   8327         (1.51)    14136          (10.6)          741         46168
C. Irecocotios for plostins
AHriesltoc-l       Fertiliser
INPUT                  Generat Lubor         Trc-k Trsosport           Tr-et-r          Phosphate          Fertilizer KCI           Poetio   S-ed           Herblcides           TOTAL
UNIT COSTS              DSya       FCFA           Ke        FCFA         Heurs   FCFA       Kg      FCFA       Kg         FCFA          Kg       FCFA          Mix   FCFA           FCFA
OPFRATIONS                                -           975           -          70           -      1431       -        47        -            55          -        200           -       -             -
l'roporarios cf stokse                   (1)         975                                   -        -         -        -         -           -            -         -           -       -             975
l.icing                                  (2.5)      2438           (1)         70          -        -        -        -          -           _            _         _                   _            2508
teestis                                  (1>         975            -          -                                                                                    -           _       -             975
Foling                        ~~~~~~(O 5)  487            -          -           é       z
601158            (0,5>       487            -           -         ~~~~~~~~~         ~~~(39    4293  - -  ---                                -                    -4780
floctiug bele fertilisera                (2>        1950           (3)        210          -        -       (166.8) 7840        (45.5)    2503                      -                               12503
Re-filling hotls                         (2.5)      2438            -                                                                                                                                2438
Pli,tisg  crer crop                      (.05)       487            -                                                                                    (5)       000                  -             487
Herbicide tre-tre-t (inteclises>           -          - 2/         (1.2)       84        (0 15)   215                                                     -         -           O    1799            7098
HerbicIde tre-tmect (rubber rocs)    (0.5)           538           (2)        140               -                                   -                                                 4223           4901
TOTAL                                    (10.5)   10288            (7.2)      504         (3.15)  4508      (166.8) 7840        (45.5)    2503            -       1000           -    6022          32665
Herbicide cessa  - MSMA         605 FCYA/liter
Discrs.  1334 FCFA/kg
2,4-D      465 UCPA/liter
12   I hectoce grosa - 0,85 ho  et.                                                                           2,4,5-T  1250 FCFA/liter
2/  isclodes bosa of 50F.
Herbicide Mixtures         A     (0.6 litera   2,4-D + 1.2 liter-   2,4,5-T + 0.06 litera  aticker) per ha
B    (2.5 kg DOhr-e + 1.0 litera  MSMA + 0.5 litera  2,4-D) per ho + 50F.



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
COSTS OF PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT
Road Construction and Maintenance
Mechanical
INPUTS                      General Labor           Sawyers          Heavy Equipment           Loaders         Graders    Saw Operation        i Truck     Transport         Timber Transporter  Materials           Total
UNIT COSTS          Days       FCFA       Days   FCFA   Hours             FCFA      Hours   FCFA    Hours  FCFA  Daya   FCPA            Km            FCFA           Km             FCFA        FCFA           FCFA
OPERATIONS                            -         975        -      1200      -            9388         -     5737        -    5737    -    2574           -              70            _              140         -              -
CONSTRUCTION
Road Construction per km             (4)       3900        -        -      (20)        187760         -       -        (3)  17211    -        -                         -              -               -          -         208871
Passage across thalweg per km        (95)    92625        (36)  43200      (123)      1154724      (43)  246691         -     -      (18) 46332          -              -           136            19040    1455200        3057812
Initial road surfacing per km         (1)       975        -        -       -             -        (10)   57370        (10) 57370    -        -        (800)        56000             -               -           -         171715
Construction costs per ha planted
Road Construction 55 m               (0.2)      195        -        -      (1.1)        10327         -       -      (0.17)   975    -         -         -              -              -               -          -          11497
Passage across thalweg  5 m          (0.52)    507        (0.18)  216    (0.6)           5633    (0.22)   1262          -     -      (0.1)  257          -              -          (0.68)              95       7276         15246
Road surfacing 10 m                    -         il        -        -       -             -       (0.1)       574   (0.1)    574    -          -        (8)            560             -               -          -           1719
Total per ha planted                 (0.72)    713        (0.18)  216      (1.7)        15960    (0.32)   1836   (0.27)  1549   (0.1)   257             (8)            560         (0.68)              95       7276         28462
1/ for bridges & culverts
MAINTENANCE
per km of road
Grading                               (1)       975        -        -       -             -           -       -       (3)   17211     -        -                        -              -                          -          18186
Resurfacing                           (1)       975        -        -       -             -        (10)    57370      (10)  57370      -       -       (800)         56000             -               -          -         171715
per ha planted
Grading (55 m/ha)                     (0.1)      98        -        -       -              -          -       -       (0.17)  975      -       -         -              -                              -          -           1073
Resurfacing (10%)                      -          6        -        -       -              -       (0.06)    344    (0.06)  344        -       -       (4.4)           308             -               -          -           1002
Total per ha planted                  (0.1)    104         -        -       -              -       (0.06)    344    (0.23) 1319        -        -      (4.4)           308                             -          -           2075



ANNEX 5
Tabl e3
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
COSTS OF PLANTATION ESTA3LISIMIT7
Planting Materials
A, Germination Beds  area of each bed 50 m2, capacity 100,000 seeds.  (Assumed germination success 60%).
General          Truck       Irrigation
INPUTS                   Labor         Transport       Pump          Rubber Seeds         TOTAL
UNIT COSTS             Days   FCFA      Km    FCFA    Hours  FCFA    1000   ICFA             FCFA
OPERATIONS                                        -       975     -       70        -      846      -      480
Preparation and planting of bed 1/              (28)   27300    (28)  1960          -        -    (100) 48000          77260
Watering                                        (20)   19500        -      -       (3)   2538         -     -           22038
Sorting and handling of germinated seeds    (33)   32175           -       -        -        -        -     -          32175
TOTAL                                           (81)   78975       (28) 1960       (3)   2538    (100) 48000          131473
Total per hectare of nurseries 2/              (162)  157950       (56) 3920       (6)   5076    (200) 96000          262946
1/   Includes preparation of sawdust matrix, cutting and erection of bamboo and palm frond shade.
2/   On the basis of 2 germination beds for each hectare of polybag nursery (120,000 germinated seeds to yield
52,000 grafted plants.
R. Laintenance of Bud wood  dens  FCFA peT hectare
INPUT               General         Truck      Fertilizer      FertilizeT       Fertilizer      11erticide   TOTAL
* Transoort      ure*         .Phosphate          KÇ1            MSMA 1/
Unit Costs       Days  FCFA   Km       FCFA   Kg   FCFA        Kg   FCFA        Kg   FCFA    Liter  FCFA    FCFA
OP3RATIONS                          -    975    -         70    -      57        -     47        -    55        -      605
Weeding chemical                  (8)   7800               -                            -   -           -     (14.4) 9512  17312
manual                  (52)  50700               -            -                -              -                    50700
Fertilizer application           (20)  19500  (10)      700 (340) 19380    (900) 42300   (250) 13750             -      -   95630
Disbudding and care of plants (50)  48750    -             -    -       -        -      -        -     -         -      -   48750
Maintenance of firebreaks    (4.5)   4388                   -         -     -            -      - -         -                 4388
TOTALS                       (134.5)3131138  (10)        700 (340) 19380    (900) 42300   (250) 13750         (14.4) 9512 216780
1/   4 rounds @ 3.6 liters MSMA + 10OF/man-day for operating cost of sprayers.



IVOD! COAST
SECOND GRAN4D BEREB! RUBBER PROJECT
001  0PLNAINESTABLISHM4ENT
Polp Bag NurserlesC(FCFA per hectarel
A.  Yesar (N -1
INPUTS                 General Labor       Truck Transport       Agricultural       Irrigation Pump       Fertiliser       Fertilizer       Herbicide       Fungicide      Plastic       Irrigation        TOTAL
Tractor                              Phosphate            KOl           Diuron         Mancozan         Saga        Equipment
UNIT COSTS               Days    FOrA        KM          FOFA      Ilours   FOrA      goura        FOrA      Kg    FOPA       Kg    FOrA      Kg   FOFA    Kg    FCrA        1000  FCFA   Ha    FOrA           FCFA
OPERATIONS                            -        975       -70                      -     1431                    846      -        47       -       55       - 1334    -          570       -   4600    -50,000              -
Mechanical Coltivation:58
Plowing-    -                        -                  -       (6)      8586               -                      -          - -- -                      -                        -     -      -858
Rotary cultivation           -        -                       -       (4)      5724        -                   -       -         -       -        -      -     -        -        -      -      -      -          5724
Ridging-   -                          -                 -       (4)      5724                     -       -      -         -       -        -      -      -        -        -      -      -      -          5724 2/
Marking ont                          (19)   18525       (15)          1050        -       -          --                  --                                 -            -        --              -      -      -26625 -
Filîing bags                        (555)  541125        -              -         -       -          -                   -       --                         -      -     --            (120) 552000    -        -       1093125
Fertilizer application               (35)   34125       (5)            350        -                  - -               (1200) 56400      (340) 18100        -      -              --              - -    -               109575
Weeding (manual + chemical)           (75)   73125       -              -         -       -                      -           -             -       -       (6)  8004    -         -        -      -      -      -81129
Gloesoporium control                                                                                                                                                     3)1.36/1350
(16 rounds)                  -         -        -              -       (12)   17172         -                                     -       -        -      -     3)187N            -                                5908
Planting snd sfngling               (114)  111150        -              -         -       -          --                  -       --                -        -      -     -        --              -      -      -115
Irrigation installation cnst         (21)   20475        -              -         -      -                       -       -                 -       -        -            -        --              -      -      -20475
operating cost           (36)   35100        -              -         -       -        (100)      84600      -       - -           -       -       -      -       -            -      -    <1) 50,000        169700
TOTAL                               (855)  833625       (20)          1400      (26)   37206       (100>      84600   (1200) 56400       (340) 18700       (6)  8004   (32) 18.736  (120) 552000   (1) 50,000           1667721
I/  120,000 baga yield 52,000 grafted planta for transfer to field.                                                                            Plus germination beda         262946
2/ includes 7050F for 15 kg of tarins at 470F/kg
3/  includes  496F  for 1.6 kg of sticker at 310F/kg                                                                                                                        1930667
B. Yesar (N OS
l/
INPUTS              General Labor        Specialist Labor       Truck Transport       Agricultural       Irrigation Pump        Fertilizer       Herbicide       Fongicide      Plastic    PVC-            TOTAL
Tractor                                  Ursa            Diuron       Mancozan          tape    Sseeves
UNIT COSTS             Pays      FCFA      Days         FOPA      KM           FOFA      Hours    FCFA    Hours         FOFA        Kg    FOFA   Kg    FCFA        Kg   FOFA    Kg   ftFA 30 cma FCFA         FOFA
OPESATIONS                            -        975        -            975       -70                    -       1431       -846                   -       57    -     1334      -      570      -     310   -      257       -
Selection & thinning                (25)    24375         -             -        -                                                                -       -      -      ---  -   -         -          -                    24375
Weeding Manual & Chemical            (60)    58500         -                     --                                -       -- -       -                        (2.5)  3335           -  -  / -         -            -      61835
Gloeospotium control (66 rounds),   -                       -                                 -       (50)     71550       -                                                   132) 77255              -      -     -    148805
Fertilizer application              (39)    38025          -            -       (7)          490        -         -                     -      (470)  26790    -                        -                 -  -             65305
Irrigation                          (361    35100         -             -        -            -         -         -      (100)      84600         -       -      -      -       -                      -            -    119700
Preparation ut grafting tape        (15)    14625         -             -        -            -         -         -                     --                          -  -                      (240)74400    -       -      89025
Transport and preparation oi
budwood                             (43)    41925         -             -       (40)        2800        -         -        ---                            -      -               -       -       -  -      -        -      44725
Bud-grafting                          -        -        (650)      633750        -            -         -                               -                 -      -               -       -                          -    633750
Opening ot graftta                    -        -         (100)       97500       -                      -          -        -                     -              -       -       -       -       -                  -      97500
Bonusea tb  specialisi labor          -        -          -        160400        -            -         -          -                              -       -      -               -       -                    -     -    160400
Lifting nf sacka                    (450)  438750         --                                  -         -         -        ---                            -      -       -       - -  -  -                (780) 200460  639210
Transport to field                  (300)  292500         -             -       (3000)   210000         -         -        ---                            -      -       -       -       -       -      -     -    -    502500
Final Oulttvationi                    -        -           -            -        -            -         (6)     8586        -           -         -       -      -       -       -       -       -             -    -       8586
TOTAL                               (968)  943800       (750)      891650       (3047)   213290       (56)    80136       (100)      84600      (470) 26790    (2.5) 3335    (132) 77255   (240)74400(780) 200460 2595716
1/ PVC piping ia uaed to make protective a1eeVres, 30 cm long, to support polybaga during transit;
requirement is 1560 slseves/ha of nursery, useful tifs 2 seasons.
2/ includes 2015F for 6.5 kg of aticker at 310F/kg.



IVORT COANT                                                                                        ANNNX I
Table O
SEC-MD GRAIN BRNENT RONBRN PROJEKT
COlTS OU PLANTfATION ESTA!LISHNEO
Pinttacd Maneat    CPMF p- hectare>
Canera  Lber       'Tr-e  Trans port         Tracter          Fertilteer irea       }ttrhndne            lprsyere         iundry Netariele          TOTAL
UNIT COSTS                D.~lye    UCPA        Km       POPA       lIser     FCPA         Kg       FCPA       Min.   FaPA        AnR..d     FUPA                   CPA         FCPA
OPERATIONS                                          -        975         -          70         -       1431         -          57        -       -          -           50                 -- 
Utreb-kah                                    (4)       3900         --                                        -         -           -       -          - -  -                          -           3900
Ardent cotn(0.5)                                        487        -                      -        -          -         -          -       -           -         --                   100           587
Piscciug  _cd eupyn                           9.5>    92 63        -                      -        -          -         -           -      -           -                    -         -            9263
lard erdteg                                  <7.5)     7312        -                                          -         -          -       -                     --                   -7312
Siieehng <mne)itrAt                           4)       390         -                               -          -                    -       -           -                    -         -3900
Poat-plsnticg harbictdeo  <2 roun.ds> Il  >1)          1075        (4>       280          -        -             -                 A      109U        <2>        100        -         -2545
ileig_      ccstei                                                           -          <>       2N62        -          -          -       -          -         -                     -2862
liehodtng  <6reende                      2)        91         -         -           -        -                     -          --  -   -                                -         -1950
F-icli-e  epplict.ten  -cd heeitt Un    <2.5>    2438              <1>        70          -                   38)      2166                -           -         --                    -4674
TOTAL                                             (31)      30325        <0)       350        <2)      2862        <38>      2166               10l9O       <2>        100        -         100         36993
Pies rod neIcnne              2075
TOTAL      39068
nMSIO : A = 2o0.9 litter  05MA
IPPUT,                           Ceocrai. Lsher      Truk Trace port         TrrccP-c-ln  Uree                    Ph-eh-t            Heckicidre          cr-yer        ccetol           TOTAL
UNIY COSTS                D.YSap    FCA          K.        UCPA    Heur    UCPA        Kg        UCPA       KA      UCPA       Min  UFP O       Round  UCFA          FCPA           CPA
OPERATIONS                                       -        975                     70       -      1431       -          57      -         47         -       -         -       50-
Pinrs   e,lcteaoen( <05>                            482                     -      <0.5>     716       -          -       -        -                   -                   -                      15203
ndnte..ntcoi                                   <0.5>      487          -                                                -       -        -          -       -         -                     o08
Cneer-croceotro.     coonda     1.5 mac day. <9. 0>    8775                                                              - -87       -       -       -         -       --8775
CAncl eredA    ~ reucda 1'                 74.5>    4838         <18>      1260                                                                (           A)   4900  <9>    450        -         11448
ceekoo1lcol   eohîn  plth,cdrr                                 -                -      <1.0>   1431        -          -       -        -           -       -         -       --13
lienhinA (mca>Ucrtn                            (6.0>     5850               -              - -                                                                                                           850
Parcili-nr   appit.icee  .cd ]SecAng te        <3.0>    2923          <3)       210        -                 41)t    2337      <90)    4230         -                 -        --9702
Diiobdding                                     (3 .0>    2925         -           -        -        -        -          -       -        -          -. -  -  -     -                                    2925
TOTAL                                         <26.5>   26287          <21)      1470       -      2147      <Ai)      2337     <90>    4230         <A)   4900        <9>    450           100        41921
Pins rod mattnnr              2075
TOTAL      43996
A-MSM091 t-, Yoneti0.9  i p-rr-od
K-sPech Oprsyer-  p-rho ...e..t CPMF 10,000; uphnap ...et CPMI 10,000; osoKul lifn 200 dyn et 400 ho eO ring and
pech main- c.n.. ... c = 20,000/400 = 50 FCPA/holrn...d.
C. Maneoce   742>                                 Cenrs  Lober         Tr-k Trao..pert    Agrtro.ttors             Ferciliene Urno         Fecctinar.  Pkehcco .t        Hrrhicid..        K.-s...rA       TOTAL
UNIT  COSTS                       Dope      UCPA        Km          UCPA    Hore       OCUA         Kg          PCPA       Cg                FCP        cmi      UCPA      Re...d  FCPA     UCPA
OPUURTIOIIi                                               975       -70                     -       1431         -57                     -47                           -                          0        -
Pice-c-k mncaro(0.5>                                      487       -                      0.5>      716         --                      -             --                 -                      -       1203
_eorrn  roctol4 r-nde>                        <6.0)     5050       --                      -          -          --                      --                           -                 -       -       5830
Uhenleat condic  <9 coorde>  1/     4.5)    4838         <18)        1260       -                                            --                           (A)    490        (9>     450     148
Mechacîrel eleshtrg               -          -      ~       ~      ~~~~~-  -  <1.0)    1431        --                     --                            -        -        -       -       1431
Oiohtg   nus), inelne                     60)    500         --                       -         -          --                                                                                      850
cornU trr epplbedon  cd hon.ing in       <3.0)    2925        <3)          210        -                    4<A)       2337        <90>           4230-                   -                -       9702
OU seece rente ni <Penne)          <2.)                                                                              2438 -- - - -- --                     -        -        -       -       23
Snl1-i-o thicciog  <550 te 500/ho)             <2.0)    1950        --                      -         -          ---   -                    -           -        -            -                          1950
TOTAL                                         <24.5)   24338         <21>        1470     <1.5)    2147          <41>        2337       <90)            4230          <A>    4900       (9)    450    39872
A ce Cc N + i                                                                                                             Plot r-d n.totonan.             2075
b.... . f 10OF/d.y p.id f., th-it.1 ... di~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g                                                                            TOTAL.      41947



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
COSTS OF PLANTATION ESTABLISHMEET
A. Maintenance (N+3)
INPUTS                                              General Labor   Truck Transport       Agricultural      Herbicides       Knapsack Sprayers         TOTAL
Tractor
UNIT COSTS
Days    FCFA       Km    FCFA       Hours    FŒFA    Mix        FCFA      Round    FCFA            FCFA
OPERATIONS                                                        -       975        -      70          -      1431      -         -         -         50
Firebreak maintenance                                           (0.5)     487        -       -        (0.5)     716      -         -         -          -            1203
Cover crop control (4 rounds)                                   (6.0)    5850        -       -          -        -       -          -        -          -            5850
Chemical weeding (9 rounds) 1/                                  (4.5)    4838      (18)   1260          -        -      (A)      4900       (9)      450           11448
Mechanical slashing                                                        -         -       -        (1.0)    1431      -          _        _                       1431
Slashing (manual) interlines                                    (6.0)    5850        -       -          -        -       -         -         -          -           5850
Disease control (Fomes)                                         (5.0)    4875        -       -          -        -       -          -        -          -           4875
TOYAL                                                          (22.0)   21900      (18)   1260        (1.5)    2147    (A)       4900       (9)      450           30657
A as in years N+1 and N+2                                                 Plus road  maintenance    2075
Total       32732
B. Maintenance (N+4)
INPUTS                                              General Labor   Truck Transport       Agricultural      Herbicides       Knapsack Sprayers         TOTAL
Tractor
UNIT COSTS
Days    FCFA       Km    FCFA        Pours    FCFA    Mix       FCFA      Round    FCFA             FCFA
OPERATIONS                                                                975        -      70          -      1431      -          -        -         50
Firebreak maintenance                                            (0.5)    487        -       -        (0.5)     716      -          -        -          -            1203
Cover crop control                                               (6.0)   5850        --                           -      -          -        -          -            5850
Chemical weeding 6 rounds rings only                             (3.0)   3225       (8)    560          -         -     (A)      2178        6        300            6263
Mechanical slashing                                                _        _        _        _       (1.0)    1431                -          -                      1431
Slashing (manual) interlines                                     (3.0)   2925        -       -                    -                                                  2925
Disease control (Fomes)                                          (5.0)   4875        -       -          -         -      -          _        _                       4875
Selective thinning (500-450/ha)                                  (4.0)   3900                                    -         -                                         3900
TOTAL                                                           (21.5)  21262       (8)    560        (1.5)    2147    (A)       2178       (6)       300           26447
A= 3.6 litres MSMA - rings only = 2/3 of (path+ring) maintenance           Plus road maintenance       2075
Total         28522



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RIBBER PROJECT
COSTS OF PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT
C. Maintenance (N+5)
INPUTS                                                General Labor   Truck Transport         Agricultural       Herbicides        Knapsack Sprayers         Fertilizers             TOTAL
Tractor
UNIT COSTS                                              Days    FCFA      Km        FCFA        Hours    FCFA    Mix        FCFA   Round       FCFA            Kg.  FCFA                FCFA
OPERATIONS                                                           -        975       -          70         -       1431      -          -       -          50             -     -
Firebreak maintenance                                               (0.5)      487       -           -       (0.5)      716      -          -       -           -                   -                1203
Cover crop control                                                  (3.0)    2925        -           -         -         -       -          -       -           -             -     -                2925
Chemical weeding 4 rounds rings only 1/                             (2.0)    2150       (5)        350         -         -      (A)      1452      (4)        200             -     -                4152
Mechanical slashing                                                   -         -        -           -       (1.0)    1431       -          -       -           -             -     -                1431
Slashing (manual) interlines                                        (3.0)    2925        -           -         -         -       -          -       -           -             -     -                2925
Disease control                                                     (5.0)    4875        -           -              -        -         -        -         -        _          _                      4875
Fertilizer application                                              (0.5)      488      (1)         70         -         -       -          -       _                        (B)  1980               2538
TOTAL                                                              (14.0)   13850       (6)        420       (1.5)    2147    (A)        1452      (4)        200            (B)  1980              20049
1/ bonus of 100 F/day paid for chemical weeding                      A = 2.4 litres MSMA         B = 36 kg KCI x 55 FCFA/kg (estimate only - needs determined by foliar analysis)
Plus road maintenance         2075
Total           22124
D.  Prepa.-tion for Tapping (N+6) and (N+7)
INPUTS                                              Tapping Labor       Tappers' Equipment        Equipment of trees       Sundry Materials        Truck Transport            TOTAL
UNIT COSTS                                              Days       FCFA    Man            FCFA        Tree          FCFA         Ha        FCFA        Km       FCFA              FCFA
-         920      -             7000          -            31           -         130         -         70
OPERAT IONS
N+6 (300 trees)
Census                                                             (1)          920      -               -           -             -          -           -          -          -               920
Marking of panels                                                  (3)         2760      -               -           -             -           -          -          -          -              2760
Opening of panels                                                 (2.5)        2300      -               -           -             -        (0.8)       100                                    2400
Equipment of tappers                                                 -           -    (0.19)           1330                                               -                     -              1330
Equipment of trees                                                (1.5)        1380                      -         (300)        9300          -          -          (6)       420            11100
SUBTOTAL                                                          (8)          7360   (0.19)          1330         (300)        9300        (0.8)      100          (6)       420             18510
N+7 (100 trees)
Census                                                            (1)           920      -       -             -            -            -                -          -          -               920
Marking of panels                                                 (1)           920      -               -           -             -          -           -          -          -               920
Opening of panels                                                 (1)           920      -               -           -             -        (0.2)        30          -          -               950
Equipment of tappers                                                 -           -    (0.07)           490           -             -          -           -          -          -               490
Equipment of tracs                                                (1)           920      -               -         (100)        3190          -           -         (2)       140              4160
SUBTOTAL                                                          (4)          3680   (0.07)           490         (100)        3100        (0.2)       30          (2)       140              7440
TOTAL                                                            (12)         11040   (0.26)           1820        (400)       12400        (1.0)       130         (8)       560             25950
NOTES:   Tapper's Equipment includes tapping knife, file, scraper, 2 buckets 35 1,  1 bucket 15 1 + proportion of headman's equipment = FCFA 7.000
Year 6  300 trees/ha  3 tasks of 520 trees/tapper          Cost/ha  = 0.19 x 7,000 = FCFA 1,330.
Equipment of trees  800 ml plastic cup 23 F. + spout 4 F + Support 4 F = FCFA 31.



_-0RY COAST
SEODSD C8h9D-BEEEBY Rt8BER FROJECT
(C;AF  000)
ti_ld Stff                         U-Pit T°se    FY i  g               2             lY 3             n 4           N S          Total t     F  6              pY 7           To-tl            For.ta. Erch*nne         _ Tan
01ni taf Uli 7WOî                               po    /            _______
Dir ctor of opnratîons            17,000-          8,500            17,000           17,000          17,000         17,000      76,500      17,000            17,000         110,500         60         66,300        20       22,100
Canton C(if                      1o,800*    (3)  16,200      (3)   32,400    (35   32,400    (2)  21,600       (2)  21,600    124,200  (1) 10,800      (1)   10,800         145,800          60        87,480        20       29,160
Canton Ghif                        5,250       -      -       (1)    5,250    (1)    5,250    (2)  10,5O      (2)  1.0,0       31,SW  (3) 1            (3)   15,750          63,000           -          -           15        9.450
DSinfeon  bbief                    3,750      (4)   7.500     (4)   15.000    (4)   15.000      (4)  15.000     (5)  18.750     71.250  (5) 18-750      (6)   22.500         112.500          -                       15       16,875
Sobtotal                           32,200            69,650          69,650          64,100          67.850    303,450      62,3W             66,050         431,800          36        153,780       10        77.585
Eota.ton 6500 h2
Canton Chief                      10,8000     (1)   5,400      (1)   10,600    (1)   10.800     (2)  21,600     (2)  21,600    70,2W  (Z) 21,600        (2)   21,600         113.400         60         68,040        20       22,600
DiOioton Chi.f                     3,750      (1)   1,875      (2)    7,500    (3)   11,250     (4)  15,000     (5)  18.750    54,g75  (5) 18,750       (5)   18,750          91,875           -           -           15      13,781
DTA                               17.0000    (1)   8,500      (1)   17.000    (1)   17,000    (1)  17,000    (1)   174000       76,500  (1) 17,0W       (1)   17,00          110,500         60         66,300        20       22,000
1c                                10,800-    (1)   5,400       (1)   10.88     (1)   10I800     (1)  10.010     6     00.0      48,600       -               _                48,600         60 29,160                20        9.720
Sobtotal                           21,175            46,100          49,850          64,400           68.150   249,675      57.350            57,350         364,375          45        163,500        16       63,281
Total 1iel4 Staff                                  53,375          115.750          119,500         128,500         136,000    553,125     119,650           123,400         796.175          40        317,280       17       145.866
Teali.sa
Trnînins Offic r                  10,8000           5,400            10,800          10,800          10,800          10,800     48,600        -                               48,600          60         29,160        20        9,720
ToaiLens - Initi-l 7000 ha         2,160      (2)   2_160             -        (1)    2,160    (2)   4,320    (4)  8.640        1728W         -         (4)    8.640          25_920           -            -          15        3.888
Sobtotal                            7,560            10,800          12,960          15,120          19,440     65,088         -               8,640          74.520          39         29,160        18       13.608
Tafi-e   Rat n.ionfo  6500 hb      2,160     (1)   1.008      (2)   4.320    (2)   4.320    (2)   4.320    (1)   2 160          16.200  (2)  46320      (1)    2.160          22.680          - __                     15        3 L40L
Tot-l Ttnling                                       8,640           15,120           17,280          19,440          21,600     82,080       4,320            10,800          97,20           30        29,160         18       17,010
Seboltship.s                                        1,750            3,500            3,500           3.S00           3,S00     15,750       3,500             3,500          22,750           -
other Stff
Frojet Dirantor                  17,000*          8,500            17,000           17,O00          17,000         17,000      76,50      17,000            17,000         110,SO0          60         66,300        20       22,100
TohainaI DSept Dirator           17,0000           8,S00            17,000          17,000          17,0O0          17.800     76,500       17,000            17,000        110,SO0           N         66,300        20       22,100
Conatwtiton Cbief                 10,800*           5,400           10,800           10,800          108,800         10,00      48,NO       10,800            10,800          70,200          60         42,120        20       14.040
Cara1e Chief                      10,8000          5340O            10,8G0           10.800          10,800          10.800     48,600       10,800           10,800          70,200          60         42,120        20       14,040
Bn-nqy Equnt M.eohanoi            10,8000           5.400           10t800           10.800          10.800          10.800     48 600        -                               48.600         6A          29160         20        9,2
S.btota1 T-ehainal Dopaptannt                      33,200           66,400           66,400          6,06,40                   298,900      55,600            55,606 4t1,000                  60        246,000        20       82,000
Fir noe and Adoninitrativ  Dir.   17,0000           8,300           17,000           17,000          17,000          17,000     76,500       17,000           17,000         110 5O0          60         66,300        20       22,100
Chief A-nnot                      10,800*    (2)  10,800       (1)   10,800          10,800          10,800          10,800     54,000       4,500             4,500          63,000          60         32,400        20       12,150
Aoooontant            4,300            ~       ~       ~~~~~~- 4,500     4,500           4,500          4,500      18,000       4.500             4,500          27.000           -         3244 0                 1,150
PAcountl Offn                      5,258            2,625            7,250            5,250           5,250           5,250     23,625        5,250             5,250         34,125           -I                                5 119
ftononaant Officer                10,800-           5,400           10,800           10,800          10,800         10,800      4,8600       5,250             5,250          59,100          60         29,160        20       11,295
StorakeaPar                        3,750            1,875            3,750            3,750           3,750            -        13,125        3,750            3,750          20,625                 -                 15        3,094
Adainistoatios A.aistant           5,250            2.625            5.250            5.250           5.250          ,5250      23,625       5.250             _52            34.125           -                        1I        5,119
S.btotal Fin. ad Ad.. DePt                        31,825            57,350           57,350          57,350          53,600    257,475      45,500            45,500         348,475          37        127,860        18       62,927
Total Oth-e Staff                                  65,025          IZ3.750          123,750         123,750         120,000     556,275     101,100           101,100         758,475         49        373,860         19      144,927
TOTAL FZOFESSIOBAL STAFF
tnpitriatO5                                       107,300          203,800          203,800         203,800         203,800    922,500      139,000           139,000       1,200,500         60         720,300        20      240,100
Ivoria00                                          21.490            54_320           60,230          71,390         77.300    284.730       89,570            99 80G         474,100           -                        14      67,703
TOTAL                                             128,790           258,120         264,030         275,190         281,100   1,207,230     228,570           238,800       1,674,600          43        720,300        18      307,803
1/ Dosa fot include faotooy staff
21 PY 1 dons cot i101de firat 6 -ooth. of ys.n  as itnlud-d onder firai proiect
O  Efpatria e



IVORY COAST
GRAND BEREBY SECOND RUBBER PROJECr
Other Detailed Costs: Other Staff and Non-Agri..ltural tabor
(CFAF '000)
Pn I 1/      n      Y 2           Pn 3            Pn 4           py 5          Total           PT 6        PY 7              Total          Forei. Exchnae                      T%aes
-  -  -       -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,    ~~~~~~Amot                                                     7.Ae.o.nt
Other Staff
Office Eployees                 (26)  8,300         16,600          16,600         16,600         16,600          74,700         16,600      16,600            107,900                            -         8               8,632
Watelmeo, laborers              (31)  3,860          7,720           7,720          7,720          7,720          34,740          7,720       7,720             50,180            -               _         8               4,014
Abidjao office                  (27) 15,500         31,000         31,000          31,000         31,000         139,500         31,000      31,500            201,500            -               -         8              16.120
Geueral Workers                 (29) 14.500         29.000         29.000          29W000         29.000         130.500         29.000      29.000            188 500           _               _          8              15,080
Subtotal                            42,160          84,320         84,320          84,320         84,320        379,440          84,320      84,320            548,080            -               -         8              43.846
Villages:  Perneaet             (21)  2,700    (28)  7,200    (35)  9,000   (49)  12,600    (56) 14,400           45,900         16,200      18,000             80,100            -               _          8              6,408
Provisienal         (12)  1.400    (12)  2.800    (12)  2.800    (9)   2.100       (3)    700          9.800            -           -                 9.800                                      8                 784
Subtotal                              4,100         10,000         11,800          14,700         15,100          55,700         16,200      18,000             89,900            -               -          8              7,192
Total Other Staff                       46,260         94,320         96,120          99,020         99,420         435,140        100,520      102,320           637,980            -               -          8             51,038
1/ PY 1 does not inelude first 6 months of year as iecluded under first project.



VmORY COASIT
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECI
Other Detailed Costs: Other Operating ExPenses
(CFAF '000)
PYl 1  /        Y 2            PY 3            PY 4           PY 5          Total                 6              PY 7            Total       Foreign Exchange                Taxes
c __Amont                                                                                          Amaunt
I. Manapsent Fees 2
Michelin Fee                         2,450          4,900          3,900           9,800          9,800         30,850             9,800             9,800           50,450         83     41,874             17        8,577
Planting Bonuas                     15,373         30,747         30,747          30,747         15,813        123,427              -                 -             123,427         83    102,444             17       20,983
Tapping Bonus                          117          1,909          6,897          11,499         17,003         37,425            21,827            26,699           85,951         83     71,339             17       14,612
SATAC Fee                            9.603         19.205         19 205          19.205         19.205         86 423            19.205            19.205          124,833         83    103.611             17       21.222
Subtotal                            27,543         56,761         60,749          71,251         61,821        278,125            50,832            55,704          384,661         83    319,268             17       65,394
Il. Field ExPenses
Vehicule Operating Expenses          9,024         18,048         18,048          18,048         18,048         81,216            18,048            18,048          117,312         50     58,656             15       17,597
other transport 3/                  11,850         18,700         18,700          13,700         13,700         76,650             8,700             8,700           94.050         50     47.023             15       14.108
Water, Electricity                  18.287         39.290         44.720          47.435         50.150         199.882           52.865            58.255          311.002         50    155.501             15       46,650
Subtotal                             39,161         76,038         81,468          79,183         81,898        357,748            79,613            85,003          522,364         50    261,182             15       78,355
III. TrainifR ExPenses
Vehicule Operating Expefsses           828          1.656          1.656           1.656          1.656           7 452            1.656             1.656           10.764         50      5.382             15        1,615
Subtotal                               828          1,656          1,656           1,656          1,656           7,452            1,656             1,656           10,764         50      5,382             15        1,615
TV. other Operatin  Expenses
Vehicule Operating Expenses         11,340         22,680         22,680          22,680         22,680         102,060           22,680            22,680           147,420        50     73,710             15       22,113
Other Transport  3/                  6,270         13,200         13,860          14,520         15,180          63,030           15,180            15,840           94,050         50     47,025             15       14,108
Building Maintenance                13,105         27,058         29,657          32,036         34,665         136,521           38,793            40,782          216,096         30     64,829             15       32,414
Water, Electricity                  18,288         39,290         44,720          47,435         50,150         199,883           52,865            58,255          311,003         50    155,502             15       46,650
Rent (Abidjan Office)                5,400         10,800         10,800          10,800         10,800          48,600           10,800            10,800           70,200          -       -                15       10,530
social services                      1,200          2,400          2,400           2,400          2,400          10,800            2,400             2,400           15,600          -       -                15        2,340
Administration Expenses              4,750          9,500          9,500           9,500          9,500          42,750            9,500             9,500           61,750         50     30,875             15        9,263
Office Materials                     5,000         10,000          10,000         10,000         10,000          45,000           10,000            10,000           65,000         50     32,500             15        9,750
Taxes, Registration                    100            200            200             200            200             900              200               200            1,300          -       -                15          195
Inaurance                              950          1,900          1,900           1,900          1,900          8,550             1,900             1,900           12,350                  -                15        1,853
Audit Charges                        2,000          4,000          4,000           4,000          4,000          18,000            4,000             4,000           26,000          _       -                15        3,900
Payment to IBXA for Research         1,900          3,800          3,800           3,800          3,800          17,100            3,800             3,800           24,700          -       -                15        3,705
Public Relations                     8.950          5.900         53900            5.900          5,900          32.550            5,900             5.900           44.350         _        -                15        6.653
Subtotal                            79,253        150,728        159,417         165,171        171,175         725,744          178,018           186,057        1,089,819         37    404,441             15      163,474
TOTAL Other Operating Expensses        146,785        285,183        303,290         317,261        316,550       1,369,069          310,119           328,420        2,007,608         49    990,273             15      308,838
V For PY 1, initial 7000 ha does not include firet 6 ,oaths of year as covered under first project.
2/ Does not include 1% of exfactory value of rubber; SATAC fee based on 25% af five key staff.
3/ Include costs of recruittient and of epecial recrestions and business tripe for staff and labarers.



frman r LŽsibat Cccl,
('0c007»(
901        PIS        P03          911.        Pfl,         TOTAL       Sm                            L           axaaaoauo                  T-..
0. M-at.ace~ cf Initial' 7000 ha
1. fliret 1.gieclt-ra  Ccit,             195.834.  354.834   217.225    171.021    130.169             969.383       88,005        49,293    1,106,981         34       377,901        9       99,755
2. ehce/qien                               34,350    4.7,090    1.8,615      441.615      35,563       210.235       46,013        49,063        304,312       74        223,193       6       19.259
3. Icr,tuvueî8 141.                                     -       130,111 4    o44  1.      0 É  o8444,3fl,           19.4           0 444         63 10,684     39        25.37        14       91.093
TOTAL   ~ ~ ~~~~33e68 301,921    37,201.                                           1.1.31         22,6                       ,0196            2       95,9          10      209.107
II. Eaten%ion 6300 ha
1. Di, est Agricu1tvra1 Ccct.           290,089   1.73,386   51.9,661    515,535    360,1.94    2,189,933          227,942       190,143    3,608,030         41    1,002,252        10      261,627
2. 0'ehilc_/Eqcipeent                   279.600    4.8.510    68,985        29,135       29,335       4.55,565      27,485        34,985       517,935        86       44.5,424       2       10,359
3.                                    __rtvtve28.281   4)8J9    4Ž.90                     63          39.2 -                    108L44         420.070O       20       163.365       14       59.930
TrOTAL                         5988       66375    763,818        5 W,61       396,33k  -T6                5,432        333,472    3,504,0225 ~~ 3 ~ 548    1,691,241        9      331,916
III. Octave M-cge-et
1. Staff Slre
5..) fild Staff                          53,375   115,750   119,500    138.580    136,300             5535,125      7412          5,6          68,6           48        7322         1       1629
(vlTra...ag                           10,390    î8,62o    20,000          22.94o      29.100         97,830       4,883         6,515        109,228       24         76.315      19       19,661
Oth-r Staff                     111.285    j14-.TŽ  -                 237        319 1.0.1& .86e                                       194~r                                          r'
S.bitatl                      175,030    332,W3   3 0,150             ,S O       0 ,503    1, U2-,370
(c)  1-1d Ocpeascc                      39,161      76.038    81,448        79,183      81,888        357,748       49,714       38,724        446,186        50       223,093       15       66,828
(i)1 Travveg                               838        1,656      1,656       1,656        1,656         7,1.52       1,034           754          9,240       30          4,620      15        1,306
(ccv  Oter P- Oceaea7  ..2 3    153 728   i_417    16_.71    1711375                               725 744.    111.162         94l3385821 645_E 016                               13      1380.250
tc.htva                    11.22            5'                  71  i         T                         01,1         T     !      1377,091         41       5079          15     28,6
3. M-va-aet F-c                         27.31.3      56,761    60,74.9      71.351       6î,821       278,125        31,242       25,376        333,243        83       270,332       17       56,991
TOTAL                         321,833      637,623   663,1.4o    691,1.71    697,070    3,011,1.39         399,150      205,013    3,715,602          40    1,473,514        15      565,904
IV,  vgv.rs   r~a
E. ltecico Oe-ivca                       -            603    13,655         6,055       7,855         28,165       19,765        10,363        66,295        19         12,596       5        3,315
2.Oc-e i  cas-h and kccd                -                      .6         12,758      o6,66          1.3,U601      7.661         3.3           703           7          3.996      101       3.30
AL1.                            -             oo     1761         i9,0fl  -48IW2             71,819       23,426        2,13         12,7           12         16,392       7        9,023
i. cava Plai                                        364.,574      -        338.31.0        -          702,911.      231,70       134,9800    1,373,414         76       615,795        O       65,973
2. A,..ccar  Oncvco-                                2,87        4.875       1702        18,8           6o86         1,52         20,290         98,511        45        4.4,320      13       14,377
3. Te'ccea0.-3o,80    -13000 ......2988                                                                1.5.380       3161 600        ,         125_46          90       112.914        -         -
TOTAL                  -       ~~~~~~~~~385,361    25.255 - 69,3:s   33,187        ov,ss          -e-W         9,46       129,6            75       973,039        S      100-,650
TOM1  BASE C00T70                    1,259,243  1,988,262 1,843,21îo  1,944,356  1,435,395)   0,1.70,963   1,214,199   1,067,168   18,752,350                  47    5,811,063        il   1,216,606
Ptcycvcal Cccvivceecies      ~60.11.3     90,733    85,160        08,529       97.205       389,370        65,436       62,809        519,815        50       239,000       il       56,902
Prive Cvvtivgeaviea  1/       97r,014    320,397   41.0,221    653.371    612,611    2,033,611.           668,295      732,487    3,554,396          47    1,661,166       1il      390,764
TOTAL PROJECT 020Tv                  1,416,400  2,4.07,392 2,376,593  2,688,256  2,105,706   10,994,347   1,547,530   1,662,484   14,804,761                   47    6,931,245        Il   1,662,366
Sali -1. cr la, V20.43                              30.57    47.496        41323        =d 74       1428            ~      î      2875         .6.67          10      296,6l                    -
TOTAL WIT51 000T SERVIE              1,696,034  2,790,971 2,794,091  3,101,586  2,563,446   12,946,920   2,590,311   2,231,169   17,768,428                    56    9,8914,908        9   1,862,366
~/Se. Paca 5.82 cf Miai  Repart.
D Sdi ,crvt   (4Ac-  9, Tabla 35 set cf carPîca gaaartid by cala, cf praduatîca.



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS: Maintenance of Initial 7000 ha
(in '000 CFAF)
PYl         PY2         PY3         PY4         PY5         Total         F76          PY7          Total       Foreign Exchae           Taxes
5-Years                                                                   %       Amount
I. Existing 7000 ha
1. Maintenance            (5,050ha)   (6,817ha)   (6,228ha)   (5,246ha)   (3,794ha)                (1,930ha)
a. Labor                120,625     156,936     132,267     102,010      66,852     578,690      26,731           -        605,421       12       72,651      8       48,434
b. Inputs                47,010      57,746      40,137       20,218     11,552     176,663        7,010          -        190,003       80      152,002      5         9,500
c. Other Operating
Expenses              27,829      36,986      32,706       26,234     17,882     141,637        8,960          -        144,267       60       86,560     15        21,640
195,464     251,668     205,110     148,462     96,286      896,990      42,701           -        939,691      33      311,213       8       79,574
2. Tapping PreParation       (20ha)     (183ha)     (752ha)   (1,571ha)  (2,434ha)                (3,316 ha)      (3,794ha)
a. Labor                    147       1,274       4,935       9,395      14,302      30,053       19,062       21,065       70,180       12        8,422      8         5,614
c. Other Operating
Expenses                 223       1,892       7.180      13,164      19,881      42,340       26.242       28.528       97,110       60       58.266     15        14,567
370       3,166      12,115      22,559     34,183      72,393       45,304       49,593       167,290      40        66,688     12       20,181
TOTAL EXISTING 7000 ha     195,834     254,834     217,225     171,021    130,469      969,383      88,005        49,593    1,106,981       34      377,901      9        99,755
_=====   e===s    ee=======  ==      ===
&14



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS: Development Costs (6500 ha)
~~~~(in '00  CFF)
PYl        PY2         PY3         PY4       PY5       Total          PY6          PY7         Total      Foreign Exchange           Taxes
5-Years                                             7         Amount    %        Amount
A. Direct Agricultural Costs
1. Land Clearing and Access Roads  (2250ha)   (1750ha)   (1750ha)   (750ha)
a. Labor                           22,443     17,453      17,453      7,480       -       64,829
b. Inputs                          16,371      12,733     12,733      5,457       -       47,294
c. Other operating expenses       172,196    125,376    125,376    53 732         -      476,680
211,010    155,562          155,562            -       588,803
2. Production of Planting Material
a. Labor                           16,672     42,126      42,126    35,458    16,621   153,003
b. Inputs                          14,218      20,037     20,037    14,350       4,364    73,006
c. Other operating expenses          ,723     33,935      33,935    3o,845    15,735   122,173
38,613     96,098      96,098    80,653    36,720   348,182
=======    =------     ----====   =====       ====== --- ======--
3. Planting                           (350ha)   (1750ha)   (1750ha)  (1750ha)   (900ha)
a. Labor                           22,252    111,26 0    111,20   111,20    57,220   413,252
b. Inputs                           7,288      36,437     36,437    36,437    18,738   135,337
c. Other operating expenses        11,726      5          58,630    58,630    30,152   217,768
41,266    206,327    206,327   206,327   106,110   766,357
4. Maintenance                           _        (350ha)   (2100ha)  (3850ha)  (5600ha)
a. Labor                              -         9,200     54,520    96,259   134,361   294,340          146,632     121,676      562,648      12       67,518      8      45,012
b. Inputs                             _         4,206     25,201    43,757    52,115   125,279           46,641       30,781     202,701      80      162,161      5       10,135
c. Other operating expenses           -        1,993      1l 953    21 840    31 188    66 974          34,669       31,207      132.850      60       79,710    15       19.928
15,399     9174          T 161,8T5        Z8             227,942     183,664      898,199      34      309,389      8      75,075
TOTAL                     290,889   473,386    549,661   515,505   360,494 2,189,935            227,942     183,664   2,601,541       41   1,079,601    10       260,836
5. Preparation for Tapping
a.  Labor                                                                                                             2,576        2,576      12          309     8          206
b.  Other operating expenses                                                                                          3.903        3.903      60        2.342    15          585
6,479       6,479 G    41        2,651    12          791
TOTAL                                                                                           227,942      190,143   2,608,020      41   1,082,252    10       261,627
Summary of Direct Agricultural Costs:
a. Labor                           61,367    180,039    225,359   250,457   208,202   925,424          146,632      124,252   1,196,308       12     143,556      8       95,704
b. Inputs                          37,877      73,413     94,408   100,001    75,217   380,916          46,641       30,781     458,338       80     366,671      5       22,917
c. Other operating expenses       191,645    219,934    229,894   165,047    77,075   883,595           34,669       35,110     953,374      60      572.025    15       143,006
290,889                549,661   515,505   360,494 2,189,935         227,942     190,143   2,608,020       41   1,082,252    1O       261,627
=  ===



D70RY COA9T                                                           Z6C1b  7
SI-CO -  UBi9D-008E0l  R78R3R F000002
(le 090 CFAl?)
CFA, '000           nl5                nz2                rf3         -           note n5                                              PY77                          Tota
Malt Frira      O.Qtit, toat  C  -a tity test         Qsstlty eoat         Colitte Ceai     0.atittv Ceai        0 ___             OAt.tlt test   ouo3tity osas
1,  llalteeaesa InItIal 7003 6.
rd r                            ~~~~~~~17,000                                                                                                                                      (15  17.000        17,000
ester  Vrae                                 15 000                                                                                    (1) 15,000               IS,OOo                                            15,000
F*tld Metasesa Track                         6.500                                                                (1)  6,500                                    6,500                                             6,500
A4i-e1torsl TOasters                         2,300                          (2)  4,600         (1)  2,300         (1)  2,300          (1)  2,300              11,500      (1)    2,300         (1)   2,300       16,1WD
RItery Sîsaher                                 425                                             (1)    425         (1)    425          (1)    425                1.275     (1)       425        (1)     425        2,125
FU7t Treils                                    500                          (1)    500            _               (2)  1.000             _ _1.500                         (1)       500              _            2,000
Sebtot-l                                                                     5.100              2.725             10.225              17,725              35M775             3225              191725       !L?3M
Sahorlas
serult  st VebO eo1                          2,800      (2)   5,600         (2)  5,600         (1)  2,800         (1)   2,000         (1)  2,800              19,600      (1)    2,800         (1)   2,800       25,200
4-Wbeel Irtia Vehteis1                       2,600      (1)   2,600         (1)  2,600         (1)  2,600        <()  .2,600                                   10,400                                            10,400
atIes W os                                   1,200      (3)   3,600         (2)  2,400         (2)  2,400        (2)   2,400          (1)  1,200              12,000      (1)    1,200        (1)   1,200        14,400
s.. Ctesd St-oika                            3,900      (3)  11,700         (4) 15,600         (2)  7,800         (2)   7,600         (1)  3,900              46.800      (1)    3,900         (1)   3,900       54,600
Motet Trotk                                  4,600                                             (1)  4,600                                                       4,600     (1)    4,600                            9,200
flottes T-kel                                6,000                          (1)  6,000         (15  6,000         <0)   6,000                                  00,010     (1)    6,000         (1)   6,000       30,2000
Saas 4-5 Tc                                    750      (4)   3,000         (4)  3 000         (6) 12,000         (6)   4,500         (3)  2,250             234750    (20)   15.000           (9)   6,750       46°,50
I- l CF                               1,000                         (1)  1,000                            (1)   0,000                                   3,600      (1)    1,800                           5,400
pick-sp                                      0,000                          (27  0,000                            (1)   1,000                                   3,600     (1)    1,000                            5,400
AObule,îeao                                  2,000      (1)   2,000                            (1)  2,000                             (1)  2,000                e,000                          (1)   2,000        8,000
Mobylette.                                      80    (10)      b00         (0)    640         (8)    640         (5)     640         (8)    640               3_360      (8)       640        (45 4640
Sebtetel                                                29,300             39,440             40,D40             30,340              12,790              52,710            37,740             23,290      213,740
Mi... Eg.iR-t*
0.s,0.es                                     1 000                          (1)  1,000                                                (1)  1,000               2,000                                              2,û00
Ceatas. Mixer                                1,000      (1)   1.000                            (1)  1,000                                                      2,Ooo      (1)    1,300 3o00n
Oepa20W                                  1,300      (17   0,30                             (1)  1,300        (1)   1,300         (I)  1,300                5200       (1)    1,300        (2)   2,600         9,0
Gr3pe  7 KR                                    300      (1)     700                            (1)    700         (1)    100          (1)   -700                2,000     (1)       700        (2)   1,400        4,500
P,pa                                           500      (1)     5X0                            (1)    500         (1)     500         (1)    500                2,000     (1)       500        (1)     500        3000
eeslibop Testa                                                 1,000              1,000              1,000              1,000              1,000                5,000             1,non                           6,5000
Mdtesi sqapT o                                                   250                250                250                250                250                1250                2530               250        1,250
Offic Eqoipet                                                  300                 300                300                300                300                I:SOO               300                300        2.100
fEosetito Oqeipasat
Sebtetal                                                 5,000              2,550              5,050              4,050               5,050              21,750             5,050               5,050       31,850
TOTAL Ibittal  7000 he                                  34.350              47.090            48,615             44.615              35.565             210,235            46.û15              40,065      304.31
Il   Uet.sloa 6500 lh,
Ossil ttea Rqutpaes                                                              1,000              1,000                 800                                  2,800                                              2,600
C-s-ler Tractes 300 CF                      45,000      (4) 180,000                                                                                           180,000                                           180,000)
5,edtc Greder17,000                                     (1)  17,000                            (1) 17,000                                                      34,000                                            34,000
Motos 0554*5                     ~~~~~~~15,000  (2)  15,000n                                                                                        15.000                         (17  t3.Soo        30,000
FllId esîstasoMe T-..k                       6,500                          (1)  6,500                                                                          6,500                                             6,50(}
C-esle  7ta--es 70 CV                      11,600      (1)  11,600                                                                                            11,600                                            11,600
.gtltrlT-et-r                          2,300                                            (1)  2,500         (1)   2,5300        (15  2,300                6,907     (1)    2,300         (15   2.500       11.500
lbtary  -lseber                                425                          (2,    050         (1)    425         (15     425         (1)    425                2,125    ('3        425        (15     425        2,975
TIOk Treller                                   650      (1)     650         (1)    650         (1)    650                                                       19552                                             1,95)
9ot T-1O.a                                     500                          (1)    500                           (1)      500                                   1,500     (1)       500                           1,5042
400.5                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~450              (27    900          (2)    9001.0                                                                            1,800i2so
MIeMbenteI -170    (30)   5,100                                            (30)  5.100                 _                         _           _                 10.200              -                             10.201)
S&btotl                                                729,350             15,500             22,275              4,025               2,725             273,h5              3,225              17,725      294,625
==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                                   _ _______-               ......    ______.__ =.__........ 
Vebteelas
Eseîrasett t Vebteeh e                        2,800      (1)   2,800                             (15  2,800        (1)   2,000         (1)  2,000               11,200     (1)    2,800         (1)   2,800        16,002
4-Wùeel Mciv. Vhbiesie                         2,600     (3'   7,800         (2)  5,200         (2)  5,200        (2)   2,600          (27  5,200               26,o         00                                   26,002
Ostoolet Wagee                                1,200                          (2)  2,406         (1)  1,200         (2)   2,400         (2)  2,400                0,400     (2)    2,400         (25   2.400       13,202
0-Tee Ctera,d Trck                            3,900                          (2)  7,800         (2)  7,800         (2)   7,800         (1)  3,900              27 .00      (1)    3,900         (1)   3.900       35,100
Relu-t T-ek                                   4,600      (15   4,600          (17  4,606         (5)  4,600                                                     13,007      (1)    4,600                           10,400
TîntPie  Trok                                 6,004      (3)  18,000         (1)  6,006          (1)  6,000        (1)   6,006         (1)  6,000               42.oo0                                            42,000
sedea 4-06                                      750      (2)   1,500         (2)  1,50           (    6,000        (2)   1, 50         (2)  1,500               12,500     (70    5.250         (3)   2,250       19,500
Il CV                                   1,000                                             (1)  1,800                             (1)  1,h00               3.60                           (1)   1,800         5,400
Mobyletoes                                        0   (10)      600         (7)    560          (7)    560        (7)     560         (7)    560               _3040      (7)       560        (7)      560       45 00
Sobtetal                                                 35,500             28,060             35,960              23,660             24,160             147,340            19,5110             1,710       180,560
.. = Z_ ___ _____ ______ ~~~~~~~~- ---                                       . ...  _..=                                        ___se==,_ .. . .
Dearer                                         1,000     (1)   1,000                             (1)  1,000                                                      2.000 (1)    5,000                                 3,000
CeesseMe Mi-                                  1,W                            (1)  1,000                                                (1)  0,000                2.000                                              2,000
Gopespa  20 W                                 1,300                          (1)  1,300          (1)  1,300                                                      2,600                          (1)   5.500         3,910
Grsepea  7 W                                     700                         (1)    700          (1)    700                                                      1.400                          (1)      700        2,1(10
500                         (1)    500         (1)    500                                                      1.0WO       (1)      300        (2)   1.000         2,700
yekso  Tst                                                      ,000               1,000              5,000              1,000               1,Do0              16,000             1,50                            17,000
edeit lqetp.t                                                  4,750                 250                250                 250                250               5,750               250                 250        6,250
Roerratlej etiqsIO t                                            1,000                200                200                 2030               200               1,-00               20                  20         2,2<40
0.000                                      ~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,0  1.800          3 660
SMbtetpl                                                 14,750              4,950              10,750              1,450              2,450               34,350             4.750              3,450       42,5i0
.__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -                                          ----                                                      ----        ._._.______.__. ._...__._
TOTAL Etsuooa 6500 hs                                   279,600             48,510              68,985             29,135             29,335              455,565            27,485             34.885      517.935
(28)               (55)



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Prolect Cost8: Village Infrastructure
(in '000 CFA?)
Unit
Cost        Pyl        PY2         py3         py4        nY5      Total            1r6           PY7         Total      Foreign Erchante           Taxes
5-Years                                               %       Amount        %       Amount
I.  Maintenance of Initial 7000 ha
(a) Construction
Division Type village (Tappers)    103,384    103,384          -      103,384    103,384    103,384    413,536           103,384      103,384      620,304      40     248,122        -        -
(b) Furniture                            5,060      5,060          -        5,060      5,060      5,060      20,240            5,060        5,060       30,360      18       5,465
Total I                               108,444         -      108,444    108,444    108,444    433,776           108,444      108,444      650,664      39     253,587       14      91,093
II.   Extension 6500 ha
(a) Construction
Cantonal Village                   107,206        -       107,206     107,206       -           -       214,412
Transfer of Wooden Village          18,861      28,291     28,292      18,861       -           -        75,444             -             -
Division Type Village (Tappers)    103,384                               '                                 '                -         103.384      103.34 
subtotal (a)                          28,291    135,498      126,067       -          -        289,856             -         103,384      393,240      40     157,296
(b) Furniture                             -           -         5,360      17,905       -         6,505      29,770             -           5,060       34,830      18        6,269
Total II                              28,291    140,858      143,972       -         6,505    319,626                         108,444     428,070      38      163,565      14       59,930
TOTAL                    136,735    140,858      252,416    108,444    114,949    753,402           108,444      216,888   1,078,734       39     417,152       14     151,023
Note: For details of Unit Costs, see Attachement.



IVORY COAST                                 ANNEX 7
Table 5
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT                     Attachement
Project Costs: Village Infrastructure
Details of Unit Costs
Additional for
Division Village               Quantity      Unit Cost          Total            Cantonal Village
Division Chief's house              1        3,692,000      3,692,000
Administrative staff housing
(lblock)                           2           471,000        942,000
WC/Kitchen/Shower (lblock)          2          102,500        205,000
Overseers' housing (6blocks)      12           438,000      5,256,000
Kitchen/Shower block (6blocks)   12             55,000        660,000
WC                                 12           13,000        156,000
Workmen housing (65blocks)        130          364,ooo    47,320,000
Kitchen/Shower (65blocks)        130            55,000      7,150,000
WC                               130            13,000      1,690,000
3-classroom school                  1        2,221,000                                   2,221,000
School sanitary block               1          284,000                                     284,oo0)
Dispensary                          1          756,000        756,000
Supermarket                         1          765,000                                     765,00()
Small shops                         6          364,000      2,184,000
Covered market                      1          364,000        364,o0o
Cantonal office                     1          552,000                                     552,000
Divisional office                   1          927,000        927,000
Assembly shed                       1          364,000        364,o0o
Water connection                                           13,660,000
Water points                       15          187,000      2,805,000
Electrification                                             7,220,000
Land clearing and grading -                                 6,720,000
Drainage                                                    1,313,000
TOTAL                 103,384,000                  107,206,oo0)
1/ includes land cleared for food crops.



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Project Costs: Training Program
('000 CFAF)
PYl      PY2       PY3       PY4      PY5       TOTAL         PY6        PY7        Total
-   -    - -   -   35Y~~ru
I. Maintenance of Initial 7,000 ha
(a) Vehicles
(b) Salaries : Expatriates          5,400   10,800   10,800   10,800   10,800         48,600          -          -        48,600
Trainees            2,160      -       2,16      4,320    8 640o      12                       _ 8.640    25.920
Sub-total           7,560   10,800   12,960   15,120   19,4           65,880                   8,640      74,520
(c) Training Grants                 1,500    3,000    2,000    2,000    2,000         10,500         2,000    2,000       14,500
Bingerville Scholarships          -         -        -         500       500       1,000           500       500       2.000
Sub-total           1,500    3,000    2,000    2,500    2,500         11,500         2,500    2,500       16,500
(d) Other Operating Expenses          414       828      828       828       828       3,726           828       828       5,382
Total I             9,474   14,628   15,788   18,448   22,768         81,106         3,328   11,968       96,402
II. Extension 6,500 ha
(a) Vehicles
(b) Salaries; Trainees              1,080    4,320    4,320    4,320    2,160         16,200         4,320    2,160       22,680
(c) Training Grants                   -         -      1,000    1,000    1,000         3,000         1,000    1,000        5,000
Bingerville Scholarships          250       500       500      -         -         1,250          -         -          1,250
250      500    1,500    1,000    1,000         4              1,000    1,000        6,250
=====   ======   ======   ======   ------         -------        ==e~=    ====          ==
(d) Other Operating Expenses          414       828       828      828       828       3,726           828       828       5,382
Total II            1,744    5,648    6,648    6,148    3,988         24,176         6,148    3,988       34,312
TOTAL TRAINING          11,218   20,276   22,436   24,596   26,756    105,282              9,476    15,956   130,714
====    ==== ====  ==== ====      =====          =====    ==== =…   
(D X
a\<



IVORY OOAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Pro1ect Costs: Genral Administration
('000 CFAF)
PY 1 1        PY 2          nY 3           ny 4          ly 5          Total           nY 6       lY 7         Total       Foreisu Exchange           Taxes
I.  Salaries                                                                                                         5-Year                                                         Amount       %     Ahount
1. Professional Staff
(i)    Field Staff                  53,375        115,750       119,500        128,500       136,000        553,125      119,650      123,400       796,175      40        317,280      17    145,866
(il)   Training Staff               10,390         18,620        20,780         22,940        25,100         97,830         7,820      14,300       119,950      24         29,160     18      17,010
(iii)  Management and Other Staff  65.025         123.750       123,750        123.750       120.000        556,275      101.100      101,100       758.475      49        373,860     19    144 927
Subtotal           128,790       258,120       264,030        275,290        281,100     1,207,230       228,570      238,800    1,674,600      43        720,300      18    307,803
2. Other Staff                           46.260        94.320        96.120         99.020        99.420        435.140       100.520      102 320      637.980       _           _          8     51i038
Total Salaries                          175,050       352,440       360,150        374,210        380,520     1,642,370       329,090      341,120    2,312,580      31        720,300      16    358,841
II.  Management Fees                           27,543        56,761        60,749         71,251         61,821       278,125        50,832       55,704       384,661     83        319,268      17     65,394
III.   Field Expenses                           39,161         76,038       81,468         79,183         81,898       357,748        79,613       85,003       522,364      50       261,182      15      78,355
IV.  Training Expenses                            828          1,656        1,656          1,656          1,656          7,452        1,656        1,656        10,764      50         5,382      15       1,615
V.  Other Operating Expenses                  79.253        150,728      159.417        165,171        171.175        725.744      178,018      186,057    1.089.819       37       404,441      15    163 474
Total             321,835       637,623       663,440        691,471        697,070     3,011,439       639,209      669,540    4,320,188       40     1,710,573      15    667,679
I/ F==== ulye lst                                         ======= only-fi-ratsix=m=ont=a=_  =_==    ==_ == c= ===             =      =t====_        ==    =======
1/ From July 1st, 1978 only - f irst six months already f inanced under the first project. 



IVORY COAST                                          ANNEX 7
Table 8
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Outgrowers Program Costs in CFAF million
Annual     PY         PY         PY         PY       Total    py           PY
Salary      2          3          4          5       5-Years   6            7        Total
'000 CFAF
Extension work
Planting program (ha)                         50        150        300
Cumulated program (ha)                        50        200        500
Number of ha supervised
by group leader                              50        100        100
Personnel Required                N0  Cost N0  Cost No  Cost N0  Cost
Group leaders              600  1    6001    600  2  1,200  5  3,000   5,400
Sector Chief            3,750              1  3,750  1  3,750  1  3,750  11,250
Drivers                    305        _   1    305  1    305  1    305         915
TOTAL COST OF EXTENSION        600      4,655      5L255     1,L05  17.565   17,565    17,565    52,695
Investments
(a) Housing: Sector Chief (1)(C3)               4,000                         4,000
Group leaders (5)(T2)             2,500                          2,500
Drivers (l)(TlD)                    300                            300
6`800                         6,800                           6.800
(b) Vehicles: 1 R12                             1,000                         1,000    1,000                  2,000
5 Mobylettes                       500                            400       400                  800
_____                         1,400    1,400                  2.800
Operating expenses
Vehicles, etc.                                  800        800        800   2,4oo        800        800     4,000
TOTAL                          600    13,655       6,055     7,855  28,165 1ig65    18.365    66,295
Credit in kind (in CFAF)
PY 3 = 50 ha at 61,200                        3,060
8,550                                    428
5,850                                              293                348
PY 4 = 150 ha at 61,200                                  9,180
8,550                                           1,283                878      1,043
PY 5 = 300 ha at 61,200                                    _       18.360             2,565      1,755
Sub-total                               3,060     9,608    19,946  32,614    3,791         2,798    39,203
Cash Credit
PY 3 = 50 ha at 18,000                          900
9,000                                    450
5,4oo                                              270                360        240
PY 4 = 150 ha at 18,000                                  2,700
9,000                                           1,350                810      1,080
PY 5 = 300 ha at 18,000                                             54o o2_ 2,700                1,620
Sub-total                                 900     3,150      7,020  11,070    3.870        2,940    17,810
TOTAL CREDIT                           3,960    12,758    26,966  43,684    7,661          5,738    57,013
Cost of Extension Services
(see above)                           600    13,655       6,055     7,855  28,165   19,765    18,365    66,295
TOTAL COST OF OUTGROWERS PROGRAM       6oo    17,615    18,813    34,821  71,849   27,426    24,103   123,308



Annex 8
Page 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
PROCESSING
Systems and Investments
The Processing System
1.        The proposed processing system is designed to produce block rubbers
conforming to the quality standards originally specified under the Malaysian
"SMR" scheme and now generally accepted wherever this type of rubber is
produced. The intermediate processing stages vary according to whether
the crop is harvested as liquid latex, with coagulation taking place at
the factory, or as 'polybag' rubber under which system coagulation takes
place in the field. At the time of appraisal of the first project it was
assumed that 'polybag' harvesting would be adopted. Unfortunately there are
unresolved technical problems with this method, notably a lack of homogeneity
and the development of unpleasant odors in the final product. Therefore,
initial processing lines would be designed to handle liquid latex and its
associated byproducts: cup lump, tree lace and bark, and ground scrap. This
would not preclude an eventual change over to polybag processing should
the present difficulties be resolved. In any event a single, centrally
situated, factory will afford the most economical means of processing the
crop. The quality targets for the various fractions of the crop under the
latex system would be:
Latex - 75% - Grade 5L or 5 (possibly 5CV)
Cup lump - 20% - Grade 10
Scrap rubber - 5% - Grades 20 and 50
At the present stage of development the polybag system would be expected to
yield 90-95% Grade 10 and 5-10% of Grades 20-50.
2.        Centrifuged latex might at some future time be an attractive alter-
native to the production of block rubbers but is not an immediate possibility
since an annual production of some 4,000 - 5,000 tons is necessary to meet the
requirements of this specialized market.
3.        Apart from the quality defects of polybag rubber there are certain
other practical drawbacks which would need to be resolved before polybag
harvesting could replace the collection of liquid latex. In industrial
scale trials, the real economy of labour has proved less spectacular than
anticipated, a saving of some 30% as against a predicted 50%. Yields have
been reduced, partly because of increased losses due to rain and partly due



Annex 8
Page 2
to difficulties of supervision and control, and the savings in labour costs
have been partly offset by the steep rise in the cost of polythene bags,
the higher processing costs and the lower prices received for the end product.
Location of the Factory
4.        Although only 35% of the concession has proven suitable for planting
with rubber the estate is still relatively compact and no areas are suffi-
ciently remote from the centre to justify consideration of more than one
factory to process the crop from the entire 13,500 hectares. The longest haul
would be no greater than 20 km, with an average distance of about 13 km.
It would not, in these circumstances, be worthwhile setting up field stations
for the coagulation of latex prior to delivery to the factory.
Choice of Site
5.        The factory should be built at the present administrative and
industrial center which is reasonably close to the geographic centre of the
plantation. The site is topographically suitable; it is close to the Dodo
river, which provides a good year-round water supply; and it affords ready
access to the existing services - garage, work-shops, saw mill and power
station.
Processing Equipment
6.        Latex Lines.  On reception at the factory latex is filtered,
homogenized in storage tanks, acidified and coagulated. The coagulated
sheets are rolled, then passed through a macerating creper and a hammer
mill which reduces them to the granular form required for rapid drying.
The dried granules are weighed and pressed into blocks of 33 kg which are
wrapped in polyethylene film. The process is illustrated diagramatically
in figure 1.
7.        Field Coagulum Lines.  Cup lumps are granulated by being passed
through a rotary cutter and then the material is homogenized in a circular
water tank. Scrap grades are washed but not granulated. Rubber of both
sorts is then passed through a battery of 4 creping rollers and a hammer
mill after which drying and packing proceed as in the latex lines (see
figure 2).
8.        Processing Polybag Rubber.  Should it eventually be decided to
switch to polybag rubber, this would be processed through a standard coagulum
line with the sole addition of a preliminary roller to remove the bags from
the coagulated latex.
9.        Alternative Equipment.  Although the processes described in the
foregoing paragraphs are known to be satisfactory, having been proven in
commercial practice in Malaysia, various alternatives are worth considering
before plans for the factory are finalized.



Annex 8
Page 3
(a) Granulation before creping: more uniform granules may
be produced by replacing the hammer mills by shredders
or rotary cutters.
(b) Cleaning of scrap grades: here hammer mills might do
a better job at a lower cost than the proposed scrap
washers; and
(c) Drying: multi-stage Singapore-type trolley dryers
might be preferable to the box dryers provisionally
selected. The Singapore-type is fast drying and
its capacity may be varied from 2 through 6 stages
giving additional flexibility.
10.       Fuel for the Dryers.  Project costs have been based on the assump-
tion that steam will be used to heat the dryers. Although the boilers re-
quired for this method increase the initial investment the operating costs
are lower than with direct heating burners fuelled by diesel oil. The boilers
can be wood-fired, thus using an abundant local resource (initially forest
timber and eventually rubber wood) and reducing dependence on imported
petroleum products.
Factory Construction
11.       Phasing of operations.  The building program may vary somewhat
depending on the final choice of equipment. The schedule which follows
assumes that both latex and coagulum lines would have an output capacity
of 22 tons of dry rubber per day and can be installed as 1/2-line units.
Construction and           Building           Latex           Coagulum
Installation              Units             Lines             Lines
PY 2                     1                1/2
3
4                     1                1/2              1/2
5
6                     1                1/2               -
7                     1                1/2              1/2
8                     -                1/2               -
9                     1                 1
10                     1                1/2              1/2
il                     1                1/2               -
12                     -                -
13                     -                1/2
14                     -                 _                _
15                     -                -                1/2
lst Project                        4                 3                 1
2nd Project                        3                 2                 1
Total                               7                5                 2



Annex 8
Page 4
The processing lines would be installed in the year preceding commissioning,
thus the factory would start production in PY3 and would achieve its full
capacity of 154 tons a day in PY16.
Water  Suply and Effluent Treatment
3
12.       Water re3uirement will rise from 2.5 mn3/h in the first year of
operation to 200 m /h in the 1990's, or to 350 m /h should a switch be made
from latex to polybag rubber. Existing and projected wells would provide
sufficient water only during PY3 and PY4; later a pumping station and water
treatment plant must be completed so that water can be drawn from the river
Dodo. It: is envisaged thSt the pumping station would be equipped initially
with 2 pumps each of 60 m /h capacity (one standby) and that the treatment
plant would have an initial capacity of 100 m /h.
13.       Effluent from the factory would require purification before it can
be discharged into natural waterways. The initial B.O.D. (biological oxygen
demand) of 1,000-1,500 ppm would be reduced to 100-150 ppm by preliminary
decantatiLon followed by ponding. Project costs include allowances for the
building of a dam to create this holding area of about 1 ha and also the
construction of a canal to channel the purified effluent into the Tiepe
River.
Electricity
14.       To commence operations sufficient power would be available from the
two 250 kW generating sets already in service but additional equipment would
have to be installed in PY4. During the period covered by the present project
only one 500 kW set would be required. Provision has been made for the
addition of a second set in PY9 and a third in PY12. However these may not
be required if the planned extension of the national grid takes place. A
power line from the Buya dam, now being built across the Sassandra river, is
scheduled for supplying the San Pedro - Grand Bereby region in the early
1980's.
Organization and Management of the Factory Building Program
15.       It is envisaged that responsibility for the planning and supervision
of the factory project would be accepted by Michelin. Procurement of mate-
rials and equipment, the realization of various building works and the in-
stallation of water and power supplies would be arranged through normal
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the BEI. The terms under which
Michelin would undertake the work, their remuneration and precise responsi-
bilities, remain to be negotiated but appropriate provision has been made in
the cost estimates to cover architect's fees and the various commissions
likely to be involved.



FIGURE No. 1
--TANK FOR STORIJNG
DILUTEO ACIO
STATIC SCREEN
PUMP
ACID DISPENSER
RECEPTION TANK                                           DRYER
FILTER                                 SHOOT       FOR GRANULES
VORTEX
Pump
CRUSHING
ROLLER
RECEPTION TANK
FOR GRANULES
PRESS -_-b 
RECETIONTANK TANK FOR HOMOGINISATION 
RECEPTION TANK    OF ACIDIFIED LATEX                                  MACERATOR        HAMMERVILL WITH         BALANCE
CREPING ROLLERS
Latex Line                                                     Flow Diagram
Worid Bank-17952



FIGURE No. 2
STATIC SCîEEN
GRANULATOR WITH
STOFIAGE AREA                    ROTARY KNIVES
FOR COAGULUM
TANK FOR HOMOGINISATION
SOAKING                              OF GRAN*RLES
TANK FOR
COAGULUM
SRA ER
ROLLEIl FOR
REMOVAL 0F
POLYBAGS                               ~    ~~~~~~~~~~VOilTEX PUMP
MOVING        TANK-VORTEX PUMP
SCRAP WASHER IF                                                                                               PRESS
REOUIRED FOR TREATMENT                                                               VORTEX PUMP 
0F TREE-LO LACE AND       CREPING                                                             BLNE' 
GfiOUND SCRAP             ROLLERBANC-*
-A                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIRCUIT FOR RECYCLING  MAGNETIC
[                                                         OF GRANULES                    DETECTOR
STATIC SCREEN
Coagulum Lino                                                           Flow Diagram
World Bank-17953



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBEP ESTATE F20,11
Processing Investmern. C:sts
Summary
(All prices in 1977 terms)
PY 2       PY 3      PY 4       PY 5    5-Year         PY 6         PY 7
(1979)     (1980)   (1981)      (1982)    Total        (1983)       (1984)      Total
………------  --------in '000 CFAF                                 -…--
I.  Factory
A.  Civil Works              209,000       -      117,480       -       326,480      71,395       60,500    458,375
B.  Equipment                155,574       -      220,860       -       376,434    164,305        74,300    615,039
Subtotal               364,574              338,340              702,914    235,700       134,800  1,073,414
Physical Contingencies 1/    28,679                 22,791               51,470      15,355        9,765      76,590
Price Contingencies 2/        68,662               124,771              193,433    136,044        95.915    425,392
TOTAL FACTORY          461,915              485,902              947,817    387,099       240,480  1,575,396
II.  Housing
A.  Buildings                 17,812      4,590    14,832    16,522    53,756        16,312       19,088      89,156
B.  Furnishings                2,975        285      2,180     1,665      7,105       i,o4o        1,210       9,355
Subtotal                20,787      4,875    17,012    18,187    60,861        17,352       20,298     98,511
Physical Contingencies         1,930        473      1,592     1,735      5,730       1,683        1,970       9,383
Price Contingencies            4,320      l,5l4      7,033     9,752    22,619       11,353       15,769      49,741
TOTAL HOUSING           27,037      6,862    25,637    29,674    89,210        30,388       38,037    157,635
III.  Vehicules                                20,380    10,000    15,000    45,380         36,680      43,400    125,460
Physicsl Contingencies                    1,019        500        750     2,269       1,834        2,170       6,273
Price Contingencies                       5,061      3,393     6,547    15,001       19,827       28,290      63,118
TOTAL VEHICULES                    26,460    13,893    22,297    62,650        58,341       73,860    194,851
TOTAL BASE INVESTMENT COSTS 385,361    25,255   365,352    33,187   809,155    289,732           198,498  1,297,385
Physical Contingencies         30,609     1,492    24,883      2,485    59,469       27,139       17,680    104,288
Price Contingencies            72,982     6,575   135,197    16,299   231,053    185,231         149,019    565,303
TOTAL ESTIMATED COSTS        488,952    33,322   525,432    51,971 1,099,677    502,102          365,197  1,966,976
1/  Physical Contingencies:  10% on civil works and 5% on furniture and equipment.                                 œ x
2/  Price Contingencies:  1977/79 = 9% on civil works and 7.5% on furniture and                                    H
equipment; aftervards = 8% on civil works and 7% on furniture and equipment
compounded yearly on base costs + physical contingencies.



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Processing Investment Costs
(in '000 CFAF)
PY 2      PY 3       PY 4        PY 5       5-Year       PY 6         PY 7
(1979)    (1980)     (1981)      .182       Total        (1983)       (1984)     Total
I. Factory
.  Civil Works
Studies, control and
Architect's fees         34,100       -        11,000                 45,100      11,800        6,050       62,950
Site preparation and
development             83,600        -        21,230               104,830        4,595          -       109,425
Factory buildings          80,300       -        53,350                133,650      55,000       54,450      243,100
Wells, water treat-
ment                     11,000       -        25,300                 36,300         -            -         36,300
Pover station
building                              -         6,6oo                  6,600         -            -          6,6oo
Sub-total     209,000               117,480                326,480       71,395       60,500     458,375
B.  Eluipment
Factory equipment         133,974       -      139,212                 273,186     161,555       74,300      509,041
Water treatment
equipment               21,600        -        38,340                 59,940       2,750          -         62,690
Pover equipment              -          -        43,308                 43,308           -          -         43,308
Sub-total     155,574               220,860                376,434      164,305       74,300     615,039
TOTAL FACTORY     364,574               338,340                702,914      235,700      134,800   1,073,414
II.  Housingl/:  Buildings          17,812      4,950     14,832    16,522       53,756       16,312      19,088       89,156
Furnishings        2,975     __285       2,180       1,665      7,105        1.040        1,210        9,355
TOTAL HOUSING       20,787      4,875     17,012      18,187     60,861       17,352       20,298       98,511
III.  Vehicles 2/
Staff vehicles                   -        1,980                              1,980        1,980          -         3,960
Collection vehicles              _        5,000      10,000     15,000      30,000       25,000       30,000      85,000
Transport trucks                 -       13,400                             13,4oo        9,700      13,400       36,500
TOTAL VEHICLES                   20,380     10,000      15,000     45,380        36,680      43,400      125,460
=======   ===e=== Atta===e=t  A======        ===================                   =======
2/  See Attachment A BD
7/  See Attachment B                                                                                                   r\ oz



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Processing Investment Costs
(in '000 CFAF)
II. Housing
Unit        Year 2          Year 3            Year                    5          Year 6         Year 7
Type    Cost    No.   Cost        No.   Cost        No.    Cost       No.      Cost      No.  Cost    No.   Cost
1. Buildings
Unit in Central Village        Tl       364    15    5,460       10    3,640       20    7,280      30    10,920       4o  14,560   4o   14,56o
T2      438      4    1,752                         4    1,752        4     1,752        4   1,752    6    2,628
Ci      950      2    1,900       1       950                         1        950       -     -       2    1,900
C2    2,900      3    8,700       _     _           2    5,800        1     2,900        -     -       -       -
TOTAL                         24   17,812       il    4,590      26   14,832       36    16,522       44  16,312   48   19,088
2. Furnishings
Tl       23    15        345     10       230      20       460      30        690      4o     920   4o        920
T2       30      4       120                        4       120       4        120       4     120    6        180
Ci       55      2       110      1        55                         1         55       _      -      2       110
C2      800      3    2,400       _                 2    1,600        1        800       _      _         _
TOTAL                         24    2,975       il       285     26    2,180       36      1,665      44   1,040   48    1,210
Note
Tl = Unit for unskilled laborer                                                                                                                 F  
T2 = Unit for skilled laborer                                                                                                                Croo 
Cl = Unit for foreman                                                                                                                        U
C2 = Unit for supervisor



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER ESTATE PROJECT
Processing Investment Costs
(in '000 CFAF)
III. Vehicles
Year 3              Year 4              Year 5               Year 6           Year 7
Unit Cost       No.      Cost       No.       Cost      No.       Cost        No.       Cost    No.   Cost
1. Staff Vehicles
Pick-up truck                  1,200          1      1,200                                                  1      1,200
Sedan 4-5HP                      780          1        7Rn                                                  1         780
Sub-total                   2       1,980                                                  2      1,980
2. Collection vehicles 1/
8-ton trucks                   3,900          1      3,900        2      7,800          3    11,700         5     19,500      6   23,4oo
Small tanks                      150          4        600        8      1,200        12      1,800        20       3,000    24    3,600
Trailers                         500          1        500        2       1,000         3     1,500         5      2,500      C    3,000
Sub-total                    6      5,000       12     10,000        16    15,000         30     25,000    36   30,000
3. Transport to San-Pedro
Road tractor                   9,700          1      9,700                                                  1       9,700     1    9,700
Trailers                       3,700         1       3,700                                                  _                 i    3,700
Sub-total                    2      13,400                                                  1      9,700      2   13,400
1/  During tapping, the latex will be poured into small tanks mounted on trucks.
>, I
w ( 



IVCRY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBEn ESTATE PROJECT
Factory:  Program of Yearly Investments  1979-1989
(in CFAF million)
No.*             Item                   1979       1981       1983      198'    1985       1986        1987      1988        1990     1992    Total
1     Project Preparation +
Supervision Fees
110     Michelin                        23.5        5          4         3       2          2           2        1.5          1         1        45
120     Technical inspection             6          4          3         2       3          4           3        3            1         1        30
130     Construction permit              1.5        1          1         1       1          1          J         1            -         -         7.5
2     Site Development                                                                                                               .45
210     Site preparation                45
221     Assembly area                    7.6                                                                                                      7.6
222     Weigh bridge                    10                                                                                                       20
230     Water mains + drains             7         13                                                                                            20
240     Electrical supply cables         6.4        6.3        4         -        4         6.3         6.3      4            -         _        35
3     Factory Construction
311     Building construction           65         48.5       49.5      49.5     -         49.5        48.5     49.5          -                 360
312     Water supply, pipe-work          4          4.5        4         -        4         4           4.5      h            -                  29
313     Electrical cables                8          9.9        8         -        8         8           9.9      8            -                  59.8
321     Coagulation tanks               18         17.1       18         9      18         27          17.1     18            9                 151.2
322     Granulation equipment            4.5        9.8        4.5       -        4.5       4.5         9.8       4.5         -                  42.1
323     Creping rollers + scrap-
washers                       18.1       14.9       8.3      19.8      8.3        8.3       24.8       8.3          -       19.8      130.6
324     Dryers                          12.2       24.4       12.2      24.4    12.2       24.4        24.4      12.2        12.2      12.2     17
325     Presses                           3.2       3.2        3.2       -        3.2        3.2        3.2       3.2         -         -        22.4
326     Rubber trap                      2.5        -          -         -        -         -           _               -               -         2.5
327     Electrical connections           8         12.5        8         -        8         8          12.5       8           -         -        65
328     Sundry material                  7.5        9.6        7.5       -        7.5       7.5         9.7       7.5                  5- 6.8
331     Laboratory - building            8          -          -         -        -         -                     -           _                   8
332     Laboratory - equipment          15          -          -         -        -         -           _         _                              15
340     Rubber store                     -          -         33.5       -                                                                        33 -  -    -  33.5
4     Water and Power Supplies
410     Well-drilling                   10          -          -                                                                                   10
421     Pumping station -building        -         15          -         -        -          -          _         _-                    -          15
422     Pumping station - equipment    -            5.5        2.5       -        2.5        -          -         -            -        -          10.5
431     Water treatment plant -bldg    -            8          -         -        5          -          _         -            -        -          13
432     Water treatment plant-equip    -           30          -         -       22.4        -          -         -            -        -          52.4
440     Water tower                     15          -          _         -        -          _                    -            -        -          15
450     Effluent disposal                 5         -          -                                        -         -            -        -           5
460     Firp nrotertion                   5         S          _         _        S          5          -         -           -         -          20
471     Power station - building         -          6          -         -                              -         -           -         -           6
472     Power station - equipment        -         40.1        -         -        -        25           -        25           -                    90.1
5     Material Handling
500     Fork-lift trucks                  3         3         45         -        -          -                              - _51
TOTAL                  319        296.3      216.2    108.7   117.6        185.4      176.7    157.7         23.2      34.0      1634.8
Additional Cost for steam drying         15        155       -                    -          _         15          -                                75
334  311.3           12 3 -   117.6      200.4      191.7    157.7         23.2      34.0      179.
TOTAL                  334        311.3      216.2    ___;=  =_u =_        204        1<7 =s 32                        34C       10     
Note:  All orices in 1Q76 terme                                                                                                                            w °'
*      Item numbers refer to Michelin feasibility study



ANNEX 8
Table 4
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Processing Costs - Unit Costs
Cost per Ton
Uniit          Quniy             Lt         ogl1           Average
Cost           Q                 Latex2i  Coal /             Cost
I. 1ACTORY
A. Labor Costs
General Labor                              641 2/       1.27 days           814
Specialized Workers                        832 2/       2.0  days          1674
General Labor                              641 2/       2.27 days                      1455
Specialized                                837           3.0  days                     2511
Subtotal                                                                  2488        3966             2857
B. Products
Ammonia                                    660           1.5 kg             990
Formic Acid                                145           7.0 kg            1015
Sodium Metasulfide                         150          2.5 kg              375
Subtotal                                                                  2380                         1785
C. Other Operatory
Fuel                                       700           2 st              1400        1400
Power                                       19           lOOkwh            2090
19          225 kwh                        4275
Water                                        30          15 m:              450
30          50 m3                         1500
Subtotal                                                                  3940        7175             4749
D D. Packaging
Plastic Bags                                14           30                 420         420
Crates                                    3000           1                             3000
Plastic Lining                             420            1.6 kg                         672
Subtotal                                                                   420        4092             1338
E. Lift Trucka                               1000           0,25 hru            250         250             250
TOTAL FACTORY                                                              9478       15483            10979
II.    COLLECTION                                                                                              1846
III.    TRANSPORT TO                                                                                            1371
SAN PEDRO
TOTAL PROCESSING                                                                                      14196
1/   75% latex in bulk 25% coaguluim in crates
2/   Includes portional costs of foremen



ANNEX 8
Table '
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY EUBBER PROJECT
Processing Costs - Yearly Costs
(in '000 CFAF)
Unit
Cost    1980  1981   1982   1983    1984    1985        1986    1987      1988      1989
I. FIXED COSTS
A. Salaries
l/Factory Manager 10800/8500 10800 10800  10800  10800   10800   10800    10800    8500           8500     8500
Asst. Manager       5250                                            5250     5250    5250      5250      5:250
Chief of Watch      3750     3750  3750(2)7500   7500    7500    7500        7500    7500      7500      7500
Packing    3750                   3750   3750    3750    3750        3750    3750      3750     3750
Maint.     3750      3750  3750   3750   3750    3750    3750        3750    3750      3750     3750
Lab.       3750      3750  3750   3750   3750    3750    3750        3750    3750      3750     3750
Accountant           600      600   600    600    600       600     600       600      600      600       6500
Secretary+Typist    275  (2) 550   550    550    550        550 (4)1100      1100    1100      1100      1100
Storekeeper          260      260   260    260    260       260     260       260      260      260      :260
Lab. Asst.           230      230(2)460    460 (3)690       690 (4) 920       920 (5)1150      1150      1150
H Helper           160       160   160    160 (2)320       320     320  (3) 480      480       480       480
Driver               320      320   320    320    320       320      320      320      320      320       320
Line Supervisors    335       335   335 (2)670    670 (3)1005    1005  (4)1340 (6)2010         2010 (7) 2345
Sub-total(Initial 7000 ha)      24505 24735  32570  32960   33295   33295    33295   31330    31330    31330
Sub-total(Extension 6500 ha)                                            6030     6525    7090      7090      7425
Total Salaries                  24505 24735  32570  32960   33295   39325    39820   38420    38420    38755
B.  Other Operating Costs
Staff Vehicles               2126  2126   2126   2126    2126    2786        2786    2786      2786      2786
Building Maintenance         1826  1826   3521   3521    5357    6446        6446    7645      8712      9801
Equipment                   12446 12446  30115  30115   40401   46509    53304   67538    78648    86523
Insurance                    3703  3703   8287   8287   11593   13555    14829   18397    21281    23574
Sub-total(Initial 7000 ha)      20101 20101  44049  44049   59477   68636    68636   76192    76192    75192
Sub-total(Extension 6500 ha)                                             660     8729   20174    35235    46492
Total Other Operating Costs    20101 20101  44049  44049   59477   69296    77365   96366   111427   122684
TOTAL FIXED COSTS               44606 44836  76619  77009   92772  108621   117185  134786   149847   161439
II. VARIABLE COSTS
A.  Initia] 7000 ha
Production (tons)           (674)  (1444) (3028) (5432)  (8485) (10903)  (12909) (14305) (14845)   (15284)
Cost                14.196   9568  20499 42905  77113  120453  154779   183256  203074  210472   .216696
B.  Extension 6500 ha
Production                                                 (210)  (14oo)   (3290)  (5915)  (8765)   (10910)
Cost                14.196                                 2981   19874    46705   83969  124428    154878
TOTAL VARIABLE COSTS             9568  20499 42985  77113  123434  174653   229961  287043  334900    371574
III.  TOTAL YEARLY COSTS               54174  65335 119604 154122 216206  283274   347146  421829  484747    533013
1/  Position filled by expatriate until 1987 when Ivorian takes over.



Annex 9
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
NOTES ON PROJECT CASH-FLOW
A.   Source of Funds
1.   Income from Sales
Estimated yields valued on the basis of our forecast price 1/ of
$0.432/lb (in 1977 terms) for 1980-1984, for RSS N 1, in bales, spot New York.
This reference price falls to $0.426/lb from 1985 on.  The resulting income
is inflated by a uniform 7% per year, compounded.
2.   Income from Loans
The receipts from loans are based on the amount of financing as
tentatively shown in Table 2 for each co-lender.
B.   Application of Funds
1.   Project Costs
All costs have been inflated by the contingencies shown in the table
of project costs (Annex 7, Table 1).  After the five-year investment period,
costs have been inflated by a uniform 7%, compounded yearly. Processing costs,
which are not project costs, appear in 1980, the first year of production.
2.   Debt Service
Includes the full debt service for loans received under the first
project and the loans to be disbursed under the follow-up project. Detailed
calculations are shown in Table 3. Debt service for loans under the second
project increases substantially from 1982 on, when repayments of the loans
become due; IBRD's loan is repaid in 17 equal yearly installments, and
interest is calculated separately. It decreases slightly after 1985 when
interest charges on IBRD's outstanding amount decrease. Details of the
debt service on the IBRD loan are shown in Table 4.
C.   Treatment of Taxes
This cash-flow represents the position of the Project which is ex-
empt from export taxes on rubber through 1987, but must pay direct and indi-
rect taxes on project costs (except for customs duties on goods imported
specifically for the project), averaging 11%. Conversion to a Government
cash-flow would require adding these tax revenues to the source funds and
the resulting annual deficits would be the estimated net Government contribu-
tion.
1/   IBRD Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities, EPDCE, June 1977.



IVORY COAST                                                              ANNEX 9
Table 1
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Project Cash-Flow
(million CFAF, in current termis)
1978     1979      1980      1981       1982     1983       1984      1985      1986      1987
A. Sources of Funds
I. Income from Sales                                 -        -         172      401       901      1729      2961      4414      6228       8349
Sub-total                                 -        -         172      401       901       1729      2961     4414       6228      8349
Less Production Costs:
Production Costs I
ti) Agricutturat L;oats                           -          9        49       141       299       537       863      1233      1604      2019
(ii) ProcessinR Costs                             -         -         67        86       169       233       351       491       644       839
(iii) Share of General Administrative
Costa                                                                    -         -       370        598      805      1052       1191
Total Production Custa                         -          9       116       227       468      1140      1812      2529      3300      4049
~~~~n=s~~~~~~~~~  _- a.=====   S==:=    2====                             _ 
Net Income from Sales                           -           (9)      56      174        433       589      1149      1885      2928      4300
II. Receipt from Loans 1/
IBRD                                           350       825      1055      1115      1046       509
CCCE                                           146       342       436       461       432       211
FED                                            111       250       311       306       249       113
EIB                                             -        489        34       525        50        -
Sub-total                                607     1906       1836     2407       1777       833
TOTAL RECEIPTS                                 607      1897      1892      2581      2210       1422      1149      1885      2928      4300
=====  __==  =s==      ~~~~===   =2==      ===        2=        ==        =2       .S
B. Application of Funds
I. Pro iect Coats 2/
1. Maintenance of Initial 7000 ha
(i) Direct Agricultural Costs                     220       306       279       235       192       139        84        26
(ii) Vehicles/Equipment                            39        57        63        62        53        62        87        79        65         69
(iii) Infrastructure                              130        -        153       166       179       191       204
Sub-total                                389       363      495       463       424        392       375       105        65        69
2. Extension 6500 ha
(i) Direct Agricultural Costa                    327       569       707       710       531       359       321       276       212       135
(ii) Vehicles/Equipmeent                         316        59        90        40        44        45        59        53        55        51
(iii) Infrastructure                              34       185       203        -         10        -        204       219       240       250
Sub-total                                677       813    1,000        750      585       404        584       548       507       436
3. General Administration
(i) Salaries + Management Fees                   217       466       514       584       619      362        295        223       146      88
(ii) Fixed + Other Operating Costa               134       275       312       340       376      247        204       166       111       76
Sub-total                                351       741       826       924       995      609        499       389       257      164
4. Outgrovers  Program                             -          1        23        26        51        41        39        43        38        43
5. Processing Facility I                           -       489         34      526        50        502       337        83       225        47
6.                                                 I                                                 -         28       212       395       548
6ub-total                                         489        34       526        50       502       365       295       620       595
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                1417      2407      2378      2689      2105      1948      1862      1380      1487      1307
====  _===     ====     5===       ====      ===.      ==.=      =5===     ===
Operational Surplus (Deficit)                      (810)    (510)    (486)    (108)         105      (526)    (713)       505      1441      2993
Cumulative Op. Surplus (Deficit)                   (810)   (1320)   (1806)   (1914)   (1809)    (2335)   (3048)   (2543)   (1102)    1891
II. Debt Service I (see sep. table) 2/              232       245       245       245       245       245       346       447       447       447
Debt Service II                                 48       130       229       343       645        987     1172       1144      1116      1087
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                             280       375       474       588        890     1232      1518       1591      1563      1534
TOTAL OUTPUTS                                 1697      2782      2852      3277      2995       3180      3380      2971      3050      2841
====  ====  ===     ====       =5=      ====      2=5=      ===5   2= -=          a
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                 (1090)    (885)    (960)    (696)    (785)    (1758)   (2231)   (1086)    (122)    1459.
CtWMLATIVE SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                          (1090)   (1975)   (2935)   (3631)   (4416)    (6174)   (8405)   (9491)    (9613)  (8154)



SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Yearly Commitments for Colenders
(million CFAF)
Total            1978                1979                 1980                1981                 1982          1983
Amount   Share of    Est.   Share of    Est.   Share of    Est.   Share of    Est.   Share of    Est.    Est.
of Loan  Tot. Costs  Disb.  Tot. Costs  Disb.  Tot. Costs  Disb.  Tot. Costs  Disb.  Tot. Costs  Disb.   Disb.
IBRD 1/            4,900           700   350          950   825    1,159        1,055   1,072         1,115  1,019       1,046    509
CCCE 1/            2,028           291   146          392   342       480         436      443          461    422          432    211
FED                1,340           221   111          280   250        341        311      272          306    226          249    113
EIB                1.098            -                 489               34                 525                   50
Total from
Foreign Sources   9,366          1,212              2,111           2,014                2,312                1,717
Balance to be
Paid by Gov't.    1,634            205                296              362                 379                  392
TOTAL             11,000         1,>417             2,407           2,376                2,691                2,109
1/  Bank and CCCE pari-passu (49.5% and 20% respectively) on all project components, except
processing investments financed exclusively by EIB, on project costs for the five-year
disbursement period (for costs see Table 1 of Annex 7).
H CD
(D X
r o



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Estimated Debt Service for Loans under First and Second Projects
(in '000 CFAF)
1978
Disbursements      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      1985      1986     1987
I. Loans Obtained under lst Proiect
Estimated Diabursements at
12/31/77
IBRD   US$ 7.4 m                    1.0 m
CCCE   US$ 7.4 m                    1.0 m
FED    US$ 7.4 m                    1.0 m
Coumitment  Charges
IBERD   0.75% 3 months                             469
CCCE   0.50% 3 months                              313
FED    0.25% 3 months                              156
Interest and Debt Repayment
IBRD                                           140,815  149,205  149,205  149,205  149,205  149,205  173,628  198,050  198,050  198,050
CCCE                                            81,248   86,400   86,400   86,400   86,400   86,400  117,001  147,602  147,602  147,602
FED                                              9,065    9,065    9.065    9.065    9.065    9.065   55.093  101,119  101,119  101,119
TOTAL I                232,066  244,670  244,670  244,670  244,670  244,670  345,722  446,771  446,771  446,771
II. New Loans
IBRD $ 20 m Commitment Charges 0.75%                     23,630   31,271   24,178   15,757    7,685          954
(494O0 m CFAF) Interest 7.45%                           17,443   56,918  126,985  207,855  288,352  344,078  315,918  287,756  259,596  231,434
Debt Repayment                           _8_   _188.538  377.076  377.076  377.076  377.076  377 076
TOTAL IBRD              41,063   88,189  151,163  223,612  484,575  722,108  692,994  664,832  636,672  608,510
=====22~~~~ -==  -=====  ====2=========  =====2   =-===   ===-                    ===
CCCE $ 8.3 m.
(2028 m CFAF) Interest 5.5%                               4,015   17,435   38,830   63,498   88,055  105,793
Debt Repayment                                                                                      320,179  320,179  320.179  320.179
TOTAL CCCE               4,015   17,435   38,830   63,498   88,055  105,793  320,179  320,179  320,179  320,179
FED $ 5.5 m
(1340 m CFAF) Interest 1.0%                               555    2.365    5.170    8.250   12,270   13,400   13.400   13,400   13.400   13,400
TOTAL FED                  555    2,365    5,170    8,250   12,270   13,400   13,400   13,400   13,400   13,400
EIB $ 4.5 m Comitment Charges 0.50%                        2,735    8,500    5,890    2,860
Interest 3% + Debt Service                      -     13,420   27.775   44.440   60,170  145,410  145.410  145.410  145.410  145.410
TOTAL EIB                2,735   21,920   33,665   47,300   60,170  145,410  145,410  145,410  145,410  145,410
TOTAL II                48,368  129,909  228,828  342,660  645,070  986,711 9171,983 1,143,821 1,115,661 14087,499              m
T…T… i 6d II           280…434  374…579  473,498  587,330 …8…9…70 …31,381 1…17…705 …590…592 …x62,432 …<34,270



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Debt Service:   IBRD Loan 4,900 m CFAF
Cost to be    Estimated       Undisbursed   Commis. Charge Disbursed
Financed       Amount to be  Bal. at end   Calculated on   Total                            Principal         Balance
during Sem.   Disbursed       of each sem.  Half B + C       (for each year) Interest       Repayments    Outstanding
CFAF m         CFAF m         CFAF m         CFAF '000       CFAF m         CFAF '000       CFAF m           CFAF m
May-Dec. 1978            700           350          4,550            23,630           350           17,433
I  79                  475           350           4,200           16,410
II 79                  475           475           3,725           14,861         1,175           56,918
I 80                   580           475           3,250           13,078
II 80                  580           580           2,670           11,100         2,230          126,985
I  81                  535           580           2,090            8,925
II 81                  536           535           1,555            6,832         3,345          207,855
I 82                   510           536           1,019            4,822
II 82                  509           510             509            2,863         4,391          288,352            189           4,713
I  83                                509                              954         4,900          175,559            189           4,524
II 83                                                                                            168,519            189           4,335
I  84                                                                                             161,479           189           4,146
II 84                                                                                             154,439           189           3,957
I  85                                                                                            147,398            189           3,768
Il 85                                                                                             140,358           189           3,579
I 86                                                                                             133,318            189           3,390
II 86                                                                                            126,278            189           3,201
I  87                                                                                             119,237           189           3,012
il 87                                                                                             112,197           189           2,823



ANNEX 9
Table 5
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(us$ '000)
Disbursements           Undisbursed Amount
Fiscal Year      Semester    During Semester    Cumulative        at End of Semester
1979           First            1,400             1,400              18,600
Second           1,900             3,300              16,700
1980          First             2,000             5,300              14,700
Second           2,000             7,300              12,700
1981          First             2,150             9,450              10,550
Second           2,150            11,600               8,400
1982           First            2,100            13,700               6,300
Second           2,100            15,800               4,200
1983          First             2,200            18,000               2,000
Second           2,000            20,000                -



Annex 10
Page 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
THE MARKET FOR RUBBER
Demand
1.        The world consumption of all rubbers, synthetic and natural, is at
present increasing at about 4.7% per annum; more slowly than in the 1960's and
early 1970's (average 6.8% per annum) largely because of the slowdown in real
income growth in developed countries from which comes about 70% of the total
demand. An improvement is expected between 1980 and 1985 with the rate rising
again to 5.9% per annum.
2.        In the developed countries, natural rubber's share of the market
is increasing due to its special suitability for the manufacture of heavy
duty tires for industrial and agricultural equipment and radial tires for
cars. The current forecast is that by 1980 natural rubber will have about
35.5% of the market outside the centrally planned economies, an increase of
1.2% since 1975. World wide it is expected to maintain its position with
about 31.8% of the total market.
Supply
3.        In 1976 production capacity for synthetic rubbers was estimated to
be about 7.4 million metric tons in developed countries, 2.0 million tons in
the Centrally Planned Economies (CPE's) and 0.45 million tons in developing
countries. Excluding CPEs, the remainder of the world's capacity is expected
to reach 8.5 million tons by the end of the present decade. To meet antici-
pated demand, plant would have to operate at 85% of capacity, compared with
the historical average of 75%. Clearly, therefore synthetic rubbers are going
to be in tighter supply than over the past 15 years, a situation likely to
have a favorable influence on demand for natural rubber.
4.        The supply of natural rubber is expected to increase at a rate of
7% during the remainder of the 1970's and to reach some 4.75 million tons
by 1980. The improvement is attributable more to higher yields per hectare
than to recent extensions of the total area planted with rubber and so the
rate of growth is expected to decline to only 3.9% on average between 1980 and
1985. This will be insufficient to meet the expected demand and will result
in a further decline of natural rubber's share of the world market, perhaps to
29% in 1985. A strong case can therefore be made for substantial programs of
replanting and new extension during the years immediately ahead.



Annex 10
Page 2
Price
5.        The d-epressed prices for natural rubber in 1975 provoked restric-
tive measures in some of the major producing countries and the industry was
slow to respond when the demand situation improved early in 1976. Prices for
RSS 1, c.i.f. New York, increased by more than 30% during the year and
the higher prices were well maintained despite the upturn in supply during
the second half year.
6.        The short term prospects for natural rubber appear quite good with
the industry benefitting both from increased industrial activity and the need
to replenish stocks which were reduced in a number of key countries in 1976.
Assuming a 6% increase in the production of natural rubber and 5% increase in
SBR prices natural rubber prices are expected to remain between US$0.41 and
US$0.45 per lb during the current year.
7.        In the longer term, since synthetics hold two thirds of the market,
the prices for natural rubber have to be competitive with those paid for
the available substitutes. Forecasts have therefore to be based on the
expected trends in the cost/price of SBR. Assuming, in 1980, a crude oil
price of US$11.5 per barrel (in 1975 US dollar terms) the SBR cost/prices
should in the same terms be around US$0.33-0.38 per lb and the equivalent New
York price for RSS 1 should be between US$0.37-0.42 per lb. In 1980 dollar
terns this would put natural rubber prices at US$0.50-0.57 per lb.
8.        During the 1980's the maintenance of this price level must depend
on crude oil prices also remaining relatively constant. Any major expansion
in the production capacity of basic petrochemicals in the oil producing
countries or any drop in oil prices would adversely affect the price of
natural rubber. However, the most recently available information on the
status of petrochemical projects in oil producing countries suggests that
increases large enough to affect world prices of rubber monomers are un-
likely to occur before the late 1980's. Natural rubber prices are therefore
projected to remain, in constant dollar terms, at around the 1980 figure at
least through 1985.



IVORY COAST
SECOND GCAfL-BEREEY RUBBER PROJECT
WCBLD PFROCTIIOI, * MSW<PTION JND IRiDE OF NATIAL RaUR
('000 m.t.)
ACTUAL                                                       PROJECTBD                    GROWTH RATES
1976                        1955 to  1967r-2   1972-714   1780 to
1955    1960   1967-69    1970    1971      1972     1973     1974     1975   (Preliminary)  1980      1985      1972-74    to      to 1980    1985
1972-74
Production
Developing Cou=tries              1 950   2,035    2è        3 102   3 080    3 115    3 497    3 415    3 275                    4     700    5 7      3.0     3.9        5.0       3.9
World                             J,950    20/ 2,734                                    tTM 3;tLJ 5W                  Xs2/  1/750/1 4>77 /1             3.1     h.o        5.1       3.9
Consaumtion
Developed Countries               1,591   1,435   1,742    1,887   1,936    2,019    2,121    2,165    2,041         2,110       3,000    3,550         1.6     3.3        5.0       3.4
Centnlly Planned Couatriee          150      447      637      675     687       700      707      720      670        735         800      950         9.0     3.1       1.9        3.5
Developing Countries                 186     2        3_6      431     472       516      582      630      612        710         85o0    1 100        6.5     7.7        5.7       5.3
World                              1,927   2,iî   272    2,993   3,095    3,235 3,515    3,323 ; 4                                                      3.2     3.9        4.6       3.8
E ports
Developing Countriea              1 862   1,895    2 602    2 785   2 835    2 810    3 180    3 122    2,912        3,130       4,200    5 050         2.9     3.6        4.4       3.8
World                              1>862   1,895    ~       ~îB~    ~          2,602 3,180    3,122            2,912  3,10                              2    .9   3.6      4.4       3.8
Imports
Developed Countries               1,617   1,316    1,695    1,899   1,978    1,944    2,100    2,098    1,971        2,095       3,000    3,550         1.3     3.7        5 6       3.4
Centrally Planued Countrias          142     430      680      704      609      637      71414    738       692       700         750       830        9.3      2.6       0.9       2.5
Developing Countries                 lu      134     15       212     241       247      284      319       299       345          450      65o        5.3     5.8        6.9       7.6
World                              1,870   1,880    gi 5               3, 1        5 5 2 , 962 3,10T  40  5 , 050                                       2.7      3.6       4.7        3.8
Natural Rubber ShLre of
b_ers )                               55.9   147.14    36.3      34.7   33.4      32.5     31.2      32.2     31.9      n.c.        31.8      28.8
World Total                         62.3    47.9     35.3     33.9   33.0       32.5     31.6     33.6      34.6      n.a.        35.8      33.1
World ERcluding CPCs
/1 Includes the estimted nétural rubber production of the People'. Republic of China.
Source:  International Rubber Study Group (actual data); and IBRD, Economic Analysie and Projections D3pmrtaent (projectime).
EPDCE
4/4/77
(D



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Table  : WORID CCNSUMPTION OF NATURAL AND SYNTHE1IC RUBBERS
ACTUAL                 PRWJECTED                      GROWTH RATES
1955-57    1966-68    1972-74    1980   1985      1955-57  1966-68  1972-74  1980 to  1972-71
(average)  (average)  (average)                       to       to       to      1985      to
1966-68  1972-74    1980             1985
..............*(o000 metric tons) ...............   ............. t(% per annum)..............
Developed Countries             2,640      4,895      7,o95      9,000  11,500      5.8      6.4       3.5     5.0        4.1
Developing Countries              207        599      1,112      1,750   2,550     10.1    10.9        6.7     7.8       7.2
Centrally Planned Countries       673      1,517      2,380      3,850   5,350      7.7      7.8       7.1    6.8        7.0
Wbrld Total                   3,520      7,011     10,587     14,600  19,400      6.5      7.1       4.7     5 8       5.2
Source: International Rubber, Study Group (actual data); and IBRD, Economie Analysis and Projections Department (projecticns).
EPDCE
V/4/77
C(D
ro



IVORY COAST
ANNEX 10
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT              Table 3
Value of Rubber
1980-84                     1985-on            1980-on
Market   Efficiency    Market       Efficiency   "Shadow
Prices   Prices _/      Prices      Prices 1/       Prices" 2/
1.  CIF Reference Price  3/    0.432                      o.426                      0.369
RSS I grade, US$/lb
in 1977 terms
2.  CIF Price in CFAF/ton 4/  233,335                    230,094                    248,930
Freight                      15,000                  15,000                      18,750
Insurance (0.33% of CIF)        770                      759                        821
15,770                  15,759                      19,571
3.  FOB Price San Pedro         217,565                  214,335                    229,359
Port charges (0.564% of
FOB value)                  1,227     1,C18         1,209       1,003           1,035
Transit costs                 2,100     1,886          2,100      1,886           2,310
Marketing costs (1% of
FOB value)                  2,176     2,176                         43          2,294
5,503     5,080         5,452       5,032          5,639
4.  Economic Value San Pedro  212,062   212,485          208,883    209,303         223,720
Export Taxes (1.88%
of FOB)       5/                     8,059
5.  Financial Value San Pedro 212,062                   200,824
1/  Local costs (port charges, 60% of transit costs) adjusted by SCF = 0.83.
2/ Shadow exchange rate = 125% official rate (applied to 40% of transit costs; port charges
which are local costs but determined as a % of FOB, are divided by this amount).
Rubber price is First Appraisal Report estimate of US$0.19, updated to 1977 terms.
3/  RSS I, spot, New York, Source:  IBRD, Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities
(EPDCE, June 1977) for market and efficiency prices (1980-84 averaged).
4/ Official exchange rate: US$1=245.
5/  Project exempt from export taxes through 1987.



IVORY COAST                                                                                     Ane.  10
Table 
Second Grand Berebv Rubber Proiect
Estiratad Yielda and Production in Tons
First           Second
Firat Projeot                                                                Secon.d Projoct                              P-oject          Project       TOTAL
Year      Yiela      1972       19,3        1974      1975        1976        1977         1970         1978        1979           1980          1981         1982       1972-1978        1978-1982      1972-1982      Y-sr
t/ho       20 ha      1b3 ns     5o9 ha    982 ha       1,452 ha    1,864 ha     1,930 ha     350 ha      1,750 ha      1,750 ha       1,750 ha     900 na      7,000 ha        6,500 ha       13,500 ha
1978      0.6         12                                                                                                                                                      12                              12        1978
1979       1.0        20         98                                                                                                                                          118                             118        1979
1980       1.4        28        163        353                                                                                                                                544                            544         1980
1981       1.9        38        228        589       589                                                                                                                   1,444                           1,444        1981
1982       2.0        40        310        825       982            871                                                                                                    3,028                           3,028        1981
1983       2.1        42        326      1,119     1,375          1,452       1,118                                                                                         5,432                          5,432         1983
1984      2.2         44        342      1,178     1,866          2,033       1,864        1,158        210                                                                 8,485            210           8,695        1984
1985      2.2         44        359      1,237     1,964          2,759       2,610        1,930        350         1,050                                                  10,903          1,400          12,303         1985
1986       2.2        44        359      1,296     2,062          2,904       3,542        2,702        S90         1,750          1,050                                   12,909          3,290          16 199.        1986
1987       2.3        46        359      1,296     2,160          3,049       3,728        3,667        665         2,450          1,750         1,050                     14,305          5,915          20,220         198'
1988       2.3        46        375      1,296     2,160          3,194       3,914        3,860        700         3,325          2,450         1,750        540          14,845          8,765          23,610         1988
1989       2.3        46        375      1,355     2,160          3,194       4,101        4,053        735         3,500          3,325         2,450        900          15,284         10,910          26,194         1989
1990       2.3        46        375      1,355     2,259          3,194       4,101        4,246        770         3,675          3,500         3,325      1,260          15,576         12,530          28,106         1990
1991       2 3        46        375      1,355     2,259          3,340       4,101        4,246        770         3,850          3,675         3,500      1,710          15.722         13,505          29 227         1991
1992      2.3         46        375      1,355     2,259          3,340       4,287        4,246        770         3,850          3,850         3,675      1,800          15,903         13,945          29,853         1992
1993       2 3        46        375      1,355     2,259          3,340       4,287        4,439        805         3,850          3,850         3,850      1,890          16,101         14,245          30,346         1993
1994      2.3         46        375      1,355     2,259          3,340       4,287        4,439        805         4,025          3,850         3,850      1,980          16,101         14,510          30,611         1994
1995      2.3         46        375      1,355     2,259          3,340       4,287        4,439        805         4,025          4,025         3,850      1,980          16,101         14,685          30,786         1995
1996      2.3         46        375      1,355     2,259          3,340       4,287        4,439        005         4,025          4,025         4,025      1,980          16,101         14,860          30,961         1996
1997       2.2        44        375      1,355     2,259          3,340       4,287        4,439        805         4,025          4,025         4,025      2,070          16,099         14,950          31,049         1997
1998       2.2        44        359      1,355      2,259         3,340       4,287        4,439        805         4,025          4,025         4,025       2,070         16,083         14,950           31,033        1998
1999       2.2        44        359      1,296      2,259         3,340       4,287        4,439        805         4,025          4,025         4,025       2,070         16,024         14,950          '30,974        1999
2000       2.1        42        359      1,296      2,160         3,340       4,287        4,439        805          4,025         4,025         4,025       2,070         15,923          14,950          30,873        2000
2001       2.1        42        342      1,296      2,160         3,194       4,287        4,439        805          4,025         4,025         4,025       2,070         15,760          14,950          30,710        2001
2002       2.1        42        342       1,237     2,160         3,194       4,101        4,439         805         4,025         4,025         4,025       2,070         15,515          14,950          30,465        2002
2003       2.0        40        342       1,237     2,062         3,194       4,101        4,246         770         4,025         4,025         4,025       2,070         15,222          14,915          30,137        2003
2004       1.9        38        326       1,237     2,062         3,049       4,101        4,246         770         3,850         4,025         4,025       2,070         15,059          14,740          29,799        2004
2005       1.8        36        310       1,178     2,062         3,049       3,914        4,246         770         3,850         3,850         4,025       2,070         14,795          14,565          29,360        2005
2006       1.8        36        293       1,119     1,964         3,049       3,914        4,053         735         3,850         3,850         3,850       2,070         14,428          14,355          28,783        2006
2007       1.7        34        293       1,060     1,866         2,904       3,914        4,053         735         3,675         3,850         3,850       1,980         14,124          14,090          28,214        2007
2008       1.7        34        277       1,060     1,768         2,759       3,728        4,053         735         3,675         3,675         3,850       1,980         13,679          13,915          27,594        2008
2009       1.6        32        277       1,001     1,768         2,614       3,542        3,860         700         3,675         3,675         3,675       1,980         13,094          13,705          26,799        2009
2010       1.6        32        261       1,001     1,669         2,614       3,355        3,667         665         3,500         3,675         3,675       1,890         12,599          13,405          26,004        2010
2011       1.5        30        261        942      1,669         2,468       3,355        3,474         630         3,325         3,500         3,675       1,890         12,199          13,020          25,219        2011
2012       1.5        30        244         942     1,571         2,468       3,169        3,474         630         3,150         3,325         3,500       1,890         11,898          12,495          24.393        2012
2013       1.4        28        244         884     1,571         2,323       3,169        3,281         595         3,150         3,150         3,325       1,800         11,500          12,020          23,520        2011
2014                            228         884     1,473         2,323       2,982        3,281         595         2,975         3,150          3,150      1,710         11,171          11,580          22,751        2014
2015                                        825     1,473         2,178       2,982        3,088         560         2,975         2,975          3,150      1,620         10,546          11,280          21,826        2015
2016                                                1,375         2,178       2,796        3,088         560         2,800         2,975          2,975      1,620          9.437          10,930          20,367        2016
2017                                                              2,033       2,796        2,895         525         2,800         2,800          2,975      1,530          7,724          10,630          18,354        2017
2018                                                                          2,610        2,895         525         2,625         2,800          2,800      1,530          5,505          10,280          15,785        2018
2019                                                                                       2,702         490         2,625         2,625          2,800      1,440          2,702           9,980          12,682         2019
2020                                                                                                                 2,450         2,625          2,625      1,440                          9,140           9,140         2020
2021                                                                                                                               2,450          2,625      1,350                          6,425           6,425         2021
2022                                                                                                                                              2,450      1,350                          3,800           3,800         2022
2023                                                                                                                                                         1.260                          1,260           1.760         2023



IVORY COAST                           Annex 10
=aIen
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Market Value of Estiinated Production
(in CFAF MiLlion)
Total Production           Market Value (in 1977 terms)  1/
Year     7000 ha     6500 ha      Total     7000 ha      6500 ha     TotEal
------     tons…-------    --      ------- CFAF million ---------
1978
1979          118                    118)
1980          544                    544 !140                            i.40
1981        1,444                  i,444          306                    --;o6
1982        3,028                  3, u28         642                    642
1983        5,432                  5,432        1,152                  1,1.52
1984        8,485         210      8,695        1,799          45      1,844
1985       10,903       1,400    12,303         2,277         292      2,';69
1986       12,909       3,290    16,199         2,696         687      3,-,83
1987       14,305        5,915    20,220        2,988       1,236      4,2.24
1988       14,845       8,765    23,610         3,101       1,831      4,9'32
1989       15,284      10,910    26,194         3,193       2,279      5,172
1990       15,576      12,53J    28,106         3,254       2,617      5,&7T1
1991       15,722      13,50`   29,227          3,284       2,821      6,205
1992       15,908      13,945    29,853         3,323       2,913      6,236
1993       16,101      14,24,    30,346         3,363       2,976      6,^339
1994       16,101      14,5'O    30,611         3,363       3,031      6,3;94
1995       16,101      14,635    3C,786         3,363       3,067      6,43C
1996       16,101      14,&6o    30,961         3,363       3,104      6,457
1997       16,099      14,950    31,049         3,363       3,123      6,436
1998       16,083      14,950    31,033         3,359       3,123      6,432
1999       16,024      14,950    30,974         3,347       3,123      6,470
2000       15,923      14,950    30,873         3,326       3,123      6,4i49
2001       15,760      14,950    30,710         3,292       3,123      6,4.t5
2002       15,515      :4,95C    30,465         3,241       3,123      6,364
2003       15,222      14,915    30,137         3,180       3,116       6,296
2004       15,059      14,740    29,799         3,146       3,079      6,225
2005       14,795      14,565    29,360         3,090       3,042      6,132
2006       14,428      14,355    28,783         3,014       2,999       6,0:3
2007       14,124      14,090    28,214         2,950       2,943       5,893
2008       13,679      13,915    27,594         2,857       2,907       5,764
2009       13,094      13,705    26,799         2,735       2,863       5,5cf8
2010       12,599      13,1405    26,004        2,632       2,800       5,4:32
2011       12,199      13,020    25,219         2,548       2,720       5,268
2012       11,898      12,495    24,393         2,485       2,610       5,095
2013       11,500      12,020    23,520         2,402       2,511       4,9-3
2014       11,171      11,580    22,751         2,333       2,419       4,7'52
2015       10,546      11,280    21,826         2,203       2,356       4,5j59
2016        9,437      10,930    20,367         1,971       2,283       4,2,i4
2017        7,724      10,630    18,354         1,613       2,220       3,8i3
2018        5,505      10,280    15,785         1,150       2,147       3,2.7
2019        2,702       9,980    12,682            564      2,085       2,649
2020                     9,140     9,140                    1,909       1,9:)
2021                     6,425     6,425                    1,342       1,342
2022                     3,800     3,800                      794         7?4
2023                    1,260      1,260                      263         2.;3
102,408     95,015     197,453
1/ Estimated Production as per Table 3, calculated on the basis of Market value,
San-Pedro, of CFAF 212,062/ton for 1980-84 and CFAF 208,883/ton from 1985 on.
Export taxes, to be collected by Government, are not included (see Table 2).



ANNEX 11
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        The economic rate of return calculation is based on efficiency
prices in constant 1977 terms. Costs include physical contingencies and
are net of taxes, with domestic costs adjusted by the standard conversion
factor 0.83. Benefits are based on the price and production projections
in Annex 10, tables 3 and 4. The effective tapping life of the trees is taken
as 36 years beginning six years after planting, giving a total project life of
45 years.
2.        The sensitivity of the rates of return to various changes in costs
and benefits was estimated. Yields were tested in the range -15% to +5%,
where the lower figure reflects the possible impact of below average tapping
skills, while the upper figure is constrained by the expected genetic poten-
tial of trees at Grand-Bereby. Prices were tested in the range +15%, reflect-
ing the index of fluctuation of rubber prices based on a five-year moving
average. Costs were also tested in the range of +15% and a final test was
with costs increased by 15% and benefits (prices) decreased by 15%.
3.        The rates of return for the combined first and second projects were
recalculated at efficiency prices, at market prices, and at the prices used
in the first project appraisal report. That report assumed a shadow price of
foreign exchange 25% above the official exchange rate, and a wage rate 50%
below the market wage, based primarily on the heavy dependence on labor from
Upper Volta with an opportunity cost lower than that prevailing in the Ivory
Coast. Rubber price projections, in real terms, were some 18% lower in 1972
than are present estimates, and the estimated rates of return using shadow
prices are adjusted accordingly. Two other differences in assumptions be-
tween the first and second appraisals have not been adjusted for.  However,
the effect of a somewhat shorter tapping life (28 years in the first appraisal)
and the discounting of infrastructure costs (the first appraisal took only
half the cost of workers' housing and none of the costs of hospital and
schools) are assumed to be small and tend to be offsetting. Table 1 summar-
izes the rates of return, tables 2 and 3 list the economic costs and benefits
in market prices.
4.        In order to verify the justification of expanding the area to 13,500
ha, the net present values were calculated at discount rates over the range
10% to 21%. Table 4 summarizes the results of these calculations.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Summary of Rates of Return Calculations (percent) l/
Combined lst and 2nd
Second Proje't                          Projects
(1978 - 2023)                        (1972 - 2021)
Initial   Extension      Full               Initial     Full
7,000 ha   6,500 ha   13,500 ha.            7,000 ha  13,500 ha
Efficiency Prices 2/               20         17         19                   10         12
Benefits:
Yield +5%                     21         18          20
Yield -15%                    17         15          16
Price +15%                    24         19          21
Price -15%                    17         15          16
Costs: +15%                     17         15          16
-15%                     24         19          22
Benefits -15%, Costs +15%          13         13         13
Market Prices  3/                  18         16         17                    9         il
"Shadow Prices "  4/                                                           10         12
First Project Appraisal                                                                  13.2
9-10
Memo to Board (Sept. 1976)
1/ Sensitivity Analysis done on period 1978-2023; costs prior to 1972 would be unchanged.
Results for full period would be similar, but with smaller variations.
2/  Prices, including physical contingencies, net of taxes, with domestic costs adjusted
by SCF of 0.83.
3/ Prices, including physical contingencies, net of taxes.
4/ Shadow prices used in first appraisal report (foreign exchange = 125% of official
rate; shadow wage = 50% of market wage) plus rubber price projectionl5% lower than
present forecast.



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BERBERY RUBBER PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Initial 7000 ha
(in million CFAF)
Agricultural          Other Agricultural and                                                                                                     Factorv
Year        Labor             General Administrative                      Factory Investment                     Factory Fixed Operating                 Variable                Benefits
(12.5% FE)         FE          Local        Total            FE          Local       Total            FE           Local         Total          (45% FE)
1972         27             192            39          231
1973         75             310           86           396
1974        180             739          251           990
1975        221             764          232           996
1976        271             586          210           796
1977        199             986          350         1,336
1978        195             472          351           823
1979        113             343          301           644            306           67          373
1980        121             392          325           727             21             2          23             15             23           38                8                       140
1981        152             374          356           730            306           55          361             15             24           39               18                       306
1982        206             374          362           736             18             2          20             25             42            67              38                       642
1983        284             352          347           699            232           44          276             25             42           67               68                     1,152
1984        384             345          350           695            147           27          174             31             50            81             106                     1,799
1985        437             313          340           653             37             4          41             35             54            89             136                     2,277
1986        432             323          338           661            101            12         113             35             54            89             161                     2,696
1987        432             272          333           605             19             2          21             32             63            95             179                     2,988
1988        432             281          344           625             14             2          16                                                         185                     3,101
1989        433             252          361           613             19             2          21                                                         191                     3,193
1990        434             267           362          629             17             2          19                                                         195                     3,254
1991        436             247          361           608             18             2          20                                                         196                     3,284
1992        438             255           362          617             24             3          27                                                         199                     3,323
1993        440             246          363           609             30             3          33                            63            95             201                     3,363
1994                        216          374           590             20             2          22             32
1995
1996
1997                                                                                                                                                                                3,363
1998                                                                                                                                                        201                     3,359
2999                                                                                                                                                        200                     3,347
2000                                                                                                                                                        199                     3,326
2001                                                                                                                                                        197                     3,292
20032                                                                                                                                                       194                     3,241
2003                                                                                                                                                        190                     3,180
2004                                                                                                                                                        188                     3,146
2005                                                                                                                                                        185                     3,090
2006                                                                                                                                                        180                     3,014
2007                                                                                                                                                        176                      2,950
2008                                                                                                                                                        171                      2,857
2009                                                                                                                                                        164                      2,735
2011                                                                                                                                                        157                      2,632
2012                                                                                                                                                        152                      2,548
2012         4               1                                                                                                                              149                      2,485
2013        440             216           374          590             20             2          22             32             63            95             144                      2,402
2014        439             202           388          590             13             1           14            27             58            85             140                      2,333
2015        429             129           322          451             22             2          24             23             53            76             132                      2,203
2016        392             115           294          409              6             1            7             19            47            66              118                     1,971
2017        330              94           247          341              9             1           il             14            42            56               96                     1,613    13
2018        239              75           188          263              1             0            1             10            37            47               69                     1,150  
2019        121              36           109          145              0             0            0              5            31            36               34                       564    H m
N x



IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Extension 6500 ha
(in million CFAF)
Agricultural         Other Agricultural and                                                                                                      Factory
Year        Labor            General Administrative                      Factory Investment                   Factory Fixed Operating                  Variable               Benefits
(12.5% FE)         FE         Local        Total             FE         Local        Total           FE         Local         Total            (45% FE)
1978         46             506         131           637
1979        149             392         176           568
1980        179             425         210           635
1981        195             309         127           436
1982        155             220         105           325
1983         99             131          79           210
1984         94             160         128           288               4           0            4                                                           3                    45
1985        137             176         166           342             100          12          112               1           5             6                17                   292
1986        224             200         163           363             160          29          189               4          10            14                41                   687
1987        311             161         128           289             216          35         251                9          15            24                74                1,236
1988        381             158         125           283             177          31         208               15          23            38               109                1,831
1989        404             147         131           278              32           3           35             19           28           47                136                2,279
1990        401             154         131           285              50           5           55              19          28            47               157                2,617
1991        401             132         130           262              24           3           27             20           29           49                169                2,821
1992        401             131         130           261              48           5           53              20          29            49               174                2,913
1993        401             127         131           258              il           1           12             22           31            53               178                2,976
1994        403              95         168           263              15           2           17                          31            53               181                3,031
1995        405             131         135           266              18           2           20                          31            53               183                3,067
1996        408             140         135           275              25           3           28                          31            53               186                3,104
1997        408             128         138           265              34           4           38                          31            53               187                3,123
1998                        129         136                            16           2           18
1999
2000tI
2002                                                                                                                                                       187                3,123
2003                                                                                                                                                       186                3,116
2004                                                                                                                                                       184                3,079
2005                                                                                                                                                       182                3,042
2006                                                                                                                                                       179                 2,999
2007                                                                                                                                                       176                 2,943
2008                                                                                                                                                       174                 2,907
2009                                                                                                                                                       171                 2,863
2010                                                                                                                                                       167                 2,800
2011                                                                                                                                                       163                 2,720
2012                                                                                                                                                       156                 2,610
2013                                                                                                                                                       150                 2,511
2014                                                                                                                                                       145                 2,419
2015                                                                                                                                                       141                 2,356
2016                                                                                                                                                       137                 2,283
2017                                                                                                                                                       133                 2,220
2018                                                                                                                                                       128                 2 147
2019        408             129         136           265              16           2           18              22          31            53               125                 2,085
2020        387             179         205           384               2           0            2              22          51            73               114                 1,909
2021        277             153         191           344               9           1           10              17          45            62                80                 1,342
2022        165             114         152           266              il           1           12              il          39            50                47                   794
2023         57              65          85           150               O           O            0               5          31            36                16                   263
I 1



ANNEX 11
IVORY COAST                    Table 4
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Summary of Net Present Value Calculations
(CFAF Millions)
Discount rate (%)         7,000 ha           6,500 ha         13,500 ha
10                   6,826              4,901            11,727
12                   4,477              2,761             9,378
14                   2,820              1,336             4,156
16                   1,625                370             1,995
17                   1,154                  7             1,161
18                     749             -  295               454
19                     399                               -  147
20                      97
21                  -  166



ANNEX 12
Page 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Audit Terms of Reference
Reasons for the Bank Group's Auditing Requirements
1.        In any business or other enterprise, the prompt and regular prepara-
tion of accurate accounts is an important means of ensuring that the enter-
prise is carrying out adequately the tasks assigned to it. Accounts are
essential not only for the enterprise itself, but also for lenders, who need
reliable information about the financial condition of the organization they
are helping to finance. As a lender, the Bank Group, in appraising a project,
has to be satisfied that the financial data presented are accurate and com-
plete, and that, during the implementation of the project, the borrower will
have adequate financial controls and follow proper accounting principles.
These are the reasons why the services of auditors are required for Bank
projects.
Definition of Audit
2.        An audit is an authorized examination of the accounts and account-
ing system of an organization, whose purpose is to enable the auditors to
report on the financial statements of the organization and to express an
opinion on their fairness, consistency and conformity with accepted account-
ing principles.
3.        The essential features of an audit are:
(a) to make a critical review of the system of bookkeeping,
accounting and internal control;
(b) to make such tests and enquiries as the auditors consider
necessary to form an opinion as to the reliability of the
records as a basis for the preparation of accounts;
(c) to compare the financial statements with the underlying
records in order to see whether they are in accordance
with them;
(d) to make a critical review of the financial statements
and to report whether, in the opinion of the auditors, the
accounts are presented and the items are described in such
a way that they show not only a true but also a fair view
and give in the prescribed manner the information required
by law.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Selection and Appointment of Auditors
4.        The borrower is responsible for the selection and appointment of
auditors. The Bank Group requires, however, that the person or firm appointed
should have experience and qualifications acceptable both to the Bank Group
and to the borrower.
5.        The criteria employed by the Bank Group in judging the accept-
ability of auditors are that the auditors should be professionally quali-
fied and, in particular:
(a) be impartial and independent of the 7outrol of the entity
subject to audit and of the person appointing them; in
particular, the auditors should not, during the period
covered by the audit, be employed by, or serve as director
for, or have any financial or close business relationship
with the entity, except as independent professional
advisers;
(b) be well-established and reputable, using procedures and
methods in conformity with internationally recognized and
generally accepted auditing practice and employing adequate
staff with professional qualifications and suitable experience
by international standards; and
(c) have experience of auditing the accounts of entities com-
parable in nature, size and complexity to the entity whose
audit they are to undertake.
Before project auditors are appointed, therefore, the borrower should arrange
that the Bank Group be furnished with sufficient information about the audi-
tors to enable it to satisfy itself on the above matters. This information
would normally include the name of the firm (or Government department or
agency) the names and qualifications of the principals, the approximate
number of professional staff employed and some of the main audits carried
out.
Professional and Government Auditors
6.        The choice between professional and Government auditors will nor-
mally depend on the nature of the project and who is executing it. A non-
revenue earning project being carried out by a Government department, fol-
lowing Government accounting and budgeting procedures, would normally be
audited by the Government auditor. On the other hand, a revenue earning
project executed by a company or corporation (whether wholly Government-
owned or not), and using commercial accounting and budgeting procedures,
would normally be audited by a professional firm.  In some cases, the nature
of the project calls for a joint audit by the Government auditor in collabo-
ration with a professional firm.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
7.        To encourage the growth of domestic firms of auditors, the Bank,
wherever possible, agrees to the appointment of a local firm, either alone
or in conjunction with the international firm.
Audit Procedures
8.        The procedures employed by the auditor should always be designed
to enable him to arrive at an opinion on the fairness of the financial state-
ments which are the subject of his report.
9.        The extent of the auditor's tests of the accounting records is
dependent on the system of accounts and internal check and control main-
tained by the company.
10.       For this purpose, the auditor should examine.
(a) the organization and procedures for taking financial
decisions and authorizing expenditures;
(b) the design, management and operation of the accounting
system;
(c) the efficiency of the system of internal control and of
the internal audit;
(d) the adequacy and competence of accounts staff;
(e)  the effectiveness of related systems and procedures,
such as inventory control, or data processing.
11.       In the light of this examination of systems and procedures, the
auditor should test the financial transactions of the organization, in con-
junction with such evidence, documentary or otherwise, as may be necessary
to enable him to be satisfied as to the authenticity and correctness of the
transactions, their complete and proper record in the books of account, and
their effect on the financial results. The evidence referred to above will
include: documents such as checks, invoices, contracts, minutes of meetings,
bank statements and confirmation by third parties of amounts payable or
receivable; and information obtained by the auditor from enquiry, observa-
tion and physical inspection.
12.       By means of similar tests, the auditor should satisfy himself as
to the existence and basis of valuation of assets and liabilities, such as:
(a) land, building, machinery and equipment, including the
provision for depreciation;
(b) inventories, including provision for obsolescence, spoil-
age or losses;



ANNEX 12
Page 4
(c) receivables, including provisions for bad and doubtful
debts;
(d) cash and bank balances;
(e) amounts due to third parties (long and short-term loans
and suppliers' accounts payable).
In addition, the auditors' examination should cover such items as capital
commitments, contingent liabilities and events occurring after the balance
sheet date (for example, material changes in the value of commodity inven-
tories).
Audit Reports
13.       The auditors should submit both short-form aL. 'ong-form reports.
These reports should be addressed to the Chairman of the Board of Directors
(or equivalent) and not to any member of the management.
14.       The following is an example of short-form report:
"We have examined the balance sheet of    ___ as of
, 19  , and the profit and loss account and related
statements for the year then ended.
Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the
accounting records, verification of assets and liabilities, and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements and
appended notes present fairly the financial position
at             , 19  , and the results of its
operations for the year then ended, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles, applied on a basis consistent in
all material respects with that of the previous year."
15.       When a qualified opinion is offered by the auditors, or when an
opinion is disclaimed, the opinion paragraph of a short-form report should
be modified in such a way as to make clear the nature of the qualification
or disclaimer. It should refer specifically to the subject of the qualifi-
cation and of the effect on the financial position and results of operations,
if reasonably determinable.
16.       The report should include comments, if any, deemed appropriate by
the auditor with respect to any material deficiencies or inadequacies in
the organization's accounts or accounting system and recommendations for
improving accounting procedures.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
17.       The long-form report is an extension of the short-form report and
should give appropriate details (analyses, summaries, explanations and com-
ments) of items in the various audited financial statements. The audited
financial statements would normally include:
(a) balance sheet;
(b) profit and loss account;
(c) profit and loss (income and expenditure) statement for
each major unit contributing a material part, say more than
20% of revenue of incurring more than say, 20% of costs,
or such other criteria as the auditor shall determine;
(d) statement of sources and application of funds.
All statements should, when practicable, show comparative figures for the
preceding year.
18.       Comments and recommendations in the long-form report would cover,
for example:
(a) implementation of recommendations made in previous years;
(b) management organization;
(c) budgetary control;
(d)  financial and field controls;
(e) payroll, procurement and sales procedures;
(f) inventory control and stock levels;
(g) adherance to public accounting standards;
(h) efficacy of the internal audit procedures; and
(i) events after the date of the balance sheet significantly
affecting the financial position.
The borrower should arrange for copies of the short- and long-form reports
to be transmitted to the Bank Group together with the audited accounts.



ANNEX 13
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND-BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
1.        It  would be important for the monthly records kept by the estate to
relate to the Bank's appraisal estimates so as to allow effective supervision
of the project during execution.
2.        The following draft forms indicate the type of information required
on some of the key agricultural operations. They are merely illustrative, the
exact format would be agreed during the first supervision mission.
3.        Similar records would be required showing actual compared with bud-
get estimate costs of preparing fields for tapping, the maintenance of areas
on revenue account and the tapping of trees in bearing. The essential feature
of all these records would be that they should allow a valid assessment of
performance relative to both the original appraisal estimates and current
budget.



BUD-WOOD GARDENS             1972     1975     1976      1977     TOTAL
Hectares                9.65      6.12     8.16      1.77      25.7
BUD-WOOD SUPPLIES - Meters
Number of   Increase          Consumption           Annual Estimate                 Latest Estimate
CLONE      Stumps   (Decrease)   this month  year-to-date Production Consumption  Production Consumption Surplus/Deficit
GT i
PR 107
etc
TOTAL
BUD-WOOD GARDEN MAINTENANCE
Man Davs                     Total Expenditure FCFA            Annual Estimate
- Details            This month  To date         7%A.E  This month      To date      %A.E    Man Days       FCFA
Weeding
Fertilizer applicatior
Pest & Disease control
Census
Other operations
Supervision
Total
_..tr.
Ctt<



GERMINATION BEDS  This month Year to date    %A.E    Annual Estimate
NUMBER PREPARED
DETAILS                                    Man Davs                        Total Expenditure FCFA             Annual Estimate
This month    To date       %A.E       This month    To-date       %A.E      Man Days       FCFA
Preparation & planting
Watering
Sorting & distribution
Other operations
Supervision
SEED SUPPLIES
Details                         August      September    October    November         TOTAL
Requirements
No. received
No. germinated this month
No.     "  to date
Final germination %
ct z



POLYBAG NURSERIES                        This month    Year to date          %A.E     Annual Estlmate
Hectares planted
Details                   Previously       This month       To date    To date as % of A
A Number of bags planted
B. Losses due to pests & diseases
C. Rejected seedlings
D. Seedlings bud-grafted
E. Successful buddings
See  ines Budgra ted                   Suc essful Budd ngS            % Success
Clones    Previously  This month    To date    Previously This month    To date           To date
GT i
PR -107
etc.
TOTAL
ID 



POLYBAG NURSERIES        (N-1)
Man Days                      Total Expenditure FCFA              Annual Estimate
Details                        This month    To date      % A.E      This month      To date     %A.E       Man days       FCFA
echanical cultivation
Preparation & filling of bags
Fertilizer application
Planting
Maintenance
Pest & disease control
Irrigation
Other operations
Supervision
POLYBAG NURSERIES      (N O)
___.____._.  Man Days                       Total Expenditure FCFA             Annual Estimate
Details                        This mon;t-h   To date     % A.E      This month      To date     %A.E      Man days        FCFA
Selection & thinning
Fertilizer Application
Preparation of budwood
Grafting
Maintenance
Pest and disease control
Irrigation
Lifting & transport to field
Mechanical cultivation
Other operations
Supervision
(DÉ



ANNEX 13
Table 5
FELLING                     This month   Year to date          %A.E      Annual Estimate
HECTARES COMPLETED
r___-___-__ Man Davs                          Total Expenditure FCFA              Annual Estimate
DETAILS                        This month    To date       % A.E      This month   To date           Ë .    -E Man Days       FCFA
Mechanical Felling
Other Operations
Supervision
LAND CLEAING                 This month   Year to date         % A.E      Annual Estimate
HECTARES COMPLETED                                                                        f
Man Days                       Total Expenditure FCFA            Annual Estimate       .
DEr'AILS                       Thie month      To date   f % A.E      This month   To date       % A.E      Man Days         FCFA
Preparation for burning
Buirning
Maiking of rows and
boundaries
Preparation for opening
lines
Opening lines and sub-
soiling
Completion
4iher Operations
Supervision                                                                       t
Total                                                               I           - 1-        -I___I                                _I



ANNEX 13
Table 6
FIjLD PLANTING PROGRAMME HECTARES
A. Polybag Material
Clone           This month           Year to date               A.E            Annual Estimate
GT i
PR 107
etc.
Total
B. Stumps
Clone           This month           Year to date            % A.E             Annual Estimate
GTi
etc.
Total
Cl Seed at Stake (planted)
. i                                                                  I   -        ~    ~    1
Type of Seed   This month            Year to date            % A.E             Annual Estimate
C2 Seed at Stake (budded)
Clones          This month           Year to date             % A.E            Annual Estimate
GT 1
etc.



PLANTING                This month           Year ta date             %A. E            Annual Estimnate
Hectares completed
Man Days____                    Total Expenditure FCFA             Annual Estimate
Details                     This    To date    %. LE        ThiLs month     To date      %.A.E     Man Days       FCFA
imont h
Preparation of stakes
Lining
Census
Holing
Planting hale fertilizers
Re.-filing hales
Planting caver crop
Pre-planting weeding
Planting
Cost of plants
Other operations
Supervision
Total



MAINTENANCE OF IMMATURE AREAS  (N 0)                                                                                                           HECTARES
Man Days Employed                                                                 Total Expenditure FCFA
DETAILS                                                  This month                    Year to date   Annual Estimate   This month    Year to date  Annual Estimat
Total    /ha   Total    /ha    Total    /ha                                               Total   /ha   Total    /ha    Total   /ha
Firebreaks
Rodent control
Re-supplying
Weeding manual
chemical
mechanical
Fertilizers
Disbudding
Disease control
Other operations
Supervision
._              .        _..________________________________________________                            .________________________ _________________________   ____________________  .    .   .    ...   ,   ,  .  .  . .   _________________________________
.   .   __   .   _   .  .  .  .  ,  _  . | _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-~T



MAINTENANCE OF IMMATURE AREAS    (N+l) 1/                                                HECTARES
Man Days Employed                           Total Expenditure FCFA
DETAILS              This month    Year to date    Annual Estimate   This month  Year to date  Annual Estimate
Total    /haf Total    /ha    Total      /ha    Total  /ha    Total   /ha   Total    /ha
Firebreaks
Rodent control
Re-supplying
Weeding manual
chemical
mechanical
Cover crop control
Fertilizers
Disbudding
Disease control
Selective thinning
Other operations
Supervision
1/   Similar records to be kept for N+2 to N+5
oe <
tu >
a, 



BRD 3092
t          t                     f*                         &tn4M tR  197
"RY CCT 
GRAND BEREBY Il RUBBER ?ROJEGT                                                               --
POPULATION                          '
'  s 3 l < g s`t K \ w                                                *'  +   77   7_     Ca7777
ERÉSSÉDOUGOeU  ~     '  
K-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
w   Z 3ss   ..  5:  .J .   .          i;»wr 4   <        é                         eSP prpl+ssXrisn                   1
:1 \>   -''*      .      .i    . ;       Ofqldoqoi\   _-*X.e«Ç  
,ohalom    ~     -U
D X A.r { .f tS Kon;lij X \,, -< * 42) * t ; 9 ,/X fS A t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JOI 7f tOl UIS ~t  tfy,nSotr  Q7)
NÉ/t                                                              7  _0O
e r 'i At_ fae' L1,k41 > I~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;_. -`   A         ``i ?/"'                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  D'_., >oo      
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s






I B R D 13093
SEPTEMBER 1977
IVO RY COAST
GRAND BEREBY RUBBER ESTATE
PLI-TING PROGRAM5                                                                                                               /.
FIRST PROJECT  19721978                                                                                                                                ` \
SECOND PROJECT 1979 1982
_1-LOMETERS                 . _
.   rj3   {,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \            Ka ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ka, O                              i
Khuns/u:bpd»FQ swmlnssscar7emisimlws+se,vwnomnas  S    \  t                               \                   K   A    K    O                   !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kci,A    K 
i                   \ ~~~~~~B A  K O              ,                             
-                                                             S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T   -
/2  ->t°2                               N                                                                   r E   K-  E    8   8  z  t   r u  G&2Se,b7
:  0   K O  T °  Ks                                 +                                     A               :             _                                    :N   A K 
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1973                                                                  A    -<-- -258
lIno                                   D                                                                            N   L    E   >   Smée  Hi
v                                 (            >                                          jg4                              S p        ^  vA AntE FR SMAL
982          2                                          il                                                            -RA
OK.                                                                                                                                          197          1.10 B2eb    M n
198098
\ \SP.                                                                                  258 1   1 2'P
tN             no                                                                              -           …          0;                                00             tt- 1928  5258l  li
">                                                                                                     BokoîRoin,  1979       17880 ;00   0    : A   T  L A   N   T J- C:   Ct   E  A   N
D2                                                                                 K k.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dl  1982  K 
CRC    Ko,     Ko~ Cn
D    0    L                                                                                        S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. P.   A181- OOILAOI.E FOR SM0A-L
ROLDERR SP0OJECT
C-NTON B80ND0080S
0 C-2PERIMFTER
NUREI88lES
1982                                                                                                   IND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oUSD081581 AREA
(DD,                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Be'rebj Mar
_T   L   A    N   T   1- C  0     C   E   A    N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~4RIp  1 nNI1-0870-T



