mLE Cgny                    Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2271-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
May 5, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =  CFAF I/
US$1.00                 =  245 CFAF
CFAF 1                  =  US$0.004
CFAF I million          =  US$4,081
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                          US System
1 kilometer (km)       2          =      0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )          =      0.39 square mile
1 hectare (ha)                    =      2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                   =      2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                  =      2,204 pounds
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BEI          =   Banque Europeenne d'Investissements
BNDA         =   Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
CCCE         -   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CSSPPA       -   Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des prix
des Productions Agricoles
DPBCG        =   Direction de la Planification, de la Budgetisation
et du Controle de Gestion
FED          =   Fonds Europeen de Developpement
IRCA         =   Institut de Recherche sur le Caoutchouc
SAPH         =   Societe Africaine de Plantations d'Heveas
SOCATCI      =   Societe des Caoutchoucs de la Cote d'Ivoire
1/   The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc in the ratio of I French
franc to 50 CFAF. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               The Republic of the Ivory Coast.
Amount:                 US$20 million.
Terms:                  17 years, including 4 years' grace at an interest
rate of 7.5 percent per annum.
Project Description:   The Project would be implemented over seven years
and would aim at completing a 13,500 ha rubber
plantation started under the first rubber project
(Ln. 938-IVC), by adding 6,500 ha to the 7,000 ha
which will have been planted by 1978 under the first
project. These areas would be maintained during
the project period until they enter into production.
The project would also provide for access roads;
housing, schools, dispensaries and other social
infrastructure for estate workers; loans and
extension services to individual farmers who would
carry out an outgrowers' program over 500 ha;
building and equipment for a rubber processing
factory; training and technical assistance for
Project management.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Cost Estimates:
… -----------…US$ Million-
Percentage
of Foreign
Local      Foreign      Total       Exchange
I. Maintenance of initial
7,000 ha                        5.0         3.5         8.5          41
II.  Extension 6,500 ha               7.5         6.9        14.4          48
III. Estate Management and
Administrative Services         9.2         6.0        15.2          39
IV.  Outgrowers' Program              0.4         0.1         0.5          20
V.  Processing Facility              1.3         4.0         5.3          75
TOTAL BASE COSTS               23.4        20.5        43.9          47
VI.  Contingencies                    8.6         7.9        16.5          48
PROJECT COSTS (including       32.0        28.4        60.4          47
taxes)
VII.  Taxes 1/                         6.8         -           6.8           -
TOTAL NET OF TAXES
PROJECT COSTS                  25.2        28.4        53.6          53
Financing Plan:
US$ million
IBRD                                    20.0
CCCE                                     8.3
FED                                      5.5
BEI                                      4.5
Government                              15.3
Total Net Project Costs               53.6
1/   Taxes represent about 13 percent of total project costs.



- iii1 -
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
…--(in US$ milli                --
Annual                     3.3   4.0      4.3    4.2    4.2
Cumulative                 3.3   7.3    11.6    15.8  20.0
Economic Rate
of Return:               19 percent 1/
Appraisal
Report:          No. 1735-IVC, of April 28, 1978.
1/   Calculated on the incremental investment proposed to bring into
production the full 13,500 ha of rubber plantation, given the 7,000 ha
which are already planted. See paras. 59 and 60 of this report for
further details.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST FOR A
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$20.0 million to
help finance a second rubber plantation project at Grand Bereby in the Ivory
Coast's South West Region. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
4 years of grace, with interest at 7.5 percent per annum. The project would
be cofinanced by the Caisse! Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) US$8.3
million, the European Development Fund (FED) US$5.5 million and the European
Investment Bank (BEI) US$4.5 million. The terms and conditions of CCCE's
contribution would be 5.5 percent annual interest, 6 years grace and 10 year-
repayment period; FED's one percent interest, 10 years grace and repayment
over 40 years; and BEI's 5.5 percent interest, 4-1/2 years grace and a 10-year
repayment period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report"
was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977. Its principal find-
ings and conclusions, updated by a mission which visited the Ivory Coast in
February and April 1978, are incorporated in the following paragraphs.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Past Performance
3.        Throughout the 1960's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a high
annual rate of about 8.3 p,ercent; however, during 1971-75, economic growth
slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the effects
of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period and the
impact of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. In 1976,
per capita GNP reached US$610, one of the highest in Africa. The good over-
all performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 17 years has resulted
from a combination of the following factors: large agricultural potential
and early identification by the Ivorian Government of the best opportunities
for developing this potential; liberal Government policies vis-a-vis foreign
private investment as wel:L as importation of foreign labor and managerial
talent; and generally adequate public finance performance and availability of
external aid.
4.        Favorable ecological conditions in the southern region give the
Ivory Coast a comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops (parti-
cularly cocoa and coffee) and in the exploitation of timber resources. From
the early years of independence, the efforts of the Government were concen-
trated on the agricultural and forestry sectors. Large investments were made
in transport infrastructure to open up new forestry and agricultural areas,
and in agricultural research programs. Adequate guaranteed producer prices
and other incentives were introduced to which a dynamic small-holder sub-sector



- 2 -
has responded well. Government-owned large-scale plantations with outgrower
components were developed for oil and coconut palm. Rapid growth has been
achieved in the production of cotton, pineapple, palm and coconut oil, cocoa
and coffee, for the last two of which the Ivory Coast is now the third largest
producer in the world.
5.        A long period of political stability, combined with the free trans-
ferability of profits and capital, has created an aura of confidence abroad
which assured access to foreign capital. However, the necessary technical
skills to foster the planned development were lacking in the country, and the
Ivorian community welcomed the wide variety of foreign managerial and technical
assistance which rapid growth required. A member of the franc area and a
strong supporter of monetary and economic cooperation, the Ivory Coast has
always been willing to welcome new regional institutions; it joined the
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and has recently helped
promote the CIMAO project, which is the first regional industrial undertaking
involving both French and English speaking countries in West Africa. An
important feature of this cooperation with neighboring countries, which has
been beneficial to all parties concerned, is the large influx of unskilled
labor from less well endowed Sahelian countries, particularly Upper Volta
and Mali. In 1976, the foreign population of the Ivory Coast (mainly non-
Ivorian Africans) was estimated at 2 million, i.e. close to 30 percent of the
country's total of 7 million inhabitants.
6.         The factors mentioned above have enabled the external sector to grow
rapidly, and the value of exports and imports increased more than six times
from 1960 to 1975. The trade balance during this period was positive and
amounted to 14 percent of export earnings from goods. However, the deficit on
non-factor services, workers' remittances and direct investment income was
always large enough so that the current account has never been in surplus.
The most noticeable aspect of export earnings in recent years has been the
high prices received for coffee which increased by 60 percent in 1976 and a
further 120 percent in 1977, and those for cocoa which increased by 20 percent
in 1976 and a further 66 percent in 1977. Total export receipts more than
doubled from 1975 to 1977, when they reached approximately US$2.7 billion.
However, merchandise imports increased by 70 percent from 1975 to 1977 to
US$2.2 billion, partly in response to the import requirements of the increased
public investment program (see paragraph 7 below). The deficit on services
and transfers also increased at a rapid pace, amounting to more than US$800
million in 1977, but net capital inflows of approximately US$500 million
allowed a foreign exchange reserve build-up of US$112 million.
7.        The success of the Ivorian economy is to a substantial extent
attributable to generally sound Government policies regarding public finance
and external aid. The public sector generated savings which, after debt
service, financed about 50 percent of the public investment program. The
level of public investment is projected in the five-year plans (the current
one covers 1976-80) and implemented through a series of rolling three-year
investment programs and annual investment budgets. The 1976-80 Plan called
for public investment of about US$5 billion, the equivalent of about 30
percent of projected GDP (compared to 23 percent during 1971-75). The main



-3-
objectives stated in the Plan were to further increase production in developed
regions, develop agriculture in poor Savannah areas, accelerate the open-
ing up of the Southwest, and substantially increase social services. During
the last two years, however, public investment has increased substantially
beyond what was envisaged in the Plan as funds became available from coffee
and cocoa export receipts and as the country borrowed extensively abroad. New
investments were programmied to expand education and other social services, to
develop sugar production into a major industry, and for a variety of projects
in transportation, energy and other fields. State enterprises have played a
substantial role in this expansion, especially in that portion financed by
external credit. The increased reliance on external capital is reflected in
total external debt (disbursed and undisbursed) which stood at US$1.5 billion
at the end of 1975, US$2.2 billion at end 1976, and approximately US$4.2
billion at end of 1977. The implications of the sharp rise in external public
debt are discussed below (paras. 13 through 16).
Recent Development Issues
8.         To maintain the momentum of recent years and help broaden the access
to the benefits derived from it, the Government will need to persevere with
existing policies designed to diversify the economic base, improve income
distribution, increase the participation of Ivorian nationals in the management
of the economy, and mainltain a public investment program of appropriate
dimensions. Current Government policies are directed with some success to
protecting the export-oriented economy against fluctuations in world market
prices and to promoting more balanced regional development. Agriculture
remains the most important sector, but the share of manufacturing in GDP has
increased from 4 percent in 1960 to 13 percent in 1976. Within agriculture,
the production of new crops such as bananas, pineapples, rubber, cotton,
coconut and palm oil has been encouraged, resulting in a decline of the share
of cocoa and coffee in agricultural exports from 72 percent in 1960 to 51
percent in 1976. In 1977, a year of very high coffee and cocoa prices, these
commodities' share of exports rose to 60 percent. As part of a more balanced
regional development policy, large infrastructure investments are under way in
the Southwest in an effort to develop access to that potentially rich region.
9.         Better income-earning opportunities are being provided for the
population in poor rural areas in the North following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of
ox-drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved
by increases in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage poli-
cies which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment
programs. As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years,
with the poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20
percent of total income.
10.       Progress in "Ivorianization" of capital and labor remains limited.
While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign ownership is
still important in forestry, industry, and modern commerce. However, educa-
tion and training are given very high priority in the allocation of Government



- 4 -
resources; increasing recognition is given to the employment potential of the
informal sector and the Government is sponsoring a variety of programs
designed to promote the development of small-scale industrial and commercial
enterprises.
11.       These new policy directions are, however, being implemented at some
cost. The development of new products, new sectors, and new regions yields
decreasing returns on investments. For example, agricultural diversification
is being extended to crops with lower comparative advantage; forest reserves
may be depleted in ten to fifteen years unless costly reforestation programs
are started; the best opportunities for import substitution in industrial
development are becoming exhausted; heavy infrastructure and productive
investments in the potentially rich but sparsely populated Southwest yield
initially low returns; large programs to improve living conditions in the
North and other poor rural areas involve long gestation periods. Finally the
direct and indirect costs of foreign production factors are increasing.
12.       The financial burden of the expanded public investment program
has also increased despite the funding of a large proportion from the ex-
ceptionally large surpluses accumulated in 1976 and 1977 in the stabilization
fund (equivalent to about US$1.5 billion). Thus, the program still relies on
external credit for 40 percent of its funding, about 85 percent of which comes
from private banks and suppliers. This represents a large increase from
previous years. The overall terms and conditions of external public debt are
hardening, reflecting increased reliance on commercial credit, and the grant
element of public and private lending to the public sector declined from 29
percent in 1969 to 8 percent in 1976. The increased costs of development, the
larger scale of investment now being undertaken and envisaged for the future
and the heavy reliance on foreign commercial credit to fund a major portion of
investment, all point to the necessity of measures to ensure that the limits
of absorptive capacity are not exceeded and that repayment capacity is not
strained. The Government of the Ivory Coast is aware of the situation, and
following the large increase in foreign borrowing in 1977, the substantial
decrease in external borrowing reported in the first quarter of 1978 is an
encouraging sign of their response to it. Other recent measures include a
much stronger control by the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement over the state
enterprises' borrowing and investment programs.
Prospects
13.       Provided the Government becomes more selective in determining in-
vestment priorities and limits external borrowing to prudent levels, the
medium- and long-term prospects of the Ivorian economy remain favorable and
an annual rate of growth of about 6 percent is a feasible objective for the
eighties.
14.       The economy has considerable potential for further development
of traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial investments
have been made, output of new products and development of new regions will
start to yield substantial benefits, and can later be expanded at reasonable



economic cost. The Government is planning to review the system of protec-
tion and tax holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-substitution
industries, and there is scope for expansion of export-oriented processing
of local raw materials. Finally, many aspects of the country's policies
of income distribution (preference for the family-size farm, programs to
increase agricultural productivity in the poorer North, and the promotion of
the informal sector and of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises)
are fully compatible with sustained economic growth.
15.        Despite the fact that exports are expected to perform well in re-
spect of volume, it is unlikely that the high prices for coffee and cocoa
will persist, and therefore export earnings will probably be considerably
less buoyant in the near future than in the past two years despite some
mitigating effects of diversification into export products such as rubber,
pineapples, and industrial products. Imports, however, have increased sub-
stantially and the large deficit on services will remain as long as the
country relies heavily on foreign factors of production with their increasing
costs. Thus, pressures on the balance of payments will remain. The size and
financing of the public investment program will be a key element in determining
the extent of these pressures.
16.        The authorities are therefore engaged in a review of new commitments
and indications are that the three-year public investment program 1979-1981
will be essentially limited to available public savings plus official develop-
ment assistance. The Government is also considering the possibility of re-
purchasing part of the existing commercial debt. The aim is to carry out as
much as possible of high-priority plan targets while achieving an external
debt structure consistent with the medium-term balance of payments prospects
of the economy. By these means it should be possible to keep the debt service
ratio below 25 percent by the end of the decade, and maintain the country's
creditworthiness for borrowing on IBRD terms.
17.        Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1976,
18 percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 20 percent by interna-
tional organizations (of which 68 percent by the Bank Group), and 36 percent
by private banks and bornd issues, while 23 percent came in the form of sup-
pliers' credits. More than half of the total capital not supplied by inter-
national organizations came from four countries; France (27 percent), USA
(20 percent), Italy (5 percent), and Germany (4 percent). France and the
European Communities remain the principal source of development assistance
in grant form, accounting for about 6 percent of the flow of foreign assist-
ance to the public sector.
PART II - B3ANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
18.        Since 1968, whlen Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes thirty loans totaling US$388.7
million (including US$14 million from the Third Window) and an IDA credit of



- 6 -
US$7.5 million. Twelve of these thirty-one operations have been for agricul-
ture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut development.
There were six road projects. The remaining thirteen loans were for educa-
tion, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system, water
supply, urban development, tourism development, small- and medium-scale enter-
prises, a regional cement project and a regional railway project. IFC's
participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel (US$204,000)
was increased in 1974 by a 50 percent stock dividend and in April 1978 by
another 10,000 shares of a total par value of about US$204,000. IFC's Board
also approved, in 1977, a 10 percent equity investment, equivalent to about
US$880,000, in Etablissement R. Gonfreville (ERG), the largest textile plant
in the country. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects, with particular reference to
those which are encountering problems in execution and giving rise to delays
in disbursements.
19.       The main thrust of the Bank's lending program will continue to
be in the agricultural sector, but focussing much less on the traditional
export crops, where Bank involvement has helped create effective institutions.
The OED report on the first Oil Palm Project praised the project's achieve-
ments but was critical of training of local staff. Although SODEPALM still
employs a large number of expatriate staff, it has now an efficiently run
training program aiming at the progressive Ivorianization of its staff. The
Government has recently decided to give more emphasis to smallholder produc-
tion, where the benefits will more readily be felt by the small farmers. This
policy reorientation is reflected in our strategy for the agricultural sector
which calls for shifting emphasis to smallholder and integrated development
projects. The first examples of this new strategy are another rubber project
mainly benefitting small farmers, that was appraised last November, and a
rural development project in the Northeast currently under preparation.
20.       The Bank was closely associated, as executing agency, with the
1969 UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory Coast, which has served as a basis
for determining future priorities among transport investments. Thus far the
Bank has financed six road projects totaling US$123.3 million. The First
Project was completed in December 1974 with final costs within appraised
estimates. The OED report dated June 28, 1977 on this project recommended,
inter alia, that more emphasis should be given to road maintenance. This
had been picked up in the third highway project. A follow-up project for
road maintenance with a feeder roads component was approved last December.
The second road project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975, after
an initial delay caused by project modification and subsequent poor work
organization for the construction component. The Third and Fourth Highway
Projects incurred substantial cost overruns which the Government is covering;
otherwise execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Fifth Highway Project
approved by FY76 will contribute to a further improvement of the primary
road network of the country. We are also studying the possibility of extend-
ing a highway sector loan to the Ivory Coast. A railway project, focusing on
the improvement of a priority section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line,
renewal of rolling stock, technical assistance and training, was approved last
fall. While the Bank is expected to continue to play a major role in the
transport sector, financing will increasingly be shared with other aid donors.



21.       The education system of the Ivory Coast has not provided the
country with an adequate supply of skilled manpower. The Bank is closely
associated with the Government's efforts to modernize the education system,
in particular at the secondary and vocational levels. Both of the Bank's
ongoing projects have been directed to this end. A third project is currently
being prepared.
22.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project approved in 1975 will
cover the first phase of a ten-year Government program to improve sanita-
tion in Abidjan. A follow-up project currently under preparation would help
finance the second phase of the program and studies for the third phase.
This project will be presented to the Board shortly. In September 1977 the
Board approved a secondary centers water supply project. An urban development
project, primarily aiming to help meet some of Abidjan's low-income housing
and transport needs, was signed in December 1976.
23.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises.
A follow-up project is under preparation. The Bank Group also provided
support for medium-scale enterprises through a local development finance
company. In June 1976 the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast in support
of the CIMAO project, which is sponsored jointly by the Governments of Ghana,
Ivory Coast, and Togo. CIMAO will utilize limestone deposits in Togo for the
production of clinker for the cement market of the three countries.
24.       The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US$47 million annually in the 1973-77 period. The average annual
lending rate is expected to continue to grow substantially over the next few
years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end
of 1976, stood at approximately 13.8 percent (including undisbursed). Its
portion of external debt disbursed is expected to rise from the present 7.5
percent to about 11 percent in the next ten years; its share of total debt
service, at present 4.9 percent, is expected to go up to about 7.0 per-
cent in the early 1980's.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
25.       Today agricuLture and forestry account for about 50 percent of the
country's gross domestic product, a situation which will persist for many
years to come.  Abundant land, good labor supply and generally favorable world
markets for its products assured rapid agricultural growth in the Ivory Coast.
About 70 percent of the population depends on agriculture and forestry. The
estimated value of agricultural production in 1976 was US$2.1 billion, of
which industrial crops accounted for about US$1.5 billion, food crops US$400
million and livestock US$150 million. From 1974 through 1976 annual exports



averaged US$1,400 million of which the three main commodities --- coffee (29
percent), timber (20 percent), and cocoa (25 percent) -- accounted for about
74 percent.
26.       Until recently the Government has concentrated its efforts on in-
creasing the area devoted to export crops. But growing urbanization and the
increasing demand for food, has drawn the Government's attention more towards
integrated regional development. New programs have been designed to include
food crops in the same areas where export crops are developed. A case in
point is the cotton program in the savannah region, intermingled with food
crops, which started in 1974 with Bank assistance (Loan 1077-IVC). Over
the past few years the importation of foodstuffs per rural inhabitant has
declined from 200 kg to 160 kg, indicating that these measures are proving
effective.
27.       More recently the Government announced a number of policy decisions
in the agricultural sector. They were designed to favor smallholder develop-
ment and replace traditional reliance on crop-oriented state enterprises by
regional organizations responsible for integrated rural development. The
Government is planning to use restructured state enterprises to carry out the
regional development plan. However, many of the details related to the
reshaping of the agricultural sector have not yet been worked out by the
Government. This largely explains the long delay in making effective the loan
for the fourth Oil Palm Project, signed in March 1977.
Institutions
28.       The Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Productions
Agricoles (CSSPPA) is responsible for carrying out Government agricultural
price support policies. It controls producer prices for main cash crops,
such as cotton, cocoa, coffee, palm oil, copra and rubber, paying a guaranteed
minimum producer price fixed annually, controlling the sale of the commodities
on the world market, and absorbing profits or losses on its operations.
29.       The Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole (BNDA), the
main source of agricultural credit, has so far been active in short-term
credit using a line of rediscount with the West African Central Bank (BCEAO)
It has also assisted the development of conventional crops by working through
the responsible state enterprises. BNDA has normally used its equity, and in
some cases international funds such as CCCE's participation in the first
rubber project and IBRD funds under the Cocoa Project. BNDA is active in
establishing branches in the rural areas with the purpose of dealing directly
with farmers and farmers' groups.
30.       Agricultural research is undertaken by several French organizations
under a bilateral agreement. Programs and budgets are reviewed and approved
by the Ministry of Scientific Research, and costs are shared equally by the
two countries. Rubber research is undertaken by the Institut de Recherches
sur le Caoutchouc (IRCA), which acts also as the technical advisor to the
Ministry of Agriculture for the implementation of the rubber development
program.



-9-
The Rubber Subsector
31.       Commercial rubbe:r production started in 1962 when plantings made
in 1955 came into bearing. The total planted area has grown at a modest
rate, reaching about 23,350 ha by the end of 1977. Of this, about 14,300 ha
have reached production, although only half have attained peak yield. There
are only about 200 ha of smallholder plantings, the remainder consist of
plantations operated by three different organizations. A French company
(Compagnie de Caoutchouc et de Pneumatiques - CCP) owns and operates 2,600 ha;
Societe de Plantations d'Heveas (SAPH), in which the Government has a 60
percent interest, owns another 13,000 ha, and Government itself owns 6,200 ha
and 600 ha are operated by IRCA. In 1977, total production amounted to 18,000
tons, 90 percent of which was exported, representing less than 0.5 percent
of world natural rubber production. The country's industry is well advanced
technologically since it has taken advantage of the experience gained in other
producing countries and is supported by effective research.
32.       The Government's rubber development plans consist mainly of an
outgrower-oriented project in the Southeast of the country, involving about
2,000 ha of nucleus estates surrounded by 3,500 ha plantations held by small
farmers; completion of a plantation project (up to 4,500 ha) in the Southwest;
and completion of the Grand Bereby estate also in the Southwest to a total of
13,500 ha, the object of t:he proposed project. Other plantation sites in the
Southwest are under consicderation. If all programs are carried out, the
countries' rubber area might reach about 60,000 ha in the 1980's. Plantations
of this size would have an annual production potential of nearly 108,000 tons
by the turn of the century. However, by 1985 production would amount to only
about 30,000 tons most of which would be exported. The latter would represent
less than one percent of projected world natural rubber exports.
Performance under the First Grand Bereby Rubber Estate Project
33.       The first project, financed by Loan 938-IVC, originally envisaged
the planting of 13,500 ha of rubber between 1972 and 1979. Project implemen-
tation has been difficult. Inefficient management in the early stages and
labor recruitment problems due to the location of the scheme in the largely
underdeveloped Southwest have slowed down execution of the project. At the
end of 1977 only about 5,600 ha were planted, compared with an appraisal
estimate of 7,500 ha. It is expected that a total of 7,000 ha will be
planted by the end of 1978.
34.       The higher project costs are to some extent attributable to the
reduced rate of planting which was the result of labor shortages and inefficient
management during the start-up period. The problem was further compounded by
a higher-than-expected inflation rate in the 1972-75 period. For example, the
cumulative cost of developing one hectare was about US$3,265 at appraisal.
By the end of 1976 it reached about US$5,150. Project costs eventually would
have increased to about US$65 million, about double the original cost estimates.
Recognizing these factors, the Executive Directors approved in September 1976
an amendment reducing the area to be planted by the end of 1978 to 7,000 ha
(R76-240). The proposed project would maintain the 7,000 ha until entry into
production, extend the p'Lantation to 13,500 ha and build a processing unit.



- 10 -
Executing Agencies
35.       SOCATCI, the Borrower under the first project, was created in 1973
as a state corporation. Its functions were the creation and exploitation of
industrial rubber estates and the conduct of all related commercial, indus-
trial and financial operations. It had a 10-member Board of Directors, and
was managed by an Ivorian General Manager; the position of Technical Deputy
Director was filled from the beginning by an expatriate technical adviser,
provided and financed by FED. SOCATCI entered into a management contract
with SATAC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Michelin, to implement the first
project.
36.       SATAC's accounting staff was weak, resulting in an inadequate
financial control of its operations. It also had high administrative over-
heads and incurred expenditures which exceeded the yearly budgets, thus
contributing to the substantial cost overruns. SATAC's performance has since
Improved, particularly in accounting control and technical project implemen-
tation. Agricultural work is good and administration practices are now more
efficient.
37.       As part of the measures necessary to reorganize the agricultural
sector, the Government last October decided to dissolve SOCATCI. The Govern-
ment, acting through a newly created special unit in the Ministry of Agricul-
ture's Directorate for Planning, Budgeting and Management Control (DPBCG), the
"Cellule Hevea", has assumed the responsibilities hitherto carried by SOCATCI,
both as the Borrower under the first Loan Agreement and as party to the
management contract with SATAC. The Government has also decided to entrust
the stabilization fund, CSSPPA (para. 28), with the responsibility of marketing
the production of the Grand Bereby rubber plantation. The net assets of
SOCATCI were transferred to the Government. DPBCG would supervise the project
financially and the "Cellule Hevea" would be responsible for the technical
follow-up of the project.
38.       These arrangements were accepted by all co-lenders concerned and
incorporated in a Substitution Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Gov-
ernment of the Ivory Coast (Ref. R78-38). Effectiveness of the Substitution
Loan Agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan
(Section 6.01(a) of Loan Agreement).
39.       These arrangements are considered adequate to ensure the continua-
tion of the agricultural operations under the proposed project. However, it
has been generally agreed by the Government and co-lenders that the requirements
for managing a processing plant and an estate in full production fall outside
of the normal scope of the Ministry of Agriculture and would require the
setting-up of an entity more directly responsible for these activities.
A new management structure should, therefore be in place when the processing
facilities are expected to become operational. The Government agreed to
discuss with the Bank by December 31, 1978 new structural arrangements it
envisages undertaking and to implement by December 31, 1979 a new management
structure satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 4.07 and 4.09 of Loan Agreement.)



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The project area is 75 km west of San Pedro and lies between the
coastal towns of Grand Bereby and Tabou. It covers some 50,000 ha of which
about two-thirds is too wet or topographically unsuitable for rubber planting.
The vegetation is rain forest with dense undergrowth, most of the exploitable
large trees having already been removed. The plantable soils, ranging from
sandy loams to sandy clays, are freely drained, strongly acid, and low in
available nutrients. The mean altitude of the plantable areas is about 50 m
above sea level. Annual rainfall averages about 2,000 mm but it can vary
largely from one year to another.
41.       The proposed project would continue rubber plantation begun under
the first project up to 13,500 ha. It was appraised in May 1977 with a
follow-up mission in November 1977.  Loan negotiations took place in
Washington from April 3 to April 7, 1978. The Ivorian delegation was led by
Mr. Coulibaly, Director of External Debt, Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement.
42.       The project is described in detail in the Appraisal Report No.
1735-IVC, dated April 28, 1978, and summarized at the beginning of this
report. It would be carried out from 1978 through 1984. The project would
initially be implemented by the "Cellule Hevea" in the Ministry of Agriculture,
through a management contract with .SATAC; project execution is later expected
to be adapted to the needls of processing and estate management. The project
would consist of:
(i)  maintaining immature trees planted under the first
project and the related access roads;
(ii) clearing, open:ing access roads for, and planting
with rubber an additional 6,500 ha of land, and
maintaining these during the project period;
(iii) providing housing for estate workers and staff,
and building and equipping schools, dispensaries
and other necessary social infrastructure;
(iv) providing loans and extension services to farmers
for an outgrowers' pilot program covering about 500 ha of
rubber plantings on land cleared by the farmers;
(v) providing heavy civil work equipment, vehicles
and other equipment necessary to carry out the project;
(vi) providing management and technical services including
their operational costs; and
(vii) building and equipping the first stages of a rubber process-
ing factory, together with housing for factory staff and
the transport fleet necessary to collect the crop and deliver
the finished product to San Pedro.



- 12 -
The factory would need to be commissioned in 1980 with an initial daily capa-
city of 11 tons of block rubber, increasing to 66 tons during the project
period and subsequently to 154 tons a day to process the peak production
from the 13,500 ha plantation at full maturity.
Land Tenure
43.       The Government granted a concession to SOCATCI under an initial
agreement that provided sufficient land (about 50,000 ha) to ensure a plant-
able area of not less than 13,500 ha. However, some 2,300 ha of the original
concession have subsequently been withdrawn and re-allocated to village
settlements, reducing the area suitable for rubber to about 13,000 ha.
Therefore, additional prospection is underway outside the concession to ensure
that the area required to complete the planting program would be available.
An assurance was received from Government that the limits of the concession
would be extended by December 31, 1978, to include an area of land large
enough to contain at least 500 additional hectares suitable for rubber planta-
tion (Section 3.05 of Loan Agreement).
Communications and Utilities
44.       The project area is linked by road to the small town of Grand Bereby
and also to the port at San Pedro, from which estate produce will eventually
be shipped. The San Pedro road is in poor condition. The Government has
given assurances that it would upgrade the road connection between the project
area and San Pedro by December 31, 1978 (Section 4.04 of Loan Agreement).
Power and water supplies, which are not yet available from the public sector,
would be provided to the estate under the project.
The Factory
45.       A single, centrally located, processing factory of about 150 tons
daily capacity would provide the most economical installation for the treat-
ment of the Grand Bereby crop at full development. At peak periods, this
would involve the transport of some 375 tons of liquid latex and 75 tons of
coagulated rubber every day. Liquid latex would be collected in tanks
transported either by trucks or, where practical, by tractors equipped with
trailers. The plant has been designed to avoid polluting local water resources
available in the area. The purification of the factory effluent would be
assured by a suitable treatment for which the necessary equipment would be
provided under the project.
Food Crops
46.       To increase the amount of food available for the plantation labor
force and, at the same time, afford workers an opportunity to achieve a degree
of self-sufficiency, additional land would be cleared in the immediate vici-
nity of each of the estate villages and allocated to food farming. The estate
would also make available the seeds and other planting material required. The
production of food crops by village farmers in the region, for sale to the



- 13 -
plantation workers would also be encouraged. A suitable area for such cash
crop production is the 2,300 ha of land recently excised from the concession
for the resettlement of villagers.
Recruitment of Labor and Training
47.       Due to low population density in the project area, almost all of
the currently employed liaborers are from outside the region. More than half
of the work force consists of immigrants, mainly from Upper Volta. Since
SOCATCI was not able in the first years of project execution to provide the
housing and social infrastructure needed to attract workers to such an iso-
lated region, recruitment and retention were difficult. However, the Grand
Bereby plantation is now able to provide the standards of housing, schools,
shops, and medical facilities available on plantations elsewhere in the
Ivory Coast. Furthermore, the various organizations engaged in plantation
activities in the Southwest agreed, in late 1976, to pay about a 15 percent
premium over the official daily wages to help compensate for the disadvantages
of working in the region. The combination of higher wages and better living
conditions led to a substantial improvement in the labor situation in 1977.
Labor supply for the second project is, therefore, expected to be adequate.
48.       Ivorianization of mid-level field management staff is expected to
occur through on-the-jobi training. SATAC's five key positions, Project
Manager, Administrative Director, Technical Director, Director of Operations
and Agronomic Director, are currently held by expatriates seconded by Michelin.
While Ivorianization of these positions is not foreseen during the project
period, most of these posts will be filled by local staff in the longer run.
49.       The main difficulty at present appears to be the availability of
qualified candidates. This problem affects the plantation sector in general
and needs to be approached at the national level. Curricula in colleges and
technical institutes are under review, aiming to adapt to the changing needs
of the agricultural sector. These aspects are currently also being discussed
with the Government in connection with the preparation of a third education
project.
The Outgrowers' Program
50.       Because of low population density, an outgrower program would have
to begin modestly. Recently, the Government resettled most of the original
population of the project area on the southwestern part of the concession,
consisting of 2,300 ha, half of which appears to be suitable for rubber
planting. The settlers are predominantly hunters and fishermen, but they
cultivate small plots of subsistence crops. Before an outgrowers' program
can be implemented, the extent of farmers' interests and capacity for parti-
cipation in such a program would be ascertained, land tenure arrangements
identified, and the organizational, credit and other support requirements
determined. A feasibility study, leading to a small pilot project, would
be carried out by the Agronomic Department of the Estate, with the support
of the Ministry of Agriculture's "Cellule Hevea". The guiding principle of



- 14 -
this component would be the full recovery of credit amounts and a producer
price which covers the cost of the Government's investment in the program,
while providing adequate incentives to the outgrowers. This point would be
included in the terms of reference for the study which, the Government has
agreed, would be submitted to the Bank by not later than December 31, 1978
(Section 3.08 of Loan Agreement).
51.       Participation in the outgrower scheme would be conditional upon
the farmer's agreement to follow, throughout the development period, the tech-
nical advice provided by the executing agency. Members of existing villages
would be encouraged to plant rubber. Selection of participants would be done
by the extension agent in consultation with the village chief. Participation
would not preclude a village from other economic activities such as growing
food crops for subsistence and sale to the plantations, supply of labor for
plantations and other outlets. Outgrowers would receive credit in cash and
kind. The amounts, terms and conditions of these credits, as well as the
price to be paid for the raw rubber, would be determined by the findings of
the feasibility study.
Project Costs
52.       Project costs are estimated at US$53.6 million, excluding US$6.8
million (13 percent) in taxes. The foreign exchange component would amount to
US$28.4 million, or 53 percent of project costs. The Government would exempt
all goods imported for the project from duties. Cost estimates are based on
mid-1977 prices. Total physical and price contingencies amount to 27 percent
of the total project costs including taxes, or 38 percent of base line cost
estimates.
Project Financing
53.       The proposed project would be financed by a Bank loan of US$20.0
million over 17 years, including 4 years of grace. Other contributions would
come from the European Development Fund (FED) US$5.5 million; the European
Investment Bank (BEI) US$4.5 million; the French Caisse Centrale de Coopera-
tion Economique (CCCE) US$8.3 million; and the Government US$15.3 million (net
of taxes). The terms and conditions of FED's contribution would be one
percent annual interest, 10 years grace, repayment over 40 years; BEI's 5.5
percent interest, 4-1/2 years grace and repayment over 10 years; and CCCE's
5.5 percent interest, 6 years grace and 10-year repayment period. While
Caisse Centrale would disburse their contribution on a pari-passu basis with
the Bank on all project components, FED would not participate in the main-
tenance of the 7,000 ha planted under the first project. BEI would finance
the total cost of industrial investments. Effectiveness of the Bank loan
would be conditional upon effectiveness of the loans from CCCE and FED (Sec-
tion 6.01(b) of Loan Agreement). Regarding the BEI loan, which is not expected
to be processed for several months, because the processing facilities will not
be required until early 1980, the Bank would have to receive satisfactory
assurances from the Borrower that the BEI loan would be made, before the Bank
loan would become effective (Section 6.01(c) of Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
54.       The total foreign financing package (US$38.3 million) would cover
about 71 percent of total project costs net of taxes. It would, thus, in-
clude local cost financing of about US$9.9 million.   The Bank portion of
local cost financing proportional to its share of total foreign financing
would amount to US$5.2 million. It should be noted, however, that the Gov-
ernment would be required to pay the debt service net of the cash surplus
generated by production during the project period of US$12.1 million, all
of it foreign exchange, in addition to its contribution to the local costs,
since debt service has not been included in the project costs. This would be
in accordance with practice followed in the first project, despite the large
incremental investment the second project represents. Furthermore, the
proposed financing plan involves colenders who see their contribution essen-
tially as additional to the Bank loan and are prepared to finance local costs
to support a high priority project that would diversify the country's agricul-
tural exports and promote a relatively new crop in the largely undeveloped
Southwest. Altogether the Grand Bereby program would attract some 15,000
people to the region and thus become a focal point for development. For these
reasons the financing plan and the Bank's contribution to it, including the
disbursement of part of the Bank's proceeds to cover local expenditure as part
of a joint financing arrangement, would be justified.
Procurement
55.       The following procurement arrangement will be in force during the
five-year disbursement period. Contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or more
would be made through international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Goods so procured are estimated to cost US$6.0 million,
consisting mainly of vehicles and equipment (US$3.2 million) and fertilizers
and chemicals (US$2.8 million). Individual contracts not exceeding US$100,000
would be awarded on the basis of local tenders, under a procedure acceptable
to the Bank (total cost estimated at US$0.5 million). The following civil
works would be carried out on force account: most of the housing and other
construction work (US$4.0 million) scattered over a very large area remote
from important centers and subject to a slow implementation schedule, and
which in the past did not attract outside contractors' effective participa-
tion; and land clearing and access roads (US$3.1 million excluding cost of
equipment which will be procured under ICB) for which the planting rhythm and
the particular specifications of the work to be achieved make it difficult to
bring in outside contractors. Procurement for the rubber factory (civil
works and equipment) and other ancillary investments totalling US$4.5 million
to be financed by the BEI, would be carried out under this institution's
guidelines. The remaining project costs, US$26.8 million, would be mainly
for salaries (expatriate staff and management fees US$5.3 million, local
staff US$3.8 million, labor US$9.3 million) and agricultural work and other
operating costs (for vehicles, agricultural tractors and electricity gener-
ators, US$6.3 million, buildings maintenance, US$0.8 million, and other
miscellaneous items, US$1.3 million).



- 16 -
Disbursements
56.       The Bank loan would be disbursed during the first five years of the
project period (1978-82), to cover 49.5 percent of the cost of the following
project items;
(i) Direct agricultural costs for the maintenance of the
existing 7,000 ha and for the extension of 6,500 ha,
including land clearing and access roads;
(a) Agricultural inputs, including sprayers, fertilizers
and chemicals (US$1.5 million);
(b) Agricultural labor and other operating costs
(US$4.9 million);
(ii) Construction costs for housing, villages and social infra-
structure (US$1.5 million);
(iii) Vehicles and equipment (US$1.3 million);
(iv) Extension services for the outgrowers' program and loans
in kind and cash to participating farmers (US$0.2 million);
and
(v) Staff salaries and other operating expenses (US$6.1 million).
US$4.5 million would be unallocated.
Accounts and Audit
57.       The Borrower would keep records with the assistance of SATAC, con-
sistent with sound accounting practice and adequate to reflect their opera-
tions and financial situation. These records would also show the accounts of
the respective project components and the position of the out-growers' loans
and repayments. The Government would request SATAC to appoint independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.03 (b) (i) of Loan Agreement).
Receipt of a written agreement from SATAC that it would comply with the audit
requirement would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(Section 6.01(d) of Loan Agreement). The audit reports would be sent to the
Bank not later than six months after the closing of the financial year, and
assurances to that effect were received (Section 4.03 (b) (ii) of Loan Agree-
ment).
Project Benefits and Justifications
58.       The primary benefits of the Grand Bereby program (about half of
which would be derived from trees planted under the first project) would be
increased production and export of rubber. The latter would amount at full
development in 1993 to about 30,000 tons and generate annual net foreign



- 17 -
exchange earnings of US$24 million. At completion the 13,500 ha estate would
also provide employment for about 4,500 workers. About 2,200 of these jobs
are directly resulting from the incremental plantation under the proposed
project. Thus, about 15,0()0 people (including families) would benefit from
the support services and economic activity in the project area.
59.       The economic ana:Lysis is based on efficiency prices in constant
1977 terms, with foreign costs and benefits taken at full value at the
official exchange rate of 1JS$1 = CFAF 245 and domestic costs, net of taxes,
adjusted by the standard conversion factor (0.83). The rate of return on
the incremental investment now proposed to bring into production the full
13,500 ha of rubber plantation given the 7,000 ha already planted is estimated
at 19 percent. The option of completing only the investments required to
bring the initial 7,000 ha into production would yield a return of 21 percent
and the rate of return on the 6,500 ha expansion would be about 17 percent.
These estimates would be reduced by about three percentage points for a 15
percent increase in costs or a 15 percent decrease in benefits.
60.        In order to compare the results now expected with those of the first
project as (a) originally appraised (13,500 ha) and (b) reduced to 7,000 ha
(Board Resolution R76-240), the rates of return over the entire first project
period beginning in 1972 wFere recalculated with the following results:
(a) 13,500 ha    (b) 7,000 ha
--rates of return (percent)-
Efficiency prices                       12                10
Market prices (net of taxes)            11                 9
Shadow prices 1/                        12                10
First Appraisal Report                  13                 -
Memo to Board (Septemnber, 1976)         -               9-10
1/   As used in the first project's Appraisal Report:  Foreign
exchange = 125 percent of official rate, shadow wage =
50 percent of market wage, rubber price 15 percent lower
than current projections.
The slightly lower rates of return for the full 13,500 ha, as compared with
the original appraisal estimate, reflects the impact of a slower planting
rhythm.
61.        The outgrowers' program represents a very minor part of total
project costs and, since it is primarily in the nature of a pilot project,
was not included in the overall rate of return calculation. However, for
illustrative purposes, a separate rate of return was calculated, yielding



- 18 -
approximately 18 percent. A separate social analysis was not carried out
for this project. However, previous work in the Ivory Coast plantation sec-
tor (Economic and Social Analysis of Projects - A Case Study of Ivory Coast,
World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 253, May 1977) indicates that the social
rate of return would be expected to be somewhat higher than the efficiency
price calculation.
Risks
62.       In view of the experience under the first project, the possibility
of cost overruns under the second project cannot be completely ruled out.
The current cost projections (with the exception of the factory component)
are based on recent experience at Grand Bereby, therefore the 15 percent
range taken in the sensitivity analysis should adequately test the conse-
quences of this risk.
63.       A greater degree of uncertainty must be attached to the avail-
ability of labor in the sparsely populated region. Recent improvements in
SOCATCI's recruitment efforts, more timely provision of housing and social
infrastructure and an increase in the minimum wage for estate workers have
resulted in a substantial improvement in the situation, but there is no
guarantee that the labor shortages experienced in 1975 will not reoccur. A
general improvement in the availability of labor in the Southwest Region is
expected from an increase in the number of economic activities, for example
SODEPALM's oil palm development scheme. Furthermore, the annual planting
target would be 1,750 ha per year, in line with current and expected labor
availability, as compared to the first project appraisal estimate of 3,000 ha
expected to be planted in 1979.
64.       The result of the outgrower component is also uncertain, due pri-
matily to the lack of information on the availability and degree of interest
of potential participants. Nevertheless, such a pilot program is justified
to determine the role of smallholders in rubber cultivation as a means of
increasing the incomes of the existing population.
65.       The ecological impact of deforestation in the Southwest is of some
concern to the Bank. However, this problem has been discussed with the
Government in the context of the Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut Project (Ln.
1382-IVC), located in the same area, and the Government agreed to submit
to the Bank a land-use planning scheme.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ivory Coast and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 19 -
67.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan would
be:
(a) the effectiveness of the Substitution Loan Agreement
(para. 39);
(b) the effectiveness of the CCCE and FED Loan Agreements
(para. 53);
(c) that the Bank receive from the Borrower satisfactory
assurances that the BEI loan would be forthcoming
(para. 53); and
(d)  that the Bank receive written confirmation from SATAC
that SATAC would have its accounts audited by inde-
pendent auditors (para. 57).
68.        I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
May 5, 1978



- 20 -
MANEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Page 1
IVORY COAST         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -----------------------
____________---                                  IVORY COAST                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      332.0                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     171.2                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           TUNISIA        MALAYSIA       CHINA,REP 0**
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                    170.0*    350.0*   610.0*                370.0*      440.0*      510,0*
____________________
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MIO-YR. MILLION)            3.9        5.4       7.0                 5.0        10.8        1A.5
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       12.0       16.0      21.0                31.0        33.0      403.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       23.0        32.0      41.0                67.0       185.0      1610.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)         46.0       46.1      45.6                44.7        42.2        27.2/a
CRUDE DEATH RATE C/THOU.AV)          26.4       23.3      20.6                16.9        12.9         4.9t&
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       138.0/a       ,.        ,,               125.0       40.8/a       17.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.9      41.0       43.5                51.6        56.7       67.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2/a,b   3.1        3.1                 3.4         2.6/a       2.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE MX)
TOTAL                                 2.4        3.4**     4.2**               2.3**       2.9         3.2
URBAN                                10.6/c      8.7/a     9.9                 3.0/a       3.0         s s
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          21.8/d    28.0        34.3               40.1/b      26.9        44.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.7/a    42.5       43.1                46.3        44.7/a     39.7
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53.77Le  54.8        54.0                50.2        52. 17     57 4
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.6/aMe   2.7        2.9                 3.5         3.          2.9
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0o9         0 8        0.9                1.O          . 9/a      0.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               I i/f.g   O:./b       1.0/a              1.8 /b Ic i.ai          1 3/b,c
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..        .,               112.2      222.2/a    979.4
USERS CX OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..         ..               12.0         8.07ia    44.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THCUSAND)         1900.0  2600.0   2900.0/b                1300.0 /b  3600.0      4600.0/b
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CX)         86.0/g    82.0       80.0                57.07W    49.5         35.0%
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)            ,.         ..       3.0oD              12.0         7 7.0       1.
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
S OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5X OF HOUSEHOLDS            30.9/h       .                             ..        26.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            s1.a7T       ,,      soo/c                 ..        56.0
LOWEST  20X OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.6/h       ..       9 .1/                ..         3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            16.57Wi       -      20.0/                  .        11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
___________-------------------                                                        /
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                                                    53. Qd
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            25480.0.i 15320.0  15760.0               5950.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        221O.0 oj2B30.0LC  1970.0                 730.0/      2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           660.0    1150.0    1240.0                410.0rT    270.OIa   2490.J/d
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         94.0     114.0      113.0               93.0        110.0       111.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)    ~~52.0     60.0       64.5               63 0L&,    49.0/b       68.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       18.01d    21.4                14.0        20.07W     31.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              .. ..                 ..                145/b,i         4       3,4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       46.0       76.0      84.0               100.0        89.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      2.0       11.0       16.0               23.0        34.0       47.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0      13.0                13.0        13.0       12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     13.0        7.0       6.0                12.0 /h      3.0       15.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE CX)                 9.0/d    20.0          *-                 *-        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                2.5/k       *          .-                2.7 /b      2.3         1.6Le-
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT                                                      60.0 /b    65.0         s1.o/b
PIPED WATER CX)                         .         .          .6./b                         50         sioh
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                               .           .2.   b                     4.           40h
CE OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  1.0/k                                   24.0 /b    43.0         94.0/b
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED                                                                                   /b
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                                                                        30.0        88.0..  *
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         17.0         ..         ..               77.0        41.0        97.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            30       1.             /d135.0                   327.0       83.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           21.0       95.0     176.0               155 0       382.0       823.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..       0.2        0.3                0.1         4.0         2.0
SEE  NOTES  -N DEFINITIONS ON R        E------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 rafer to any yer between  1959 and 1961, for 1970 betwen 1969 ad 1971, and for Most REent Estimte betwevn
197  and 1976:
*    GNP per capita data are based on the World bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
Db Du to isigration population growth rate, is highar then rate of nAtural increeas.
too Tha Republic of China (Taiwn) bas been selected as a objective country because of its high rate of growth coupled with an improvement of the
Ina e distribution, its success in the divereification of production ad exports, the dominant role of exports in its economic development,
the htgh level of dometic savtigs and the low rate of urban snmployment despite a rural exodus.
IVORY COAST        1960    to  1957-58;    Lb  Africa population only;    tc  1955-65;    Id  1965;    /e  Ag4  15-59 years and 60 and over respectively;
lAf Rtio of population undr 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 years;    I6  1964;    /h  Population;
__  1963;    Li  Including assisttnt nurses, aidwivee ad sesistent sidwives;    /k  1956-57.
1970    /e  1965-70;    a   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force               /c  Govermernt only, including
midwivee;    Id  1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTmTE,    la   RAtio of population under 15 and 65 sod over to labor force age 15-59 years;    /b  Age 15-59 yesrs;
Ic  Population;    Id  1972.
TUNISIA            1970    /a  1956-66;    Lb  1966;    Ic  Ratio of populetion under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /d  Covering 4.5 million
hectares of privts lad, excluding 0.9 million hectares in public ownership, and 2.1 million hectsres of collective lend;
/a  Yersonsel in govriment services only;              Goverratn hospital sstablishmnts only;   /L  1964-66;    Ih  Excluding
trcnicel economy and technical industry;    /i  Registered only.
WAYS IA            1970    /a  peninsular Maleysis;    Lb  1964-66;    /c  Piped water in ide.
CtHNbi REPS OF    1970    /-  Crude birth rate and death rats are for ons year period, 1970, not arithmetic  verage;    /b  1966;    /c  Ratio of
population under 15 ad 65 and over to total labor force;   /d  Goverament only;    /e  Totel, urban and rural.
R12, March 24, 1978
DEFINITIObS OF SOCIAL nIDICATARS
Land Ares  (thou   2)                                                                      Population per nursinx person - Population divided by cumber of practicing
Total - Total  urfac  ares c-prisieg land  res and inland vater.                            mle and feale graduate nurses, "traind" or "certified' nurse, and
Aric  - Most recant ostixats of agriculturl ares ued temporarily or perot-                 auniliary peraconnl with troining or exper-ans.
saently for crops, p-tures, arkbt & kitchen gardens or to lie fall w.Population oat ho pital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
ava1ilable.in pubfilaicnd private gan...ral sod specialisd hospital and
.nP per capita (0S0   - GUP per capita *etiatss at currant  arket prices,                    rehabilitetion cantors; seclud-s   -teig hodse and sotablisohents for
calculOted by as  convarsion mthod aa World sotk Atlas (1973-75 bas.i);                   cutodial nd pr-ventive csre.
1960; 1970 and 1975 dt.                                                                  er capita upply of calories i2 of rasireenta) - Ceo puted free amergy
sqials  of It oo   spLes avi ibat  country per .spit. per day;
Ponulation and vitsl aticistic,                                                               vailable supplies c-eprisa dooeetic p-odutnio, ipn rta less enp-rt, and
Population (mid-est million)   Au of July firat: if not available, varage                   changse  in atock; oat supplis -exclude anl feed, sead., quantities us-d
of two end-year esttimat; 1160, 1970 and 1975 data                                        in food proneasing and loeas. in distribution; requirements wes restiasced
by PAO based on physiologic-l needs for noreal activIty and health .oopid-
Population density - par sous  Ion - Mid-year population per square kilotar                 sringt envtropnutl tepererurs, body weights, ags and se  diatribut,oJs  of
(100  hectares) of total area                                                             population, and allowing 10% for w-te at housahold I-el.
population density - ser qe re Ih   of  ric. land - Computed as sbove for                 Per osoita supply of protein (ar_se  pr da    - Protein content of par capit
agricultural Iand only.                                                                   net supply of fond pr day; nt supply of food is defined as sbove; rquire-
ments for a11 countris established by USDA Econitc Research Servicts
vical atatiatics                                                                             provide for a minion, allow- ace of 60 grem  of total protein per dsy, sd
Crude birth rats per thosand. srse - Annual lire birthe per thousand of                      20 grees of animl and pulse protein, of which 10 gra  should be spinal
mid-year population; ten-year  rithltic  verafas  ending in 1960 and 1970,                 protein; theas standards  ra lower them thoe of 75 gr     of total prca.in
and five-year ovrago anding in 1975 for neat rscent estimate,                              and 23 gras of animl protein as an ov-rag  for the world, proposed by FPO
Crude death rate ee- thousand. sveaae - Anu  dlatb  per thousand of aid-year                 in the Third World Food Survey
population; ten-year arithmetic sverage  ending in 1960 *nd 1970 and five-              Per capita rotein supplv free antml nd pulse - Protein supply of food
year  _vorags ending tn 1975 for nost recent estimate,                                     derived free aninals and pulses in gras per day.
Infant  Iortality rate C/thou) - A-nual deaths of nfant under one y.ar of age             Death rate  (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deerth  per thousand in age group 1-4
per thosand live birth.                                                                   ye-r, to children in this sge group;  uggeated  as an indicotor of
Life aepectncy at birth (yre) - Averaga nu.br of years of life remaining at                  molnutoititon.
birth; usally five-year averagee ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countis.                                                                            Education
Croa reproduction r-te - Aversge ouster of live daughters a womn will bar                  Adjtdnrolment ratio  - pri_ry school - Enrolm_nt of a11 agS.  a  par-
in her -omrol reproductive period if she experLe.oc   present ege-epecific                centago of priesry school-age population; includes childrn aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year average  emling in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 hut sdjuatod for different lengths of primary education; for countries vith
for developIng countria.                                                                  universal education, enroll- ent  sy exceed 100% atone  use pupils ar  b-lvv
Population orovth rate C) - total - Cospound amnl groth rate  of wid-year                    or above the officil school age.
population for i950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                             Ad1loted enrollmnt ratio- s condsry school - tompoted as  bovn; second-ry
Population erowtf rate (%) -  urban - Computd li'ke growth rta   of tota                     education require  at leat four years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban srea my affect ceeparability of                 providee xearral vocational or t.acher training inetr-ctions for pupila
dat  among countries,                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of agS; correspondence curses ar  gamerally excluded.
Urban population C% of toul) - Ratio of urban to total population; different               Years of schooling provided (fir  t and econd levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban ares may affect compya-biliry of date among countries                 schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may ha partially or
ceepletely secluded.
Age tructe (percent) - Chiidre  (0-i years), working-age (15-64 ye ),                      Vocational *nroln t                        vof seconday) - vocational inetitutione include
sad retired (h  yeatt-r and ovr) as percnauges of md-yer pnovpelton.                       technicaL, indus triaL or other Prauras which oper-te indapendently or s
A&re opodnc rti    - factio of populcton under 15 acd 65 sod over to th..o                   dep-r-nt  of acondary i-atitutiones.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                  Adult litoracy raeSLS_)  - Literate adults (able to read end write) as prr-
Economic dependeinc ra.tio- trtio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to                cescage of totel adult PPolo.tion aged 15l y t°r ad over.
rho labor forc  in ag   roup of 15-64 years.
Pattylv plonnino - acceptors (cmu nlerlo  thou) - Cumlative nusber of acceptore            HouioA
of hirth-control devicee undar au.pice.  of national fily  plauning progre               Persona per coon (urban) - Av,rag, number of persons per room in oucupiod
eceinception.                                                                           covnntdelnsin oran arose; due11iogs  -oolde  o-eenc
family plannine - users (% of married wasp) - Eercentages of mlacno-d wono of                eruccture  and unoccupi d pacts.
c.id-bearing  gs (15-4 years)  ho ue birth-control devices to a11 morriod                   ie usb-nga cicon piped water Ct)  - ocupied conventional dwellings
wanin em  Sf  group.                                                                                                               -(-P-           cv-in1dIig
icrhp In  rrleaecithcoct inside or cotaids piped wa ter f-cilitise
rasp lecIOet                                                                                 as perc_nteg. of a1 occupied dwelings.
Total labor force (thousand) - Econo- ically s.tiv- persona, including a.od                 -elCon-tc ..dectricityinlving q(% r ter as prent o coral dwo llincs i   ith
forcee  nd unamployed but excluding housewives, etudente, etc.; definitions                rura acreas
in va-ic-e countries are not comparable.                                                                                                  Cmpted a  sov
Labor force in soriculture it)  - Agricultural laIber force (in fsoning, foceerry,             dwellgs                                                          for ror
hunting and fiehing) as perrentage of total laiber force.
Unemployed (2 of labor force) - U.eeployed are isualIly defined as persona who             ConsunPtion
re     id       ling to tsk    job, ot of     b         gie  day, reeind o                 dio recivers (pr t ou Po ) - All typns of                far rdio broadc .. t
of avd job, andseking  ok for a speifi nt iationee period oar cexcedin.g oc g r  pubic per hsand ofoultn; e d   unlic                                            re t
nd poor t 102 of lond o n r;                                     t   for t p~~-bll  prt   thou .. dOtv   -fPOPu llp i;n; e -d.   unlrC&it,-d nr-iver
week; asp nor be tomparbla between cuoutries due to different definition                   iscucresad in years when registration of radio asta wa Ae effect;
of unepIeyed end source of data, e.g., aployeanr office  trrietica, seePIe                 data fun recent years may not be comparble sInce most tountrip   eboliehed
surveys, compelsery unemploymen't insurance.                                               IL._en ig.
1nc0me distributio  - Percentage of private ioncona  (both in cash and kind)                 leate1egtprsn;ecldsaulne,here   ndeltr
recaived by richest 5%, richeet 20%, Poorest :?U%, and poorest 4ft of hou.e-               v-hinle..
holds.                                                                                   ElcriiY (bob/yr pr cap) - Annual c-uoption of industrial, c               ril
Dttrib                                                              "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pblic and private electricity in kilmett hunts per .apit., ganscally
pitnb tio   f la do  rhp- Percntages of land wownd by woalthieet 10%                      base.d on prodction data, without allowae  for louses ip grids hot allo--
an  Peesr  0  o  adLwer.ig f or imports and exports of eetiiy
Helth ad Ntrition                                                                            ewsprint (s/yr per  cap) - Per capita annu-  consmption in kilogras
Population par Physici n - Population divided by stober of practicing                         "timat.d  fr-  doeati. prod-ti.. plu. o.t Iap.rt. of npri.t
physicians qualified froa a medical school at univerSity level.



-22-                                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 P.g4
(AWAtl In 
NAINLActual         76  1           Pro. eted             196:-   1976     1978      1985                7
12M     19711                       1-97b~_     1978  1985     1990              22i1197    A2fL
IlATIONlI ACC0141T
3-Year Average at 1i7- 1969 Prlces & Exchange  ates        Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product            1041     1479     22 5       2622      3984    54°4        7.2     8.1      6.2       6.3    105.9   103.6   109.4
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)     _8                 -          -28                           .       .           .            105.9    _3.6 
Gross Domestic Income                                          2~94                          q.0 98.4         5.        5.9    _5.0   10.0  9100.04
Import (incl. iFS)                348       570      826        974      1210    1472        8.2     8.6      3.1       4.o     35.4    38.1    33.2
EXports      (pimort capacity)   =                              -N -    -12     -1585        7.6     9.9      3.0       5.6             37.4      .1
Resource Gap                       -14                -I                                   1 -113                   . .  .        1.     .7       0.1
Consumption Expenditures          785      1162     1661       1795      2440    3098       7.1      4.0      4.5       4.9     79.9    76.6    67.0
Investment      (incl. stocks)   184        329      522        795      1208    1638      10.0    23.4       6.2      6.3      18.7    24.1    33.2
Domestic Savings                  198       347      506        799      1203    1751       8.9    25.6       6.o       7.8     20.1    23.3    33.0
National Savings                   138      271      406        672      1005    1527      10.3    28.7       5.9       8.7     14.0    18.7    27.6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                          Annual Data at Current Prices                                                        As Percent of Total
Timports
Capital goods                    61       111      417        870      1643    1933      21.1    44.0       9.5       3.2     23.9    28.1    41.8
Intermediate goods (1.fuels)    41         85      250        347       5      1727      17.8    17.6       7.8      14.0     16.1    14.2    15.0
Fuels and related materials       13       18      168        186       210     617       29.5     5.4      1.7      19.2      5.1    11.3      5.4
of which: Petroleum             4        14      142        170       190     580      43.0      9.4      3.4      19.0      1.6     9.6      4.8
Consumpt. cion                          .                go                        ods 14 0 64 5  17.2  2.3  12.0  11.9  .5As 46  _U_A
Total Mrob. Iinports (cl-f)  255  432     1484       2073     3923    6872       19.2    1a .o      ;       11.9    100.0  ioo.o  100o0
Exports
Primary products bocl. fuels)    246      394     1365       1918      2625    3984      16.8    18.6       4.5       8.6     86.o    78.4   64.9
Fuels and related materials      -          3       63         70        79     113                5.6      1.7       7.5      -       3.6      2.0
of which:  Petroleum           -          3       63         70        79     113         .      5.6      1.7       7.5      -      (3.6)   (2,0)
ManuSsctured goods               40 (19007         R78                                   22.8    14.4      17.7      12.1     flLQ    1.       .1
Total Merch. Exiports (fob)     286       497     1742 2                                                                       4041  64757  7  7     100.0   100.0   100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                    Average 1967-69   100
Export Price Index               79       104      218        276       338     448      10.7    12.3       3.4      5.8
Import Price Index               91        99      239        284      434      605      10.1     8.7       6.2      6.9
Terms of Trade Index             86      105        91         97       78       74       0.6      3.6     -2.8     -1.1
Exports Volume Index             89      114       181        206       316     437       7.3     6.7       6.3      6.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR            Annual Data at 1967- 60 Prices and Exchange Rates           Average Annual Growth Hates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                     365      426       550        600      753      881       4.2     4.6       3.6      3.2      35.1    25.0     18.9
Industry and Mining             173      287      465         535      841    1156       10.4     7.4      6.7       6.5     16.6    21.3      21.1
Service                          0       766     12320       1487     2           7       9.3     9-                  7.1    48.3     2        60.1
Total                          1041     1479     2245        %F       398454         8.             I                  2    100.0   100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                    As Percent of GDP
(C`entral Government)
Current Receipts                213      297      587         606      970    1226        7.6     1.6       7.0      6.2     21.6    27.1      26.6
Current Eenitures                                             4        68     1027        9.2     6.3       7.0      6.2     15.8    17.2      18.7
Budgetary Savings                58            66 214                 7290     199       13.9    -8.7      7.0      -7.0      5.9     9.9       8.c
Other Public Sector              24       75      154         605      382     655       20.0   100.0     -6.8      11.4      2.4     7.1     10.5
Public Sector Investment         90      158      368         786      672     854       15.1    47.0     -2.3       5.0      9.2    17.0     18.4
US $ million
CURRENT FXPENDITTURE DETAILS                 Actual        Prelim.   Est.    Proj.        DETAIL ON                             At end 1975  P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)            1965    1976       1977     1979   19P,         PUBLIC SECTOR
Education                              17.9    37.7      37.0      37.0    37.0        INESTMENT PROGRAM                            (1976-80)
Other Social Services                  10.4    13.0      11.5      10.8    10.5        Social Sectors                         1716          26
Agriculture                             4.6     2.9        3.3      3.0     3.0        Agriculture                            20146         31
Other Economic Services                16.5    19.0      20.5      17.2    17.0        Industry and Mining                     330           5
Administration and Defense             37.0    21.6      21,0      20.2    19.5        Power                                   726          L
Other              A1&    ..&          6.7      11.8   ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13.0  Transport and communications  1518  23
Total Current Expenditures            100.0  100.0    1100.0     00.0   100.0           other           4s
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ T oTotal   Expenditures   6600   100.
SELECTED INDICATORS                              1960-      1965-    1970-  1973-        FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)           1965      1970      1975    1978
Average ICOR                                      1 8       2.6                              Pablic Sector Savings             3894           59
Import Elasticity                                70.8           .4   0           1.0        Program aid counterpart             -            4
Makrginal Domestle Savings Rate                  0.18       0.22     0.30    0.25           ForeliganPrjctnAi                  2706         100.0
Marginal National Savings Rate                    0.12      0. 16    0.24    0.20           Total Financing                    6600         100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                               Total Labor Force                               Value Added Per Worker (1967-60   Prices   Exc. Rates)
OUTPlT PER WORKER                In Millions        % of Total          19 65 -73        In U.S.Dollars       erc    o    erage        19 65 - 73
19 65      19 73   19 65     19 n      Growth Rate        12-6       19 7        2 19 Ea  19 73      Growth Rate
Agriculture                   1743        2093    85.7       82.9         3.2              209       215       40.4       30.6         0.3
Industry                       143         234     7.6        9.2         6.4             1210      1513      234.0     215.2         -1.0
Service                        127         201     6.7        8.0         5:9              93                 764.6    687.8           2.6
Total                         2C13        2502    £.0   100.0             3.7              517       703      100.0     100.0          3.9
not applicable       - nil or negligible
not available       -- less than half the
smaliest unit shown



*23-                                                                            A     I
Pe. 3 Of 4 jaeg
MNA= OF PAC=" ME=t MhDBSM AND SD
tau n t;la lme 1 Ub-. ibD. ay, crn2 prlpeeI
AIR. LAnaul
Labial                           etimtad           -                         J     tedet                                     tkh  Rat.
lEn         D74          gnL    a2@                 It.            1p12         19W9        IW1UI a.2                   la 1Y82                 199   17923
Smwth MIANCE OF PADWITS
Bperts  (lncd. 273)                         987        1428         1480         1935          2529           2831         2973         3293         3627        4011         4467            10.0
IwePrt.Cinsl. NFS)                1W6.~                                                                     lS1 1973      2393        ...3290310   36          2 3983a      4     4         0 £
!esourcE  5>iE e  AI-It)                                 ~- S   -111              -38 1             3      b        -,- -                      17       3           22          59
Interest (net)                              -33         -38          -56          -50           -84           -116         -155         -190         -226        -263         -307           24.o
Direct Invetstent Ioon.                     -64         -53          -83          _60          -110          .-120         -100         -120         -134        -151         -169            7.4
Workers' Reittance                         -123        -139         -163.        -170          -254           -290          290         .290         -306         -333        -349             5 4
Current  Trt sera rnet)                       47                      21           40                         5                                                  32                           9.1
Bhianne sn CurrentAcounts                  -     2      1                                                    1=                                                                             9  i -> 2  zZ    3 19.l;2:
pri   te Direct Inveetment                   48          28           29           5°            50             60           70           so           90          100          112          14.4
official C.pits lrante                       17          15           19           17            20             20           20           20           20           20          20              0
Public #LT loane.                                                                                                                                                                            14.6
eiabureesente                            228          218          326          355           583            897          967         1078         118'        1212         1318
-Recayearet.                              _46          81          -90         -109          -150           -189         -403        -524         -60o6        -677         -778           31.0
Net  DieburCemieFta184 i4i                                         245              43-                       70            583          553          5            535         54033
Other M4LT Ioansi/
inebunoseents
-Repeaments                                                                                                                               o         -o           - 
Net Di.bur.                                       ene    ..          ..                                                                                     A*t-  ° -   °  °t °
Capital Transactions o.e.1.                 -21          28           51           -3          -100                                         r3 191 E                190     199(          1977
ChuN. in Net Reereec                         10         -87          178          -38          -112         DIfBO Alt DEBT 2120102
Public Debt Out. & Diecuroid  579            736       963       1183         1947
ReANT AND LOAN 22114ThEN13
oMAicial Grants & Grant-like                 15           19          17           20                          Interest on Public Debt         28         38         56        66           94
Repaymnnets ono Public Debt      44         77        81        109          150
Public 8210 loans                                                                                            cTtal        onblic uDebt Sebrte  72        115        137       175           244
I1RD                                        8          28          134           48                         Other Debt Senrice  (nt)          3          4          9         °            °
TDA                                                     0            0            0             0           Total Debt Service (net)         75        119       146        175          244
Other
Other Mnldtlateral                         37           34           6           2h            30         Brdeen o      Export Earnigs (S)
O-vercoonta                                21          47           51          121           170
Suppli_e                                   73          89          169          169           420           Public Debt Service               8          8         10         9           10
Fiancis  Tnatttiton                       139         131           87          484          1192           Total Debt Serviee                8          8         10         9           10
Bonds                                       9           0            0            0             0           TDScDirect Inveet. Tc.           14         12         16        12           13
Public, Lans.0                                          0            0            0             0
TctaT hiblic   17    cc                     2           rr       7      0       a      n 2   4  190v0 Aerage Terne of Public Debt
flUNk!.L DBr                                     Actual Debt Outst-.Pdint&onyDec.31o9?6                         Int. ae% Prior  sar DmD          4.8       5.2        5.8        5.6          7.9
brT Ald BM                                                                   'an-ku Amrt. as 9 Prior Te, mOaD   7.7                                     10.5        8.4        9.2         12.6
World B1ook 
MDA                                                    3.2                      0.3                         IDDb             t    i-.
cOthm natilts     l                                  79a5s 6.7                                              IR      9 Public Debt iO&          5.0       6.7        7.7        7.5          6.4
Gov-nters                                            2598.6                    21.9                              as 9 Public Debt Service    3.2         2.8        4.2        4.8         4.1
tuocli-c                                             371.7                     31.3
Financial Inotitutioc.                               330.0                     27.9                        IDA Debt out. & Disbureed
Bonds                                                19.6                       1.7                             as % Public Debt OtD           -          -         0.2       0.3          0.2
Public Debtsc.                                       ..L2i D.o                                                  an s      Public Debt Serrice   -         -          -         0.1          --
Total1 Public KUT1 Debt                             1133100.2
Other MNLT Debts
Sh-rt-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                                        staff estimate                      /iu.                 bi       &TL
act available                                                      o  cl or egllgtble                    3   intluSed in Public NiT Loans
not available .ep-ratly                                          t- les  thanc halt the
but included in total                                                 smalleat unit shn                                                                                           May 1974



- 24 -                   ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of April 30, 1978)
US$ Millions
Loan or      Fiscal                                         (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower            Purpose           Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
One           Credit Fully Disbursed                                7.5
Ten           Loans  Fully Disbursed                      52.8
686-IVC       1970   Ivory Coast        Cocoa              5.3                   0.5
761-IVC       1971   Ivory Coast        Highways II       20.5                   0.2
837-IVC       1972   Ivory Coast        Highways III    17.5                     0.9
938-IVC       1974   SOCATCI            Rubber             8.4                   2.1
981-IVC       1974   Ivory Coast        Telecom-          17.4                  14.9
munications
1069-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cocoa II          20.0                  15.2
1076-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Abidjan            9.0                   4.7
Sewerage
1077-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cotton            31.0                  25.4
1124-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Tourism            9.7                   9.1
1125-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Education II       5.0                   2.0
1161-IVC      1976   Ivory Coast        Highways V        43.0                  18.0
1162-IVC      1976   CCI                DFC                5.6                   5.6
1177-IVC      1976   BIDI               DFC                8.0                   6.4
1297-IVC      1976   CIMAO              Industry           3.5                   3.5
1347-IVC      1977   Ivory Coast        Urban Dev.        30.0                  28.8
1348-T-IVC   1977   Ivory Coast         Urban Dev.        14.0                  13.4
1382-IVC/1   1977   SODEPALM            Oil Palm &
Coconut          20.0                  20.0
1484-IVC/1   1978   Ivory Coast         Water Supply    16.0                    16.0
1490-IVC_/  1978   RAN                  Railway           23.0                  23.0
1501-IVC /1  1978   Ivory Coast         Feeder Roads    29.0                    29.0
TOTAL                                         388.7      7.5        238.7
of which has been repaid /2             13.0       -
TOTAL now outstanding                         375.7      7.5
Amount sold                           5.2
of which has been repaid /2   3.0         2.2       -
TOTAL now held by Bank & IDA                  373.5      7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                             238.7      0.0        238.7
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   As of March 31, 1978.



- 25 -                  ANNEX II
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of April 30, 1978)
--------US Dollars-------
Year     Obligor                          Type of        Loan      Equity      Total
Business
1965     Banque Ivoirienne                Industrial       -       204,000   204,000
de Developpement              Development
Industriel                    Bank
1978     do.                              do.              -       204,000   204,000
1977     Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.         Textiles                 880,000   880,000
Total gross commitments                          -    1,288,000 1,288,000
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid
Total commitment,s now
held by IFC                                    -    1,288,000 1,288,000



- 26 -                   ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Ln. No. 686            Cocoa Project:  US$7.5 million Loan of June 5, 1970;
Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978.
The project originally consisted of the planting of 18,800 ha of cocoa and
the rehabilitation of about 38,000 ha of existing cocoa plantations and the
Loan became effective in November 1970. The project was amended in April 1973
(R73-74) to reduce the rehabilitation component to 15,500 ha; this revised
program has been completed. Approximately 10,000 ha had been established
under the new planting program by the end of 1973 and about 6,000 ha in 1974.
The project had proceeded satisfactorily except for administrative problems
which have delayed the submission of requests for reimbursement. However,
the administration of this and the second cocoa project (Loan 1069-IVC) were
combined and an estimated 3,200 ha of cocoa were planted under the second
project. Savings of US$2.2 million resulting from the amendment and the
merging of the two projects were cancelled at the date of signing of the
second project. Disbursements for the reduced program have now been completed
and an additional balance of US$0.5 million remains undisbursed; ongoing
exchange of views with Government may lead to its cancellation.
Ln. No. 761            Second Highway Project:  US$20.5 million Loan of June 22,
1971; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Execution of the project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975. The
funds remaining under the loan are being used to finance supplementary studies
for the Urban Development Project.
Ln. No. 837            Third Highway Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: May 4, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
The maintenance and betterment programs are progressing satisfactorily. Con-
struction work for the pavement strengthening program started in March 1975;
contract amount is about 120 percent over appraisal estimates due to inflation
and modification of design standards.  The Government has agreed to finance
all overruns. Construction of the bridge and the urban development study for
Abidjan have been satisfactorily completed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                  ANNEX II
Ln. No. 938           Rubbier Plantation Project:  US$8.4 million Loan of
October 23, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to slow progress in the planting program and as a result of higher-than-
expected inflation, funds under this project will only cover plantation of
about 7,000 ha which is not expected to be completed before 1979 (the total
foreseen at appraisal was 13,500 ha). Co-lenders met in January 1976 to de-
cide on the continuation of the planting program. The Bank has agreed to
amend the Loan Agreement to reflect the reduced planting (Memorandum to the
Executive Directors R-76-240 of September 29, 1976). In September 1977 the
Government has announced the dissolution of SOCATCI, the Borrower under this
loan, one of a number of measures presently being taken to restructure the
agriculture sector. The Government has given assurances that it intends to
complete the project as amended in September 1976 and has decided to take
over the responsibilities as Borrower under this project. A Substitution Loan
Agreement was approved in March 1978 (Ref. R78-38).
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications Project:  US$25.0 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Government has awarded the contract for switching equipment to other than
the lowest evaluated bidder. Thus, the amount earmarked under this loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) was cancelled
as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). Financing by the Bank of the remaining three
components is expected to proceed in accordance with the guidelines.
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
More than 50 percent of the total planting foreseen for the five-year project
period was completed in 1976. Block plantings have been lagging behind due to
difficulties in infrastructure development. Disbursements are currently two
years behind project execution due to problems in establishing a system to
provide the necessary documentation and format for withdrawal applications. A
recent agreement with the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement to have withdrawal
applications prepared by the executing agency should speed up the process.
Ln. No. 1076          Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$9.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19,
1976; Closing Date; June 30, 1979.
Although construction works have already started, project execution is expected
to be delayed by about one year due to delays in procurement decisions. Work
is now progressing satisfactorily. Project costs are expected to be close to
appraisal estimates. The Abidjan sewerage and drainage sector's financial
situation is satisfactory.



- 28 -                  ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975; Closing Date:  March 31, 1982.
Physical progress of the project under CIDT is in line with appraisal estimates
and overall performance of CIDT is satisfactory. As a result of overestimated
increase in demand for food crops, marketing of the crops has caused problems.
Although the village water supply and feeder road program was originally
delayed, appropriate measures have now been taken to implement both programs.
Disbursements are currently two years behind project execution due to problems
in establishing a system to provide the necessary documentation and format for
withdrawal applications.  A recent agreement with the Caisse Autonome d'Amor-
tissement to have withdrawal applications prepared by the executing agency
should speed up the process.
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. The line of credit is expected
to be fully committed by the middle of this year.
Ln. No. 1125          Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million Loan of June 11,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Good progress is being made in provision of technical assistance. The studies
of regional training needs, legislation for vocational training and management
of educational TV are under way; plans are well advanced for the preparation
of an inventory of secondary school facilities. The design of project insti-
tutions is some twelve months behind schedule, but is now proceeding satisfac-
torily.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Construction of the Anyama-Agboville road and the pavement strengthening pro-
gram started at the beginning of 1976 and is progressing satisfactorily. Con-
sultants have started the engineering studies provided for under the project.
UNDP was originally to finance the updating of the transport survey but cannot
do so due to lack of funds. The Government has agreed to amend the Loan Agree-
ment to include financing of the survey in this loan.
Ln. No. 1162          Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Initial commitments by Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire, the project's financial
intermediary, have been slow. However, the line of credit is expected to be
about 80 percent committed by this fall.



- 29 -                  ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1177          BIDI DFC Project:  US$8.0 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
Three sub-projects have been approved; others are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1297          CIMAO Project:  US$3.5 million Loan of June 28, 1976;
Effectiveness Date:  April 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The first regional industrial venture in West Africa, co-financed by seven
other official aid agencies, is proceeding satisfactorily. Financing arrange-
ments are on schedule. Procurement is proceeding according to plan: the most
important contract - for raw mills and kilns - has been awarded.
Ln. No. 1347          Urban Development Project:  US$44.0 million.  Loans
and 1348-T            (US$30.0 million and US$14.0 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: March 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Although the project becanme effective only recently, many of the project
components, such as sewerage and highway construction works, studies and
technical assistance have already started with Government prefinancing.
Overall project execution is about six months behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1382 1/       Fourth Oil Palm Project:  US$20 million Loan of March 30,
1_ 7;,Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Ln. No. 1484 1/       Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:  US$16 million.
Loan of September 9, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30,
1981.
Procurement is under way.
Ln. No. 1490 1/       RegiDnal Railway Project:  US$23 million.  Loan of
November 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Ln. No. 1501 1/       Feeder Roads and Highway maintenance Project:  US$29
million loan of December 22, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
1/   Not yet effective.



- 30 -                  ANNEX III
SECOND GRAND BEREBY RUBBER PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I
Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Identification
Preparation Report
(Ministry of Agriculture)                     January 1977
(b)  Appraisal Mission                              April/May 1977
(c)  Post-Appraisal Mission                         November 1977
(d)  Negotiations                                   April 1978
(e)  Loan Effectiveness Planned                     September 1978
Section II
Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III
1.        Special conditions in the Loan Agreement are that:
(a) The Government would discuss with the Bank new management
arrangements for the project by December 31, 1978 and that
a new management structure satisfactory to the Bank would
be implemented by December 31, 1979 (para. 39 of this
report);
(b) The Government would extend the land concession by December 31,
1978 to include an area large enough to contain at least
500 ha of land suitable for rubber plantation (para. 43);
(c) The Government would upgrade the road connection between
the project area and San Pedro by December 31, 1978 (para. 44);
(d) The terms of reference for the feasibility study of the
smallholder component would be submitted to the Bank not
later than December 31, 1978 (para. 50);



- 31 -                  ANNEX III
(e) The Government would use its best efforts to cause
SATAC to appoint independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank and the audit reports would be sent to the
Bank not later than six months after the closing of
the financial year (para. 57).
2.        Special condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan would
be:
(a) The effectiveness of the Substitution Loan Agreement
(para. 38);
(b) The effectiveness of the CCCE and the FED Loan Agree-
ments (para. 53);
(c) That the Bank receive from the Borrower, satisfactory
assurances that the BEI loan would be forthcoming (para.
53); and
(d) That the Bank receive written confirmation from SATAC
that SATAC would have its accounts audited by independent
auditors (para. 57).






IBRD 13092
GRAND BEREBY II RUBBER P.ROJECT                                                                       _..
POPULAtON'
. t                      tt A                N6                    -t\                               $ . . ..... ;
v < * ) * ~~Gon                                 , ,y* .,OodiqdoL4                                     -         :*-  InCmi*_
I                            Mor   >V~ on    o^   oF                                                                m %          :
r          0~~~~0NNE
,~~~~~~~~~ -   H                    o~io                                    ERKESSEDU00       ,~~     O'."< u>~ <>- N.
N~~~~~~~~~~*N*
-    -tzf    -  ,, ;>   i-A\&e ;-   :                                                                            </-   I~Bo
._   ' Z   {/  \   '      ,    '  t/Khogo SY /j         J    '          *                                               > 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' _,.                                                       >o'ObkI   )    Dor t\     
J -1
T
)~~~~~~~                                                                      ~~ _Uo  4'J. .-    *      C<A; o
ANe
I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0'.      7}:1                                                             .      \         
.8/00 6                              :      .         GTDNd Lohou   \       P     Jolid 8Ossomg I   f ,_ PA,V
A F R I C A   /    RUbbEP ESTTE,- >>                                Gul f    o f     Gs e a             /
A F R I C A
6,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6,
<66~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 2040608   0
AFRICA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






I B R D 13093
SEPTEMBRR 1977
IVORY COAST
GRAND BEREBY RUBBER ESTATE                                                                                                  7
PLANTING PROGRAMS -NN
FIRST PROJECT 1972 - 8
SECOND. PRO  FCT  919 1992
2       2---
KILOMETES                                                                            2      2
I  N>                              K~~~A  K 0
7      A                                                               N.~~~~B    
0 K072020
0Ko,~~~~~~~~ 0K                                                                                                76        110
7  1980~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18              .5
/     0Ko1        K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...                        ,8
0Ko2                                   K  '2<~~~~~~                                                                     .,    112 .
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   0
1970  S         0
OA OA           0
lake M IT       V'
S. P.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RLE' RJC
Cj  AILLAS     P.EIS
CNOBOANDRIS
-   ROAD-4
A--C PRIMAR
~~W T'l A WT I c  0 c f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9000 10



