LOAN NUMBER 1575 IVC
(Substitution)
Project Agreement
(Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE DES CAOUTCHOUCS DE GRAND BEREBY
Dated                                1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1575 IVC
(Substitution)
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON RUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called "the Bank") and SOCIETE DES CAOUTCHOUCS DE GRAND BEREBY
(hereinafter called "SO.G.B.").
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of the Ivory Coast (hereinafter called "the
Borrower") and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to continue to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that SO.G.B. agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank
as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a Management Contract to be entered into between the
Borrower and SO.G.B., the proceeds of the Loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to SO.G.B. on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SO.G.B., in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise requi:e, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SO.G.B. shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with the Management Contract and with
appropriate administrative, agricultural, industrial, construc-
tion, engineering, commercial and financial practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist SO.G.B. in the execution
of the Project, SO.G.B. shall enter into the Technical Assistance
Contract, the Construction Contract and the Sales Contract,
the terms and conditions of which shall at all times be satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) SO.G.B. shall duly perform its obligations under the
Technical Assistance Contract, the Construction Contract and the
Sales Contract and shall exercise its rights under such contracts
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, SO.G.B. shall not
terminate, suspend, waive, abrogate, assign, modify, renew or
amend the Technical Assistance Contract, the Construction Contract
and the Sales Contract or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project,
except for Part F, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SO.G.B. undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by SO.G.B. to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, SO.G.B. shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SO.G.B. shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) SO.G.B.: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-3-
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the faci-
lities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower,
SO.G.B. and the Bank, SO.G.B. shall prepare, in cooperation with
the Borrower, and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
SO.G.B. and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(d) SO.G.B. shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SO.G.B. and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. SO.G.B. shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Management Contract. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, SO.G.B. shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of terminating, suspending, waiving, abrogating,
assigning, modifying or amending the Management Contract or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) SO.G.B. shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Management Contract, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) SO.G.B. shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by SO.G.B. of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Management Contract.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SO.G.B.
Section 3.01. SO.G.B. shall manage its affairs in accordance
with appropriate administrative, agricultural, construction,
engineering, commercial and financial practices and under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management and staff.
Section 3.02. SO.G.B. shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 3.03. SO.G.B. shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. (a) SO.G.B. shall at all times employ, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a person responsible for
each of the following functions: finance, administration, planta-
tion, agricultural techniques, industrial techniques, and labora-
tory work, whose qualifications and experience shall at all times
be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) SO.G.B. shall progressively employ Ivorian staff able to
assume responsibility of the positions referred to in paragraph
(a) above whose qualifications and experience shall at all times
be satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) SO.G.B. shall submit to the Borrower for its approval,
not later than December 31, 1980 a detailed training program for
the duration of the Project.
Section 3.05. SO.G.B. shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained all facilities and equipment constructed or provided
under the Project; (ii) promptly make or cause to be made all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof in accordance with appro-
priate practices; and (iii) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
foregoing purposes.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SO.G.B. shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained. appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SO.G.B. shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) cer-
tified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of SO.G.B. and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. Until the completion of the Project, SO.G.B.
shall furnish to the Bank copies of its draft annual budgets
and other financial plans relating to the Project before the
beginning of the fiscal year to which they relate and, upon their
adoption, shall promptly transmit copies of such annual budgets
and financial plans to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of SO.G.B. thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify SO.G.B. thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwith%atanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SO. G. B.:
Soci6tg des Caoutchoucs
de Grand Bereby
12 B.P. 478
Abidjan 12
Ivory Coast
Telex:
3888 SOGB AJ
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreeme,t on behalf of SO.G.B., or by SO.G.B. on behalf of


﻿-7-
the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Director-General of SO.G.B. or such other person or persons as
he shall designate in writing, and SO.G.B. shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE DES CAOUTCHOUCS DE GRAND BEREBY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and C hereof, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for civil works included in the Project
shall be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans* and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to
the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, SO.G.B.
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
and works in question. SO.G.B. shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, identical or similar items shall
be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk procure-
ment.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $100,000 may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank; provided, however, that the esti-
mated price of the contracts so procured shall not, in the
aggregate, exceed $500,000.


﻿-9-
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works under Parts C and D and maintenance, land clear-
ing and agricultural works under Parts A and B of the Project may
be carried out by force account. In the event that any or all of
the aforesaid works are carried out by force account, procurement
of spare parts with respect thereto shall be awarded in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank on the basis of local
competitive bidding, price quotations or direct purchases, as may
be agreed with the Bank from time to time.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to SO.G.B. of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Ivory Coast and to be procured in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A.1 of this
Schedule may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
1.   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of SO.G.B. and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Ivory Coast equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.


﻿- 10 -
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c), is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts with respect to all contracts for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, SO.G.B. shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SO.G.B.
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award


﻿- 11 -
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform SO.G.B. and the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
SO.G.B. shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its   execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of   the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform SO.G.B. and the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   6k     dayof 0--,198CL.
FOR SECRETARY


