CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1575 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Second Grand-Bereby Rubber Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 9, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1575 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY
COAST (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract with the European
Development Fund (hereinafter called FED) for a loan (hereinafter
called the FED Loan) in an amount equivalent to four million,
eight hundred and fifty-five thousand European Units of Account
(E.U.A. 4,855,000), equivalent to about $5,500,000, to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement to be entered into between FED and the
Borrower (hereinafter called the FED Loan Agreement);
(C) the Borrower intends to contract with the Caisse
Centrale de Coopfration Economique (hereinafter called CCCE) for
a loan (hereinafter called the CCCE Loan) in an amount of forty
million, six hundred thousand French Francs (FF40,600,000), equiv-
alent to about $8,300,000, to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to
be entered into between CCCE and the Borrower (hereinafter called
the CCCE Loan Agreement);
(D) the Borrower intends to contract with the European
Investment Bank (hereinafter called BEI) for a loan (hereinafter
called the BEI Loan) in European Units of Account, equivalent to
not less than $4,500,000, to assist in financing Part F of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
to be entered into between BEI and the Borrower (hereinafter
called the BEI Loan Agreement);
(E) the Borrower is to entrust the management of the Program
until December 31, 1985 to a company satisfactory to the Bank
(hereinafter called the Manager);
(F) a contract (hereinafter called the Management Con-
tract) is to be entered into, on conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, between the Borrower, la Sociftf d'Applications
Techniques Agricoles et Caoutchoutiares (hereinafter
called SATAC), a company established and operating under the


﻿- 2 -
laws of the Borrower as a wholly owned subsidiary of la Compagnie
Gfnerale des Etablissements Michelin       (he-einafter called
CGEM), a company established and operating under the laws of the
Republic of France, and CGEM, by the terms of which SATAC is to
act as the Manager of the Program until December 31, 1985, and
ensure its proper administration and implementation; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "CFA francs" and "CFAF" mean the currency of the Bor-
rower;
(b) ."Concession" means the Estate plus an adjoining approx-
imately 25,000 hectares;
(c) "Estate" means approximately 13,500 hectares of rubber
tree planting in the vicinity of Grand-Bereby required under
the Program;
(d) "Program" means the Borrower's 1972-1990 program for
developing and bringing into full production the Estate, together
with all necessary ancillary facilities such as plantation roads,
buildings and an appropriately designed rubber processing plant;


﻿-3-
(e) "1973 Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement (Grand-
Bereby Rubber Project) (Loan Number 938 IVC) between the Bank
and Soci6te des Caoutchoucs de Cfte d'Ivoire dated Octo-
ber 23, 1973;
(f) "Substitution Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement
(Grand-Bereby Rubber Project) (Loan Number 938 IVC) between
the Borrower and the Bank dated June 9, 1978; and
(g) "first project" means the project described in Schedule
1 to the 1973 Loan Agreement, as amended, and as subsequently
altered in the substitution therefor as provided in Schedule 1 to
the Substitution Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.5%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Agriculture with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agri-
cultural, industrial, engineering, commercial and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to supervise the execution of
the Project, the Borrower shall adequately staff and maintain a
Project supervision unit within its Ministry of Agriculture to be
known as the Cellule Hfvea.
(b) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) duly perform its obliga-
tions under the Management Contract and shall consult with the
Bank sufficiently in advance of terminating, modifying or amending
the Management Contract so as to give the Bank reasonable time to
provide its comments thereon; and (ii) at all times, cause the
Manager to employ, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, a Directeur de Plantation, a Chef du Dfpartement Adminis-
tratif, a Chef du Dfpartement Op&rations/Exploitation, a Chef
du Departement des Techniques Agricoles, and a Chef de Dfparte-
ment des Techniques Industrielles, all of whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof


﻿-5-
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
-  e Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out if the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
.        and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and


﻿- 6 -
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, by Decem-
ber 31, 1978 or such other date as may be agreeable to the Bank,
establish all title to and rights in respect of the Concession,
free from all restrictions, encumbrances or liabilities on the use
thereof.
Section 3.06. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank copies of its draft annual
budgets and other financial plans relating to the Project at least
three months before the beginning of the fiscal year to which they
relate and, upon their adoption, shall promptly transmit copies of
such annual budgets and financial plans to the Bank.
Section 3.07. Through its Institut de Recherches sur le
Caoutchouc, the Borrower shall, on a timely basis, provide the
Estate with seeds in such quantity and of such quality as shall,
from time to time, be required for the execution of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) By December 31, 1978 or such other date
as may be agreeable to the Bank, the Borrower shall submit
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank for the preparation of a
study of the feasibility of the local farmers' outgrowers' program
under Part E (i) of the Project and thereP1,.r the Borrower shall
prepare or cause to be prepared such study.
(b) The establishment of the local farmers' outgrowers'
program under Part E of the Project shall occur only following
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank on the recommendations
and the steps required to implement them contained in the study
prepared pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall consult the Bank prior to
any change of Manager and shall provide the Bank with a draft of
any new management contract sufficiently in advance of the signing
thereof so as to give the Bank reasonable time to provide its
comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿- 7 -
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower, provided, however, that for the purposes of this Section
the term "entity" shall not apply to Ivory Coast State Companies
which are organized as business corporations in accordance with
laws and regulations applicable to private companies and whose
activities are not reflected in the Borrower's budget, except that
the provisions of this Section shall apply to any such entity to
the extent that it would hold any foreign exchange assets on
behalf of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall, until one year after the Closing
Date, retain or cause to be retained all records (orders, in-
voices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures
relating to Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to inspect such records.
(c) Within 3 months of the completion of each of the Bor-
rower's fiscal years, until and including such year during which
the Project is completed, or such other dates as may be agreeable
to the Bank, the Borrower shall cause its Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement to prepare and submit to the Bank a statement, in
form satisfactory to the Bank, of all funds and the sources
thereof received by the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement for the
purpose of the Program during the preceding fiscal year of the
Borrower.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall employ its best efforts
in order that the Manager maintains records adequate to reflect,
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, the operations and financial condition of the Manager.
(b) The Borrower shall employ its best efforts in order
that the Manager: (i) has its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) with respect to the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnishes to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnishes to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Manager
with respect to the Project and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1978 or
such other date as may be agreeable to the Bank, improve or cause


﻿- 9 -
to be improved the portion of the existing San Pedro-Tabou road
between San Pedro and the point at which said road leaves the
Estate in the direction of Tabou in order to meet standards
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) thereafter at all times maintain and
repair or cause to be maintained and repaired the said road in
accordance with appropriate highway maintenance practices, so as
to permit all season traffic; and (iii) provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the foregoing purposes.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Bank to provide the schools included in the Project
with (i) qualified teachers in such numbers as shall be necessary
for their efficient operation, and (ii) the funds necessary
for the efficient operation and maintenance of the said schools
and to provide for the salaries of the said teachers.
Section 4.06. As and from January 1, 1983, the Borrower shall
provide such funds on a timely basis as are required:
(a) to ensure that the Estate is properly brought to matur-
ity;
(b) to build, extend and maintain the facilities required
to process properly the entire production of the Estate and of the
local outgrowers adjacent thereto; and
(c) to ensure the debt service of all loans obtained for
purposes of the first project and of all loans obtained for
purposes of the Project.
Section 4.07. By December 31, 1978 or such other date as may
be agreeable to the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and submit to
the Bank, for discussion, a policy paper on the structuring and
development of rubber cultivation in the Ivory Coast.
Section 4.08. In the event that the Borrower proposes to
enter into any agreement transferring to any company, person
or other entity all or part of the Borrower's rights with respect
to the marketing of rubber produced from the Estate, the Borrower
shall (i) provide the Bank with a copy of any such proposed
agreement as soon as such is available, and (ii) allow the Bank
not less than sixty days prior to the date of execution of such
agreement to make comments thereon to the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.09. (a) By December 31, 1978 or such other date as
may be agreeable to the Bank, the Borrower shall discuss with
the Bank its plans with respect to the institutional arrangements
required to be implemented in order to achieve the Project's
objectives and assure that the Program is carried out properly and
efficiently, having due regard for the need for responsible
financial and commercial operation of the Estate and of the
facilities under Part F of the Project.
(b) By December 31, 1979 or such other date as may be
agreeable to the Bank, the Borrower shall (i) adopt such plans as
are satisfactory to the Bank for these purposes, and (ii) take all
such measures as may be necessary and available to it in order to
implement such plans.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained all facilities and equipment constructed or provided
under Parts C, D, F and G of the Project; (ii) promptly make or
cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof in
accordance with appropriate practices; and (iii) provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the foregoing purposes.
Section 4.11. The Borrower recognizes that in order to
be able to make full productive use of their land and the Project
facilities, all farmers under Part E of the Project must have
access to sufficient agricultural credit on conditions acceptable
to the Bank as needed.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the execution of the BEI Loan Agreement shall not have
taken place by January 1, 1979;
(b) the measures necessary to implement the plans referred
to in Section 4.09 (b) of this Agreement shall not have been taken
by December 31, 1979;
(c) the Management Contract shall have been suspended,
waived, terminated or, in any material respect, amended, without
the prior approval of the Bank;


﻿- 11 -
(d) the Borrower shall have changed the Manager without the
prior approval of the Bank or on terms and conditions unsatisfac-
tory to the Bank; and
(e) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project,
including the FED Loan, the CCCE Loan and the
BEI Loan, having an original maturity of one
year or more, shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement provid-
ing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) (i)
(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall hav. been given by the
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:


﻿- 12 -
(a) the conditions of effectiveness of the Substitution
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled;
(b) the conditions of effectiveness of the CCCE Loan Agree-
ment and the FED Loan Agreement, other than the effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement which may be provided for in such Agreements,
have been fulfilled;
(c) an assurance, satisfactory to the Bank, has been pro-
vided by the Borrower to the Bank that the BEI Loan shall be
forthcoming; and
(d) an authorized representative of the Manager has
confirmed to the Bank in writing that the Manager shall take all
measures necessary in order that the Borrower can comply fully
with its obligations pursuant to Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date October 9, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre de l'Economie, des Finances et du
Plan of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministare de l'Economie, des
Finances et du Plan
B.P. V125
Abidjan
Ivory Coast
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFIN                             MINIFIN 747
Abidjan                             Abidjan


﻿- 13 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
By /s/ Timothee Ahoua N'Guetta
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1* The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Direct agricul-
tural costs for
maintenance of
existing 7,000
ha and for ex-
tension of
6,500 ha
(a) agricultural            1,500,000        49.5%
inputs, includ-
ing sprayers,
fertilizer and
chemicals
(b) agricultural            4,900,000        49.5%
labor and
other operat-
ing costs
(2) Construction of              1,500,000       49.5%
housing, villages
and social infra-
structure
(3) Vehicles and equip-          1,300,000       49.5%
ment
(4) Outgrowers' program            200,000       49.5%


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(5) Staff salaries, man-        6,100,000        49.5%
agement fees and
other operating ex-
penses
(6) Unallocated                 4,500,000
TOTAL        20,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentage has been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
.raph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order


﻿- 16 -
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the second phase (1978-1984) of the
Borrower's 1972-1990 Program for developing and bringing into
full production a rubber estate of approximately 13,500 hectares
and the first phase of an outgrowers' program covering approxi-
mately 500 hectares in the vicinity of Grand-Bereby, together with
ancillary facilities such as roads and buildings and an appro-
priate processing plant.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Maintenance of rubber trees planted and access roads
built pursuant to the 1973 Loan Agreement and the
Substitution Loan Agreement.
Part B:   Land clearing, planting of rubber trees and maintenance
of an area of approximately 6,500 hectares, in addition
to the approximately 7,000 hectares planted pursuant
to the 1973 Loan Agreement and the Substitution Loan
Agreement.
Part C:   Construction of access roads and maintenance of such
roads.
Part D:   Construction of housing and construction of and equip-
ment for schools, dispensaries and other Project-related
infrastructure.
Part E:   (i) Establishment of a local farmers' outgrowers'
program covering approximately 500 hectares of
rubber tree planting on the basis of a feasibility
study in this respect.
(ii) Provision to such farmers of agricultural credit
and extension services.
Part F:   Construction of, and equipment for, a rubber processing
factory and related investments.
Part G:   Provision of vehicles and related equipment.


﻿- 18 -
Part H:   Financing of management services, technical assistance,
salaries and operational costs.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1982
through   October 15, 1994                   770,000
On April 15, 1995                                 750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.65%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.85%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                             6.60%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.50%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and C hereof, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for civil works included in the Project
shall be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to
the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, identical or similar items shall
be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk procure-
ment.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $100,000 may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank; provided, however, that the esti-
mated price of the contracts so procured shall not, in the
aggregate, exceed $500,000.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works under
Part F of the Project shall be procured in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the BEI.


﻿- 22 -
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works under Parts C and D of the Project, and mainte-
nance, land clearing and agricultural works under Parts A and B
of the Project, may be carried out by force account by the Bor-
rower. In the event that any or all of the aforesaid works are
carried out by force account, procurement of spare parts with
respect thereto shall be awarded in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank on the basis of local competitive bidding,
price quotations or direct purchases, as may be agreed with the
Bank from time to time.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Ivory Coast aLd to be procured in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A.1 of this
Schedule may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Ivory Coast equal to


﻿- 23 -
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Ivory Coast.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest eval Ated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c), is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts with respect to all contracts for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said


﻿- 24 -
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ frcm those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


