CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 828 BR
Loan Agreement
(COSIPA Steel Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
COMPANHIA SIDERURGICA PAULISTA - COSIPA
DATED JUNE 14, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 828 BR
Loan Agreement
(COSIPA Steel Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
COMPANHIA SIDERURGICA PAULISTA - COSIPA
DATED JUNE 14, 1972


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and COMPANHIA SIDERURGICA PAULISTA - COSIPA (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof and
to the amendment of Section 6.02 (i) thereof to read as follows: "Any event
specified in paragraph (e) or (f) of Section 7.01 shall have occurred." (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "1IDB" means Inter-American Development Bank.
(b)   "IDB loan" means the loan of $43,000,000 equivalent made or to
be made by IDB to the Borrower for purposes of the Project, and
"IDB loan contract" means the contract providing for the IDB loan.
(c)   "Memorandum" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Bank and IDB, providing, inter alia, in respect of the Project, for
coordination between them with regard to procurement of goods and
services and disbursement of funds from the Loan and the IDB loan
for the Project, and with regard to supervision procedures and exchange
of information in respect of the Project.
(d)   "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or


﻿4
effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more
Subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more
of its Subsidiaries; "MFM" means MineraVao Ferro e Manganes S.A.
and "CPD" means COSIPA - Processamento de Dados, Ltda., both
Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
(e)   "CSN" means Companhia Siderurgica Nac;onal.
(f)   "USIMINAS" means Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais S.A. -
USIMINAS.
(g)   "Steel Companies" means the Borrower, CSN and USIMINAS.
(h)   "BNDE" means Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico
(BNDE), an empresa publica of the Guarantor established pursuant
to Law No. 5662 dated June 21, 1971 of the Guarantor.
(i)   "BNDE Shareholder Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and BNDE whereby BNDE agrees, inter
alia, to undertake certain obligations in respect of the provision of
funds to the Borrower.
(j)   "Stage I Expansion" means the expansion program of the Borrower
presently being carried out by the Borrower and the purpose of which
is to increase the production capacity of the Borrower from about
0.6 million metric tons per year of raw steel to about 1.0 million
metric tons per year in order to produce about 0.75 million metric
tons per year of non-coated flat steel products.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty-four million five hundred thousand dollars
($64,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the resi 9nable cost of goods


﻿5
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed under the Loan Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made: (a) on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories; or (b) in respect of gcods and services which, in the opinion of
the Bank, shall be eligible for financing under the IDB loan, the Borrower shall
not be eligible to withdraw from the Loan Account an amount exceeding 60%
of the cost of such goods and services.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods and services
(other than services referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement) required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be January 15, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of seven and
one-fourth per cent (7-1/4%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. If and when the Bank shall from time to time request, the
Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds representing the principal amount of
the Loan as provided in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Presidente and one Dire tor of the Borrower and such other
person or persons as they shall jointly appoint in writing are designated as


﻿6
authorized representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 8.10 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IH
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, financial and
administrative practices.
(b)   The Borrower shall make its best efforts to obtain credit for use in
financing the cost of goods required for the Project and not financed under the
Loan Agreement or the IDB loan contract or as required by the BNDE Shareholder
Agreement or out of the Borrower's own resources, such credit to be on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)   The Borrower covenants that: (i) all goods required for the Project
and not financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the IDB loan shall be consistent
with design criteria and other technical specifications which are appropriate to the
Project; and (ii) such goods shall be acquired on the basis of international
competition among suppliers which are able to provide the credit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the engineering
design, procurement, approval of manufacturers' drawings and specifications,
inspection and expediting of delivery of equipment, supervision of construction
and erection, and start-up and initial operations of the Project, the Borrower shall
make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the employment of competent
and experienced specialized firms or experts upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the civil engineering, building and erection work
required for the Project, the Borrower shall employ qualified and experienced
contractors; provided, however, that, if at any time (i) actual representative unit
costs quoted for items for the Project, adjusted by the applicable civil construction
index published by the Getulio Vargas Foundation of the Guarantor, differ
substantially from similar items in the Stage I Expansion; or (ii) local contractors
are unable to meet the Project execution schedule shown in the Annex to Schedule
2 to the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall take all steps necessary or advisable
to utilize the services of contractors (including foreign contractors) who shall be


﻿7
in a position to provide such services on reasonable terms and in accordance with
such Schedule.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and sorvices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of Section 6.03
of this Agreement, enable the Bank's representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times carry on its operations,
manage its affairs, plan the future development of its business and undertaking,
and maintain its financial position all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and administrative practices, and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out and complete the Stage I Expansion with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, financial
and administrative practices.


﻿8
(c)   The Borrower shall operate and m.intain its plant, equipment,
properties and facilities and make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall duly perform its obligations under the IDB
loan contract and shall not, without the prior consent of the Bank, take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of assigning, revoking, suspending,
cancelling or abrogating such agreement, or amend or waive in whole or in part,
any provision of such contract.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary
to, without the consent of the Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
any properties or assets of the Borrower or such Subsidiary which shall be required
for the efficient carrying out of the Borrower's business and undertaking, including
the carrying out of the Project; provided, however, that, without limitation upon
the provisions of Section 5.06 and 5.07 of this Agreement: (i) the Borrower's
iron ore, limestone and dolomite mines, mining rights and equipment and other
properties required for mining, handling, beneficiation and transportation of raw
materials may be transferred by the Borrower to MFM; and (ii) the Borrower's
installations, equipment and other properties required for data processing, and
related activities may be transferred by the Borrower to CPD, both such transfers
to be made on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall at all times take all steps necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on its operations, including
the Project, and shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps
necessary to acquire and to retain such land, interests in land and properties, and
to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, consents, franchises or other rights,
as may be necessary or useful for the construction and operation of the Project
and the conduct of its business and undertaking.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
obtain title to all goods financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of the
Loan and the IDB loan free and clear of all liens.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures to ensure that
the execution and operation of the Project are carried out with due regard to
ecological and environmental factors.


﻿9
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall: (a) employ, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, qualified and experienced consultants
in order to assist the Borrower in studying the coordination of the Borrower's
departments and in making recommendations for its reorganization and
improvement of its management and information system; and (b) make such
appropriate use of the recommendations referred to in (a) above as shall, in the
opinion of the Bank and the Borrower, contribute to the efficient carrying out
of the Borrower's planned expansion.
Section 4.09. In view of the need to safeguard its competitive position, the
Borrower shall not, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, consume, after completion
of the Project, in any one year, more than 20% of coking coal with an ash content
greater than 15% if the average delivered price (before customs and other similar
duties, if any) per fixed carbon unit of such coal exceeds by more than the
equivalent of $0.10 that of high grade, coking coal with an ash content of less
than 8% and fixed carbon greater than 60%.
Section 4.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not lose control of the majority of the voting shares of stock of any Subsidiary.
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall cause the Subsidiaries to observe and
perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the extent to which such
obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations were
binding upon such Subsidiaries.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause each of its
Subsidiaries to maintain, records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries
to (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the end of each such fiscal year:
(A) certified copies of such financial statements for such year as so audited, (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, and (C) conformed copies of the -aid


﻿10
financial statements and auditors report; and (iii) furnish to the BanI such other
information (including quarterly financial information within 45 days of the end
of each quarter) concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and such Subsidiaries and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request, such financial statements to be furnished to the Bank together
with the adjustments recommended by the Borrower's independent auditors.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents and warrants that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt,
except as disclosed in writing to the Bank.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not create
or suffer to be created any lien on any of its assets in favor of third parties unless
the Borrower shall at the same time create in favor of the Bank, and at no cost
to the Bank or the holders of the Bonds, a lien satisfactory to the Bank which
shall secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan and the Bonds; provided, however, that the provisions of this Section
shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (ii)
any lien arising in the ordinary course of a banking transaction and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date; or (iii) any lien on commercial
goods to secure a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred and to be paid out of the proceeds of sale of such
commercial goods.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if the Borrower shall
directly or indirectly pay or otherwise settle for a consideration (except by
exchanging long-term debt of the Borrower for shares of stock of the Borrower)
before maturity, part or all of the IDB loan, or any other outstanding long-term
debt of the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepay a proportionate part, or all, as
the case may be, of the Loan and the Bonds. For the purposes of this Section,
"long-term debt" means debt maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date of its incurrence.
Section 5.05. Except for debt incurred by the Borrower as permitted under
this Agreement and the BNDE Shareholder Agreement, the Borrower, unless the
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, shall not, and shall cause each of
its Subsidiaries not to, incur any debt, if after the incurring of such debt: (i)
the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries then incurred and
outstanding would be greater than the consolidated equity of the Borrower and
all its Subsidiaries; or (ii) the consolidated internal cash generation of the Borrower
and all its Subsidiaries for the twelve-month period next preceding the incurrence


﻿11
of such debt would be less than twice the estimated maximum debt service
requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on the consolidated debt of the Borrower
and all its Subsidiaries, including the debt proposed to be incurred. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a)   "Debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement on the date and to the extent it is drawn down pursuant to such loan
or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)   "Consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries" means
the total amount of debt of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries, but excluding
'debt owed by the Borrower to any of its Subsidiaries or by any of its Subsidiaries
to the Borrower or to any other Subsidiary.
(d)   "Consolidated equity of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries" means
the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up capital, advances for future capital
increases, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries not
allocated to cover specific liabilities after excluding therefrom such items as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any Subsidiary or of any Subsidiary
in the Borrower or in any other Subsidiary.
(e)   "Consolidated internal cash generation of the Borrower and all its
Subsidiaries" means gross income of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries from
all sources less all operating and administrative expenses, of the Borrower and all
its Subsidiaries, excluding depreciation of assets and interest and other charges on
debt.
(f)   "DCbt service" means the aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(g)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Cruzeiros debt payment in another currency, such valuation shall be
made on the basis of the prevailing rate of exchange as determined by the Banco
Central do Brasil.
Section 5.06. Except for expenditures and commitments for expenditures
by the Borrower to carry out the Project and Stage I Expansion, the Borrower


﻿12
shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, make any expenditures or
commitments for expenditures (including guarantee of debt) in excess of an
aggregate amount of $8,000,000 equivalent in each fiscal year of the Borrower
(of which only up to $4,000,000 equivalent may be made by any Subsidiary in
any such year) for fixed or capital assets of the Borrower or of any Subsidiary,
unless such expenditures or commitments shall be made for a purpose and in
accordance with a financial plan acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, during the years
1972 to 1980, both inclusive, the Borrower shall not and shall not permit any
Subsidiary to, lend or advance money to or guarantee debt of or invest in any
Subsidiary or in any other business entity in excess of an aggregate amount of
$2,000,000 equivalent in each fiscal year of the Borrower; provided that any part
of such amount not used in any one year may be accumulated and subsequently
utilized for such purpose, not in excess, however, of an accumulated total of
$6,000,000 equivalent in any one year.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not: (i) declare any dividend (other than a dividend payable in stock of th.
Borrower or a dividend on the preferred stock of the Borrower) or make any
other distribution with respect to its share capital, unless, after such dividend has
been paid or other distribution has been made, the consolidated current assets
of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries would exceed one and one-half times the
consolidated current liabilities of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries; or (ii)
purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for a consideration, any shares of stock
of the Borrower or of any Subsidiary. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   "Current assets" includes cash, accounts receivable due within twelve
months, inventories convertible to saleable goods within twelve months, pre-paid
expenses, and all other assets which could, in the ordinary course of business,
be converted within twelve months into cash.
(b)   "Current liabilities" includes accounts payable within twelve months,
customer advances, income taxes, dividends (including dividends on the preferred
stock of the Borrower), bonuses and all other liabilities (including long-term debt)
which will be due and payable or could be called for payment, within twelve
months.
(c)   "Consolidated current assets" and "consolidated current liabilities"
mean the aggregate of current assets and current liabilities of the Borrower and
all its Subsidiaries after eliminating all inter-company items and all other items
which should be eliminated in accordance with sound accounting practices.


﻿13
Section 5.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
maintain a ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities
of not less than 1.3 to 1. For purposes of this Section the terms "consolidated
current assets" and "consolidated current liabilities" have the same meanings as
in Section 5.08 set forth.
Section 5.10. For the purposes of preparing the financial statements to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to Section 5,02 of this Agreement and of making
the tests necessary for determining compliance with the requirements of Sections
5.05, 5.08 and 5.09 of this Agreement and Section 4 (b) and Section 6 of the
BNDE Shareholder Agreement, the financial information furnished to the Bank
shall be in such form and detail and expressed in such currencies, as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.11. The Borrower undertakes that it will punctually pay to the
Guarantor the fee referred to in the second Whereas clause of the Guarantee
Agreement.
Section 5.12. The Borrower agrees that it will not, before the end of 1977,
without affording the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views thereon,
charge prices for the finished products sold by t on the domestic market if the
total value in real terms of price times quantity of all products effectively sold
shall be less than the value would have been had the prices in effect at the end
of February 1971, adjusted by the latest applicable official revaluation coefficients,
prevailed at the time of the sale.
Section 5.13. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
on its part to enable BNDE to perform all of the covenants and agreements in
the BNDE Shareholder Agreement contained.
Section 5.14. In view of the financial requirements of the Project and the
Stage I Expansion, the Borrower shall take all necessary steps to reduce its
inventories to reasonable levels and shall establish, up to December 31, 1977, such
yearly targets, satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, as shall achieve that
purpose.
ARTICLE VI
Consultation; Information and Inspection
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and
the Borrower shall from time to time, at the request of either party:


﻿14
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
administration, operations (including the Borrower's pricing policies and the terms
of reference and recommendations of the study referred to in Section 4.08) and
financial condition of the Borrower and other matters relating to the purpose of
the Loan; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to Stage I Expansion, the operation of the Borrower's existing
production plant and the sale of its products, and the general status of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
Section 6.03. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the
Borrower and any Subsidiary and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VII
Taxes
Section 7.01. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration of the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the BNDE Shareholder Agreement or the
Bonds, or the payment of principal, interest or other charges thereunder; provided,
however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to taxation of payments
under any Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is
beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
Section 7.02. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the country or countries in whose currency the Loan
and the Bonds are payable or laws in effect in the territories of such country
or countries on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration
of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the BNDE Shareholder
Agreement or the Bonds.


﻿15
ARTICLE VIII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 8.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 8.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Bank, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor
declare the principal of the Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding to be
due and payable immediately together with the interest and other charges thereon
and upon any such declaration such principal, interest and charges shall become
due and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Loan Agreement
or in the Bonds notwithstanding.
Section 8.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)  The right of the Borrower to utilize the IDB loan shall have been
suspended or cancelled in whole or in part.
(b) A substantial change in the Estatutos of the Borrower or any Subsdiary
shall have been made without the agreement of the Bank.
(c)  A Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Borrower without the agreement of the Bank.
Section 8.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)  The IDB loan or any other indebtedness for money borrowed by the
Borrower with an original maturity of one year or more shall have become due
and payable before its agreed maturity in accordance with the terms thereof.
(b)  The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 8.02 shall occur.
(c)  A Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Borrower, without the agreement of the Bank, and such
situation shall not have been corrected within sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿16
ARTICLE IX
Effective Date; Termination
Section 9.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 11.01 (c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   All necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given
by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any
political subdivision or otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize
the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all of the
covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement
and the IDB loan contract contained, together with all necessary powers and rights
in connection therewith, shall have been performed or given.
(b)   The Loan Agreement and the IDB loan contract shall have been duly
registered by Banco Central do Brasil.
(c)   All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IDB loan agreement
shall have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
(d)   The Memorandum shall have been executed and delivered on behalf
of the parties thereto.
Section 9.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 11.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   That the Borrower is duly organized and existing under the laws of
Brazil and has full power and authority to construct and operate the Project, to
own the properties and to carry on the business which it owns and carries on
and proposes to own and carry on; that all acts, franchises, concessions, consents
and approvals necessary therefor have been duly and validly performed or given;
and that, with such exceptions as the Bank may have approved, all easements,
licenses, consents, franchises or other rights or privileges as may be necessary or
requisite therefor have been duly obtained.
(b)   That the IDB loan contract (i) has been duly executed and authorized
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; (ii) constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the respective parties thereto in accordance with its terms;


﻿17
and (iii) is, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement if such be the
case, In full force and effect.
(c)   That all acts, consents and approvals referred to in paragraph (a) of
Section 9.01 of this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights in
connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed or given and that
no other such acts, consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all the
convenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement
and in the IDB loan contract cintained.
(d)   That the BNDE Shareholder Agreement has been duly authorized by
all corporate and governmental action and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of BNDE in accordance with its terms.
(e)   That the Loan Agreement and the IDB loan contract have been duly
registered by Banco Central do Brasil.
Section 9.03. The date September 15, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE X
Addresses
Section 10.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.


﻿18
For the Borrower:
Companhia Siderurgica Paulista
Ave. Sdo Jodo 473-7 andar
Sio Paulo 01035, Brazil
Cable address:
Cosiderpa
Sdo Paulo
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
COMPANHIA SIDERURGICA PAULISTA - COSIPA
By /s/ Mario Lopes Leao
By /s/ Oscar Camargo
Authorized Representatives


﻿19
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Dock equipment and             8,000,000         60% of total
raw material han-                                 expenditures
dling facilities
(including coal
yard)
II.   Iron making equip-            18,000,000         60% of total
ment including                                    expenditures
blast furnace and
auxiliary equipment
for the blast
furnace plant
III.  Components of steel-           2,500,000         60% of total
making plant includ-                              expenditures
ing mold preparation
yard and ancillaries
IV.   Equipment for slab-           17,200,000         60% of total
bing, plate and                                   expenditures
hot and cold strip
mills, including
slab reheat furnaces
V.    Equipment and ma-             8,000,000          60% of total
terials for water                                 expenditures
and energy-systems
maintenance shops
and laboratories


﻿20
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
VI.  Mobile equipment                5,600,000         60% of total
and rolling stock                                 expenditures
including torpedo
cars
VII. Unallocated                     5,200,000
TOTAL        64,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "total expenditures" means the sum of foreign and local
expenditures;
(b)  the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services (including insurance and freight) supplied from, the
territories, and in the currency of any country other than the Borrower; and
(c)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower for goods produced in, or services (excluding inland insurance and
freight) supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the i, .ortation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Loan will be
withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.


﻿21
4.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03
of this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan, as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.    The purpose of the Project is the expansion of the Borrower's existing steel
production facilities (in place or under construction) from 1.0 million metric tons
of raw steel per year to about 2.3 million metric tons of raw steel per year in
order to produce about 1.7 million metric tons per year of flat steel products.
2.    The Borrower's increased production will be achieved by expanding the
Cubatdo plant, as follows:
(a)   Extension of existing dock and a second unloader.
(b)   Two 53-cell coke oven batteries.
(c)   One blast furnace (initial capacity 4,000 t/day).
(d)   One 100-ton Basic Oxygen Furnace vessel to replace the existing 75-ton
vessel.
(e)   One oxygen plant (8,000 NM3/hour).
(f)   Modification of the existing slabbing mill to increase its capacity to
handle 2,300,000 metric tons of ingots.
(g)   One 160-inch plate mill complete with finishing facilities.
(h)   Alternations in the existing hot strip mill, including the installation
of a new 200-ton/hour reheat furnace.
(i)   Additions to the existing cold strip mill, including two cold rolled
coil inspection lines and one cold rolled shear line.
(j)   An 88 kV electric power distribution system.
(k)   Additional mobile equipment and rolling stock.
The Project also includes all ancillary production and service facilities needed to
support the expanded plant capacity, including engineering and Project management
services.


﻿23
3.   The construction work will be completed by mid-1976 and full operations
of the additional capacity will commence by the beginning of 1977 substantially
as provided in the Annex hereto,


﻿24
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
1972          1973          1974          1975         1976
Quarter       Quarter       Quarter       Quarter      Quarter
Facility or Item     1234          1234          1234          1234         1234
Engineering                                                     **
Dock and Dock                                                   **
Equipment
Raw Material                          ** *        ****
Handling Facili-
ties (including
Coal Yard)
CokePlant                                 *       ****          ****         **
Blast Furnance                                    ****          ****         *
BOFPlant                            ****          ****
Slabbing Mill                         ** *        ****          *** *        * *
Oxygen Plant                                      ****
Plate Mill                                          ***         ****         **
Hot Strip Mill                                      ***
Cold Strip                                                      *
Mill
Power House                                         ***
COG Gas                                           ****          *
Holder
Electrical                                          ***         *
Power Receiving
& Distributing
System
Water Dis-                                        *** *         **
tribution System
Mobile Equip-                                     ****
ment and Rolling
Stock
Roads and Rail-
roads
Warehouse                                         **
Maintenance Shop                                    ***         *
Relocations &
Offices


﻿25
SCHEDULE 3..
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 1977                                     2,805,000
August 15, 1977                                       2,805,000
February 15, 1978                                     2,805,000
August 15, 1978                                       2,805,000
February 15, 1979                                     2,805,000
August 15, 1979                                       2,805,000
February 15, 1980                                     2,805,000
August 15, 1980                                       2,805,000
February 15, 1981                                     2,805,000
August 15, 1981                                       2,805,000
February 15, 1982                                     2,805,000
August 15, 1982                                       2,805,000
February 15, 1983                                     2,805,000
August 15, 1983                                       2,805,000
February 15, 1984                                     2,805,000
August 15, 1984                                       2,805,000
February 15, 1985                                     2,805,000
August 15, 1985                                       2,805,000
February 15, 1986                                     2,805,000
August 15, 1985                                       2,805,000
February 15, 1987                                     2,805,000
August 15, 1987                                       2,805,000
February 15, 1988                                     2,790,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿26
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15 of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                 4%
More than eleven years but
not more than fourteen
years before maturity                           6%
More than fourteen years
before maturity                             7-1/4%


﻿27
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for plant, equipment and construction materials
and associated services, estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more:
(a)   Bidders will be required to prequalify or postqualify, and the Borrower
will inform the Bank in detail of the methods for procurement,
including advertising procedures, and will introduce such modifications
in such methods as the Bank shall reasonably request. The lists of
firms expressing an interest in submitting bids and of firms which the
Borrower proposes to prequalify, together with the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, will be furnished by
the Borrower to the Bank for the Bank's comments before notification
to the applicants and the Borrower will make such additions to or
deletions from such lists as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
names of firms so qualified for each category of goods will constitute
the bidders list.
(b)   Before inviting bids, the Borrower will furnish to the Bank, for its
comments, the texts of the invitations to bid and the specifications
and other "Nidding documents and will make such modifications in such
documents or bidding procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification of the bidding documents will require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   The Borrower will, before making any award, send to the Bank the
Borrower's analysis of bids, including the details of any
postqualification procedure, and recommendations for award. The
Bank will promptly inform the Borrower if it has any objections to
the intended award on the grounds that it would be inconsistent with
the provisions of the Guidelines referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, and state the reasons for any such objections.
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Bank's reasonable objection
on the ground of inconsistency with such Guidelines or the Loan
Agreement or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked,
the Bank will not finance any expenditure thereunder out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿28
(e)   As soon as a letter of intent has been issued or a contract has been
executed, a copy thereof will be sent to the Bank.
2.    The Borrower may use a two-stage bidding procedure for the larger and
technically-complex facilities, the first stage to consist of the presentation by
bidders of proposals in two separate, sealed envelopes, one containing the technical
proposal and the other containing prices corresponding to the technical proposal.
The Borrower will open the envelope of the technical proposal at a set date and
may thereafter request the bidder to make such changes in specifications, if
necessary, and submit priced, sealed amendments corresponding to the changes.
The second stage will consist of bid evaluation based on prices originally submitted
and amendments thereto. Matters covered in paragraphs i.(a) to 1.(e) will apply
to this bidding procedure. Wherever the two-stage bidding procedure is to be used,
the Borrower will clearly indicate this in the inquiry letter to the bidders and
inform the Bank accordingly.
3.    With respect to any contract for procurement of goods estimated to cost
$100,000 equivalent or less, copies of all tender documents, including the
Borrower's evaluation report, details of any qualification procedure and a copy
of the executed contract will be sent to the Bank before the first disbursement
relating to such contract is made. The Bank will promptly inform the Borrower
if it reasonably determines that the award is inconsistent with such Guidelines
or with the Loan Agreement and, in such event, the Bank will not finance any
expenditures thereunder out of the proceeds of the Loan.
4.    The Borrower intends to invite firms producing goods in Brazil to participate
in international competition. In the case of goods produced in Brazil with not
less than 50% Brazilian value-added, the Borrower may award the order to the
lowest Brazilian bidder provided that his offered price does not exceed the offered
price of the lowest acceptable foreign bidder by more than 15%. Comparison of
bids will be made on the basis of ex-factory price of Brazilian goods loaded on
trucks or railroad cars and the c.i.f. landed price of non-Brazilian goods, the term
"c.i.f. landed price" to mean the c.i.f. price plus unloading costs, inCluding lighterage
and wharfage charges, no account to be taken, however, of import duties, merchant
marine renewal and port improvement taxes, and any other similar taxes. For
comparison purposes, the ocean freight rates will be based on the official rates
of the applicable freight conferences.
5.    The Banco Central do Brasil rates of exchange will be the rates used for
bid comparison purposes.


