Document of
The W orld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6561
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
EGYPT FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 831-EGT)
Decenmner 19, 1986
Operations Evaluation Department
1his document has a restricted distribution and ma! be used bN recipients onb, in the performance (of
their official duties. Its contents mnai not otherwise be disclosed without N'orld Bank authoriiation.



lOB OUomiAL US ONLY
THE WOSLO SANK
Wah.sngon, DC 204)3
OUmce nE OvDvtwCoawe
Opwramwn I'ANIwIw
December 19, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Audit Report on Egypt First Urban Development
Project (Credit 831-EGT)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Performance Audit Report on Egypt First Urban Development Project (Credit
831-EGT)" prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department.
, ,  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contenu may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAPMS     Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics
CEDC      Cairo Electricity Distribution Company
CFE       Credit Foncier Egyptien
CPWO      Cairo Potable Water Oi'ganization (later, itneral Organization for
Greater Cairo Water (GOCCW)
ESA       Egyptian Survey Authority
GOGCSSD   General Organization for Greater Cairo Sewerage and Sanitary
Drainage
GOE       Government of Egypt
GOPP      General Organization for Physical Planning
GOPW      General Organization for Potable Water
GOSSD     General Organization for Sewerage and Sanitary Drainage
HIPCO     Handicraft Industries and Productive Cooperative Organization
ip!i      International Development Association
JHP       Executive Agency for Joint Projects
LIHF      Low-Income Housing Fund
LIHDU     Low-Income Housing Development Unit
LIHPO     Low-Income Housing Project Officer
MOHR      Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction
NBE       National Bank of Egypt
NGO       %n-Governmental Organization
ODA       Overseas Development Agency
PCR       Project Completion Report
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
SLG       Secretariat for Local Government
TOR       Terms of Reference
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)          Egyptian Pound (LE)
Year                       Exchange Rate /a
Appraisal Year    (1978)                 US$1 - LE 1.43
Intervening years (1979)                US$1 * LE 1.43
(1980)               US$1 a LE 1.35
(1981)               US$1 - LE 1.35
(1982)               US$1 - LE 1.23
(1983)               US$1 - LE 1.16
(1984)               US$! - LE 1.07
Completion year   (1985)                 US$1 - LE 0.98
/a Calendar year averages.



M OFFmAL Uus ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
EGYPT FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PRCJECT
(CREDIT 831-EGT)
TABLE OF? CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ........i.........................******                               i
Basic Data Sheet                                                              ii
Evaluation Summary           .................. .  ,   *...                   v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.   BACKGROUND ... ............. 1.....I
A.  The Economic Context                                          1
B.  Urban Development  a..............050       00                4
C.  Institutional and Policy Context            ...               6
D.  The Project 8.*...8
II.   IMPLEMENTATION . .............                                   10
A*  General                                                      10
B.  Design and Implementation of Shelter Components              12
C.  Design and Implementation of the Solid Waste
Component ......                  ,                       15
D.  Design and Implementation of the Employment
COomponent                        ....>,........16
E.  Design and Implementat'on of the Rehabilitation
of Water Supply and 3ewerage System in Assiut             17
F.  Design and Implementation of the Technical
Assistance Component                                      18
III.   PROJECT PERFORMANCE ANr, RESULTS .....................           18
Ac General                                                       18
B.  Achievements in the Area of Shelter W18
C.  Achievements in the Area of Solid Waste
Management                        ....,,,,,...,,........ 20
D.  Achievements Associated with Technical
Aosistance ..  .  ....  .....* .**   o e****              20
E.  Areas of Lesser Achievements                                 21
IV.   POINTS OF SPECIAL INTEREST ...........................           22
A. The Impact of Procurement Choices on
Construction Efficiency                                   22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatior..



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
B.  The Determination of Construction Standards *.....      24
C.  Housing Supply under Rent Control ................      25
ANNEXES
A.   Project Description and Principal Changes
in Project Description   ................. .........      27
B.   USAID Project Assistance for Urban Infrastructure
and Shelter in Egypt (1977-1985) ...................      31
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I .   Introduction . . . . . . . .......*                         33
IT.   Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal ...       34
III.  The Project .. ........ ..... ...... ... .. . .......        35
IV.  Implementation                        .........  .  .....36
V.   Institutional Performance and Development ...........       45
VI.   Financial Performance  o. ......o. .  *0 o ..oo..oo....     49
VII.   Economic Reanalysis ..........................o.o....       51
VIII.   Role of the Bank and Other DonGrs ...................       51
Ix.   Conclusions    o.o e o o * o o o o o 00 0 .0.....0......  0.. ..,,  .....0...    52
TABLES
1.  Summary Costs/Appraisal and Revised Estimates  ..oooo        55
2.   Disbursements of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(S1974-1983)    o.o.   .......... . o. .o. .ooo.oo,  . .o. . .... 56
3.   Revised Allocation of Credit Funds   .....                  57
4.   Anticipated, Actual, and Projected Rates of
Inflation during the Project Implementation
Period  o o. oo .o.. o .  .    .    ss. .    o....o.  .ooooo...o  58
ANNEXES
I.   Project Components as Appraised and as Implemented ..       59
II.   Detailed Costs:  Appraisal and Revised Estimates,
Sites and Services and Upgrading ..................       65
III.   Zabbaleen Settlement - Economic Reevaluation .....o..       74
IV.   Implementation of Project Components ........0. . ...       75
V.   Completion Report Prepared by JHP  ...................      76



TABLE 01 CONTENTS (0Q'nt.)
MAPS
IBRD 13443 (PCR)
IBRD 13441 (PCE)
IBRD 13439 (PCR)
IBRD 19067 (PCR)
I'RD 190613 (PCR)
IBRD 19069 (PCR)



- i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
EGYPT - FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 831--EGT)
PREFACE
This Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) constitutes a perform-
ance audit of the Egypt First Urban Development Project for which Credit
831-EGT for US$14.0 million equivalent was made in August 1978 and final
disbursements were made on June 28, 1985.
The PPAR consists of a Project Performance Audit Memorandum (PPAM)
prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a Project Comple-
tion Report (PCR) dated June 28, 1985, prepared by the Europe, Middle East,
and North Africa Regional Office.
The PPAM is based on the PCR, Appraisal and President's Reports,
discussions with Bank staff directly involved with projects and programs in
Egypt, and a review of project files and records of the International Devl1-
opment Association (IDA). The transcript of the Executive Director's meeting
when the project was considered, indicated that the Credit was approved with-
out discussion.
The audit concurs with the PCR in several aspects. However, on the
basis of further analysis made of the available data, the audit has drawn
some additional conclusions providing a different perspective concerning the
performance of the project.
The audit was sent to the Borrower for comments; however, none were
received.



-. Ii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
EGYPT FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CEDIT 831-EGT)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Original              Actual/
Item                                                       Plan               RAtimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                           21.0                   22.4
Cost Overrun (%)                                                                   6.7
Credit Amount (US$ million)                                14.0                   14.0
Disbursed                                                                       13.4
Cancelled                                                                        0.b
Repaid                                                                          -
Outstanding                                                                     13.4
Date Physical Components Completed                       12/31/82               12/31/84
Proportion Coupleted by Above Date (2) /a                  10.0                   60.0
Proportion of Time Overrun (X)                                                   45.0
Financial Performance /b                                            Less thaa Sacisfactory
Institutional Performance /c                                       Less than Satisfactory
Economic Rate of Return (X2F/d                             19.0                   23.0
/a  Completion measured in relation to original project description.
7b  Pricing and cost recovery measures established for the project were not yet
implemented at completion date.
/c  The local government administrative system underwent a number of reforms during
the early years of project implementation. These plus central government
institutional changes adversely affected the execution of the project.
/d  The orig4nal estimation of the IERR was made only for the upgrading and the
sites and services components; the reestimation of that rate is for the
upgrading component only.
STAFF INpUT
Staff-Weeks
1977  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  Total
Identification/
Preparation       25.9  45.3  58.2                                                 129.4
Appraisal/
Negotiations                   79.6                                                 79.6
Supervision/Other                  .1  79.7  50.6  63.0  29.6  30.1  28.0  31.9  313.2
Total         25.9  45.3 138.0  79.7  50.6  63.0  29.6  30.1  28.0  31.9  522.2
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
(i)   Estimated                0.9     6.1    12.1    14.0
(ii)  Actual                                             1.9     3.9      8.8    13.4
X of (ii) to (l)                                        13.6    27.9    62.9    95.7



Other Project Data
Original
Item                                                    Plan      Actual
First Mentioned in Files                                  -           02/76
Government's Application                                  -       01/05/77
Negotiations Completed                                    -       05/21/78
Board Approval                                        05/30/78    06/23/78
Credit Agreement                                          -       08/30/78
Effecliveness                                         12/28/78    05/01/79
Closing Date                                          12/31/82    12/31/84
Borrower                                             Arab Republic of Egypt
Executlng Agencies                                   LIRDU, LIXI'   JHP, CFE
Governorate of: Governorate of:
Cairo            Cairo
Alexandria       Alexandria
Assiut           Assiut
NBE              NBE
Secretariat for  Secretariat for
Local Government  Local Government
HIPCO      CEDC      HIPCO
GOPW       CPWO      GOPW
GOSSD      ESA       GOSSD
GOCGSSD
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                           Jan. 1-Dec. 31
Follow-oii Project:
Loan                            (i) Greater Cairo Urban Development Project
Loan Number                     (i) 2176-ECT
Loan Amount (US$ million)       (i) 59.0
Loan Agreement                  (i) 10/26/82
Name                           (ii) Egypt:  Solid Waste Management Project
Appraised in 02/20/85. Processing held
up.



- IV -
MISSION DATA
Month/  No. of  No. of                   Date of  Performance
Item                Year   Weeks   Persons  Staff-Weeks  Report         Rating
Preideotification  03/76       3        1           3       04/21/76
Identification      10/76      1        1           1       11/22/76
Preparation I       02/77      4        4          17      04/01/77
Preparation II      08/77      5        6          14      09/22/77
Preappraisal        10/77      3        6          15       11/22/77
Appraisal           12/77      4        6          21      01/11/78
Supervision I       07/78      2        7           9      09/22/78   1, 2  M
Supervision II      11/78      3        4          11      01/04/79   2, 2  M
Supervision III    06/79       2        4           6      07/27/79   2, 1  0
Supervision IV      10/79      2        5          11       12/18/79   2, 2  M,P,T
Supervision V       02/80      2        2           2       03/25/80   2, 1  M,T
Supervisicn VI      06/80      2        6           4      06/24/80   2, 1  M,T
Supervision VII    10/80       3        4           9       11/14/80   3, 2  M,T,P
Supervision VIII   12/80    3.5         3           6      01/13/81   3, 2  M,T
Supervision IX      03/81      2        4           6      04/17/81   3, 2  M,T,P
Supervision X       07/81      1        1           1      07/31/81   2, 1  F,T /a
Supervision XI      11/81      2        2           5       12/09/81   2, 1  F,T 7a
Supervision XII    05/82       2        1           2      06/25/82   2, 1  F,T 7a
Supervision XIII   10/82       3        4           7       12/17/82   2, 2
Supervision XIV    02/83       1        1           1      i)4/U6/83   2, 2
Supervision XV      07/83      2        1           2      08/05/83   2, 1  M
Supervision XVI    10/83       1        1           1       12/09/83   2, 1  M
Supervision XVII   03/84       2        3           5      03/23/84   2, 1 M
Supervision XVIII  09/84       2        2           4      09/28/84   2, 2  M
Supervision XIX    11/84       1        1           1       12/18/84
Supervision XX      05/85      3        2           6      06/24/85
/a Ratings exclude Alexandria components which were rated 3, 2 and M, T, F, P
during the 07/31/81-06/25/82 period.



;~~~~~~~~~~~~
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
EGYPT FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 831-EGT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Egypt First Urban Development Projec. was the first urban
sector operation assisted by the Bank Group in Egypt, intended to introduce
low-cost technological innovations for the provision of shelter and urban
services on a pilot scale.   The Credit was processed rapidly, from project
identification in October 1976, to appraisal in November 1977, and Credit
approval in June 1978. The IDA Credit for US$14.0 million equivalent to the
Arab Republic cf Egypt was intended to finance 67 percent of total project
cost estimated at US$21.0 million equivalent.
According to the appraisal report, the chief problem in the shelter
sector in Egypt was an acute shortage of housing and urban services resulting
from the rapid increase of the urboan population and exacerbated by the
Government's sector policies, such as rent control, subsidized public rental
housing, and uneconomnic u.tility pricing.  The perceived housing and services
deficits were seen as affecting most heavily the urban poor whose problems
were aggravated by a decline in the rate of expansion of domestic employment
(SAR, paras. 1.07-1.12).
The project was intended to meet these problems by demonstrating
the viability of: (i) providing non-subsidized services to existing settle-
ments in Cairo; (ii) guiding future urban expansion through sites and
services  development  in  Alexandria  and  Assiut;  (iii)  experimenting  with
low-cost solutions to the solid waste problems in Cairo and AlexanIria; and
(iv) expanding employment opportunities through the provision of loans to
small businesses and manpower training.  In addition, the project envisioned
the strengthening of a shelter financing agency, the Low Income Housing Fund
(LIHF) to provide mortgage financing to the low-income groups under condi-
tions of full cost recovery and reduced levels of interest rate subsidies.
General institution building in the sector was to be provided through tech-
nical assistance.
Objectives
The main objectives of the project were to provide shelter, employ-
ment, and urban services for about 120,000 persons in the lowest income
groups at costs they could afford, thus eliminating the need for direct
public subsidies and permitting the project to be replicated on a larger
scale.   Tne shelter and related services components were to be implemented



- vi -
primarily by the Governorates of Cairo, Alexandria, and Assiut, and by para-
statal utility companies responsible for water supply, sewerage and electri-
city, with the assistance of a central unit, the Low-Income Housing Develop-
ment Unit (LIHDU) and the financial intermediation of the LIHF. The employ-
ment component was to be executed by the National Bank of Egypt (NBE) through
the provision of loans to small businesses and by the Handicraft Industries
and Productive Cooperative Organization (HIPCO) through technical assistance
and training. Project completion was planned for December 31, 1982.
Implementation Experience
Implementation was delayed, mainly due to administrative and legis-
lative changes that affected the project executing agencies at the critical
early stages.   As a result, very little progress was made during the first
three years.  Project simplification in the form of a revised scope and more
limited institutional development .nbjectives subsequently accelerated imple-
mentation.   Other than the standard conditions,  specific covenants in the
Credit Agreement dealt with the appropriate staffing and consulting services
for project implementation at the Governorates of Cairo, Alexandria, and
Assiut, and at the central coordinating units then comprising both the LIHF
and the LIHDU; the issuance by the Borrower of freehold titles to beneficia-
ries under the upgrading and sites and services components; and the terms and
conditions of cost recovery. The only special condition of effectiveness was
the execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the Borrower and the
LIHF, and between the Borrower and the NBE.   This last condition was met
after a six month delay but the other three conditions were not fu]ly met.
The closing  date  for  the  Project was  extended  twice,  resulting  from an
extension in the implementation period from four to about seven years.
Results
The project was relatively successful in extending infrastructure
services to slum dwellers in Cairo, but less so in providing shelter in
Assiut.   In Alexandria,  the shelter components  failed  ekitirely and were
deleted from the project due to difficulties of implementation. IThe project
succeeded in improving solid waste management in Cairo and Alexandria through
the construction of composting plants and improved collection arrangements.
The project was unable to support employment generation activities in the
various project areas as planned.   Urgent repairs to the water supply and
sewerage system in Assiut were not made within the project because the amount
of work required vastly exceeded the available resources.   The funds allo-
cated to this component were used instead to build off-site sewerage mains
and a pumping-station to serve the sites and services scheme in Assiut, and
to purchase equipment and parts for water leakage detection in that city.
Technical assistance provided was effective in supporting consultancies for
the detailed preparation of the project and, to a lesser extent, for prepar-
ing further projects, although the overall impact on inscitution-btuilding was
less than satisfactory.  The likelihood that the project will ultimately meet
its pricing and cost recovery objectives is small, since the chargeq to be



- vii -
levied for infrastructure services as well as for sites and services plots
were not implemented at the time of project completion.
Sustainability
The project did not provide for maintenance of the infrastructure
and buildings constructed, either in the form of staff training and adminis-
trative arrangements, or in the form of actual budgetary allocations, except
in the case of the Cairo and Alexandria composting plants. Under these cir-
cumstances, uncertainties remain with regard to the provisions for mainte-
nance of the shelter and related service investments,   In addition,  cost
recovery of project investments appears unlikely, indicating that sustain-
ability problems associated with both technical and financial arrangements
might undermine the benefits accrued as a result of the project.
Conclusions and Lessons to be Learned
The less than satisfactory performance of this project is attribu-
table, to a large extent, to shortcomings in design which did not properly
take account of account the institutional complexity characteristic of the
Egyptian urban sector or for the economic priorities associated with the
particular phase of development of the Egyptian ;conomy within which the
project was conceived and executed.   In retrospect, the project should have
been reappraised prior to credit approval, since the administrative reorgani-
zation, which occurred shortly after appraisal, had invalidated the institu-
tional arrangements established for project implementation,
On the basis of the implementation experience with this project,
the following points of special interest surface: (i) sizeable benefits can
be derived from the application of appropriate procurement practices even
under difficult conditions such as those prevailing in Egypt; (ii) in view of
the fact that land, rather than construction costs are the main determinant
of housing costs in Egypt, there are several advantages in selecting con-
struction standards on the basis of broader criteria than those derived from
affordability considerations; and (iii) under conditions of rapid economic
growth and relatively weak capi;al markets, private sector investment in
housing can be expected to increase at accelerated rates, even under rent
control constraints, pointing to opportunities fcr expanding the rental
housing market as an alternative to establishing new instruments to finance
owner-occupied housing structures.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
EGYPT FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 831-EGT)
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Economic Context 1/
1.          The rirst Bank Group-assisted urban development project in Egypt
coincided with a period of intense structural change encompassing transforma-
tions in the political, financial and economic spheres of Egyptian life which
altered significantly the country's position and development prospects. The
project appraisal (1977) occurred only three years after the Egyptian economy
became more open as a consequence of the policy E1 Infitah (The Opening).
This open-door policy, enunciated by President Sadat in 1974 and continued by
President Mubarak, was aimed specifically at attracting Arab and Western
Investment and marked the dramatic shift in the country's international poli-
tics that followed the 1973 war. 2/ From 1974 to 1980, the Egyptian economy
grew rapidly at an average rate of 9% per annum (about 6.5% above the rate of
population growth).   Capital inflow grew by 50% per year, reflecting in-
creased receipts from oil exports, workers' remittances from abroad, Suez
Canal earnings and tourism receipts. 3t
2.        As a result of the changed political situation and renewed economic
prospects for Egypt, large amounts of external assistance became increasingly
available. By 1977 official external assistance, including all sources and
forms, had reached about US$4 billion per annum, and has remained at compara-
bly high levels since then, with increased aid from the United States and
1/   This  section  is  largely  based  on  Khalid  Ikrain,  Egypt:    Economic
Management  in a Period of Transition, A World Bank Country Economic
Report, The Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore,  1980; on IBRD,
"Egypt:  Review of Medium-Term Investment Program," Report No. 5269-EGT
of  October  1984;  and  on  IBRD,  President's  Report  on  the  recently
approved Channel Maintenance Project, dated June 3, 1986.
2/   Egypt is currently the most open economy of any developing country with
a population greater than 20 million according to World Bank estimates.
The value of exports plus imports at current prices amounts to 71% of
GDP (FY84-85) indicating an unusually high degree of economic openness.
3/   This  growth  performance  is  almost  twice  as  high  as  that  of  the
preceeding 1961-1973 period, when GDP increased at an average rate of
about 5X per annum, while population grew at about 2.7% p.a.



-2-
continued support from OPEC countries. 4/  These resources were necessary to
finance Egypt's large effort to rehabilitate the economy while remaining
prepared for war.   The Suez Canal had to be reopened and the Canal cities,
deserted since 1967, rehabilitated. Social and physical infrastructure, run
down after almost a decade of war, had to be restored at the same time that
welfare expansion was perceived as a requisite by a fast growing population.
As a result, this period was also one of rapid growth of public sector
expenditures (notably public investment and direct subsidies) leading to a
rising public deficit which could not be compensated for by the increase in
public and private savings.
3.          Early signs of serious fiscal imbalances were already evident in
1975, when the public deficit reached 18.2% of GDP.  The financial burden of
the post-war rehabilitation effort was compounded by inefficient Government
policies, weak public sector management and excessive delays in project com-
pletion, all of which resulted in low financial returns to public sector
investment.
4.           These circumstancee would have called for especially judicious
allocation of IDA funds, preferably through uncomplicated but very well pre-
pared projects designed to overcome critical institutional constraints and
fill the most serious resource gaps. These considerations are not reflected
in the design of the project under review.   Hence, and in retrospect, the
audit considers the project as having been an inadequate vehicle for IDA
assistance at that particular phase of the Egyptian development process.
5.         The project was particularly unsuitable for institutional develop-
ment due to its large number of components and executing agencies, to the
dispersion of investments over three cities and to the discontinuity of key
agencies as a result of administrative reorganization.   As a consequence,
experiences and lessons learned during implementation have not led to a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on sector policies.
6.         Economic conditions in Egypt during project implementation (1979-
1984) became increasingly more difficult.   By the end of the 1970s and in
spite of five consecutive years of unprecedented growth, the Egyptian economy
was even more dependent on the inflow of external resources and began to
suffer under the impact of falling oil prices. The economic downturn, which
started in the early 1980s, had as immediate causes a decline in Egypt's oil
export earnings, in tourism receipts and (to a lesser extent) in Suez Canal
revenues and workers'  remittances from abroad.   Internal conditions wors-
4/   Egypt ranks after Israel as the second largest recipient of American
foreign aid, totalling US$18 billion in civilian and military assistance
over the last decade.  The annual amount of US assistance to Egypt more
than doubled in recent years from US$1.2 billion in 1980 to US$2.5
billion in 1984.  See, United States Agency for International Develop-
ment  (USAID),  Egypt:    Congressional  Presentation  Fiscal  Year  1987,
Washington, D.C., March 1986.



-3-
ened.   The cost of living increased at rates in excess of  17% per year
and the growth of GNP per capita declined from 7.6% per year (1975-1981) to
0.6% per year  (FY81-FY86).   Frequent modifications  to the administrative
structure of the public sector, combined with excessive expansion of Govern-
ment personnel, further reduced the Government's ability to respond to these
unexpected problems. 5/ Corrective measures to redress the fiscal imbalance
were initiated in FY82-FY83 but were subsequently inhibited by the 1984
elections, causing the deficit to continue at over 22% of GDP through
FY84-FY85.  The most recent World Bank assessment indicates that medium-term
development prospects in Egypt are highly dependent on the pace and magnitude
of policy reforms, in the absence of which investment is expccted to grow at
a modest rate of 2.5% per year and foreign debt service might rapidly reach
unsustainable levels (sir:e total external debt already represented 46.b% of
GNP in 1983).
7.         These changed country conditions adversely affected project imple-
mentation in general (as its relative pr'ority declined in face of more
pressing needs), and in particular through delayed project funding, neglected
management and escalating construction costs.   Nevertheless, in the audit's
judgment, these additional difficulties merely compounded the basic short-
comings of the project design and preparation, which remain the principal
cause of its disappointing performance.   The audit must also add that while
Egypt's political realignment and rapid pace of growth in the mid-1970s might
have created strong incentives for the rapid processing of Credit 831-EGT,
these smie factors might also have distorted the perception of urban sector
development priorities on the part of the Government, thus limiting the
opportunities for more purposeful IDA assistance to the sector.
5/   Civilian  public  sector  employment  accounted  for  about  65%  of  all
additional domestic jobs created between 1975 and 1980 (IBRD, 1984).
'he  number  of  Government  employees,  including  the  military,  has
increased over fouirfold from one million in 1970 to 4.5 million in 1986,
according to Abdel A. Hegazi, quoted in the New York Times of August 23,
1986.



-4-
B. Urban Development 6/
8.          Availability of water is the strongest determinant of land use in
Egypt, both for urban and for agricultural purposes. As 96% of the country's
total area ib arid desert land, settlement has historically been constrained
to a narrow strip along the Nile valley and the Delta.   This area (40,000
km2) supported a population of about 10 million people at the turn of the
century and is now occuried by approximately 49.1 million inhabitants (1985),
reflecting the sharp upturn in the rate of population growth which has oc-
curred since the 1950s.   The resulting rural and urban settlement densities
are among the highest in the world. 7/ Most of the usable land is privately
owned and has been shifting from agricultural to urban use at a fast pace
over the last three decades, as the urban population increased from 38% of
the total in 1960 to 46% in 1985.
9.         Historically Cairo has retained primacy among Egyptian cities and
has absorbed the largest share of urban population growth. With an estimated
10.1 million inhabitants, its metropolitan area comprised approximately 45%
of the urban population in 1985. Alexandria is the second largest city, with
3.2 million inhabitants in 1985, accounting for 14% of the total urban popu-
lation. One-quarter of all national jobs are concentrated in Cairo alone and
employment there has expanded twice as fast in the last two decades as in the
rest of the country. Thus, there appears to be strong economic incentives in
favor of urban concentration with an increased build-up along urban corridors
stretching from Cairo to Alexandria and a parallel decline in the share of
the population living in Upper Egyptian cities.
10.        The rapid pace of population growth and the imbalance of its spa-
tial distribution, has led to the widely held view that Egypt suffers from an
acute urban housing shortage.  The _ontrary is in fact the case.  The housing
market has responded to the acceleration in demand and the scarcity of land
6/   This section draws primarily on the following sources:  K. lkram (1980);
IBRD (1984);  IBRD, "Egypt:   Greater  Cairo  Sector Memorandum" (0-port
No. 4130-EGT), April 1983; Stephen K. Mayo et al., "Informal Housing in
Egypt," Abt Associates, Dames and Moore, General Organization for
Housing Building and Planning Research (GOHBPR), USAID-financed study,
Washington, D.C., January 1982; Stephen J. Malpezzi, "Rent Control and
Housing Market  Equilibrium:   Theory and Evidence from Cairo,  Egypt,"
(Ph.D dissertation, George Washington University, September 30, 1986);
GOHBPR/IBRD, "Construction Industry Study," Dokki, Cairo, 1981; William
C. Wheaton, "Housing Policies and Urban Markets in Developing Countries:
The  Egyptian  Experience,"   Journal  of  Urban  Economics,  9,  1981;
Serageldin et al., Manpower and International Labor Migration in Middle
East and North Africa, (Oxford: Oxford University Press for the World
Bank, 1983).
7/   At 1,000 persons per km2 of agricultural land, rural densities in Egypt
exceed those of Bangladesh.  Residential densities in Cairo average 400
persons per ha., and are significantly higher than those observed in
Manhattan (260 inh./ha.) and in Bangkok (210 inh./ha.).



-5-
with rapid increments to the stock, primarily through vertical additions to
existing buildings, at a rate which exceeded (e.g. in Cairo) or matched the
rate of population growth.  8/   The resulting extraordinary  expansion of
dwelling units and increased residential densities reflected the impact of
two main economic forces operating in the urban housing markets in Egypt over
the last decade, namely:   (i) increased availability of private savings and
perceived advantages of urban real estate over other investment alternatives,
and (ii) ncreased utilization of informal arrangements for land subdivision,
housing construction and rentals, to compensate for market inefficiencies
created by Government pricing and land use controls. 9/  On the other hand,
while the provision of basic public utilities and transportation services in
most cities has lagged behind housing expansion (both in total capacity and
in the state of repair of existing systems), conditions have significantly
improved over the last decade as a result of large public investments fi-
nanced primarily by external sources, with the important exception of solid
waste collection and disposal, which remain acute problems. I0/
11.        Because of distortions created by rent control legislation (which
is stringently enforced and pegs urban rents to the age of the dwelling
units) as well as by the pattern of public utilities provision, a dispropor-
tional share of the housing costs in Egypt is borne by households who are
recent entrants to the housing market or who wish to change residence (i.e.
the general supply/demand equilibrium trend cancels serious inequalities).
In Cairo, occupants of new units pay more than three times as much rent as a
proportion of income than occupants of units built before 1960, and house-
holds who have moved into a unit recently spent twice the fraction of their
8/   Two thirds of all units added to the Cairo housing stock between 1976
and 1981 were estimated to have come about through vertical expansion.
See, Mayo et al.  (1982).   Data from the Egyptian Central Agency for
Public Mobilization and Statistics (CAPMAS) show that for the urban
areas of 24 Governorates, 18 experienced more rapid growth in dwelling
units than in population during the intercensal period of 1966-1976.
9/   The informal sector share of the housing market has been estimated at
between 84-91% in urban areas (1981) or considerably higher thaan the 77%
share estimated for the 1966-1976 period nationwide.   See, Mayo et al.
(1982) and GOHBPR/IBRD (1981).
10/  The extent to which urban dwellers have benefitted from these urban
infrastructure investments is apparent in Cairo where the proportion of
the housing stock connected to public utility lines has risen between
1970 and 1981 from 50% to 65% in the case of water supply, from 44% to
71% for sewerage, and from 59% to 90% for electricity.   The level of
investment has been considerable.   ITSAID alone has provided over US$l
billion to assist urban water and sewerage systems aLnd power distribu-
tion proiects in Cairo, Alexandria and the Canal Cities between 1977 and
1985.



-6-
income on housing that the average household which had not moved recently
did. 11/ For the poorest households entering the market for the first time,
this has meant doubling their housing expenditures from about 15% of income
to about 30% of income which (when combined with food consumption require-
ments of between 60 and 70% of income among the poor) places low-income
households in an extremely precarious financial position.   Similarly,  the
relative costs of urban services are higher for recent entrants to the market
than for established residents because basic itilities provided are much less
among recently built informal units, causing their occupants to spend much
more than average to pay for private arrangements.
12.         The audit concludes from this brief review of sector conditions,
that the project was not conducive to demonstrating low-cost solutions to
urban shelter problems in Egypt, due to conceptual flaws which apply to its
design of both sites and services and urban upgrading components. The first
was the failure to identify land costs as the most important determinant of
housing costs and, instead, approach the production-cost problem through an
emphasis on the reduction of construction standards to levels deemed by the
audit inappropriate to support htgh residential densities (the most obvious
market adjustment to raising land costs), and destined to generate either
high maintenance costs or rapid deterioration of the installed capacity.  The
second conceptual fallacy lies in supporting the role of the public sector as
housing developer when there were clear indications that no capital shortage
existed in the sector and that the Government faced mounting financial
constraints. This latter issue is further discussed below with reference to
the urban institutional framework.
C. Institutional and Policy Context ?1
13.        A large state presence in the economy, combined with weak sector
agencies, resulted (over the last several decades) in the introduction of
serious institutional distortions to the process of urban development in
Egypt.   The  PCR (paras.  5.01-5.13)  describes  the  principal  urban  sector
agencies as being poorly staffed and in a state of structural discontinuity
11/  Becauise the income of households varies independently of the age of the
dwellings they occupy, the distortions in the distribution of housing
costs are not systematically biased against  the poor.   On the other
hand, given an average length of tenancy of 12 years, movers seldom have
access to older dwelling units.
12/  The audit's treatment of urban sector institutions and policies in this
section does not ao Justice to the actual complexity of the Egyptian
context. The reader is encouraged to refer to the following additional
documents  on  this  subject:    Maurice  Mould,  "Egypt:    Institutional
Arrangement," IDA Credit 381-EGT, Project File, OM dated 09/01/77; K.
lkram (1980); Egypt: Advisory Committee for Reconstruction, Ministry of
Development,  "National  Urban Policy Stuidy" (by PADCO Inc. under iJSAID
grant  No.  263-0042),  Cairo, July  1982;  USAID,  "Housing  Finance:   An
Analysis of Prospects for Increased Activity," draft, Washington, D.C.,
May 1981; S. Mayo et al. (1981) auid S. Malpezzi (1986).



- 7 -
at the time of project preparation and early implementation. Considering the
level of institutional complexity and instability, the PCR concludes that
appraisal should have been postponed and much more careful preappraisal
analysis should have been made of the institutional framework for project
implementation.  The audit concurs with this view and notes in addition that
project design afforded little opportunity for sector policy development.
Not only was the project intended as a demonstration and not as a vehicle for
policy reform, but more importantly, the sector policy context in Egypt at
that time was not conducive to major reforms.
14.       National urban development policies at the time of appraisal (1977)
responded to a perceived scarcity of urban housing, the growing congestion in
Cairo, and the rapid conversion of valuable agricultural land to urban uses
by emphasizing restrictive controls on private sector development and by
supporting the following public sector investment priorities:   (i) an urban
decentralization scheme under which the Government would undertake the costly
construction of free-standing new towns in the desert; (ii) the rehabilita-
tion and expansion of basic r'"blic utilities and transportation systems in
the major cities, including the Canal cities; and (iii) the expansion of
Government-produced shelter, which the central administration being pre-
disposed to experiment with low-cost technologies in substitution for fully-
built rental apartments (which characterized prior public sector shelter
investments).   These new investment programs did not, however, contemplate
substant!al  modificactions  to  public  sector  interest  rate  subsidies  for
housing, nor significant adjustments to public utilities tariffs.   In fact,
none of the policies responsible for the low financial returns to public
urban sector investment were to be changed.
15.         The restrictive controls on private sector development appear to
the audit as haviing hampered, rather than stimulated, orderly urban growth in
Egypt. This seems to be especially true in the case of rent control and the
regulations applied to formal financial markets and to land use.   Rent con-
trol (as indicated in para. 11 above), has not curtailed the production of
new housing units, but has caused production costs to be irequitably dis-
tributed, inhibited tenant mobility, distorted housing consumption levels,
and forced new homeowners and tenants to pay over-inflated housing prices.
As to the financial markets, the prescribed negative real interest rates of
savings and loan operations, and the high taxation of bond interest income
frustrated for the most part the mobilization of private resources for long-
term housing finance, with the following main implications for the sector:
(i) formal financial markets became largely irrelevant to the majority of
housing investors, who relied instead on temporary windfall financing such as
that provided by workers' remittances from abroad or the sale of inherited
agricultural land, and (ii) a short-term investment bias became characteris-
tic of the Egyptian housing market, seriously limiting the opportunities for
expansion of planned sub-divisions on the part of the private sector. Devel-
opment, although rapid, became increasingly piecemeal, unplanned, and out-of-
pace with the provision of urban infrastructure.   In addition, because the
restrictions imposed by the Government on conversion of agricultural land to
urban uses and on approval of sub-divisioiis reduce the land supply respon-
siveness to housing market changes, demand prices for urbanizable land became
overintlated.  These restrictive policies affecte1, in the early 1980s, over



-8-
95% of the urban housing market (which is private) and therefore appear to
the audit as more important determinants of housing costs in Egypt than
specific pricing arrangements in Government-produced housing, which was the
policy focus of the project being audited.
D. The Project
16.         This was the first urban sector operation financed by the Bank
Group in Egypt, prepared in response to a request by the Government for
assistance in implementing an urban development project aimed at alleviating
the housing problems of the lowest-income families in Egyptian cities.  The
focus on employment and solid waste problems emerged subsequently in the
course of project preparatior.   Project investments were to be located in
Cairo and in Alexancria, in view of the fast pace of growth of these two
cities, and additionally, in Assiut (in Upper Egypt), selected in support of
the Government's policy of spatial decentralization.   The project approach
proposed by the Government comprised cost reduction measures for the provi-
sion of shelter through experimentation with sites and services and urban
upgrading.   An IDA reconnaissance mission,  in October  1976, reviewed the
Government's proposal and found it to be congruent with Bank Group policies
for the urban sector at the time. As the proposal embodied innovations which
departed from traditional Government practices in Egypt, IDA recommended that
the project should be developed on a small-scale demonstration basis.  Not-
withstanding the fact that a similar (but much larger) sites and services and
upgrading project in Cairo was being simultaneously prepared by the Govern-
ment  for  USAID  financing,  co-financing  was  not  contemplated.  13/   The
project preparation proceeded rapidly, starting in early 1977, at tie General
Organization for Physical Planning (GOPP) in the Ministry of Housing (MOH),
with assistance from expatriate consultants financed by a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) approved in March 1977.  14/  Appraisal of the project took
place in November 1977, within one year oTthe reconnaissance mission.
17.        The objectives of the project as appraised (SAR, para. 2.01) were
to help develop and implement low-cost solutions to Egypt's urban problems in
the areas of shelter, employment, and other urban services, while ensuring
that investments were responsive to the needs of the poor.   The project was
also intended to be replicable, by improving cost recovery for shelter and
related services and by strengthening key sector  institutions.   In this
connection, it would seek to strengthen the following functions and agencies:
(i) project coordination through the Low Income Htousing Development Unit
13/ There were differences in approach between IDA and USAID regarding the
level of housing service provision,  according  to the Region.   USAII)
approved a grant in the amount of US$80 million in August 1978 to assist
a Low Income Housing and Upgrading Project in Cairo, whose total costs
were  estimated  at  US$160  million  equivalent.    A summary  of  USAID
assistance to the sector is provided in Annex B.
14/ In May 1977, the Government signed a consulting contract with the firm
Doxiadis Associates International to assist in the preparation of the
project.



- 9 -
(LIHDU) in the MOH; (ii) financial intermediation through the Low Income
Housing Fund (LIHF); and (iii) employment promotion in the artisan sector
through the Handicraft Industries and Productive Cooperative Organization
(HIPCO) in the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG).
18.       The project, whose total cost was about US$21.0 million equivalent,
and whose components are detailed in Annex A, comprised:
(a) Shelter Provision (about US$12.2 million or 54% of total cost with
contingencies) including slum upgrading with community facilities
for 149 ha (about 18,500 households) in 3 settlements in Cairo and
11 ha (about 1,000 households) in one settlement in Alexandria;
sites and services schemes with community facilities for 15 ha
(about 1,800 households) in one site in Alexandria and for 25 ha
(about 2,800 households plus 200 workshop plots) in one site in
Assiut; and, provision of building materials loans to assist resi-
dents of project sites in improving their dwelling units;
(b) Solid Waste Services (about US$3.1 million or 15% of total cost
with contingencies) including garbage collection in project sites
through assistance to private collectors (Zaballeen) for collection
equipment and appropriate recycling techniques; improved processing
methods through construction of composting plants in Cairo and
Alexandria; and, better operations and maintenance of street clean-
ing and solid waste disposal services in Alexandria through provi-
sion of collection and maintenance equipment and construction of
solid waste depots;
(c) Employment Promotion Services (about US$2.0 million or 10% of total
cost with contingencies) including a credit program for small-scale
businesses in project sites, technical assistance to these same
enterprises,  and  vocational  training  in  various  fields  to  be
offered to site residents;
(d) Rehabilitation of Water Supply and Sewerage Systems in Assiut
(about US$0.9 million or 4% of total cost with contingencies)
comprising the provision of maintenance equipment and workshop
facilities, repairs to water supply extraction plants and distribu-
tion networks, and rehabilitation of the central sewerage pumping
station and sewer lines, as well as minor additions to the existing
sewer capacity;
(e) Technical Assistance and Project Management (about US$2.8 million
or 13% of total cost with contingencies) including various consul-
tancies and the provision of advisory services.
19.        The project was to be wholly financed by the IDA credit (67%), by
the Government of Egypt, which was the Borrower (30%), and by the National
Bank of Egypt (3%).  The IDA credit would finance the estimated foreign ex-
change costs of the proiect and 50% of its local costs.  This level of local
cost financing was approved in view of Egypt's tight budgetary situation and
high incidence of urban poverty.   ResponsibiLity for the execution of the



- 10 -
shelter and related services components lay with the participant Governoraies
of Cairo, Alexandria, and Assiut, and with the parastatal utility companies
comprising the Cairo Potable Water Organization (CPWO), the Cairo Electricity
Distribution Company (CEDC), the General Organization for Severage and Sani-
tary Drainage (GOSSD) and the General Organization for Potable Water (GOPW).
Implementation was to be assisted and coordinated by LIHDU and funds were to
be channelled through the LIHF. For the employment component, implementation
responsibility lay with the NBE for the credit subcomponent, and with HIPCO
for the remaining elements.   Separate Project Agreements were to be entered
into between IDA and the Governorates of Cairo, Assiut and Alexandria, as
were Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and the LIHF and between
the Borrower and the NBE.
20.          Special conditions included the appointment by each participant
Governorate ef one full-time Low-Income Housing Project Officer and the
granting of freeholi property titles to beneficiaries of the upgrading and
the sites and services components, on terms and conditions which provided,
inter alia, for the full recovery of capital and administrative costs asso-
ciated with the implementation of these components.   Procurement conditions
stated in Schedule 3 of the Credit Agreement, providEd for ICB for contracts
for the purchase of goods valued at above US$50,000 and for civil works con-
tracts valued at above US$500,000 equivalent.
21.        The projec: was expected to he completed by December 31, 1982.
II. IMPLEMENTATION
A. General
22.       Credit 831-EGT was signed in August 1978 but became effective only
in May 1979, due to delays in the signing of the two Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments by the Dorrower.   Following Credit effectiveness, project implementa-
tion did not proceed as expected and very litLIe was achieved during the
first three years (1979-1982).
23.        Several factors account for the implementation difficulties encoun-
tered by the project.   In spite of its relatively small scale, the project
was geographically dispersed, had a large number of separate and innovative
components, and required the participation of several fairly independent
agencies.   Coordination arrangements relied on two institutions  (LIHDU and
LIHF) which weere discontinued or otherwise made ineffective at an early
phase of project implementation. The principal implementation role, assigned
to Governorates, received less than adequate support from the technical
assistance component.   As the PCR points out and the audit concurs  (PCR,
paras.4.11-4.17   and   5.01-5.13),   inappropriate   preparation   and   weak
institutional arrangements were the most important reasons why the project
did not progress during this initial period.  Under these circumstances, the
audit must add, there appears to be no Justification for the slow response
from IDA to the Borrower's unsatisfactory compliance wittri Credit conditions
during this extended period.  In the audit's judgement. timely and roncerned
atcention  should  have  been given  by  IDA to the  nrompt  revilew of  >T,1dit
covenants In the light of changed institutional  _ondltions.  Tne a,vil  iSO



- 11 -
finds inappropriate IDA's encouragement, during that period, of the
preparation of a second shelter project, since that diverted attention from
providing the Borrower with much-need J assistance in carrying out the
activities of the first project.
24.          The project was changed in several significant  respects during
execution, but a revised project description was only formalized by Amend-
ments to the Credit Agreement in May 1983 (see Annex A).   These amendments
provided for the extension of the closing date by one year (to December 31,
1983), for the reallocation of Credit proceeds among disbursement categories,
for the cancellation of components and sub-components valued at about US$8.1
million (or 39% of total project cost as appraised), for the inclusion of
three additional sub-components, end for the ratification of the withdrawal
of the NBE and the LIHF from the project.  15,   A second extension of the
closing date to December 31, 1984, was approved by IDA after substantial
progress was made under the modified scope.
25.       The most important changes made comprise:   (i) cancellation of the
small business assistance component due to the withdrawal of the NBE from the
project (in response to an apparent lack of demand for such loans) and the
lack of implementation capacity on the part of HIPCO; (ii) cancellation of
the shelter components in Alexandria due to the unsuitability of the land
proposed for the sites and services scheme and to the unwillingness, on the
part of the Governorate, to proceed with the upgrading component; (iii) can-
cellation of the North Bassateen settlement upgrading in Cairo, in view of
the fact that the settlement had already been upgraded by the private sector;
(iv) cancellation of the building materials loans sub-component in all up-
grading and sites and services areas due to the inability of Governorates to
make the necessary arrangements to process such loans; (v) ratification of
higher infrastructure construction standards for upgrading sites in Cairo;
(vi) provision of off-site sewerage infrastructure for the sites and services
scheme in Assiut; and (vii) construction of a 160 ton/day composting plant in
Alexandria.
26.       Because the LIHF was abolished soon after Creclit effectiveness, the
project abandoned at the outset the objective of supporting the development
of a financial intermediary for low-income housing.   The responsibility of
channelling project funds was reassigned by the Borrower (in December 1979)
to the Executing Agency for Joint Housing Projects (JHP), with accounting
services to be provided by the Credit Foncier Egyptien (CFE).  16/   Bidding
limits for ICB were raised in 1981, with IDA approval, for civivworks con-
15/  The LIHF was dissolved by the Borrower in June 1979, two months after
Credit effectiveness.   The NBE decided to withdraw from the project in
October 1982, after unsuccessful attempts at identifying clients for the
credit program among project site businesses.
16/  The JUP was created  in  1978 to coordlifate the  implementation of the
USAID-financed housing and upgrading project In Cairo.



- 12 -
tracts to US 1.5 million equivalent, and for goods contracts to US$150,000
equivalent. I /
27.         Although the implementation of the project took six and a half
years instead of the four and a half years envisaged at appraisal (see PCR,
Annex IV), and notwithstanding the substantial reduction made to its scope,
several project activities remained incomplete at the closing date.   Among
these the most important are: (i) implementation of pricing and cost reco-
very arrangements for shelter components; (ii) provision of property titles
to lot owners in upgrading sites in Cairo; (iii) completion of civil works
for infrastructure and community facilities in upgrading sites in Cairo a
in the sites and services scheme in Assiut; and (iv) selection of
beneficiaries, sale of lot6s, and provision of property titles at the sites
and services scheme in Assiut.   The project, therefore, remained incomplete
at the closing of Credit accounts and some US$0.6 million of the Credit
funds, which had not been disbursed, were cancelled.   The PCR (para. 6.01)
reports an overall cost overrun of US$1.4 million equivalent (6.7% over SAR
estimates), although project restructuring in 1983 was designed to maintain
expenditures within the original budget.  The dlistribution of actu4al costs by
components was significantly different from the SAR plan (see PCR, Table 1)
with shelter ,nd solid waste components accouinting for 89% of the total
instead of the 73% envisaged at appraisal.   Proctirement problems recurred
throughout implementation and are discussed later orn in this ?PAM, as a point
of special interest.
B. Design and Implementation of SheLter Components
28.        The conceptual shortcoming of the shelter components (discussed in
Section I of this PPAM) were compounded by problems arising from insufficient
technical preparation.   Both the upgrading and the sites and servircs compo-
nents were appraised on the basis of site layouts and standard c-signs for
community facilities.  Topographic survey,,, soli tests, detailed engineering
designs, agreement on construction standards, and preparetion of tender docu-
ments were not undertaken prior to Credit approval.  Since limited attention
was given to the execution of these preparatory tasks, the project implemen-
tation schedule grossly understimated the complexity or the activities in-
volved and misrepresented the implementation capacity of the participating
agencies. Because the Governorates were not involved in preappraisal prepa-
ration of the components (although they were given full responsibility for
their execution), many differences arose in the perception of the project's
concept and scope, and local support was consequently limtted.
29.           In Assist  land acquisition and definition of site boundaries
delayed significantly the completion of detailed site des-igns.  The alloca-
tion of parts of the site to a separate developmentt may have resulted, more-
over, in windfall profits to developers who parttcipated with the Governorate
in the construction of five-story middle- and upper-income residential and
commercial structures on the best portions of the site (along the main access
17/  IDA's approval was cornrunicated ky cable dated 12/28/81.



- 13 -
road and the margins of the Ibrahimlya Canal), 18/ Due to lack of informa-
tion, the audit cannot ascertain whether this parallel development paid its
share of land costs, off-site infrastructure, and site preparation to the
account of the project. 19/  The audit refers the reader to the PCR (paras.
4.18-4.24) for a descrip-Elon of the construction process and the standards
built. In general, sites and services construction management in Assiut was
poor and hampered by procurement problems resulting in extensive delays. At
the end of about seven years, on-lot development standards were below what
the appraisal projected them to be.  Marketing of the plots had started but
sales had not taken place. By mid-1985 (half a year after the closing date),
the scheme had not yet been connected to off-site sewerage systems, although
on-site infrastructure, one primary school, and 353 one-room core units (9
sq. m. each) were complete.   About 2,400 plots were left bare.   Judging by
the pattern of urban land occupation in other Egyptian cities, the audit
identifies a potential problem in connection with the lot sizes used in
Assiut (lots ranged from 45 sq. m. to 72 sq. m.), since they appear to be too
small to accommodate the likely vertical expansion of dwelling units on
site. 20/
30.       Upgrading works in Cairo were restricted to two contiguous settle-
ments (Main settlement and Zaballeen settlement at Mansheit Nasser) after the
cancellation of the third site at North Bassateen.  21/   Strong demand for
this type of improvement to informal housing settlements existed in Cairo and
the component potentially offered a good opportunity to demonstrate systema-
tic methods for extension of services to low-income neighborhoods and thus
provide the basis for larger scale development. Unfortunately, the implemen-
tation of the component never received a h'gh priority in the Cairo Governor-
ate. A-onrding to the Region (PCR,, para. 5.10), the large Cairo bureaucracy
(about 160,000 employees in 1985) was only vaguely acquainted with the pro-
ject and treated it as a minor investment, out-of-scale with the city's size-
18/ This parallel development was intended to provide resources to finance
the construction of one-room core units on all sites and services plots
(instead of on 25Z of the plots, as agreed at appraisal) but the cross-
subsidization plan was abandoned after agreement was reached on site
boundaries and land use.
19/ These payments were not yet made in July 1983, according to IDA super-
vision report dated 08/05/83. More recent information is not available.
20/  If we consider the average lot size in Assiut to be 60 m2, this standard
corresponds to about two-thirds the average lot size in Cairo.   Lot
sizes in Cairo have been reduced by 25% since the 19609 but still
averaged about 90 m2 in 1981, according to S. Mayo et al. (1982).
21/ The justification for the original inclusion of North Bassateen in the
project is unclear to the audit, since the settlement was already being
developed by the private informal sector in 1977.



- 14 -
able capital expenditure budget (EE 90,8 million in 1980). 22/ AB a demons-
tration, the component failed to bring about efficiency in-the construction
of the various Infrastructure elements, primarily because the coordination
was assigned to a central government agency which was incapable of bringing
local authorities to work together (in this case, three parastatal utility
companies and three separate city departments). 23/  Inefficient procurement
practices used for most of the contracts created additional difficulties.
31.          The component was changed during execution in so far as higher
standards were used for infrastructure construction.   These standards were
determined by each specialized city agency, in accordance with its own norms,
and in disregard to the specifications set out in the original Credit Agree-
ment.   Nevertheless,  the audit  concurs with the Region  (PCR,  paragraphs
4.23-4.24) on the appropriateness of such higher standards.   They appear to
be technically sound, affordable, propitious to easier maintenance and
operation of assets, and providing a better basis for future settlement
densification.  24/   Among  the  important  changes  made  to infrastructure
design (seePCR, Annex I) only one was not sanctioned by IDA, namely,
additional sewerage distribution works which extended piped sewers to the
entire main settlement and to parts of the Zaballeen settlement. These works
were  entirely  financed  by  the  Cairo  Governorate.   Another unanticipated
change was the participation of project beneficiaries in wholly financing
individual household connections for water supply and sewerage (valued at E
0.8 million).   This development indicates that slum dwellers have both the
capacity  and  the  willingness  to  pay  for  basic  utility  services  and
constitutes the only cost recovery achievements thus far attained by the
project.
32.          Cadastral surveys and detailed engineering designs absorbed an
excessively long period of time, as indicated by the completion of the final
designs and tender documents (for the Zaballeen settlement) in mid-1983 --
22/  See IBRD (1983)  Table  2.4.   The upgrading  component,  as appraised,
represented about EE 4.7 million in 4-t years, or an annual expenditure
averaging about 1% of the city's total annual investment budget.
23/  These agencies were the GOGCW,  GOGCSSD,  CEDC and the Departments of
Roads and Bridges, Mechanical and Electrical Works, and Planning and
Construction.
24/  The large discrepancy between standards as-built and SAR specifications
results  from  insufficient  preappraisal  preparation.    For  example,
because soil tests were not made, the proposed SAR low-cost sanitation
solution (involving the construction of cesspits), was inappropriate for
the rocky soil at Mansheit Nasser.



- 15 -
one year and a half after the  r'1ginal project completion date. 25/  Cons-
truction was poorly supervised and proceeded at an uneven and sTow pace,
exhibiting quality defects in several instances, as for example in the case
of schools, water supply distribution, and circulation roads in the main
settlement,
33.       The combined impact of a lengthy construction period, several cons-
truction defects, use of higher standards, and escalation of construction
prices resulted in significant cost increases in this component, estimated by
the Region (PCR, Annex III) at 672 above SAR estimates for the main settle-
ment  and at  238% for the Zaballeen settlement.   Because the component's
accounts were improperly kept, the audit is unable to confirm the exact
magnitude of these cost overruns.
C. Design and Implementation of the Solid Waste Component
34.       Solid waste collection in Egypt was not considered a public aervice
and, when provided, was normally concentrated in high-income areas where
private collectors (Zaballeen) could realize higher salvage value. Accumula-
tion of refuse on the streets had become a serious health hazard at the time
of project preparation and was ranked (in Cairo) as the most pressing neigh-
borhood problem by residents who expressed their willingness to pay for
improved services.  26/   These circumstances led to the preparation of the
solid waste component included in the project, in support of the expansion of
the Zaballeen collection services to low-income areas, and complemented by
improvements to the public sector processing technology (composLing) and
street cleaning operations in Cairo and Alexandria.
35.         Careful preparation by consultants and the fact that investments
responded to a priority need contributed to the more successful implementa-
tion of this component in the context of the project.  As a result, although
the expansion of the Zaballeen refuse collection services still remains
limited to a few low-income areas, the audit concurs with the Region (PCR,
para. 9.03) that an effective demonstration of the feasibility of the
approach was achieved, possibly providing a basis for further larger scale
development.
36.       The changes made to the design of the solid waste component during
implementation refer mostly to the specifications for the composting plants
(involving a higher level of mechanization than originally envisaged) and
appear to the audit as reflecting the application of sound technical crite-
ra. On the other hand, several elements intended to improve refuse collec-
25/ The Bank Group had extensive previous experience with slum upgrading in
other countries and should have been able to advise the Egyptian Govern-
ment on the proper planning and execution of cadastral surveys in
densely  occupied  settlements.    Unfortunately,  such  advice  was  not
offered.
26/ See, Cairo Household Survey (1981), as reported in S. Mayo et al.
(1982).



- 16 -
tion and street cleaning operations In Alexandria were cancelled because
funds from USAID were available for this same purpose on better terms. 27/
In Cairo, with the exception of the cancellation of the pilot composting
plant (which proved unnecessary), most sub-components were implemented as
planned.
37.       The cost overruns incurred in the implementation of the solid waste
component (estimated at 123% over SAR figures in the PCR, Annex II) appear
justified on the basis of the inclusion of a 160 tons/day composting plant in
Alexandria in substitution for the originally envisaged pilot composting
plant. Both composting plants built were operational by Credit closing date.
D. Design and Implementation of the Employment Component
38.        The rapid growth of the Egyptian economy during the second half of
the 1970s did not generate a comensurate icmrease in employment opportuni-
ties.   Annual growth in the number of jobs between 1971 and 1980 would in
fact have been significantly below the rate of growth of the labor force, if
not for the acceleration of international labor migration which occurred
after 1975. 28/  Taking into account the number of Egyptian workers abroad,
overall empfoyment opportunities grew by 2.8% per annum during the 1970s,
while the domestic job market expanded at an annual rate of only 1.9%, indi-
cating the need to create additional domestic productive jobs.  The employ-
ment component in the first urban project was conceived in response to this
need and seen as a complement to other Bank Group efforts in this area. 29/
39.        Unfortunately, the component was hastily prepared and the agencies
chosen to implement the credit and technical assistance programs, and to
provide vocational  training,  were not suitable.   Because the NBE had no
former experience in lending to small businesses, it depended on HIPCO to
market these loans and evaluate loan applications. HIPCO, on the other hand,
had never been involved in either lending or technical assistance opera-
tions.   Its non-formal vocational training experience was limited, at the
time of appraisal, to the administration of 18 training centers, of which
only  10 were  functioning.    In general  the  audit  notes  that  non-formal
vocational training experience in Egypt was restricted (in the mid-1970s) to
a combined output in industrial and construction trades of fewer than 5,000
27/  The Alexandria Wastewater Expansion Project, financed by an USAID grant
of US$198,62i million approve, in August 1979, included provisions for
improved solid waste management.
28/  International  labor  migration  accounts  for  a  large  share  of  the
additional workers employed during the decade.   The number of Egyptian
workers abroad was estimated to have grown from about 100,000 in 1971 to
approximately 591,600 in 1980 -- an increase of almost half a million
jobs, equivalent to an annual growth rate of 21.8%.  See Serageldin et
al., (1983).
29/  A Bank loan for the Third Industrial  Development  Bank Project  (Loan
1533-EGT) for US$40 million was approved in August 1978.



- 17 -
graduates per year, and overall performance was rated less than satisfacto-
ry. 30/  The Region rep3rts (PCR, Table 1 of Annex II) that US$0.37 million
equivalent were spent in the construction of a training center at Mansheit
Nasser in Cairo while the remaining activities contemplated in the component
were  cancelled.   The construction of this one center began late in the
project execution period (1983) and was not complete by project completion
date. There is no further information that would permit the audit to assess
if indeed this training center will be equipped, staffed, and opeLated by
HIPCO,  nor when  this might  occur.    In retrospect,  and  in view of the
cancellation of the component due to inability of the executing agencies to
provide the envisaged services, the audit considers that it might have been
wiser to have limited the employment component to a study of the small- scale
business sector, aimed at servicing this portion of the market through future
industrial development credit programs. 31/
E. Design and Implementation of the Rehabilitation of Water Supply and
Sewerage Systems in Assiut
40.        Although the appraisal recognized that improvements to infrastrule-
ture, particularly to water supply and sewerage systems, were a precondition
to further urban growth in Assiut (SAR, para. 1.26), the project nevertheless
provided for a sites and services scheme (for a projected population of
14,000 people) in that city, st.Lported by a very small citywide infrastruc-
ture rehabilitation  component. 32/   As could have been anticipated,  the
funds provided for this component were grossly inadequate to execute even the
most urgent repairs. 33/  In consequence, the component was cancelled (ex-
cept for the acquisition of leak detection equipment) and funds were reallo-
cated to the construction of off-site sewerage works to ser\'e the sites and
services scheme.
30/  Most of the non-formal vocational training programs in Egypt at tnat
time were administered by the Ministry of Industry and by the Ministry
of Housing. See K. Ikram (1980), pages 127-128.
31/ The Region does not consider this would have been feasible given the
prevailing conditions at the time.
32/ The original allocation for the component was US$0.87 million equiva-
lent. This amount was deemed insufficient by sector specialists within
the Bank who reviewed the project at an early stage in the processing
cycle of the Credit. Unfortunately, timely modifications to the project
scope were not made.
33/ The consultants hired to define the component during implementation
(Consultiag Engineering, in joint venture with Binnie Taylor and
International Management Center in Egypt), concluded from their studies
(in mid-1981) that a minimum of EE 7.3 million were required (EE 3.1
million for water supply, EE 2.9 million for sewerage, and E 1.3
million for operations and maintenance).   This budget compares with an
SAR estimate of EE 0.6 million.   See, IDA Credit 831-EGT Project File,
Supervision Report dated 12/09/81.



- 18 -
F. Design and Implementation of the Technical Assistance Component
41.       The composition of the technical assistance provided by the project
was greatly influenced by the need to prepare the project itself (a task that
absorbed about 472 of total technical assistance resources; see PCR, Table 9,
Annex II). Because a decision was made, at an early stage in Credit process-
ing, to postpone detailed project preparation, over one-third of the techni-
cal assistance funds were used for this purpose (332) during the implementa-
tion phase.   These detailed design functions were performed by consultants
with virtually no participation of the staff of the agencies responisible for
executing the various components, and very little was gained in terms of
staff training as a result.
42.          The audit notes, moreover, that almost twice as much funds was
allocated to the preparation of future projects (20Z) than to strengthening
the implementation capacity of participating agencies (only about 11% of the
technical assistance funds were allocated to training, administration, and
advisory services).   Two studies (a Survey of the Artisan Sector, and an
Identification of the Training Needs in Seven Governorates), absorbed the
remaining resouices (about 22%).
43.          As a result of this particular design structure, the technical
assistance provided was fragmented and proved less than satisfactory as a
vehicle for institution-building.   Most conspicuously, the component lacked
direct management support for project implementation at the level of the
G;overnorates, which the audit considers to be a serious flaw of project
design.   While  agreeing  in general with  the Region's  assessment  of  the
implementation of this component (PCR, paras. 4.32-4.38), the audit suggests
in addition, that advisory services originally destined to the LIHF (subse-
quently cancelled after that agency was dissolved) should have been reallo-
cated to the Governorates to provide accounting, financial, and general
management assistance during project implementation. One of the reasons why
project accounts are so incomplete and unreliable is that accounting was
never addressed at the level where the bulk of the project transactions were
made.
III. PROJECT PERFORMANCE AND RESULTS
A. General
44.         Project performance was disappointing in most respects, with the
important exception of the area of solid waste management, in which some
progress was made toward a more general solution to a serious problem facing
Egyptian cities. While the audit would argue that IDA assistance could have
been more efficiently extended to Egypt through a differently designed urban
development project, it recognizes that specific achievements were made
within the context of the project being audited.
B. Achievements in the Area of Shelter
45.            In Cairo the living conditions of approximately  70,000 slum
dwellers were signlficantly improved through the provision of potable water,



- 19 -
sewerage, and electricity connfections to their dwelling units.   Transporta-
tion services and environmental sanitation were also vastly improved in their
settlements through the construction of access and circulation roads, and the
extension of refuse collection services.   Although  information on income
levels in the upgraded settlements is not available, the audit presumes that
the majority of the beneficiaries of this component have incomes below the
average household income level in Cairo. 34,  Public investment in upgrading
these settlements contributed directly to the mobilization of private re-
sources for housing investments.   Households financed their private utility
connections and made improvements to their dwelling units. In addition, the
improved settlement conditions supported a large (although unquantified)
increase in the housing stock which resulted from the construction of new
dwelling units added through vertical expansion to existing housing struc-
tures.   (Mansheit Nasser was occupied preponderantly by one to two-story
housing structures prior to the project and now exhibits a majority of
five-story buildings.)
46.         The quantification of these urban upgrading benefits is normally
expressed in terms of increased land values. However, because land values in
Cairo have increased at high rates throughout the period of project implemen-
tation, it is very difficult to isolate the share of appreciation directly
attributable to the investments made in connection with the project. 35/
Thus, although the audit concurs with the Region that the accrued benefits
are relatively high, it cannot confirm the specific estimated IERR of 23% for
the upgrading investments (PCR, Annex III and para. 7.03), in the absence of
data which would permit controlling for land price increases in the city as a
whole, and changes in land value gradient.
47.       In Assiut, project achievements directly and indirectly represented
potential additions to the housing stock.   By preparing for occupancy 2,800
residential plots, the sites and services scheme will eventually support the
construction by the private sector of an equal number of dwelling units, and
potenttally more than that given the observed ti.end favoring vertical expan--
sion of housing structures in Egypt.  The quantification of the economic rate
of returln for this component, at present, would result in highly negative
because the plots have not yet been sold.   It is for this reason and not
because of rent control (as stated in the PCR, para. 7.02) that calculation
34/ Available household income data for Cairo is not readily useful because
reported income and expenditures tend to omit temporary variations,
notably those caused by workers'  remittances from abroad.   Thus, the
median annual household expenditure reported for Cairo in 1981 (EE 1,032
or about US$764) might be understated, particularly with respect to home
improvement expenditures.   See Mayo et al. (1982), Table 8.5, page 165
and Lance Taylor, "Income Distribution and Consumption Patterns," in K.
rkram (1980), pages 80-95.
35/ Land price increases at compound annual rates of from 25 to 40 percent
have been reported for Cairo during the last decade.   See Mayo et al.
(1982), pages 153-163.



- 20 -
of the IERR is presently premature. 36/   Indirectly, the Assiut sites and
services scheme contributed to cityw-Tde development by encompassing the
extension of trunk water and sewerage infrastructure to that sector of the
city, thus providing the necessary preconditions for further housing and
commercial expansion. This benefit is exogenous to the project and likely to
accrue to beneficiaries belonging to higher-income groups. Nevertheless, its
impact on the city of Assiut is positive not only because it represents
further additions to the housing stock but also because it offers an
opportunity for the city to grow away from the historical center where
congestion and delapidated infrastructure set at excessively high levels the
economic costs of additional housing.
48.       The impact of the shelter components on national housing policy was
modest, primarily because its objectives were restricted to the area of
direct activity by the Government qua developer.   Within this sphere, the
experience gained from the project was beneficial in so far as it contrib-
uted, along with assistance provided by other donors, to the exclusion from
the national budget of investments destined to the construction of fully-
built rental housing, which in earlier periods had resulted in highly
negative financial rates of return to public sector investment.
C. Achievements in the Area of Solid Waste Management
49.         Refuse collection has been extended to approximately 18,500 low-
income households in Cairo on a self-financing, private service provision
basis, establishing a model which eventually might be applicable to citywide
expansion. The administration of street cleaning and solid waste processing
services by the Governorates of Cairo and Alexandria was improved by the
construction of two composting plants and by the measures taken to ensure
that these plants continue to be properly operated and maintsined. Although
modest in scale, these achievements may be considered an important first step
toward improvement in public sector solid waste management and as providing a
basis for larger scale future developments.
D. Achievements Associated with Technical Assistance
50.        The results of the technical assistance provided are reflected In
the level of preparation ultimately achieved in the project, which was, as
already mentioned, uneven.  Technical assistance resources allocated to the
preparation of future urban development projects have succeeded in identify-
ing and preparing a solid waste management project for which financing is
36/ S. Malpezzi has estimated the costs and benefits of investments in
rental housing in Cairo under rent control conditions, and the same
methodology could be used in the case of Assiut, if the plots were
indeed occupied.  See S. Malpezzi (1986), pages 159-170.



- 21 -
pending. 37/ The efforts made to prepare an urban upgrading project for the
historical central Cairo area (Gamaliya Study) were not successful, in part
because the study itself was less than satisfactorily prepared (see PCR,
para. 4.36).  38/   On the other hand, the engineering design studies con-
ducted in Assiut to determine the rehabilitation works required by the water
supply and sewerage systems were profitably used by the National Organization
for Potable Water and Sanitary Drainage (NOPWSD) to carry out comprehensive
repairs to these systems, once the corresponding component was deleted from
the project.
51.          The two studies completed during the project were hampered by
several implementation difficulties (see PCR, paras. 4.33-4.34) and their
usefulness is difficult to determine.  For example, the Artisan Sector Study
conducted a survey of 16,000 cases but did only a few in-depth interviews and
relatively little data analysis.  As a result, the study gives only limited
insight into the workings of the artisan market in Egypt and into the inter-
nal operations of small-scale firms.   Further analysis would be necessary
before the knowledge gained through this study could be practically applied
in policies and projects aimed at developing the sector. In the case of the
Study of Training Needs of Seven Governorates, a useful purpose was served by
the extensive discussions of this and related issues which took place within
Government during the execution of the study.   Although a firm training
program was not forthcoming from the study, the audit considers that first
steps in this direction were beneficial.
52.       With regard to training, except for one five-month training course
at the Institute for Housing Studies at Rotterdam attended by three Egyptian
engineers, training provided by the project was restricted to short seminars
and study tours of limited staff development impact.   (For a description of
the training services offered, see PCR, para. 4.38.) Advisory services were
only provided to the JHP, and these might have been redundant since that
agency was already receiving extensive technical assistance from USAID. The
audit considers that higher benefits from technical assistance could have
been ach'eved if direct management assistance to the Governorates was offered
through this component.
E. Areas of Lesser Achievements
53.       The audit agrees with the Region that the project failed to achieve
its objectives in the areas of cost recovery for shelter investments, employ-
ment generation, and institutional development (PCR, paras. 9.07-9.10). The
reasons for these failures are embedded in the design of the project and in
the institutional  conditions  in Egypt.   Most  of these difficulties  have
37/  The Egyptian Government has requested the Bank to halt further process-
ing of the loan intended to finance this project, after appraisal took
place in February 1985, possibly due to the availability of alternative
funds on better terms.
38/ A second phase of this study is being financed in the context of the
Cairo Urban Development Project (IBRD Loan 2176-EGT).



- 22 -
already been discussed and need not be further elaborated here.  The audit
agrees with the observation made by the Region (PCR, paras. 9.11-9.19) that
important operational lessons were learned from the project, particularly
with regard to the need for:   (i) adjustment  of project objectives and
activities to the institutional framework and implementation capacity of the
Borrower; (ii) better utilization of the legal instruments available to IDA
by ensuring that they can in fact be complied with by the Borrower (and when
not, promptly amending them), and systematically enforcing compliance; and
most importantly (iii) utilization of the necessary time and resources to
ensure that a project is thoroughly prepared before it is submitted to the
Board  for approval.    In this conrection,  the audit would underline  the
necessity of including market analysis in the preparation of urban projects.
IV. POINTS OF SPECIAL INTEREST
54.         Because of the issues they raise and the possible relevance of
their lessons for future Bank Group projects, attention is drawn here to
points of special interest related to project implementation and design in
the urban sector.  The audit omits among these a discussion of institutional
development issues (although their interest in this and in other projects is
significant) in view of the coverage provided by the Region which is deemed
appropriate (PCR, Chapter V).
A. The Impact of Procurement Choices on Construction Efficiency
55.         The project gives an interesting illustration of the impact of
alternative procurement strategies on the level of efficiency of the cons-
truction process, especially with regard to procurement of civil works con-
tracts.  At the time of appraisal the Bank Group had already issued procure-
ment guidelines recommending the packaging of contracts into bundles in
preference to a multiplicity of small contracts, whenever feasible. 39/
Notwithstanding these guidelines, the appraisal programmed the procurement of
about US$7.8 million equivalent in civil works conrra:ts, dispersed in more
than 50 small individual contracts (SAR, para. 3.12), and concerted effort to
combine contracts in the same site into larger packages was apparently not
undertaken (see PCR, para. 4.39).   Since so many agencies were responsible
for implementation and each one )-ad a vested interest in maintaining control
over contracts in their specialized area, there were strong incentives to
disperse civil works through several small contracts and the position of IDA
should have been to try to overcome these bureaucratic constraints.
56.        Great fragmentation of civil works contracts was the result.  At
the sites and services scheme in Assiut, for example, a total of 16 civil
39/ See IBRD, Procurement Guidelines for Civil Works, 1977.



- 23 -
works contracts were awarded within a 25 ha site area* 40/  The management
of the construction site and of the contracts themselveiswas very difficult
under these procurement arrangements. Moreover, although contracts were let
on a fixed price basis (in accordance with Bank Group policies), the
practical interpretation of "fixed prices" was subject to qualification and
adjustments could be made with reference to building materials prices and
wage rates controlled by the Government. Because the variation of controlled
prices does not follow explicitly established indices, the process of
contract price variation adjustment was particularly troublesome and open to
impropriety.   The prequalification procedures also became more unreliable
when a large number of small firms had to be rated, mostly because
performance capacity tends to be more variable within this size-category of
firms.   As a result, several contracts awarded to the lowest bidder were
non-performing due to the technical and financial limitations of the selected
contractors. Under Egyptian law, non-performing contractors have to pay for
the completion of works by the second lowest bidder -- a condition that is
highly unrealistic in view of the financial position of most non-performing
contractors (and particularly so when they are small firms).   Lengthy and
expensive negotiations were the only avenues open to the solutio' of these
recurrent  procurement difticulties.   When fragmentation of procurement  is
combined with traditional practices of delaying contract signature, and with
limited construction supervision capacity (as is the case in Egypt), the
impact on the construction process is clearly one of increased inefficiency
and higher costs, which was characteristic of the project under review. 41/
57.       Efficient procurement for civil works was finally introduced in the
project during the last year of implementation in the Zaballeen upgrading
settlement and portions of the main settlement at Mansheit Nasser in Cairo.
The improvement consisted in packaging in a single contract of water supply,
sewerage, and road construction works (electrical works remained a separate
contract under the direct administration of the CEDC).   Larger firms were
attracted to bid for this contract and construction proceeded comparatively
free of problems after contract signature at a significantly faster pace than
under  previous  contracts.       If  interest  during  construction  had  been
calculated as part of project costs, the resulting figures would have shown
the sizeable financial advantages of this last procurement choice over the
earlier ones.
40/  See comments  by W.  R. Shirrefs  (Consultant)  in  IDA Credit  831-EGT
Supervision Report dated June 24, 1980, where he states that on-lot
civil works at Assiut were divided into eight contracts (representing
batches of 240-480 core units each), five contracts were awarded for
infrastructure   construction,   and  three  for  community  facilities
buildings.
41/  Bank Group data on ICB contract signature by Borrowers as a function of
award date, shows Egypt as having the longest delay among all member
countries between these two dates. See, IBRD, Procurement Unit records,
1985.



- 24 -
58.          A second interesting example of efficiency gains derived from
improved procurement practices is the case of the supply, erection, and
commissioning contract for the composting plant in Alexandria.   Because the
contract for an identical plant had been successfully carried out in Cairo,
the Borrower applied for IDA approval for exception from ICB requirements in
the case of the second plant and permission to negotiate the Alexandria
contract   with  the  same  supplier  responsible  for  the  Cairo  plant.
Fortunately, IDA denied approval of the request and the Alexandria plant was
procured through LIB.  The corresponding contract was awarded to the lowest
bidder (who was not the winner of the Cairo contract) and as a result,
project costs were lower than they would have otherwise been. The Alexandria
plant was built without problems and commissioned on schedule.
59.        Both the successful and the less successful instances of procure-
ment performance in this project suggest that special attention should be
given to the proper planning of procurement activities in future urban pro-
jects, part.cularly in countries where local legislation and practice tends
to make contracting a cumbersome process.
B. The Determination of Construction Standards 42/
60.        An important contribution made by urban sector policies developed
by the Bank Group during the 1970s was to alert Borrowers to the necessity of
maintaining a close relationship between construction standards (and there-
fore costs) and the capacity and willingness to pay of beneficiaries of such
construction.   This policy was timely in view of the preference for higher
standards observed in most developing countries in connection with housing
projects intended, nevertheless, for a poor clientele.   Evidently, the sub-
stance of the policy was that appropriate standards be applied, although
quite often appropriateness was identified with lower standards, irrespective
of other  technical  considerations.   The case of the first urban project
in Egypt is instructive because appraisal construction standards were primar-
ily determined on the basis of assumptions regarding the level of income of
project beneficiaries, apparently neglecting other relevant considerations
such as:   (i) the level of land use densities expected in the settlements;
(ii) the actual capacity of local public agencies to operate and maintain
utility and road networks; and (iii) the pricing policies for utiliLy ser-
vices in the counitry.   The apparent omission  of these factors  from the
construction standard selection criteria is not acceptable in general and
seems particularly unwise in the case of Egypt.   In fact, Egypt was facing
special circumstances at the time of appraisal.  The Government was burdened
by unusual demand for rehabilitation of major utility systems and had very
few resources to allocate to routine maintenance, preferring therefore to use
standards that would minimize maintenance expenditures in new construction.
In addition, in Egypt conditions are defined by the scarcity of urbanizable
land which make high residential densities both desirable and necessary,
indicating that the carrying capacity of urban infrastructure must be calcu-
42/ The audit refers the reader to similar findings reported in connection
with the First Urban Development Project in the Republic of Cote
d'Ivoire (Loan 1347/1348-IVC).  See PPAR, OED, May 14, 1986.



- 25 -
lated for supporting several times the initial oceupancy levels.  This can-
straint does not necessarily mean that projects should be over-designed, but
it does require proper design for future supply expansion.  The last impor-
tant country condition that should have been taken into account is the fact
that pricing of public utility services in Egypt bears little relation to the
cost of the services provided and to the capacity and willingness to pay of
the population. These generalized inefficient prices weaken the affordable-
standards argument advanced by Bank policy because its use, in a slum up-
grading project for example, would further accentuate the regressive nature
of the general price structure. The project therefore illustrates the futil-
ity of approaching a sector problem from a site-specific perspective without
complementary policy efforts at adjusting the larger institutional distor-
tions.
C. Housing Supply under Rent Control
61.        A comprehensive analysis of the impact of rent control legislation
on the Cairo housing market is now available and the audit would rather refer
the reader to its source than attempt to summarize the argument here. 43/
Although this study, clearly, was not available at the time of preparation of
the project being audited, some of its findings should be highlighted because
they appear of general relevance to the preparation of future urban
projects.   The first set of findings reported by Malpezzi has already been
discussed  (PPAM paras.  11 and  15)  in connection  with  the fact  that  the
apparently large subsidies received by Cairo renters under rent control are
in fact much smaller than presumed because total housing expenditures include
key money, maintenance and service expenditures in addition to contract
rents. While these side payments reduce the average subsidy implicit in rent
control, they also mask a high degree of inequality in the distributiion of
housing costs and benefits among tenants, and large consumption distortions
associated with long length-of-tenure and lower tenant mobility rates. While
these findings increase our understanding of market behavior under rent
control conditions, what is of more general interest is the fact that
landlords continue to invest in housing although they are able to recover
only about 71% of the market price of housing in the form of rent and side
payments.   (Incidentally, it must be mentioned that this level of private
sector cost recovery is substantially higher than that obtained in public
sector housing investments, estimated at 38% of the market price, and
corresponding to the contract rent plus utility payments.) 44/  In the case
of Cairo's private housing market it seems as though investors are prepared
to pay in order to be able to invest in housing -- a behavior pattern that
indicates the relative scarcity of better investment opportunities.   This
43/  See S. Malpezzi (1986).   This section does not presume to be a summary
of the major findings of this study and the reader is encouraged to
consul. the original source.
44/  An additional 337 return in the case of public sector housing invest-
ments is probabl' charged informally in the context of allocating highly
subsidized scarce units, but the proceeds would not tend, in our view,
to revert to the public sector coffers.



- 26 -
housing investment preference pattern ts also not uncommon in other
developing countries with similarly weak capital markets, high levels of
uncertainty  vis-a-vis  the  institutional   environment,   rising  domestic
inflation rates, and unexpected income spurs.
62.          From the above observations,  it follows that housing financing
interventions through urban development projects must not only pay special
attention to the behavior of private housing markets but also take into
account the general investment environment in the country.   In the case of
Egypt, and in retrospect, the alternative of supporting the private supply of
rental housing might have been weighed against the creation of a new public
sector financial instrument in support of the expansion of owner-occupied
units,  although the audit  recognizes  that thls type of analysis was not
usually part of project preparation when the first urban development project
in Egypt was appraised.



- 27 -
ANNEX A
Page 1 of 4
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(As per Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement, August 30, 1978)
Part A - The provision in Cairo of:
(i)  Upgrading of about 96 hectares with about 11,600 households in
Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement); of about 30 hectares with
about 3,000 households in Mansheit Nasser (Zabbaleen Settle-
ment) and of about 23 hectares with about 3,900 households in
North Bassateen (Kulaha Settlement) including provision or
improvements of:  access and circulation roads; water supply
facilities; sewerage facilities; electricity distribution
systems; solid water collection services; community facilities
comprising primary schools, health clinics, community centers
and one secondary school; new lots for residential and small
business purposes; assistance to self-help upgrading and
construction of houses through the provision of building
materials lonas; and assistance in developing appropriate
technologies for solid waste processing and loans for repair
and replacement of garbage collection equipment.
(ii)  The  construction  of  a  pilot  composting  plant  at  Shoubra
followed by the construction of a 200-ton per day composting
plan at Shoubra for the purpose of improving solid waste
disposal.
Part B   The Provision In Alexandria of:
(i) Upgrading of about 11 hectares with about 1,000 households in
New Nagaa El Arab, including provision or improvements of:
access  and  circulation  roads;  water  supply;   low  cost
sanitation facilities; electricity distribution system; waste
collection services; community facilities comprising primary
school, health clinic, and a community center; and assistance
to residents for home improvement through provision of
building materials loans.
(it)  Sites and services for about 1,800 residential plots and about
80 workshop plots on about 15 hectares in South Metras,
including site development and preparation; infrastructure
facilities  including  roads,  water  supply  and  sewerage;
ablution units and plot perimeter walls for residential plots;
community facilities comprising primary school, health clinic
and community center; and provision of building materials
loans to residents for home construction through self-help.



- 28 -
Annex A
iage 2 of 4
(iii) The Improvement of solid waste collection and disposal through
stre,igthened management of street cleaning and solid waste
disposal services; extension of solid waste collection
services to low income areas; construction of solid waste
depots and provision of collection and maintenance equipment;
and construction of one pilot composting plant.
Part C - The Provision in Assiut of:
(i) Sites and services for about 2,800 residential plots and 200
workshop plots on about 25 hectares at South Gharb El Balad,
including site development, infrastructure facilities such as
roads,  water  supply  and  sewerage;  ablution  units  and
perimetral plot walls for residential plots; community
facilities comprising primary school, health clinic and
community center; and loans for building materials to assist
residents in self-help home construction.
Part D - Small Business Development Program comprising:
(i)  Credit  program  to  enterprises  in  the  project  areas  fcr
workshop construction, equipment and for use as working
capital.
(ii)  Technical assistance and  training  for entrepreneurs  in the
project areas.
(iii) Vocational training in various fields.
Part E - Rehabilitation of the Water Supply and Sewerage Systems at Assiut
through:
(i) Repairs to the water supply facilities encompassing water
extraction  plants  and  water  distribution  networks;  and
provision of equipment and workshop facilities to maintain and
monitor the operation of such plants and network.
(ii)  Rehabilitation of the central sewerage  pumping station and
existing sewage disposal works and minor additions  to  the
capacity of these facilities; and provision of equipment and
workshop facil'ties to maintain and monitor the operation of
such facilities.
Part F - Technical Assistance
The provision of consultancy and advisory services to assist in:
(i) Project design and implementation.



- 29 -
Annex A
Page 3 of 4
(ii)  Preparation of further urban development projects.
(lii)  Strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  LIHF  in  the  areas  of
organization and financial management.
(iv)  Improving HIPCO's organization and staffing and carrying out a
study of the artisan sector in Egypt.
(v) Identifying the training needs in the Governorates of Cairo,
Alexandria, Assiut, Ismailia and Gharblya.
PRINCIPAL CHANGES IN PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(As per Amendments to the Credit Agreement dated May 13, 1983)
A. Shelter
(i) Cancellation of North Bassateen upgrading in Cairo.
(ii)  Cancellation of upgrading and sites and services components in
Alexandria.
(iii)  Cancellation of loans for building materials in all upgrading
and sites and services schemes.
B. Solid Waste
(iv)  Cancellation  of  the pilot  composting  plants  in  Cairo  and
Alexandria.
(v) Redefinition of the composting plant in Cairo to a capacity of
160 tons/day.
(vi)  Inclusion of a composting plant in Alexandria with a capacity
of 160 tons/day.
C.  Employment Promotion Services
(vii)  Cancellation  of  the entire  component  including credit  and
technical  assistance  to  small  business  and  vocational
training.
(viii) Ratification of the withdrawal from the project of the NBE and
termination of the subsidiary loan agreement between the
Borrower and NBE.



- 30 -
Annex A
Page 4 of 4
D.  Rehabilitation of Water Supply and Sewerage Systems in Assiut
(ix) Cancellation of the original rehabilitation program.
(x) Inclusion of the construction of off-site sewer pumping
station and sewer main to serve the sites and services scheme.
E. Technical Assistance
(xi)  Cancellation of consultant and advisory services to assist the
LIHF and ratification of the abolition by the Borrower of the
LIHF.
(xii)  Inclusion, under 'preparation of  furthoir urban  development
projects" of consultancy to prepare a solid waste management
project.



/1~~~~~~~~~~~  5
USAID PROJECT ASSISTANCE FOR URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE AND SHELTER IN EGYPT-
(in US$ thousands)
Cumulative    Comitment
Expenditures    through
Start Date    Comp. Date                  Project Title                                 06/30/86
Sep   77      Sep   89         Urban Power Distribution                 42,654            97,200
Sep   77      Sep   86         Cairo Water Supply                         7,944           91,400
Sep   77      Jan   84         Alexandria Sewerage System                14,639           14,b39
Sep   78      Feb   87         Canal Cities Water & Sewerage           146,010           169,000
Aug   78      Mar   87         Development Planning Studies              19,952           22,800
Sep   78      Sep   88         Cairo Sewerage                           99,587           129,000
Aug   78      Aug   88         Low Income Housing Upgrading             50,570            80,000
May   78      Jun   87         Development Decentralization             26,190            26,200
Aug   79      Aug   89         Alexandria Wastewater Expansion          59,857           198,621
Sep   79      Mar   85         Sinai Planning Studies                    2,688             2,688
Aug   80      Jun   87         Basic Village Services                   69,684            70,000
Sep   80      Jun   87         Decentralization Support                 48,652            50,000
Sep   81      Aug   86         Provincial Cities Development             16,183           20,000
Aug   81      Jun   87         Neighborhood Urban Services               19,936           20,000
Aug   82      Sep   89         Basic Vitlage Services                  234,295           374,000
Sep   84      Sep   94         Cairo Sewerage II                         4,286           360,300
Jul   85      Jul   90         Water & Wastewater Systems Human Dev.      -                5,000
Sep   85      Jul   89         Local Development II                       -               61,000
Subtotal Urban .................................... 863,127             1,791,848
All Project Assistance to Egypt ....... ............  2,912,535         4,393,143
Source:  USAID, Egypt - Project Listing as of June 30,1986.
Note 1: Excludes telecomriunications, industry, banking, private sector credit, training,
general technical assistance, health and educational services.



IIV
P, q
[:in
it i
M1 .I   .



- 33 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT: FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR. 831-EGT)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     In 1977, at the time of project identification, Egypt's population
comprised approximately 37 million people, with 42 percent (17 million) of
them living in urban settlements of more than 20,000. Greater Cairo was (and
still is) by far the larg st center with about 8.5 million people or
approximately one-half of che urban total. Egypt's overall population growth
rate was about 2.3 percent per year but the urban population was expanding at
nearly double that rate. Roughly 31 percent of its urban population (5.3
million) were poor with incomes below the World Bank poverty threshold of
LE 383 (US$547) per household per year.
1.02     One consequence of rapid urbanization was a severe shortfall in urban
housing and services; moreover, both public and private investment in housing
was steadily declining--from 25 percent of national investment in the 1950's
to less than 10 percent in the 1960's-due mainly to a precipitous decrease in
formal private investment. The number of formal sector housing units built
therefore declined from approximately seven units per 1,000 population per
year to about 2.5 units. These outcomes were largely the result of two
government actions: (i) a rent control policy that deterred private
investment, and (ii) a public housing program that, while limited in scale,
drained a disproportionate amount of public funds relative to the number of
households served because of overly high building standards and the practice
of the public sector providing fully-built housing units. In this milieu, the
urban poor largely resorted to informal construction through self-help on
unserviced land, without obtaining the required building permits. At the
time, it was estimated that perhaps as much as one-half of all private housing
construction in Egypt was taking place in the informal sector. Such housing
generally was of good quality, with efficient site layouts and adequate rights
of way. The major problems facing residents in these areas were lack of
secure tenure (since they were built illegally) and inadequate or no services.
1.03     The Government of Egypt (GOE) was keenly aware of the scope and
severity of its growing urban problems and so began to revise urban policies
within the framework of an overall economic development strategy and
liberalization process. Initiatives focused on redirecting growth away from
Greater Cairo to areas that would not encroach on agricultural land. In 1976,
to squarely meet the housing issue, the GOE created a Low-Income Housing Fund
(LIHF) within the then Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction (MOHR)
specifically to help finance housing for the urban poor. By early 1977, the
GOE also decided to initiate a program of comprehensive low-cost sites and
services and area upgrading schemes. The IDA project as originally conceived
represented the first phase of that program.



- 34 -
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION. AND APPRAISAL
A. Identification
2.01     IDA's involvement in the urban sector in Egypt began in February 1976
with a preliminary examination of urbanization patterns in preparation for a
Basic Economic Mission. Following an initial visit, the Association undertook
a reconnaissance mission in October 1976 to describe to government officials
its policy approach to urban sector development, the nature and focus of IDA
supported urban projects in the housing field, and to assess the GOE's level
of interest in developing such a project with IDA financing. Subsequently,
the MOHR expressed interest in an urban project within the general framework
the Association had presented.
2.02     The project was conceived as multifaceted, addressing sites and
services, slum upgrading, community services, and employment generation for
lower-income families, all of which dovetailed with GOE objectives in these
areas. Three cities were chosen, two of which were secondary (Alexandria and
Assiut) and the other primary (Cairo). Cairo and Alexandria were selected
because of their concentration and intensity of urban problems and Assiut
because of its location in Upper Egypt, and because it represented a wide
range of small- to medium-sized cities. The project therefore possessed the
potential for an important "demonstration" effect, since components were to be
implemented in the capital city, a delta city, and a city in Upper Egypt.
B. Preparation
2.03     The project was prepared during 1977 by a special Project Preparation
Unit in the General Organization for Physical Planning (GOPP) in MOHR,
assisted by consultants financed through an IDA advance from the Project
Preparation Facility (P?F).
2.04     Because government officials were unfamiliar with the many aspects of
implementing a project of this type, preparation proceeded at ; pace slower
than originally envisaged. Initially preparation focused on site selection,
planning, and engineering. The other critical areas of heusing design
standards, cost recovery, and implementation arrangements were given only
summary attention. The project was later scaled down, and the number of sites
to be developed reduced by two, from eight to six. To redress the
deficiencies in project preparation and to deal with some sensitive issues,
additional consultants were subcontracted to study the institutional and
financial aspects of -the project as well as the solid waste components.
C.  Apiraisal and Negotiations
2.05     Appraisal was undertaken in December 1977 on the basis of (i)
preliminary engineering designs for two of the project sites; (ii) conceptual
designs for the third site in Cairo; (iii) draft layouts for the sites in
Assiut and Alexandria; (iv) draft Terms of Reference (TORs) for employing
consultants to undertake detailed designs and studies; and (v) job
descriptions for key posts in the implementing agencies.



- 35 -
2.06     Negotiations took place in Washington between the Association and the
GOE from May 10 to May 13, 1978 and in Cairo with the respective governorates
from May 20 to May 21 of that year. Negotiations were completed in Cairo
because the delegation in Washington had not been empowered to finalize the
negotiations in the form of Agreements between the Association and each of the
three governorates involve-.
2.07     Subsequent difficulties arose in deciding on site suitability in
Alexandria (para. 4.04), site boundaries and standards in Assiut (para. 4.12),
and adhering to design standards in Cairo (para. 4.23). This suggests that
more detailed engineering work should have been done prior to appraisal. The
eventual small size of the project in Cairo, in comparison to other capital
investments in that city, strongly suggests that if the institutional
arrangements were to be kept the same, the appraisal should have been
postponed to permit more detailed preparation of a prolect more in keeping
with the size of other city capital investments. Instead, the project was
scaled down to permit an early appraisal. As it was, the project never
received a high priority in the respective governorates (para. 5.10), which
adversely affected the implementation process.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives
3.01     The main project objective was to assist in developing and
implementing low-cost solutions to Egypt's urban problems in the sectors of
shelter, employment, and provision of urban services, and especially making
the investments responsive to the needs of the urban poor.
3.02     Other project objectives involved establishing and strengthening
urban sector institutions, including the Low-Income Housing Fund (LIHF), its
counterpart, the newly created (April 1978) Low-Income Housing Development
Unit (LIHDU), as well as the Handicraft Industries and Productive Cooperatives
Organization (HIPCO) in the Ministry of Local Government.
3.03     As a modestly-scaled first demonstration project, the intent was to
test ley elements of the GOE's urban policy initiatives in an efrort to lay
the grour.dwork for an expanded urban development program.
B.  Project Componrnts
3.04     To meet the stated objectives, the project provided for (i) upgrading
of three low-income settlements in Cairo and one in Alexandria; (ii) develop-
ment of about 4,600 serviced plots in South Metras in Alexandria and South
Gharb el Balad in Assiut; (iii) granting loans for workshops construction,
equipment and working capital as well as technical assistance and training for
small businessmen; (iv) introducing low-cost, intermediatetechnology waste
disposal systems and improvements in waste collection, especially in
low-income areas, by expanding the role of small private contractors
(Zabbaleen); (v) urgent repairs to the Assiut Water Supply and Sewerage
systems; and (vi) consultancy and advisory services for project design and
implementation, the preparation of future projects, and the strengthening of
LIHF and LIHDU. Annex I provides a description of project components
appraised and actually implemented



- 36 -
C. Implementation Arrangements
3.05     Project components were to be implemented largely by existing
institutions without major organizational changes; however, a new
organization, the LIHDU, was established to coordinate implementation
activities. LIHDU also was to advise and provide technical assistance to the
agencies responsible for low-income housing projects on all aspects of project
design, construction, operation, and maintenance, including employment
generation, beneficiary selection, staff training, and performance monitoring.
3.06     Organizational and staffing the governorates were presumed adequate,
although there was a clear need to strengthen some departments. The General
Secretaries of the governorates of Cairo and Assiut and the Assistant
Secretary of the Alexandria Governorate were to be given primary
responsibility for implementation, while the key coordinating role in each
governorate was to be given to a low-income housing project officer designated
to be exclusively concerned with this type of project on a full-time basis.
This officer was to be responsible for coordination within each governorate
and with LIHDU. Each department was also to nominate one officer to have
special responsibility for low-income housing schemes. The Social Affairs
Directorate. were presumed to need at least three additional social services
officers with special responsibility for low-income housing schemes. The
Directors of Cooperation, who also had special employment and training
responsibility, were also expected to appoint at least three suitable staff
members to liaise with the social workers and the Undersecretaries (or
Directors) of Housing.  In Alexandria, a strong central unit was to be
established to deal with the solid waste component.
3.07     The LIHF was expected to play a key role as the intermediary for
on-lending IDA and GOE funds to the governorates and the other implementing
agencies and in the future development of housing in Egypt. LIHDU was to play
a parallel role in the areas of program development and implementation
advice. Project funds, therefore, were provided to strengthen these agencies.
3.08     The General Manager of the LIHDU was appointed prior to and
participated in negotiations. Assurances were obtained during negotiations.
that each governorate 'ould appoint the low-income housing project officer by
July 1, 1978. In retrospect-given the changes in the administrative
structure in the Central Government that took place soon after effectiveness,
the abol;tion of the Housing Fund (para. 5.04) and decentralization of its
responsibilities, the staff changes, and the period of uncertainty concerning
the fate and role of LIHDU-the detailed implementation arrangements should
have been incorporated in greater detail in the legal agreements.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness
4.01     The loan was to become effective December 1978, six months after
approval by the Board of the World Bank Group. It was delayed five months,
finally becoming effective May 1979, the reasons for which were to permit (i)
execution of the two subsidiary loan agreements with the LIHF and the National
Bank of Egypt (NBE), (ii) subsequent ratification by the People's Assembly,



- 37 -
and (iii) issuance of the requisite legal opinion--all of which took longer
than originally anticipated. In February 1979, the Ministry of Housing
promulgated a Ministerial Order formally establishing the Executive Agency for
Joint Projects (JEU) to be responsible for this and any other externally-
financed housing projects.
B. Start-UD
4.02     Start-up was slow and the only events of significance before progress
was arrested were the transfer of funds from the JHP to the Assiut Governorate
for land acquisition and site preparation in June 1979. Procedures for the
selection of consultants for the solid waste components in Cairo and
Alexandria by then were underway as well.
C. Revisions
4.03     The project as implemented differed greatly from the project as
appraised: some components were cancelled altogether, others were
significantly modified, while some new ones were introduced during
implementation. Implementation responsibilities changed as well.
4.04     The following components, for which LE 5.7 million had been provided,
were cancelled altogether:
(i) The upgrading and sites and services components in Alexandria (LE 2.7
million) were dropped, since the subsoil of the South Metras area was
found to be unsuitable for conventional construction. The area that
was to be upgraded was adjacent to the sites and services area and
both development efforts were integrally related. Without the sites
and services component, upgrading of the area's utilities would not
have been possible. It was because of this that the upgrading
component was also cancelled;
(ii) The urgent repairs to the water supply and sewerage systems in Assiut
(LE 0.6 million) were also cancelled since the preparatory study
indicated that the funds allocated (about LE 7 million) would only
scratch the surface of the problem;l,
(iii)  Work on t5e upgrading of the North Bassateen site in Cairo (LE 1.0
million) had been delayed for some time due to staffing constraints
in JHP and the Cairo Governorate. By the time JHP visited the site
to begin design work, the vacant areas within the site, on which the
proposal had been based, were fully developed. Therefore, this
component--except for the provision for solid waste collection
services for which LE 6,610 had been provided--also was deleted from
the project;
1/ The comprehensive repairs are being carried out by the National
Organization for Potable Water and Sanitary Drainage, in accordance with
the designs financed under the project.



- 38 -
(iv) The provision of Credit and Technical Assistance (LE 1.4 million) for
small businesses and manpower training programs was also deleted from
the project. Initial approaches were rejected by the communities,
based on an unwillingness to participate in the program before
receiving the promised infrastructure. By the time the development
was sufficiently advanced for efforts to be renewed, the National
Bank of Egypt (NBE), which was to participate in the financing and
implementation of the program, no longer wished to be involved; and
(v)  Technical assistance, originally intended to strengthen LIFU, was
also deleted when the organization was abolished.
4.05     The following changes were implemented:
(i)  Upgrading and sites and services components were modified to exclude
credit for home construction and improvement for beneficiaries. This
was because as late as December 1982, the governorates still were
unable to make the necessary institutional arrangements to process
loans for this purpose and did not foresee the ability to do so in
the near future. Besides, provision for the sites that were dropped
entirely (see para. 4.04 (i) and (iii)), LE 0.5 million had been
provided for the sites that were developed;
(ii) The standards for some components were raised, notably for
infrastructure for the Zabbaleen site upgrading (costs increased from
LE 0.8 to 1.6 million) and electricity for the shelter components
(costs increased from LE 0.2 to 1.5 million); and
(iii)  The amount of leak detection equipment to be purchased for Assiut was
increased from LE 2,130 to LE 11,950 when the consultancy study
financed by the project showed that the deterioration of the network
was much more extensive and funds provided for major rehabilitation
works were inadequate for the original purpose.
4.06     Funds originally intended to finance cancelled components were used
to finance the following new components:
(i)  The development of a 160 ton per day composting plant in Alexandria;
(ii) Off-site works for the sites and services development in Assiut; and
(iii)  Preparation of a Solid Waste Management Project.
4.07     The following change was made to the implementation arrangement for
the project: the LIHF, which was to play a key role as a financial
intermediary in project implementation and program development, was abolished
and its financial intermediation role in project implementation was assumed by
the JHP. However, the JHP could not play the same long-term role in program
development as that envisaged for LIHF.
4.08     The Development Credit Agreement was amended in May 1983 to effect
these changes, thereby streamlining the project. The closing date was
extended by two years in two phases, with the second extension conditional on
improved implementation of remaining components.



- 39 -
4.09     These changes seriously compromised achievement of project goals for
institutional development, in that (i) following the abolition of the LIHF,
the project no longer supported the long-term development of a housing finance
institution (see para. 5.05 (iii)); and (ii) the cancellation of the credit
and technical assistance component for small business development meant that
the project no longer promoted employment creation. Technical Assistaice,
Training, and Studies components were implemented as planned, except those
related to cancelled project components.
4.10     Project objectives less seriously compromised were related to
demonstrating low-cost alternatives to solving problems of shelter and urban
services. With regard to shelter, although the number of project sites was
reduced from six to three, one site of each type was retained. Upgrading was
undertaken on two sites with entirely different prior development and serviced
sites were developed elsewhere. A comprehensive solid waste management
program (from collection through recycling stages) was also developed.
D. Progress of Civil and Building Works
Completion of Designs and Preparation of Bid Docu.ents
4.11     The progress of initial network extensions and community facilities
in the Mansheit Nasser Main Settlement proceeded relatively smoothly, since
this component did not depend on the preparation of detailed designs by the
JHP. The network extensions were elaborations of the existing system and had
been indicated clearly on the layouts prepared by the consultants. Standard
plans were used for the community facilities. Yet, despite this early start,
the tendering process began almost 1 1/2 years later than originally planned,
due to the unrealistic schedule 3nd insufficient administrative capacity.
4.12     There were several factors which caused delay in the sites and
services and upgrading components. The completion and approval of final
la,out designs proved time-consuming. At Assiut, the site layout had to be
redone, since the boundaries for the site finally acquired did not correspond
to those of the appraised layout. The revised final layout was not agreed
until four other alternatives had been reviewed and turned down by either the
Association, the Governorate, City Council, or the JHP. The proposal
eventually accepted provided for one-room cores on all residential plots
instead of the 22 percent agreed at appraisal, with a cross-subsidy program
that would raise the necessary additional funds.  Following a change of
governors, the development that was to have been undertaken to cross-subsidize
the cost of the additional cores was cancelled by the new governor. The
proportion of plots with cores was therefore reduced to about 13 percent.
4.13      In North Bassateen only sketch layouts were available at appraisal,
and no further action was taken pending JHP's acquisition of sufficient design
capacity. By the time JHP visited the site to start work in March 1981, the
formerly vacant areas, on which the project proposal was based, were fully
developed. The component was therefore deleted from the project (para. 4.04
(iii)).
4.14     JHP also originally intended to prepare the:plans for the Zabbaleen
Settleme-it using in-house staff, but very little progress was made and in
December 1980, they decided to have the job done by a consulting firm. The



- 40 -
contract for this was signed in October 1981, but it was June 1983 (20 months
later) by the time the detailed drawings were finished.
4.15     In January 1982, the contract for the design of the Masheit Nasser
Zabbaleen Settlement was extended to cover work on tho Main Settlement as
well. The work to be done for the Main Settlement included the planning of
the whole area and the detailed design, as well as contract preparation for
developing the vacant lands. However, cadastral surveys had to be completed
before detailed plans for the total area of the Main Settlement and the final
designs for the vacant areas could be prepared.
4.16     Numerous bureaucratic procedures were set in motion to obtain a
commitment for the cadastral work to be done by the Egyptian Survey
Authority. The contract for this was signed in June 1981 and expectations
were that the job could be finished in 11 months; it took 32 months instead.
This delay was caused by difficulties in coming to an agreement about the
incentives to be paid to the staff of the Survey Authority by the JHP for this
work, and the complicated nature of the work, which had been underestimated.
Although technically the consultants could have proceeded immediately with
preliminary design work, they preferred to wait for the cadastral maps, which
fortunately were delivered in stages. This, however, caused a further
schedule displacement. Hence, the final planning was not completed until
*id-1983.
4.17     The quality of the work produced was less than satisfactory.  The
quantities in the Zabbaleen Settlement were inaccurate and led to substantial
cost overruns during construction. The designs and drawings for the Main
Settlement also were insufficient for implementation and left many problems to
be solved on site. It should be noted however that the fees paid to the
consultants, based on the appraisal estimate, were quite low in relation to
the amount of work they were required to do.
Construction
4.18     Contracts on the initial extensions to the sewerage and electricity
networks in Mansheit Nasser were let in mid-1980 with six-month completion
schedules, but took approximately one year to complete, due mainly to
inadequate coordination. The water supply contract was let early-in 1981 bat
approximately 31 months passed before completion due co the rocky nature of
the soil at the site, the limited capacity of the contractor, and inadequate
supervision, Work on vacant sites (that had to await preparation of cadastral
mps, planning and design) did not commence until January 1984. The contract
for this phase covered infrastructure for vacant lots in the Mansheit Nasser
Main Settlement and the Zabbaleen Settlement as well as road surfacing in the
Main Settlement. This integrated contract is being completed with fewer
problems than the earlier ones, and completion is expected by the end of June
1985 (Annex IV).
4.19     In Assiut, where work was also awarded in small individual contracts,
delays exceeding one year also occurred. Contracts for infrastructure works
-and the construction of 293 cores were successfully completed. However, two
contracts for 400 and 297 cores had to be terminated after only 70 were built
due to the poor performance of the contractor to whom both contracts had been
awarded.



-41-
4.20     Using standard designs, bid documents were prepared for community
facilities in Mansheit Nasser in 1980. Work began in early 1981 but
completion is not expected until the end of 1985. The excessive delays were
caused not only by the problems of contractor capacity and poor supervisions
which plagued the infrastructure works, but also by shortages of building
materials and lack of on-site water, pending the completion of the extension
to the water supply network late in 1983. Completion of the other building
works under the project, including the core houses in Assiut, also was delayed
when the- use of Nile silt for brickmaking was banned, and work on the housing
units had to be suspended while they were redesigned to minimize the use of
brick.
4.21     Overall the design and constructior phases were slow and excessively
drawn out. The majority of works were divided into small single-element
packages and awarded to small contractors. Because there was no strong
complementary supervision to ensure high quality work and timely
implementation, the results were not very satisfactory, i.e., the quality of
the construction was poor and some of the contracts had to be terminated for
failure to perform. The latter use of a comprehensive general contract
covering all infrastructural elements for site development attracted larger
companies and work now is being carried out satisfactorily.
As-Built Standards
4.22     One of the major objectives of the project was to test the idea that
development standards should be based on levels affordable to low-income
target groups and that costs could be recovered from those groups to permit
the financing of other such developments. The standards for shelter
development established at appraisal were based on these concepts.
4.23     The standards used were revised upwards for three reasons: (i) JHP as
coordinator, had no authority over the governorates, the General Organization
for Potable Water, the General Organization for Sewerage and Sanitary
Drainage, or the electricity companies which all had their own established
standards and procedures upon which they insisted as they would ultimately be
responsible for the maintenance of the facilities built; (ii) the loss of
continuity of staffing resulted in the loss of much of the project  -
documentation; and (iii) the studies carried out by the consultants appointed
for the planning of the Mansheit Nasser Main Settlement showed that, to
develop the four vacant sites for the future construction of community
facilities needed in the aiea, heavier investments were required in the
utility networks (e.g., sewage lift stations). Designs were therefore based
on traditional practices and future needs rather than the affordability
criteria that had been used at appraisal. In Cairo, the extent and hardness
of the rock in the Mansheit Nasser sites also did not lend itself to the
construction of cesspits. Also, when the Governorate of Cairo believed that
inadequate provision had been made under the project, notably for the sewerage
system, it simply augmented the project intervention with its own funds,
independently of the project and the JHP. These costs are included in the
revised project ( st tables, although the work was never sanctioned or
disbursed agains by the Association.
4.24     Thp          I    sing of standards would benefit the upgraded
settlement'        -- allow a more logical expansion and future development of



- 42 -
these areas. Furthermore, the consultants' findings were that the increased
standards would not be unaffordable to the beneficiaries. The electricity
networks, which had to be carried out in conformity with the requirements of
the Egyptian Electricity Authority, were built to much higher standards than
necessary for the purposes of this project.
E. Solid Waste Management and Disposal
4.25     The consultants employed to provide solid waste management advisory
services undertook basic analyses of the situation in Cairo and Alexandria.
In the course of their work, they assessed the capacity of the private refuse
collectors (Zabbaleen) to extend their services to cover larger portions of
the city; analyzed the volume and content of the city's solid waste; and
estimated the market for recycled products that could be sorted from the
waste. On the basis of these studies, the governorates negotiated the
extension of refuse collection services by the Zabbaleen to cover a larger
proportion of the city. Fees for such services are paid directly to the
Zabbaleen by the residents of the newly served communities, which include the
Mansheit Nasser Main Settlement and North Bassateen. Where collection by the
Zabbaleen was not feasible, the consultants introduced a systematic approach
to replace the former ad hoc city service, e.g., route planning and
establishing collection districts.
4.26     The design of the full-scale composting plants for Cairo and
Alexandria was based on detailed analyses of the refuse collected and other
factors, such as the market for compost and recycled products. The plants
constructed were more mechanized than originally conceived, since each
included a homogenizing drum, mechanical equipment for forming the windrows,
and screens for producing fine compost. Site specifications also had to be
adapted because the bitumen surface originally specified was found to be
unsuitable due to the hot Egyptian climate. The composting yards were made of
concrete instead. The increased level of mechanization and the fact that more
time had elapsed before reaching the tendering stage meant that the funds set
aside were inadequate to cover the cost of the Cairo plant. The capacity of
the plant was then reduced trom 200 tons per day to 160 tons per day. The
same specifications were subsequently used for the Alexandria plant when the
decision was made to construct such a plant there instead of undertaking sites
and services and upgrading.
4.27     The plants in Cairo and Alexandria were procured on the basis of
turnkey contracts let through international competitive bidding. Both
suppliers/contractors performed well and the plants are operating as planned.
Recently, a solid waste management project was appraised (February 1985) to
extend the solid waste systems established under this project in the cities of
Alexandria and Giza.
Results
4.28     In the Zabbaleen community--where insecurity cf tenure had been very
high and where there were virtually no services--the project had a strikinz
catalytic effect triggered by an increased sense of- security generated by the
project activities taking place throughout the area. The Association's
efforts stimulated the participation of-Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOOs)
wtho financed the construction of cormnunity facilities and complementary



- 43 -
activities, such as house construction and improvement and business loans; the
strengthening of community organizations; and educational programs to foster
proper use of the new sanitary facilities. The community itself conducted
clean-up campaigns to improve the appearance and cleanliness of their
community and invested significant amounts of their own funds on home
improvement and business investments.
4.29     The Mansheit Nasser Main Settlement grew at a rapid pace and the
quality of the existing as well as new structures was greatly improved. Prior
to the project, the community was characterized by predominantly single-storey
structures but now it is dominated by structures of three to five storeys. Ito
is difficult in this case, however, to identify the extent to which this was a
result of the project, since the growth dynamic appears to have been strong
before the project got underway.
4.30     In Assiut, demand for the core units appears to be very high, as some
4,000 applications were received when applications were invited for the
purchase of 1,000 core units (about 3,000 of the 4,000 applicants were in the
target group earning less than LE 100 per month). At the time of the PCR
mission, qualified applicants were being ranked for inclusion on the basis of
criteria established by the City Council and Assiut Governorate.
4.31     The cancellation of the material loan programs does not appear to
have had an adverse effect on the achievement of project objectives in Cairo,
since it has been replaced by an NGO-financed program in the Zabbaleen
Settlement and by worker remittances in the Main Settlement. The effect in
Assiut is less easily assessed because the plots there have yet to be
allocated.
F. Non-Physical Aspects of the Project
4.32     At appraisal, detailed draft TORs acceptable to IDA and the GOE had
been prepared for all services except (i) the services of the project
implementation advisers; (ii) the schemes to improve solid waste collection
and disposal in Cairo and Alexandria; and (iii) training for project
implementation staff.
4.33     Finalization of the TOR's and selection of consaltants was a lengthy
process that involved participation by aenumber of agencies besides the JHP.
The contract for The Artisan Sector Study was not signed dntil late July 1981
and the contract for the Study of Training Needs of Seven Governorates was
signed a few months thereafter (Annex IV).
4.34     Cost overruns that might have resulted from the delays were avoided
by reducing the scope of work as well as by the GOE's agreement to provide
additional input. The net result was a compromise in the achievement of
objectives, since: (i) inputs from the GOE were less than expected by the
consultants and generally were not provided on time; (ii) this, in turn, did
not foster the development of client/consultant relationships that mignt have
maximized the benefits derived from the studies; and (iii) the various
reductions in scope did not vermit in-depth analyses to be carried out.
Furthermore, the consultants selected were not familiar with the country, and
GOE review was conducted by especially appointed committees, that were not
always quickly constituted. There were also long delays in the respective



-44.-
com ittee reviews of consultant reports.  The Artisan Sector Study was also
initially handled by an ineffectual manager who did not oversee the project
well and had to be replaced. Although the work was better managed thereafter,
deficiencies in the data base were reflected in subsequent stages. Then, the
TORs for these studies were very broad and interpreted differently by the
client and the consultants, and this resulted in several redrafts of the final
reports before the studies were acceptable to the client.
4.35     Despite these problems, the studies did provide a useful framework
for strategies to promote the development of the artisan sector and to launch
a training program in the governorates. They currently are being used to seek
funds for such programs.
4.36     The Gamaliva Study focused on the preparation of a possible future
upgrading project in an area of great historical and cultural significance
that was densely settled. Agreement on the TORs therefore involved lengthy
discussions of the best strategies for undertaking a study in such a
nationaily important area. Agreement was reached that the study financed
under the project would be carried out by Egyptian experts in the fields of
urban development, as well as Islamic architecture and history under the
umbrella of a public sector consulting firm and reviewed by an international
blue-ribbon conittee. Because of the project's sensitive nature, involving
prominent individual experts, the negotiations for the study were protracted.
The draft background report completed under this project was not adequate for
presentation to the blue-ribbon committee and is being modified. Additional
work on the study also will be carried out under the Greater Cairo Urban
Development Project (Ln 2176-EGT).
4.37     The advisory services that would have been provided to the LIHF were
cancelled when the LIHF was abolished. TORs for the project implementation
advisory services would have been drafted after the Implementation Unit's
staff was appointed. Following the administrative changes (para. 5.04),
advisors finally were appointed to assist the JHP but not until early 1980.
4.38     Training was provided in the-area of urban project planning
management, and implementation as well as artisan product development and
promotion for officials of the agencies directly involved in project
implementation. For example, the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of JHP, the
Deputy Governor of Cairo and the President of the Assiut City Council attended
short training seminars on Urban Development and Large-Scale Housing Projects
in the U.S.A.; two senior engineers from JHP and one from Assiut attended
five-month training programs at the Institute for Housing Studies at
Rotterdam; the Chairman of HIPCO carried out a study tour of artisan
institutions in Spain, Holland, and Denmark; eleven senior officials (seven
from HIPCO and one each from the governorates of Cairo, Alexandria, Assiut and
Damietta) attended a specially designed three-week training course in the
management of the artisan sector at the Training Institute of the
International Labor Organization in Turin, Italy. Staff responsible for
operation and maintenance of the composting plants in Cairo and Alexandria
received training at the head offices of the suppliers as well as on-the-job
training during erection and commissioning of the plants.



- 45 -
G. Procurement
4.39     In December 1981, the local cowpetitive bidding limit for civil and
building works was raised to US$1.5 million equivalent, while the limit for
equipment was raised to US$150,000 equivalent with a ceiling of US$1.5 million
equivalent to take into account the effects of inflation. All civil and
building works contracts under the project were below the limit established
for international competitive bidding. Contract packaging practices also
changed during implementation. During start-up, separate contracts were let
for each infrastructural element- and this aggravated problems of
coordination and contract supervision capacity; during the later period of
implementation, and upon completion of the detailed designs by the
consultants, work was let under larger, more integrated contr.acts, attracting
larger, more competent contractors. International competitive bidding was
used to procure the compost plants in Cairo and Alexandria. All contracts
attracted competitive bidding and fully complied with the provisions of the
Credit Agreement.
H. Disbursement
4.40     As shown in Table 2, no disbursements were made during the first
three years, during which time the Borrower was finalizing designs and
preparing bid documents and TORs.  After that, disbursements accelerated
rapidly and by year 8 were close to regional, sectoral, and country averages.
I. Compliamce with Covenants
4.41     The most serious deficiencies in compliance with covenants, which had
the most harmful effects on the project, were the abolition of the LIHF and
the failure of the governorates to appoint full-time, low-income housing
officers. Taken together they adversely affected project implementation and
compromised the achievement of long-term institution building goals.
4.42     Audited accounts acceptable to IDA for 1980 through 1983 were
received in mid-1984. At the time of the Project Completion mission, 1984
accounts were being prepared for audit and were not yet due.
4.43     Regular quarterly reports were received throughout the project
period. Although they satisfied the credit covenant, they were not used for
internal management purposes by the JHP.
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
A. Institutional Context
5.01     At the time of project identification, Egypt was going through a
decentralization process within which powers and responsibility for policy
formulation, planning, implementation and administration were transferred from
the central to the local level. Major legislation to effect this process had
been passed in 1975, 1977 and 1978. At the same time, the GOE was formulating
l/ Separate contracts were awarded for water supply, sewerage, and road
construction, each supervised by a different entity of the governorates,
with no coordination and considerable interference in each other's work.



p._ 
- 46 -
new policies and creating now institutions for addressing the previously
neglected area of low-income housing development. A new institution, the
LIHF, was established in 1976 as part of the process.
5.02     During project preparation, the Association recognized the complexity
of the institutional framework and gave priority to analyzing it. The
implementation arrangements agreed at appraisal mirrored the existing set-up
and took the decentralization initiatives into account. Primary
implementation responsibility was placed at the local level with coordination
and technical support from the center. All project components were to be
implemented by existing institutions without major organizational changes.
The only changes envisaged were (i) the creation of a new post in each of the
governorates, that of Low-Income Housing Project Officer (LIHPO), and
(ii) strengthening departments within the governorates by augmenting their
staff (para. 3.06).
5.03     These arrangements might have been satisfactory if (i) it not been
for administrative changes coupled with the passaG,e of new legislation
occurring almost immediately after project approval and negotiations, and
(ii) a more realistic implementation schedule had been drawn up; and (iii) the
size of the project elements had been related to the size of other investments
of the implementing agencies responsible for their implementation. Certain
deficiencies in the arrangement are worth noting: (i) the governorates, which
were given primary responsibility for project implementation, were not fully
involved with the project preparation phase; (ii) the project was excessively
ambitious in that it tried to demonstrate new approaches in several sectors in
three different cities, was to be coordinated by a newly created institution
that had not yet hired its staff, and was not yet at the detailed design
stage. In retrospect, it was also unrealistic to expect the project to be
completed in 3 1/2 years, as illustrated by disbursement records (Table 2).
5.04     Between appraisal in December 1977 and negotiations in May 1978 the
following changes occurred: (i) in January 1978, as part of the devolution
process, the governorateo took full control of all local technical and
administrative staff, including those appointed by the Ministries; and (ii) in
May 1978, the MOHR, under which the project was prepared, was divided into two
ministries--the Ministry of Reconstruction and New Communities and the
Ministry of Housing."' The decision to locate the LIHDU in the Ministry of
Housing was not taken until several months after this change. In June 1979,
new legislation was enacted to speed the devolution process that among other
things, dissolved the LIHF and transferred its responsibilities to the
governorates, This left the project without a conduit for project funds until
December 1979, when this responsibility was transferred to the JHP (of which
LIHDU was a part).
5.05     The direct effects of these changes on the project were to: (i) break
up the policymaking and technical teams that prepared the project; (ii) create
periods of uncertainty during which members of the implementation unit were
unsure of their eventual roles and those who were not yet actively involved
with the project did not see any progress; and (iii) lose an opportunity for
:1/ These were later recombf.ned into the Ministry of Reconstruction, Land
Reclamation and State Ministry for Housing, only to be split again in 1984
into the Ministry of Reconstruction and New Communities and the Ministry
of Housing and Public Utilities.



- 47 -
the project to contribute to the development of complementary financial and
technical institutions that could work together to develop and implement
low-income housing policies and programs. Indeed, the main institution (JHP)
that remained for the Association to work with was geared towards foreign
donors and hence was not integrally linked to housing sector institutions in
Egypt. An indirect effect was gradual staff attrition of those assigned to
projects in the governorates, which occurred during the periods of uncertainty
when staff were inactive. By the time some of the staff were reassigned and
new persons recruited, much of the institutional mepory of the project had
been lost, as most officials assigned to the project were not involved in the
initial project preparation phase. This was particularly true in the
governorates of Cairo and Alexandria.
5.06     A further complication was that during this period a decentralization
process took place within IDA, in that the operational responsibilities for
the urban sector were transferred from the (then) Central Projects Department
to the Projects Departments under the siy. Regional Vice-Presidents. Between
appraisal (December 1977) and mid-1980, the IDA team assigned to the project
completely changed.
5.07     Then, too, project concepts were new to Egypt and most team members
working on the project had not been involved with the preparation.
Furthermore, very few members of the implementation teams in JHP or the
governorates were fluent in English, yet Arabic translations of the Staff
Appraisal Report were not prepared to meet this need; also, none of the
members of the Bank's mission teams between Appraisal and October 1982 spoke
Arabic, so they could only communicate directly with a limited number of
officials. This significantly contributed to insufficient understanding by
the Egyptian officials of project concepts and details related to standards
and implementation arrangements, which might have enabled smooth
implementation to take place. On the Association's side, there was a
corresponding insufficient understanding of the institutional and cultural
framework in Egypt that could arise to hinder progress.
5.08     Subsequently, recruitment and retention of competent staff were
difficult because of low salaries paid by the public sector.  This-problem
persisted throughout the implementation period. As of May 1985, when the
situation was reviewed, an engineer joining the private sector started at
LE 150 per month, whereas his counterpart in the public sector started at
LE 60-75 per month. The discrepancy was found to be even greater for
experienced engineers. Engineers with 15-years' experience were receiving
less than LE 200 per month in the public sector, while their private sector
counterparts received about LE 1,500. The conditions of service allcwed
public sector professionals such as engineers to forfeit a small percentage of
their salaries and to undertake work privately. Although such work was to be
done outside official working hours, this apparently was not always the case.
B. Institutional Performance
5.09     The solid waste management components were to be handled by special
units within the zovernorates (the nuclei of which already existed), assisted
by consultants. The consultants were identified and appointed early. Few
problems were encountered with implementation, since this was similar to the
type of operation (with clear technical issues and solutions) for which the
governorates traditionally received assistance from the central government to



48w
- 48 -
perform; furthermore, the consultants selected by the Cairo Governorate, who
also subsequently did most of the general studies, proved to be very
competent.
5.10     Management of the shelter components was more difficult.  The
governorates never appointed the LIHPO's (as had been agreed at appraisal),
nor did they appoint the additional staff for their Social Affairs and
Cooperative Directorates. In Assiut, both the president of the City Council
and the project engineer had been involved with project preparation, and the
project was accorded high priority at the City Council level; however, only
one staff member, the enginper, was assigned to the project full-time. The
president of the Council himself liaised not only with council members but
also with the Alexandria Governorate and JHP. In Alexandria, there was a
complete staff turnover between appraisal and mid-1980, and no staff member
was ever given full-time responsibility for the project. For the shelter
components, prior to their cancellation, supervision by the Association and
coordination by the JHP were very difficult because of the diffuse nature of
responsibilities. The situation in Cairo was even worse. The tasks there
were shared by a much larger bureaucracy (about 160,000 employees in 1985)
within which the project objectives and processes were not well understood;
thus the project was treated perfunctorily as simply a small-scale investment
of LE 6 million over eight years in a context where annual capital
expenditures amounted to LE 150 million (1983).
C. Institutional Development
5.11     The Executive Agency for Joint Housing Projects (JHP) had been
created by the GOE to coordinate the implementation of this project and to
directly implement a US$160-million, U.S. Agency for International Development
(USAID)-financed project, which was also identified about the same time. The
LIHDU, a unit of the JHP, was concerned solely with the implementation of this
project, but was unable to concentrate on start-up activities assigned to it,
since *ts first concern had to be the hiring and orientation of staff. By
January 1980, the unit had six full-time professionals and shared the services
of technical and social research units of the JHP. An internal consultant was
hired soon thereafter to assist witt. project implementation and training of
the rest of the7staff.  The staff wao subsequently augmented- by the addition
of four other full-time professionals plus part-time consultants.
Unfortunately, staff working on the IDA project were at a disadvantage
relatiP-e to their colleagues assigned to the USAID project, since the latter
were provided more attractive incentives and considerably more support from
independent consulting firms. The staff of the IkA project also were
frustrated by the limitation of their role to coordination only, whereas their
USAID colleagues had direct implementation responsibility. Despite these
constraints and the widespread disincentive of low public sector salaries,
performance of the JHP was satisfactory in that the staff of JHP often went
beyond the confines of their official duties as coordinators and advisors to
compensate for deficiencies at the governorate level. In January 1983, when
there was a major change of personnel at the Cairo Governorate, the JHP, at
the suggestion of an IDA mission, proposed that it relieve the Cairo
Governorate of its implementation responsibilities, especially since it
appeared that the new team would not be able to fully master the project in
time. The Cairo Governorate vehemently objected and IDA did not pursue the
matter further, since the project already was in the first year of extension.



- 49 -
5.12     At apprais.i, it was known that HIPCO was neither organized nor
adequately staffed to meet the foraidable task of providing support to the
many cooperatives in the artisan sector. This was exacerbated by the
decentralization decree of January 1978 (para. 5.04) that transferred
implementation responsibilities to the governorates. Provision therefore was
made for the appointment of consultants to study the sector and advise on its
reorganization. The study, however, took much longer than expected and its
recomnendations are only just now being implemented, mainly due to the
appointment of a new and strongly motivated chairman. The withdrawal of the
NBE from the project also prevented HIPCO from carrying out the proposed
program for assistance to small businesses.
5.13     In general, the capacity of the Egyptian administration to implement
a complex project embodying new concepts was overestimated. It was
particularly unrealistic to expect that a new unit could be quickly created to
coordinate this activity, and the Association for its part was slow to
recognize or adapt to the capacity constraints. In retrospect, the project
might usefully have been reshaped or even reappraised earlier, especially
following the ministerial restructuring and subsequent legislative changes in
1978-79.
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. Project Costs
6.01     The final cost of the projecL, as implemented, was only LE 1.0
million (US$1.4 million equivalent) above the cost of the project as
appraised; however, the composition of the final project was considerably
different from that appraised and the Credit Agreement itself was revised in
May 1983 to incorporate those changes. Subsequently, project components were
redesigned to accommodate the available funds (see Table 3 for a comparison of
cost related to the original and revised Credit Agreement).
6.02     A comparison of the inflation rates used for civil works and
equipment as estimated at appraisal with actual inflation rates (Table 4)
suggests that local inflation was underestimated by about 20 percentage points
and international inflation by about 7 percentage points. Since very little
work was done prior to the original date established for completion of the
implementation phase, about 20 to 25 percent extra would then have been needed
to complete the project as originally planned.
6.03     Much of the work done during the actual implementation phase,
however, was not based on appraisal standards. The components, for which
increased standards were most significant included the piped sewerage systems
in the Mansheit Nasser Main Settlement'' and part of the Zabbaleen
Settlement, the electricity network (para. 4.23), and the level of
mechanization-of the Cairo composting plant (para. 4.26).
6.04     Inflation appears to have been much higher and less predictable in
the building construction sector than in the rest of the economy. In Cairo,
for example, the bid price of identical buildings rose from LE 85,000 to about
1/ Carried out independently by the governorate from its own funds.



- 50 -
LE 267,000 in four years. This resulted in cost increases of over 400 percent
above the appraisal estimate for schools tendered late in the project
implementation period.
6.05     Cost increases for consultancy services were contained by reducing
the scope of work to be carried out by consultants and by hiring fewer
advisers to the JHP than originally had been planned (Annex II, Table 9). As
alluded to in para. 4.34, this was not without its cost in terms of sacrifice
in the quality of the work performed and the depth of analysis.
6.06     Overall, the inadequacy of the implementation schedule and the lack
of detailed designs (aggravated by a loss of momentum due to administrative
and legislative changes) led to substantial modifications in the original cost
estimates. The project was therefore reshaped during implementation to
produce a range of innovations in the delivery of housing and urban services
on the basis of consultants' plans within the framework of the original
project description and budget parameters.
B. Pricing and Cost Recovery
6.07     One of the objectives at appraisal was to foster a policy of cost
recovery for urban services that would help finance costs related to further
expansion and operating and maintenance costs. Principles and criteria for
recovering the cost of investment therefore were an integral part of the
project.
6.08     As of May 1985, charges to be levied for infrastructural services had
been caltulated on the basis of the criteria established at appraisal, but
were not yet implemented. Cost recovery, however, is likely to be much less
than anticipated at appraisal since (i) the substitution of the JHP for the
LIHF means that there is no longer an agency with a strong incentive to
recover the cost of the project. Funds collected from project beneficiaries
will now return to general revenues at the Central Government level; and (ii)
the tradition of providing subsidized, fully-built houses and subsidized
services has continued.
6.09     Refuse collection services were established-under the project in
North Bassateen, the Mansheit Nasser Main Settlement, and other communities in
Cairo. Although tha cost ofEthe preparatory work (LE 2,280) for arranging for
this service will not be recovered, the full cost of operations are being paid
directly to the Zabbaleen by the conmmunities served.
C. Affordability
6.10     The upgrading program for unserviced low-income areas was expected to
cost an average of LE 145 (US$210 equivalent) per household under the
project. Actual costs were about LE 245 (US$350) per household in the
Mansheit Nasser Mr.in Settlement, and in Assiut the cost of the cores ranged
from about LE 2,620 (US$3,745) to LE 3,090 (US$4,419), compared to LE 850
(US$1,215) at arpraisal. No revised income data were available for this
reevalua;ion; hence, the reduced affordability of the project interventions
could not be quantitatively reassessed.



- 51 -
Proiect Financing
6.11     At appraisal, the NBE was expected to contribute LE 0.4 million
(US$0.6 million) of project costs. This contribution was not made since the
employment-creation component was cancelled. On the other hand, project
beneficiaries paid approximately LE 0.8 million for connections to
infrastructural systems in Cairo. Overall, project costs increased by LE I
million (US$1.4 million) and the IDA contribution fell by 0.6 million, which
subsequently was cancelled. The GOE's contribution therefore amounted to LE
5.72 (US$8.18 million), an increase of 27 percent over the amount estimated.
VII. ECONOMIC REANALYSIS
7.01     At appraisal, an economic rate of return was calculated for the
shelter components only (sites and services and upgrading), since the benefits
to be derived from other investments were not quantifiable. Benefits were
based on the estimated increases in property values brought about by the
improvement.
7.02     For the sites and services components, the value of the improvements
were measured through imputed rental values for the units to be constructed by
project beneficiaries, which gave a rate of return of 16 percent. A key
assumption was that legislation passed in 1977 would remove some of the
distortions of the rent control laws and would facilitate the operation of
market forces. This, however, did not occur and rent control is still as
entrenched as ever. The resulting distortions make it practically impossible
to estimate real market rents. Moreover, the legislative provisions do not
reflect the way the system works, hence tenants are reluctant to reveal their
deviations from such provisions. Deriving real market rents would involve a
major research effort. As the sites and services area in Assiut is not yet
occupied, the research needed to obtain a good reestimate is not considered
cost-effective and therefore was not done for purposes of this reanalysis.
7.03     Rate of return calculations for the upgrading component were based on
land sale values and were estimated at 23 percent at appraisal. Land sales in
the Zabbaleen Settlement in late 1984 and early 1985 were at a rate of LE 40
to LE 60 per square meter, depending on the location and the size of the
plot. A reestimate (Annex III) on the same basis as that used at appraisal,
but taking NGO investments into account and using the lowest sales price,
produced a return of 23 percent--the same as that derived at appraisal.
Sensitivity analyses using the above 1984-85 prices indicate that a 25 percent
increase in the price increases the rate of return derived to 44 percent. The
project has therefore achieved its objective as measured by rate of return
estimates.
VIII. ROLE OF THE BANK AND OTHER DONORS
8.01     Lending by the World Bank Group for urban development activities was
initiated in FY72 so that by the time the project was appraised the
Association had had some five years of urban experience on which to reflect.
As the project concept was new to Egypt, the Association played a major role
in defining and identifying the project.



- 52 -
8.02     In retrospect, one can see that the project was inadequately prepared
at appraisal and the Association's reaction to the ministerial reorganization
of 1978 and the abolition of the LIHF was not appropriate; given the
recognition of the institutional development issues, the Association might
usefully have reappraised this part of the project.
8.03     Discussions with officials who were involved with project
implementation suggest that the Association was most effective in the initial
phase, when the concepts were introduced, and later on when technical issues
were encountered with construction work and the conduct of studies. During
supervision, the Association's visits played an important part in educating
new staff members who had not been involved in preparation and who did not
understand the project concepts. However, during the initial period, there
were frequent changes of IDA staff assigned to the project, and mission
members did not always appear to be giving the same advice as their
predecessors, which led to confusion. On the other hand, aide-memoires left
behind by IDA missions did provide useful management tools.
8.04     Other donors were active in the urban sector in Egypt during the
project implementation period. Shortly after the appraisal of the IDA
project, USAID financed a sites and services and upgrading project in Cairo
and the Overseas Development Agency (ODA) of the United Kingdom financed
another in Ismailiya. Altz&ough the projects differ greatly in terms of
operational scale and administrative arrangements, along with the IDA-financed
project, they provide a basis for the design of subsequent projects in the
urban sector in Egypt.
IX. CONCLUSIONS
A. Objectives Achieved
9.01     Although the project changed in scope, most of the changes were made
within the context of the project objectives. The following objectives were
achieved:
Shelter Provision
9.02     Low-cost alternatives to the provision of fully-built houses were
demonstrated within three different contexts. In Cairo, upgrading was done in
two communities that differed greatly in the status of prior development; and
in Assiut, a serviced site with core units on some plots.
Solid Waste Management
9.03     A least-cost approach to Solid Waste Management was demonstrated by
the extension of services of private collectors (Zabbaleen) to cover selected
low-income parts of the city, on the basis of fees paid directly to the
Zabbaleen by the households served; and the development of a systematic
approach to solid waste collection and disposal by the urban authorities was
set up where service by the Zabbaleen was not feasible.



-53-
Institution-Building
9.04     The Executive Agency f'r Joint Projects (JHP) was developed as a
central institution through which technical assistance can be provided to
local authorities.
9.05     The studies conducted under the project provided useful frameworks
for: addressing training needs at the governorate level, developing a strategy
for promoting the development of the artisan sector, and rehabilitating the
water supply and sewerage systems of Assiut.
Future Project Preparation
9.06     A Solid Waste Management project (appraised in February 1985) was
prepared to extend the principles established under this project in Alexandria
and Giza.
B. Objectives Not Achieved
Shelter Provision
9.07     While the project demonstrated the effectiveness of the Government's
provision of services instead of fully-built dwellings, it did not succeed in
basing such standards on affordability criteria.
Cost Recovery
9.08     The application of the pricing policies and cost-recovery principles
promoted under the project was not yet tested a' the time of credit closure.
Employment Generation
9.09     Cancellation of this component meant that the employment-creation
objectives, other than the study for increasing the potential for employment
generation in the artisan sector, were not met.
Institutional Development
9.10     As the LIHF was abolished, the project was unable to support the
development of a financial intermediary for the long-term development of the
housing sector.
C. Lessons Learned
A number of useful lessons can be learned from this project.
Institutional
9.11     During preparation more thought might have been given to matching the
institutional framework to the size and nature of the project. In particular,
in the case of multi-component projects, where implementation responsibilities
are to be shared by a number of agencies, the element to be handled by each
agency should be similar to the size of capital investments usually undertaken
by that agency.



- 54 -
9.12     At appraisal, the capacity of the bureaucracy to handle the type of
project envisaged also should be assessed. The time actually taken to
complete various tasks should be examined; and disincentives, such as
non-competitive wages that could cause some delays, should be taken into
consideration in scheduling.
9.13     The project experience also emphasizes the need to fully involve all
the agencies that are to be responsible for implementation with the
preparation and planning of the project for which they will assume
responsibility.
9.14     Greater moderation in goal setting also appears to be called for.
The experience suggests that multiple objectives might be more successfuly
achieved through a series of projects rather than through a single project.
9.15     The loss of institutional memory that occurred during the
implementation of this project also suggests that more details of the
implementation arrangements might have been reflected in the legal
agreements. This appears to be particularly true for sectors withini which
structural changes, such as transfer of responsibilities, are taking place.
Communications
9.16     The project experience also highlights the need for more effective
communications when dealing with countries that do not have English as their
official and commonly-used language. Some of the ways in which such
improvements might be acalieved, as demonstrated by the project, would be:
routine translation of all basic project-related documents, especially staff
appraisal reports, as well as all legal agreements; more frequent involvement
of Arabic speakers on missions to Egypt; and greater analysis of the
institutional and cultural framework and its implications for project
activities.
Staff Continuity
9.17     Following from the above, continuity of styatfing on IDA missions with
an overlap of at -least one person on each mission; on the Borrower's side, an
overlapping of preparation and implementation teams would facilitate greater
retention of institutional memory and foster greater understanding between the
teams working on projects.
Preappraisal Preparation
9.18     Perhaps the most fundamental lesson learned is that such projects
should have all or at least most of the physical components at the detailed
design stage, and nonphysical components should be worked out in detail before
being presented to the Board and the National Assembly for approval.
Implementation
9.19     Finally, problems with the implementation of projects should be
remedied early to ensure that when changes are made they are forward-looking
rather than ex post facto. This project might usefully have been reshaped or
even reappraised following the far-reaching administrative and legislative
changes that occurred soon after negotiations.



1111
EGYPT FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 1: SUMMARY COSTS: APPRAISAL AND REVISED ESTIMATES
Actual Cost/Beestisate                  _itfftenra
LE  As of. SIAi Ai) a
(LE Million)   (USilon)   (LE "1111On)   (US  1ll1On)    (LE "14illOn)             (US  Illon)
Sbelter CoQoRngn1ents
w) Ca rn
Upgrading - Mansheit Nasser
a. Main Settlement                        1.86             2.66            3.18            4.S5            1.32                1.89        71
b. Zabbaleen Settlement                    .48              .68            1.65            2.36            1.17                1.6        244
Upgrading - North Ha:sateen                .95             1.36                            - -.' f)  (1.36)    (I")
a. Sites and Services - South Hetras   2.45                3.50             .17             .24           (2.21)              (3.26)      (93)
b. Upgrading - New Nagaa el Arab           .19              .27            -               -(.19)                             (0.27)    (186)          Lo
Sites and Services - Soutb Gar-b
el Balad         2ZkQ            3472              3.tl            4.U             .1                  1.16       231
Shelter Components Stab Total             8.53            12.19            8.41           12.03            (.12)               (.16)       (1)
il1omer Traillllo  FrQgfrm               1.43  *          2.03             .26             .37           (1.17)              (.66)       (82)
ai4dJOs    aiAifQjJid AleD3ndCis             2.14             3.06            S.SO            7.87            3.36                4.81       IS7
> itt-8Sal-> t L!"e-.dLvf-uPP-! i
Sewriage 5y'tMaln A5iL                     .61              .87             .01             .01            1.60)               (.6)       (98)
consultant ad _Advisory ' Lryn"              1.67             2.39            1.43            2.04            (.241                (.35)     (14)
PIlA.kL . A        .2 ^^                                                      .0.i               UL2I.                            L.4A0       iML
PROJECT IOTAL                            iLlS             21_4                             L.               JI -538
LE 2.22O was spent onl implementisg -a refuse management system for this coommnity.



- 56 -
Table 2: DISBURSEMENT Of IBRD LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (1974-1983)
(Cuulative I of Loan or Credit Amounts Disburied)
No. of
Proiects      Year from Date of Board Aoproval
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9
Urban Sector Dankwide         93      3   12   28   47   65   80   90   98   100
All Loans - EMENA Region   564        3   15   32   52   70   83   93   99   100
All Loans - Egypt             65      2   13   31   51   69   82   91   97   100
Egypt - Urban I                 1     0    0    0   14   30   63   89   96         -



Table 3: REVISED ALLOCATION OF CREDIT FUNDS
Original Amount of       Revised (5/85) Amount
Credit Allocated           of the Credit
(Expressed in             (Expressed in
Category                         Dollar Equivalent)       Dollar Equivalent)
1.  Civil Works                          6,200,000               4,855,000
2. Loans for Smll Businesses               570,000                        -
3.  Equipment, Materials and Vehicles   3,350,000                6,000,000
(a) Imported
(b) Locally Manufactured
4.  Consultants' Services                1,700,000               1,500,000
5.  Repayment of Advance                    300,000                 300,000
6.  Unallocated                          1.880,000               1,345,000



- 58 -
TableL4: ANTICIPATED, ACTUAL ANO ESTIMATED RAMTE Of INFLATION DURING
THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PERIOO
(1)
Otfferance
A_ Ra&1l - httmta                 A        /Eea_tim_ates          (nereontage point)
Civlv  Lbesl,"  Eol  n              Civil Warks   IMUIMIN"sl2        Civil Worki   ERuip nt
1978            10               7                   11.33'        17.9
Isis            la             6.S                    9 83/        11.6
1980             9               6                   18.04          8.3
1981             9               6                   1S.O4/        -S.0
Index"'        144             128                  166           135                 22             7
1962             -               -                   18.04         -1.9
1903                     -                           20.03/        -4.2
1964             --                                  16.0$         -2.8
1965                     -                           16.0'          5-.0
Indx7            --                                 321           129                  -
.1 Staff Appraisal Report.
2/ Based on Unit Value Index of Manufactured exports from developed to developing vountries on as
it basis and expressed in US dollar term
A1 nnual percentag  increase in cost of living index.
V Official CPI for these years understates inflation. The percentages reflect Bank staff and IW
ost utst.
5l Preiminary esttiAte of percentage increase in cost of living index.
Al Proected percentage increase in cost of living index.
7/  1977 * 1001



ErTP-    IIT   IA MWLOHMET PECT (CS. Ili-EGYT
F~XCTaNernTS ASAPPRISIED MmS As  VLUEwayEa
EmNT:mS AS APPRAISED                                                               casTS AS IIPLEIElTED
A   Ca!!Q. 1WnktejL_Nasser (Main Settlmwnt)
Surffacinig of about 6.400 a of access and circulation roads. including           (a) Surfacing of access and circulation roads as implemented with only
thie tthree access points to the settlement and the main cmercial                      minor changes to the original plan.  Some other main roads were
ret. A further 3.000 m of secondary access routes would .Ne graded,               surfaced by the Governorate without the prior knowledge of JNP.
Grading of secondary access roads was founid to be umecessary.
(hi  lniprovemuea,t to water supply facilities by provision of a new booster pump  (b)  The extension of the water supply network was implemoted substanttally
anid 650 m of 300 - diater mains.  Extension of existing network by                    as planned.
pt ovi'%iOf of 7,200 a of new pipeline, allowing up to Gf of the plots                 Repair or replaceomet of existing standpipes was not undertaken and
to have inidividual house connections.  Repair or replacement of the                   new ones were not provided.
eight e.~rstinq standpipes and the provision of 23 now standpipes to
Plovide water within 100 m of all other Plats on the basis of
onie standpipe/400 persons.
U Improvements. in sanitationi.  Four hundred and fifty existing cesspits           (c) The Governorate chose to extend the piped sewoerage system to Serve the
waould be repaired or reconstructed and uip to 400 new units would be                   diole settlement at their own expense independent of the pro-eCt aVW
provided while 100 existing ones would be abandoned, bringing the total                the JHP.  The as-built sewerage System served an area appreximetely
niagutiet of cesspits to about 2.300.  Eight hundred plots wfithin the                 MS  larger than planned at appraisal.  Householders subsequently 
sjentral area whnich will be provided wmith on-plot water would be                     chose to connect to the system Immediately.  The need to reair                         S
oosi,ec ted to a newi Piped sewerage system by the provision of 9.000 a of             existing cesSpits. construAct new ones, and to provide cesspit emptying                %D
Pipe   E.istinq ce-sspits will be used to form maunioles wierever econom-              services was therefore obviated.I
]rial   toa certaini areas with shallow depth of cover to rock, existing
,eS%PrtN till be kept in use but connected to Pipes that will
(oeivey overfleowing effluent to the central system. Specially-designed
duonkey cait', with hand pumips would be used to empty cesspits in
othier rueai,. Piped sewage and affluent from the cesspits would be
di,.0tmarqed intto a pipilng StatiOn nOow being completed next to the site.
ill1 I t.Lr*n.ori of the electricity system by the off-site proviSion of               (d)  Electrical services provided on-site were much more extensive than
4.000 ii of pouer l1ines and a ntew 500 kva transformers.  on-Site works               planned:  approximately a.oso m of off-~site p05.52' lines (200l of
,v(,4jd  m0iitrde the buryinig of 8.000 a of existing cable and the laying             appraisal estimatel; 11 new SOD kw& transformers; I new 100 kw&
uf 7l80u m of niew cables, thusi providing 3.008 plots with direct access              transformer; 52.000 a of on-site cables (6010t of appraisal estimate);
to electricity -supply.  About 500 streetlights would provide security                 and 700 streetlights (140% of appraisal estimati..  The as-built system
lritatiui.j  ti all mauii str-eets, and access roads.                                  also had safety features built In to ensure service reliability. udhich
was not planned at appraisal.
I.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_    _ _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i,
| ___                 __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



(el  Solid waste collection by the Zabbaleen.                                      (a)  Solid waste collection services by the Zabbaleen were provided as
planned.
(f)  Provision of materials for heoe iprovev_nt.  Loans avergitng  E 519           (f)  Provision of m_terials for how improvement was cancelled.
would be available for about 5S800 households.
(9q  lmrovement of camninity facilities.  Comnuity facilities would be            (g)  Oue to site constraints. only one primary school and one el _ary
impeoved to the average level of service prevailing in Creater Cairo               school were provided.  They ware larger than the schelS originally  s
through the provision of (ii three primary schools of 14 classroom.                planned.  The total number of classrooms provided. and hence the
each with a capacity of CS students per class  nd *prating on double               capacity of these schools was as planned at apraisal.  Thte comnuity
slifts; 0i) one secondary school for girls with 14 classrooms;                     center was provided as planned.  A health clinic was built in the
(iii) a health clinic and a dispensary with Integrated health and                  conmity with USAID financing.
family planning services to be provided as under the IDA-assisted popu-
lation project; and (iv) a community center.  open areas would be pro-
vided with simple landscaping.  The design principles for ceinity
facilities and the services provided would be similar for the other
urban and sites and services schmes.
(ii)  Development of about 385 new or infill plots with water supply. sewerage   (hl  Occupation of smaller vacant areas was not controlled by the   iplm  _-
asid ablution units,                                                                ing agencies.  Planning done for the major vacant areas under the
project reserved those spaces for conwercial/small Industrial use
nd community facilities.
8 Cairo; faui,htl. iAJ.st  (Zabbaleen Setlent)
(a)  Two maii access roads and the main artery 4about 1.700 m) would be            (a)  About 3.300 * of access and min roads (194S of appraisal plan) were
giaded and asphalted.  Two additional access roads of 1.50 m would                graded and asphalted:
be graded and improved;
Ibh  Water supply would be brought to the settlement and would serve four          (b)  IpIemented substantially as planned but with two instead of three
moulti tap standpipes, three public ablution units each incorporating              public ablution units, since the population was found to be tach
abotit 20 showeis and washing sheds. and three fire hydrants.  1,600 a             smaller than that estimated at appraisal.
of new water mains would be required;
Electricity would be provided to com_munity buildings and ablution units.   (c)  In addition to the provision of streetlights and the lighting of
l.boo m of cable would be provided. with soMe 30 streetlights;                     cotmmnity buildings and ablution units. a full electricity supply
network was provided;
(dl  DemonstFation housing for living. waste sorting and pig breeding would        (d)  This element was cancelled.  DOemnstration houses were constructed  _
be constructed.  Building materials for self-help improvemnt of                    howe improvement and small-scale enterprise loans were provided by
e,istinug houses would be provided at a value of up to LE SO per                   1GO's.
household Loans of the same amount would be provided for repair nd
*eplacewent of donkey carts;
le)  A tin baling plant and a composting plant with a 35 tonnes per day            (e) Both the tin-baling plant and the composting plant are being provided
capacity would be installed to be operated by the cotmunity; and                   by IGO's.
if) ODe p. in asy school of 14 classrooms with a capacity of 4S students per       If) The school was provided as planned under the project.  The health and
cla%s amid operating on double shifts, one health center. and one co_u-            community centers are being provided by EGO's.
iity center would be constructed.
r                         (gs  In addition to the elements planned at appraisal, a partial piped
sewerage system was provided for this cotnity under the proSect. '
. .   _ _                                                                t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



C   ~lgil!Q!Qt N  sshuffng
(Al  Water supply thirough standpines and private connections;                      we* on the upgrading of this comenity was delayed for Sam  tim.  Sy the
tim  site Investigation was Initiated, it was found that the vacant sttes
(b)  Sewerage improvements through cesspit rehabtlitation;                          on which important *leents of the orisinal proposal were based teN c_-
nents f an g) had beon occupied.
(    Sanitary facilities through public ablution units and washing Sheds;
(dl  lefuse collection;                                                             Part (di. introduction of a refuse collection system. was iinlemented OS
Part of the project.
(c) Katerials for home improvement at LE SO per household;
if)  Comulnity facilities including one primry schoel of 14 classroom with
a capacity of 45 students per class, operating on a double shift, one
healtl center, one comunity center and  ne playground; and
1.) Developmeent of about 600 plots on vacant land, with water supply.
sewerage and ablution units.
Q   &1exandrlii  new MSgaaa el Arab
(a)  Vehicular access to within 75 i     of every plot;                             This coonent was Integrally linked to the adjacent site and service
development IllS. below) and was therefore cancelled ehn  tha letter
(b) Water supply via external taps within SO a of every house;                      coe_onent was found to be unfeasible'
(c) Improved sanitation through the provision of above-ground vented pit
privieS'
(dl Provision of a refuse collection service from bins located-within
50 m of all plots;
4e) facility for on plot electricity connections by provision of one 500 kva
ti ansfovier. 2.000  of cable and security lighting;
(fI  Materials for home improvement at LE SO per household; a
(q) A primary school and a health center would be provided In the adjoining
sile's and services area of South Netras.
t   Land Tetrm.  The land in all four of the upgrading areas belongs to         Procedures for selling the plots to the occupants in the tw nit UaSser
the governorate.  Residents would be given freehold titles conditional         mn and Zabbaleen Settlements are urderway.
upon satisfactory payent of plot charges.  Hoever, in the case of the
Zabbaleen settlement at Hansheit Nasser. the results of the consultant
study and the response of the c_unity to the diptaled proposals will
be reviewed by the Cairo Governerate before a decision Is taken on the
timing of the granting of freehold titles.
05



'Ii ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Lc~~~~~~~~~~~ 1114 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tflAfk3~~~~~~~~~~~~                             ~~               ~       i'i
A AWoul,; 5am&LjjGrb mL AladL
A 2i.4 hectare.site was to have developed for an eventual population of          a. b. c add were iplownted substantially as planned.
14.00(8 personis.  The eventual development was to comrise:                      Standards for 0 and f were significantly Increased.
(a)  70.5% of the total area should be marketable;
(b) 2.761 plots ranging from 45 2Z to 72 w2 In site;
(c)  Individual on-plot water supply;
(dt  Individual comnection to waterborne sewrage dispoal system;
(e) Electricity provision crnwised of low tension supply to plot
boundar i es;
(f)  Street lighting on primcy and secondary ctrculation routes.
(g)  Refuse bins within 75 meters of plots:                                   to)  fot Ippl~mted.
(h) Max wAumn on-plot development opt ion of one remn of 9 m2 an 255          (h)  The design was changed, with IDA's concurrence. te provide rn-rem
of plots; minihew  development of ablution uintt an  perimter wall;           cores an all residential plots Instead of the 22-pen not ae   at
appraisal. To cover this cost. Assiult propomad to build five-storgy
walk-oe  aperte* nts for sale to higher-tncom  gromps and csrceal
plots to subsidize the deveS lopme. Nowever. there was a subroo
change of goernor an  the now governor did not ar to 22  to       plan.
Eventually only about 36e such cores ware built. since te cenw
that was awarded contracts for the second and third pimss of 4;   ad
297 units, respectively, in 1903 was only able to csuto lN t lts
prior to credit clo        and local funds were usavailably  to fia nce
the construction of cores on the other plots,  1ece. the deeoe;lt
In Assiut Is cnwoised of about 363 plots with perimte  walls.
ablution urni ts and cores  coand about 2  399 bare, plots.
it)  One school providing 1.260 school Plots;                                 (i)  The school was provided as planned.
(1)  One health center.                                                 .    (J)  The health center Is being built by the Ministry of snelth con    site
prea"red s  rder the project.
a   A 1 ex anaIr iaj _guULM&LfA2 The component  ras cancelled. After some stte preparation mm  led bow
undertaken. soil tests revealed that sub-soil conditions would rtire
Development of 15.1 ha for an eventual population of 9.008 persons.              pilt foundationb  for structuros built on site, and it was therefore
Standards as indicated above for South Gharb el Salad.                           unsuiitable for housing Intended for low-income earners.
.AI, gl  lu~ Q iess Ass SLAW.& and  annur Trainin*
Saull business loans averaging LE 050 (US$1,200) each,  with a                (     T). (it) and (III) Canceled following delays encountered idu  commity
naximmm of LE Some (US$7.150) per enterprise,                                 Indicated its utwillinter ss to psrticipate in this aspect of the project
(II    ExtenNion services to small businesses on proJect sites and. as appro-    before receiving infrastructure services and the subsequent withdrul
priate. in the surrounding community.                                         of the national Senk from the Project.
I ii)  Vocatiognal and accelerated training procrm to complement                                         e    l) and           er_)
above.
4 d    Conistruction of training center In Miansholt Nasser to serve the              riv) Imonseented as planned.
training requirements of the four manor cooperative societies that
operate locally and that represent an                                                 d 1ortant element In the
ar-tisa.n sector of the commiunty.
0i
( k ) wocational *nd accelerated train1ns Pre r  to ce pl _ nt (1) and li1)~~~~~               ~        ~        ~       1
above ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



I  WEg1jgWI=L1._in Solid Waste Collactimi n  leaa 
CE&roand Alexandria
&Cai
(M     Pilot conpostIng plant with a capacity of  _ot IU tonneslday to        (i)  Cncelled.  Solid waste Consultant undertook expaerlamtl Cast tifg
test the c_ sition of the waste being collected and the  aality             an market research which provided an adequate basts for ItI).
and warketability of the resulting ce _t and to develop the
appropriate design an operating pro'edsw.s for a larger plant.
fit)  If the outcine of the above-n_ntionod tests are positive. construc-  41I)  Oetaled amnlysis of fectors such as the cmw osition of Cairos refuse
tion of a ZO tonns/day plant.                                               and tS potntial mrket for copst and recycled materials wre t C
Into consideration in the design of the min plat. The spCiftcati_
called for Ute provision of s hme"nialng drum *eWifn  for turni
the windwres and a coe  t instead of a bitumen swlfc  for the ebet-
Ing yard.  The cost of the plant therefor  exceeded Uhe fin_ls at aside
for It.  Ike sir of the plant was scaled dam fro _W to 2W  tim
per day to minimdie cost overuns.
U   Alexandri&
(I)    Pilot composting plant with 10 tonnes/day capacity.                    (i)  Cancelled.  A 1" tons per day plant was constructe with the Psf
originally Intended for site  and services  and  fgrading (I  S WA 11 a
abeve).  th  design was basd an the ewerience in Cairo.
fit)   300 donkey carts for waste collection.                                 (Al)  Cancelled.  The refuse cellectors (private) and the ctty cwAcil
rejLcted the *dea of using  _ey carts.
(bii   68O handcarts for street cleaning.
(IV)  me depots for street cleanin.                                                 Ite    Ill. Iv. v. VI. and wi were  canelled.  Tb s  facilities wer
(v)    2 sorting depts for dtspsal.                                                 provided wwr a V5IAS-fminced project.
(vi)   2 worlkshops for repair of street refuse collection vehicles.
(via)  Equ pmnt for 4 garages.
(visi  4 vehicles for suPervision.                                           (witt) Tom ve,tcles were prchased instead.
go
9b



v   U-gent Reo1r5 Ig the Assiut W         S       a   Seweraa*Svat
I    Ui gent repairs and possible extensions of existing water SuPply             The consultants regort (VIg) revealed that more extensive work then
aoid sewerage systems based on consultancy studies Indicated in              originally envisaged was needed.  The funds provided for this cenent
VI y below.                                                                  were therefore inadequate and were used for (l) the most urent equipnt
t i)   Prepalation of broad technical wister plans for water sypply and              needs for tediate repairs and maintenance; and (ii) for tbe foreign
sewerage.                                                                    exchange cost of a punping station and off-site tewer mains to serve the
( 1ii)  Training for staff in charge of the i_ardiate rehbilitation works            sites and services area developed under the project and other recent
foi  ater supply and sewerage and for staff responsible for ongon            extensions of the city.
maintenance and administration of the system.
VI   Ci1Mnl  .n  A4LvirairyServices an  *raining
Pit a)Pnect preparation IIDA advance made in 1977). covering the identifica-    (a)  Completed as planned;
tion of comPonents together with the preparation of site layouts.
Pieliminary engineering designs and costs.  The work was undertaken by
GuPP using a local project preparation unit assisted by consultants;
lO)  Pioect implementation advice.  Provision has been made for advisers to             fbi  Implemented but without staff support assuaed at appraisal;
as%ist the tow Income tHousing Development Unit ti) in undertaking
rent,al pi3ject coordination and monitoring and (it) in assisting the
Gove. snoates in project execution. Ter=ms of reference would be drafted
afte, LIHOU staff have been appointed;
I( ) Detailed design and implementation of the upgrading scheme for the                 (c)  Implemented as planned;
Zabbaleen settlement at Slansheit Nasser;
(di  Preparation of future upgrading schemes for Central Cairo. particularly            Id) Saoe preparatory work was done on an upgrading schme for El G_ttlto.
fog LI Gamalia;                                                                         This study is being continued under the Greater Cairo Urban
Developlnt Project;
A solid wast.e mnaginnt project appraised In February 19M was also
prepared;
(v) A  ssitance to HIPCO in project implenotation and also to (I) assess                le) Parts  Mi) and (iii) were impleented as planned;                                     S
bot,. the assistance requirements of the artisan/smal business sector in
Egypt and the existing and proposed system  for delivery of this
a,ssita,ce. (i   advise on HIPCO's organization and staffing. nd
(iii) help train HIPCO staff. The proposed assistance to HIPCO is based
on the recomndations of the IDF,s Division's report 'Arab Republic of
Egypt. S. rvey of Small-Scale Industry' dated Deceber 2. 1977;
dl  Prepawation and implementation of schems to improve solid waste                     (f)  Iplemented with changes indicated in IV above;
collection and disposal in Cairo and Alexandria;
,.)  Ilnestigations and urgent repasrs to the water supply and sewerage                 (s)  Investigations were iwplemented as planned but the study indicated
v,lems  in Assiut,                                                                     that the urgent repairs needed were more extensive than originally had
been provided;
(iii  Flioaicial management and accounting services for the recently established   (h) and l1) Cancelled as the lHF was abolished;
Lo. Income Housing Fund.  Consultant services will be provided to
to ecast the likely long-term operations of the Fund and to design a
seYtcn of accounting and financial managemnt and a staffing organtzation
to a?et the requirements of the Funri for the next several years;
ti)  Baimkilig advice   The project includes provision for a full-time banking
adv ioi to be made available to the Low-Income Housing fund for a Period
of one year to assist the fund's management to formulate and implement
so.iid financial banking practices at this early stage in its development;
I} Ideritif,catioci of traininsg  eeds in five Governorates.  In 197d. the             (ji  Implemented as planned;
tii,st tia)oF impact of devolution of functions from Central Government is
IiiLeI  to be felt by the Governorates.  Studies would be undertaken in
ts,e (ao'.erorates   Cairo. Alekandria. Assiut. Ismailia and Gharbiya -
to estimate the likely requirements for training within the Governorates
o n a niationwide basis; and
ii  frainiiiqg of pro)ect staff in the implementing agencies.                           (k)  Impleaented as planned.
.                                                              o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



- 65 -
ANNEX It
Table I
EGYPT FIRST UR3UN DEVELopMe? PROJECT
DETAILED COSTs: APPRAISAL ANP REVIStD ESTIMATES
SITES AND SERVICES AND UPGRADING
Actual Cost/
Appraisal         Reestimates
Estimate I/       As of 5/8S        Difference
I LE - OtWI      -JlLE IL OOO    
Manshait  oaer I4ain Satt.lIMnt
A. Site Preparation and Survey               10.12.              57.12             464
B. On-Site Infrastructure
1. Roads                                 108.63             269.58              148
2. Water Supply                           70.40              57.92              (18)
3. Sewerage (including cesspits)         119.a8             300.082/            150
4. Street Lighting and Electricity
Network          46.75              182.103/           290
S. Improvement of Cowmunity Space         23.38                 -  4/          (100)
6. Refuse Collection                      3.75                12.75              Z15
Subtotal                        372.79              822.25             121
C. On-Plot Oeveloe nt
1. Water Connections                      64.94             240.005/            258
2. Swer Connections                       1S.75             561.005'          3.462
3. Cesspits
(a) Repair                             19.69               -                (100)
(b) Construction                      132.70                   )            (100)
4. Ablution UWtts                         0..a.i             -L
Subtotal                        265.41              801.00             202
0. Self-Help Construction Material          286.98                -               (100)
E. Off-Site Infrastructure
1. Sewers                                  -                222.12                -
2. Roads                                 123.75              50.00               60
3. Water Supply                           36.85               -                (100)
4. Electricity                           1fi2.90            891.77              ii
Subtotal                        357.50           1.163.89              226
f. Conmwnity Facilities
1. Schools                               250.25             170'957s            (32)
2. Health Centers                        129.25                                (100)
3. Conninty Centers                       31.00             130 96              297
Subtotal                        412.50             301.91              (27)
G. Design and Supervision                   152.75               30. 58/           (80)
H. Project Managemnt                         46.3 5                 - 9'          (100
TOTAL                        TL                                          z
1/ tncluding physical and price contingencies where applicable.
Z/ The sewerage network was expanded to serve the whole 5ettlement.
l/ Only street lighting work provided for at appr0isal.
4/ Included in other on-site costs.
1/ Undertaken by householders with their own funds. Costs based on AS lut data: at LE
0.30 per m2 for water, and LEO.70 per m2 for sewers.
6/ Extension and phasing of trunk and network enabled lmmedVate connections to be made.
Z/ Two schools instead of four were built.  The total number of classrooms provided was
as planned.
A/ For vacant sites within settlement only.
2/ Not quantified.  Responsibilities were shared between a number of agencies   No 3tiff
members were assigned full time responsibility for this project



- 66 -
ANN   II
Table 2
30!?  FIRIST URBA  DEVELOPMEN  PROJECT
DETAILED COSTS: APPRAISAL AND REVISED ESTIMATES
SITu  AN  SRVICES AND UPGRADING
Actual Cost/
Appraisal    Reestimates
Estimate I/    As of 5/85    Difference
(LE'OOO)        (LE'OOO)         (
CAIRO
Mansheit Nasser Zabbalsen Sttlemut
A. Infrastructure
1. Sewerage                                   -           169.06 '            -
2. Roads                                     26.13        215.45 t'         725
3. Water Supply                              36.44        596.01 i'        1536
4. Street Lighting and Electricity
Network               5.50        398.06 t'       7,137
Subtotal                            68.07       1,378.58          1,925
B. Demonstration Housing                         4.12            -            (100)
C. Self-Help Construction Material             130.40            -   "        (100)
D. Community Facilities
1. Schools                                   49.50        267.00            439
2. Health Centers                           129.25           - )           (100)
3. Community Centers/Dispensaries            27.50           - ) i'        (100)
4. Tin Baling Plant                          27.50            - )          (100)
5. Compost Plant                             13.75           - )           (100)
Subtotal                           247.50         267.00              8
F. Design and Supervision                       27.881/         -             (100)
F. Project Management                            9.53                          (100)
TOTAL                               487.50      1 645.58
1/ Including physical and price contingencies where applicable.
2/ Not provided for at appraisal.
3/ Road lengths were doubled.
4/ A pumping statipn and storage tanks were needed to get water to the settlement.
S/ Only street lighting was provided for at appraisal.
6/ Cancelled. All are being provided by NGO's.
7/ Sum provided for here added to amount provided for in Table 9.
8/ Not quantified.  No staff members were assigned full-time responsibility for
the project.



- 67 -
ANNEX II
Table 3
EGYPT FIRST URIAN DEmVLOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED COSTS: APPRAISAL AND REVISED ESTIMATES
SITES AND SEIVICES AND UPGRADING
Actual Cost/
Appraisal        Reestimate
Estimate  1/    As of 5/85        Difference
(LE 'OOO)         (LE'OOO)            X
CAIRO
North Bassateen
Refuse Collection                 6.61             2.28             (66)
TOTAL                                             La                iw
1  Including physical and price contingencies where applicable.



- 68 -
ANNEX II
Table 4
EGYPT FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED CO0TS: APPRAISAL AND REVISED ESTIMATES
SITES AND SERVICES AND UPGRADING
Actual Cost/
Appraisal        Reestimate
Estimate  1/    As of 5/85        Difference
(LE '000)         (LE'000)           (X)
ALEXANDRIA
South Metras
Site Preparation             1,059.49          160.111/           n.a.
Design and Supervision         221.02            9.122j           n.a.
TOTAL                   1.280.51          169.2
1/ Including physical and price contingencies where applicable.
2/ The work was abandoned when the developnient was found to be unfeasible.



- 69 -
Table S
0hlTA!L6D ~EtI: APPUISAL hVh RIVIEID ITISNATIS
SITtS AMA   ItNO it     UPCRAAICi
Actual Cost/
Appraisal        Reestimtes
Estimato 1/        As of 9/85         Difference
&WMI~IL
South G arb El fladp Si.   n   avicag
A. Land Acquisition                           610.002/          700.00              1S
d. Site Preparation and Surveys                886.7              S.7S            (94)
C. On-Site Infrastructurn
1. Roa&a                                   187.67              -              (100)
2. Water Supply                             30.61            329.19 3          975
3. Soerage (including cesspits)            139.96           5$9.02             321
4. Street Lighting                           3.33            237.00          7,017
S. Refuse Collection                        i.,k                -             tied%
Subtotal                          368.23          1,1SS.21            214
0. On-Plot Oevelooant
1. Water Connections                        46.50            42.35              (9)
2. Sewer Cownections                        2S.03             986.J            295
3. Electricity Connections                                     0.795             -
4. Ablution Units                          201.68               - )  '        (106)
S. Foriiter Walls                          381.40                 )           (100)
G. Core Units                              1lU992            417.3A 7/         liE
Subtotal                          804.73            SS9.20            (30)
C. Self-Help Construction Material             90.59              -              (100)
F. Off-Site Infrastructure
1. Roads                                    26.62                             (100)
2. Water Supply                             24.62             10.05            (59)
3. Sewerage                                 29.28           350.00 *         1,095
4. Electricity                             I53.73           259.50              A
Subtotal                          234.25            619.55            164
G. Community Facilities
1. Schools                                  55.90           300.22             437
2. Health Centers                          125.11               -             (100)
3. Comnunity Centers                          1J.94                -              10
Subtotal                          212.95            300.22             41
H. Design and Supervision                     197.02             44.13 IO/        (78)
1. Project Management                       _ 64.49              30.87 ''         52.
TOTAL                           L.ZQa             ..LuL.a 
1/ Including physical and price contingencies where applicable.
2/ No price contingency is added to the land cost as this was to have bccn an innediate
expenditure.
1/ Deferred.  Roadways wer. levelled duriig site preparation.
I/ Not executed due to delay in site development.
5/ Connections not provided for at appraisal.
J/ Cancelled in favor oV range of core unit options and bare plots.
Z/ For about 360 plots.
A/ Sum represents the project's one third share of works serving cthcr new developmcnts
also.
2/ Health center being constructed by Ministry of Health on site provided under project.
II/Consultants, fees. Some design work was also done by the City Council.
11/Assiut costs only.



- 70 -
ANNEX II
Table 6
EGYPT FIRST UR5AN DgVELOPMENT PROJ8CT
DETAILED COSTS: APPRAISAL AND REVISED EBSTIMATES
SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE AND MANPOWER TRAINING
Actual Cost/
Appraisal        Reestiates
Estimate 1/        As of 3/85       Difference
(LE'000)           (LE'OOO)        _  (S)
A. Manpower Training
1. Training Centers                 87.83            255.25            191
2. Equipment and Tools              61.42              -              (100)
3. Recurring Costs                 400.92                             (100)
4. Design and Supervision            7.98              -              (100)
Subtotal                   558.15            255.25            (54)
B. Project Administration              14.13                             (100)
TOTAL                      572.28            255.25            (55)
l/ Including physical and price contingencies where applicable.



- 71 -
Table 7
ICdYPT FtS   mmSVES    I.e
flovtfTI  KU LoLB  &S^TI tfLLsEtIa A& 01510W
Actual Cost/
ApprasSal         Reest hates
IsttmAte 1/       As of 5/6S        01ffirence
A.  0
Pilot Composting Plant at Shoubra            137'5                 -              (100)
Hain Plant - 200 tons/day                   962.50           245d8.4 3             15S
Design and Supervision                   9...    1             .2                  1.15
Subtotal                         1,073.50           2,541.51              137
Project Administration                       27-Z 2 -A                            Lio.
Subtotal A                       1,101.70           25S41.51              131
*. ALUhAIZA
Collections - 300 donkey carts              143.60                 -   4/         (100)
Street Cleaning
- 600 handcarts                         82.00               66.0              (20)
- 40 depots                             164.10                - ) s'         (100)
Disposal
2 2 sorting depots                     273.60                 - ) S"         (100)
- 1 pilot composting plant               27.30           2.824.46 f'         n.a.
Workshops
I 1 workshop                           180.00                                (100)
-   sorting depots                   273.60                 - ) 5'         (100)
I 1 mobile workshop                     12.00                 - )            (100)
Garages - equinpment                         96.00                 - )            (100)
Supervision   4 jeeps                        24.00               10.30 t'          (57)
Design and Supervision                       62 oO              55.94              Li1.
Subtotal                         1,338.20            2.956.70             121
Project Administration                       25.20                     8           400
Subtotal B                       1,363.40            2,956.7C             117
TOTAL                            LAALLB              Lis"9LL
11 Including physical and price contingencies where applicable.
2/ Pilot operations were carried out in the Zabbaleen settlements by the consultant
preparing the TOR for the main plant.
a/ Actual size of plant built is 160 tons/day.
V Cancelled. The Zabbaleen and the City Council did not wish to continue using donkey
carts. ,
5/ Provided by USAID as part of comprehensive solid was.e collection program.
i/ Pilot cancelled in favor of main plant, based on Cairo experienct.
Z/ 1 pick-up and 1 microbus purchased instead.
A/ Actuals not quantified. No staff members were assigred to the project on a full time
basis.



- 72 -
ANNEX II
Table 8
EGYPT FIRST UREAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED COSTSt APPRAISAL AND REVISED ESTIMATES
REPAIRS 1 USLUT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Actual Cost/
Appraisal       Reestimates
Estimate 1/       As of 5/85       Difference
(LE'OOO)          (LE'OOO)            (
Leak Detection Equipment
and Meters                          2.13             11.95             461
TOTAL                        ILa              194



- 73 -
Tabla 9
C_.AhY AM           u     
ActUal Cost/
Appraisal         Reestimates
Estimete I/       As Of 5/85        Difference
A. Projet Preparation (P9  Advance)            246.002'            194664            (20)
B. Projoet Iolemeftation Advisors to LIHOU   68.04                  35.73            (47)
C. Future Projeet Preparation
(1) Preparation of Upgrading Scheme
in G&tl1yia                           144.02              82.75           (ioz
(ii) Preparation of Solid Waste Project       -                208.39
0. Preoration and Zmplementatiton of
Upgrading Scheme for Mansheit
Nasser  abbaleen Settlement           112.93 3'          127.53              13
E. studies to Determine the Characteristics
of the Artisan Sector and to Make
Recoamendations Regarding itz
Development                           374.22             297.97            (20)
F. Investigations and Repairs to
Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
in Assiut                             272.16             297.99              9
G. Preparation and Implementation of
Schemes to Improve Selid Waste
Collection and Disposal Systems in
Cairo and Alexandria                  136.08              59 45 4/         (56)
H4. Identification of Trainmng Needs in
Governorates                           28.35              24.36            (14)
I. Staff Training                               97.52               96.95             (1)
J. Project Administrat1on                        34.02              36. 00 i/
TOTAL                             JLI JSh.1.                              1 L
J/ Including physical and price contingencies where applicable.
Z/ No price contingencies applied as this expenditure was to have been made prior to
project effectiveness.
J/ Sum provided for consultants under sites and services component (Table 2) added to
amount provided in this table.
J/ General preparatory studies only.
J/ Not fully quantified. Implementation responsibilities were shared by a number of
agencies. Costs shown here are for operation of LIHDU and LIHDU share of JHP
overhead costs.



_ 74 _
AWIEX I I I
~gjjg3j~~.iqut- ICnUO~fIEVALUATIN
(LE '000)
cah1111     1hZ                                            IIM wa  au  6
Sewerage                    169.06                                        101.44       67.62
Roads                       215.45                                        129.27       86.16
Water Supply                S96.01                                        357.61      238.40
Electricity                 398.06                                        278.64      119.42
Total Intra.                398.06
Comnity Facilities'         267.00                             53.40      106.80      106.80
Co  Jnity tacilltiesi       127.50                             76.50       S1.0
Design & Supervision         72.67      7.27       65.40
Project Management           35.84      7.17        7 17         7.17        7.17        7.17
Total (current prices)  1,881.59    14.44          72.57      137.07   1.031.92       625.59
Total3' (#8S prices)                   20.92       97.06      169.00   1,134.26       625.S9
MnLtsa
Gross Area (0OOOm2)         300.00
Net Area (%)                 40.00
Sale Price (LE/m2)           40.00
Old PriceI'4'(LE/m2)          14.20
Total Benefits                                                                                  3,096.00
Net Benefits                           -20.92     -97.06       169.00   1.134.26      625.59   3,096.00
IRR                                   23X
I/  Financed under the project.
Z/  Built by NGOs.
1/  Adjusted through the GOP deflator.
4/ 1985 price.



- 75 -
ANNEX IV
..                                  .      --
.     n  ~SW                         i*n                           1966*          IUI           190            196            194            91S
._*t    ~        ~ tr                                                      --  .t
Aspetiel 6. sw  ms e.. tts.
4^uls  98tlt                                 ...........................
.200111    Sehtlmnt
*gw,etl 6stlate                                               ------
No bUmtw
AWGhl   1411                                                 .........    ..
.NW Nesa  gi Arab
Aeprtl glttiste                                      .....-....,.____._.
.Jewth etreu
Agrssai  gstlal te                                           ................ .........
-outlh >arb 1  lal                                                            I
Appraisal gsatint                          ..    .............
tracttanaf eiimmaat Mlamta
.Cairo (Main PMait)
Apgraisal  lstim  te
Actual                                                                                             s.fssz            Z     ::zn::
.Alexamlria
Actual
5S*t?UUE iii AtPut                                                                                                                                  !
water Supply
.Seweravee 
|    ANDtlS%ll E%t*"t   l           l       -----------------
_ _ _r__i  l Estimae                                     . ._..
| tigtrugtipn nf Vpetatiennl                                    I                                
Trainin CUtg       r               I adn
Aeprsisal Cstliace        s                    I              I1
Aprtual (Estmate)             J              J                                                       :
Actual                        I                                            I                     I                     -         a
|ASliut Water Supply and          I              I              j                                           j
Sewerage System                                                           I
Appraisal Estima                                -     - ..____.__-          I!
Actual                        I                             I            * 5iZZZ3Sg3SU
Artisan Sector                                   I             i
Appraisal Estimate                         . .....I..    _
Actual                                       I                             I      zzzz           z;n::;
A.Governorate Taimnnt Nteds
Aoeroraste  tstr ati                           ---eed---------
A Actual                            I
01,191,7 1  % tval                          &~~~Oigia                    Actua         -
Originl       ctual                                    rsa                              t.         .
NCgotiationq      ODate        ate of                                   Clcsir                        Closirg    D'0  Sle
SCUedulod    Effecct-Mess                                 Ote                            Datce
Effectveness



- 76 -
AM=X V
Page 1 of 13
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
MINWSTRY OF RECONSTRUCTION AND STATE
MISTRY FOR HOUSING AND LAND RECLAMATION
JOINT HOUSING PROJECTS
The international consulting firm DOXIADES conducted a study of
low-income people in Egypt, in collaboration with the General Organization for
Physical Planning at the Ministry of Housing. The study was financed by the
World Bank.
A working Group, the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) was formed to
work out the low-income housing project in Cairo, Alexandria and Assiut, to be
financed by the World Bank.
The study comuenced in March 1977, with an economic and development
survey the purpose of which was the initial selection of the three proposed
cities where the project was to be implemented - Cairo, Alexandria and
Assiut. Results of the study were submitted to the World Bank consultant who
approved them.
The study was conducted under the supervision of World Bank
consultants who visited Egypt in three missions. Each mission was formed of 5
or 6 consultants who were specialized in architectural plar.ning, economics and
sociology.
The first mission visited Egypt July 25 - August 12, 1977.
The second mission visited Egypt September 19 - October 7, 1977.
The third mission visited Egypt November 28 - December 19, 1977.
The final report was submitted in draft to the third World Bank
mission (November 28 - December 19, 1977) which approved it. The final report
was submitted in three volumes to the Ministry of Housing.
On the basis of this preliminary study, the World Bank drew up its
Appraisal Report on June 6, 1978, covering the various project components,
costs, financing method and the responsible parties for project
implementation. The preliminary study cost LE 250,000.
Thereupon the Loan Agreement assigned on August 30, 1978, between the
Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and IBRD affiliate, the International
Development Association, Credit 831-EGT. Three subsidiary loan agreements
were signed with the Governorates of Egypt, Alexandria and Assiut.



-77-                            ANEX v
Page 2 of 13
The Agreement became effective with the approval of the Egyptian
National Assembly on May 12, 1979. Initial Project costs were estimated at
$21 million.
Under this Agreement, the world Bank would assist in financing the
First Urban Development Project in Egypt by extending a $14 million loan and
the Egyptian Government would provide the equivalent of $7 million in Egyptian
currency towards project financing.
The Proiect is designed to:
1.   Upgrade and develop chree existing housing settlements (two in Cairo
and one in Alexandria) haphazardly constructed and having a total
population of 97,000 people.
2.   On-site preparation of about 4600 plots provided with utilities and
services (in Alexandria and Assiut), designed to benefit a population
of about 23,000 persons.
3.   Assist small handicraft businesses by providing loans for workshop
construction and procurement of equipment.
4.   Improve waste disposal by utilizing intermediate technological
systems in Cairo, Alexandria and Assiut.
5.   Repair Assiut Water Supply and Sewerage systems.
6.   Upgrade the efficiency of agencies in the Governorates.
Parties Responsible for Project Execution
i.   Low-income Housing Development Unit.  (Ministry of Housing).
2.   National Bank of Egypt.
3.   Low-Income Housing Fund (replaced by Credit Foncier).
4.   Ministry of Local Rule.
5.   Handicraft Industries and Productive Cooperatives Organization.
6.   National Water and Sanitary Drainage Authority.
7.   The Governorates of Cairo, Alexandria and Assiut.
Project Description
1.   Cairo Governorate
1.1 Upgrading an area of approximately 96 hectares occupied by 11,600
households (Main Settlement), an area of approximately 30 hectares
occupied by 3000 households in Manshiet Nasser (Zabbaleen Settlement)
and an area of approximately 23 hectares occupied by 3900 households
in North Bassateen (Kala'a Settlement).



- 78 -
9                   ANNEX V
Page 3 of 13
This includes:
a.   Improvement of accest and circulation roads.
b.   Improvement of water supply facilities by extending the existing
network, provision of new equipment and repair or replacement of
existing equipment.
co   Improvement of sanitation by reconstructing existing cesspits,
provision of public restrooms and washrooms in Manshiet Nasser
(Zabbaleen Settlement), and Bassateen Settlement (Kala'a
Settlement).
d.   Extension of the electricity system, including the provision of
additional power lines, transformers and street lighting.
e.   Solid waste and garbage collection in Manshiet Nasser and North
Bassateen.
f.   Provision of new community plots for housing and small
businesses.
g.   Improvement of facilities through the provision of three primary
schools, a secondary school for girls, a health clinic, a joint
community and health center, an open playground in Manshiet
Nasser (Main Settlement).
h.   Upgrading the level of community services through the
construction of a primary school, a health clinic and a
community center in Manshiet Nasser (Zabbaleen Settlement).
i.   Upgrading the level of community services through the
construction of a primary school, a health clinic, a cnmmunity
center and an open playground in North Bassateen (Kala'a
Settlement).
j.   Construction and refurbishing of housirg through self-reliant
efforts by providing construction inputs to the people in the
aforementioned settlements, and the construction of model
housing units in Manshiet Nasser (Zabbaleen Settlement).
k.   Provision of a waste recycling plant with a daily capacity of 35
tons, and another tin-baling plant, which involves improvement
of garbage collection, and solid waste disposal and provision of
loans to repair and replace donkey carts in Manshiet Nasser.
1.2 Construction of a pilot refuse recycling plant in Shubra, with a
200-ton daily capacity to operate and improve solid waste disposal
services.



- 79 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 13
2.   Alexandria Governorate
2.1 Upgrading about 11 hectares occupied by approximately 1000 households
in Naga'a El-Arab which includes:
a.   Improvement of access and main roads.
b.   Installation of water pipes and faucets to improve potable water
facilities.
c.   Provision of above ground vented pit privies.
d.   Installation of a transformer and expansion of the electricity
power station to provide street lighting and facilitate
connections beyond the residential housing area.
e.   Improvement of refuse and solid waste collection.
f.   Improvement of community services through the establishment of a
primary school, a health clinic and a community center in
a..joining sites to South Metras.
g.   Provision of ccastruction materials to enable the population in
the area to build their own houses themselves.
2.2  Provision of sites and services for 1800 housing plots and 80
commercial plots over 15 hectares in south Metras. This includes:
a.   Land reclamation and preparation.
b.   Provision of utility services, including roads, potable water
and sewerage.
c.   Provision of public rest-rooms and water metres for residential
units.
d.   Community services, consisting of a primary school, a health
clinic and a community center.
e.   Provision of construction materials for the people to construct
their houses through self-reliant efforts.
2.3 Improvement of refuse collection and solid waste disposal in the
low-income housing areas through:
a.   Establishment of an organization for street cleaning, refuse and
solid waste disposal.
b.   Entering into contract with private refuse collectors to collect
waste from low-income areas.
c.   Establishing waste depots at which the above-mentioned
contractors would dump or sell such waste.



- 80 -
ANNX V
Page 5 of 13
d.   Establish a pilot plant to make use of waste materials and
provide donkey-drawn carts for refuse collection and hand-carts
for street cleaning as well as workshop sites for repair and
maintenance of vehicles and equipment.
3.   Assiut Governorate
3.1 Provision of sites and services for approximately 2800 housing plots
and 200 plots for the business sector over an area of about 25
hectares in South Gharb El-Balad. This includes:
a.   Land preparation.
b.   Services and utilities, including roads, potable water and
sewerage.
c.   Restrooms and improvement of housing plots.
d.   Community services, consisting of a primary school, a medical
center and a community center.
e.   Provision of construction inputs.
3.2 Action to provide the following:
a.   Small business loans of no more than LE 5000 per business in the
Project area for construction, procurement of equipment and
capital.
b.   Training and provision of technical assistance to business
entrepreneurs in Project areas in the management nd operation
of small businesses.
c.   Urgent vocational training of manpower in the various fields.
3.3 Rehabilitation of Water and Sewerage utilities in Assiut through:
Repair and rehabilitation of the water supply system in Assiut,
including pumping stations and the distribution network, provision of
the required vehicles, field services and equipment to test, maintain
and operate such networks.
3.4 Provision of advisory services by IDA to the borrower in the
following areas:
a.   Project design and execution.
b.   Preparation for other urban development projects.
c.   Improvement of the financial, accounting, administrative and
organizational methods of the Low-income Housing Fund.



- 81 -
ANNEX V
Page 6 of 13
Sites and Services Project in South Metras
Alexandria Governorate
Developments
1.       On October 29, 1977, the General Organization for Physical Planning
'GOPP), met in Cairo with the World Bank mission and proceeded to the Project
site for an on-the-spot inspection. Delivery of the land by the Coast Guard
Authority was scheduled for November 3, 1977.
2.       On November 28, 1978, the local council of Gharb El-Madina (West of
the City) met with the Fishermen's Union in Anfoushi and Lake Maryut and
agreed to allocate this water surface to house the area's fishermen.
3.       On March 31, 1970, the Governorate's Executive Committee issued a
decree stating its approval to allocate 40 feddans in Lake Maryut for the
Project, with the proviso that the beneficiaries would be the fishermen of
Lake Maryut, members of the Alexandria Fishermen Cooperative.
4.       An examination of previous planning through the World Bank indicated
that it was inappropriate for the region, besides not adhering to the laws
regulating land division. Alexandria Governorate therefore conducted a study
of the project site, and studies continued until the final plans drawn in
keeping with the nature of the region and the objectives for which they were
designed, were approved by the World Bank mission on December 10, 1980.
5.       The earth-filling component of the site was put up for public
tendering and the contract was awarded to the Tersana Co. at a total value of
LE 342,000. The company was served with the order to proceed on October 4,
1981 and it commenced its work, earth-filling 11.5 feddans at a cost of
LE 149,498 before a halt was put to the Project.
6.       Work on the Project was discontinued for a long time due to the
obstacles that had emerged related to, among other things, the difficulty of
foundation work on weak earth-filled terrain and the high cost of foundations
if pilings were to be sunk.
7.       The World Bank mission therefore proposed three alternatives to the
Governorate to select one of them:
(i) Selecting an alternative site to implement the Project.
(ii) Transferring Project funds to establish a waste recycling plant.
(iii) Transferring the Project funds to the components of the other
projects in Cairo and Assiut Governorates.



- 82 -
ANNEX V
Page 6a of 13
8.       On October 5, 1982, Alexandria Governorate decided to transfer the
Project funds to establish a waste composting plant at a total cost of LE 2.5
million.
9.       The bid submitted by the British firm Mazerwell* to execute the
Project was selected, and the contract was signed on June 6, 1983.
* A transliteration from the Arabic.



- 83 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of :3
JAslut Governorate
Prolect Modifications*
Consequently, the Executive Unit in the Governorate suggested as a
-_rst step that a one room with an ablution unit on each plot should be
xnstructed and the foundation provided for completion of the housing unit
=cording to the relevant model.
Such a proposal naturally entailed a significant increase in the
=oject's initial costs which could not be covered by the World BAnk loan.
The situation being such, there was nothing to hold up execution of
ae project in its present form and subsequent evaluation of the experiment.
--at we believe is an obstacie today, may well turn out to be insignificant in
-tual practice, and the project would be one of the fruits of cooperatior.
*Ith international organizations--attracting more such achievements.
dLanning Efforts Preceding Finalization of Project Plans
_        The original sites and services project drawn by the consulting firm
E Doxiades and the GOPP was examined and found acceptable in terms of layout,
-At the three Governorates could not accept it due to three reasons:
a.   The East West perimeters were perpendicular to the Naga'a Hamadi
Canal (Al Silah previously), which was not in keeping with the site
acquisition perimeters, since the counterpart perimeters inclined at
an angle to this course, leaving a vacant triangular area to the West
of little use.
b.   High tension 132 KW electrical power lines cut across the project,
which obviously posed a direct danger to residents in the area.
c.   The unconventional sewerage method prescribed through extension of
main sewerage lines on the plots and within block perimeters was
considered a source of continuous menace to the houses due to the
possibility of sewage overflow and blockage, particularly in the
light of inadequate awareness of the users in such areas.
Request was therefore nade for revision of the general layout plan
ith due observance of the above comments.  The Unit received in November 1979
ayout Plan No. Z from the pla'iners of the F.rst Project.
A study of the layot.t plan indicated that it was a rush job that
ailed to meet the standards required for several reasons, including multiple
edestrian crossings at maiz roads and multiple pathways leading to cul de
acs, and unavailability of distinctly residential areas.
- TR's note: The Arabic zeroxed copy of this segment is illegible and was
translated with some difficulty.



- 84 -
ANNEX V
Page 8 of 13
3.       The Executive Unit in Assiut therefore requested the Project Advisor
to prepare a more appropriate layout plan upon which a plan giving more
consideration to layout principles was drawn and submitted to the Steering
Committee and the World Bank mission February 1980. The World Bank mission
approved the project after introducing a number of non basic modifications,
which included opening or closing some pathways and redistribution of services
within the general perimeters. Initial estimates of a number of housing unit
models were submitted to the World Bank mission during its presence in Egypt.
E.       The Central Development Unit drew up the Project Chart including the
proposed modifications and dispatched it at the end of March 1980 to the
Executive Unit which considered that the proposed modifications added nothing
new to the original project.
5.       Tbk Executive Unit in Assiut thereupon drew another layout plan in
which it divided the roads into three segments: main, secondary and
pedestrian, bearing in mind the Mission's recommendations in reducing access
points to currently unplanned areas in the vicinity. This layout plan was
submitted in May 1980 to the World Bank mission which approved it.
6.       In the interim, the Executive Unit decided to group the three areas
designated for popular housing estimated at 19 feddans in one region, instead
of their distribution in three dispersed directions, east, west and south.
The project site was moved a distance of 100 meters to the South, for
observation of perimeters of site acquisition to the south and west along the
main road on the bank of Naga'a Hamadi Canal.
7.       A new layout plan was drawn which was considered as meeting almost
all the required layout principles, including the division of vehicular access
into two roads--10 and 12 meters, apart from pedestrian crossings.  Besides
the Main Services Centers, subsidiary centers were also located within the
housing compounds. Provision was also made for development through the
expansion of some vertical core units. Sewerage networks along'comparable
lines to those for apartment buildings w.ere designed for the Project.
8.       This plan was submitted to the World Bank mission in 1980, but the
mission objected to the modifications as it was not convinced of the factors
leading to their introduction, prior approval have been given in May 1980.
The mission requested restoration of the Project to iEs previous status quo
regardless of the construction of the subsidiary service areas.
9.       Thcugh the Unit was not convinced that it should give up the layout
advantages of the October 1980 plan, it thought no more time should be lost in
discussions and accepted the project site: overlooking to the North a
50-meter wide road, bypassing the electrical lines, and to the West the main
road along Naga'a Hamadi Canal. Another layout plan was drawn within these
perimeters the World Bank mission accepted in December 1980 with its
recommendation to expand the school site area against reducing a maximum area
of 50 plots, and to attempt the construction of vertical core units on a
maximum of 50 plots provided no assistance shall be granted from the loan, and
give free of charge a number of plots.



- 85 -
ANNEX V
Page 9 of 13
10.      The present layout plan representing the agreed on points between the
Unit and the World Bank Mission was drawn and finalized in February/March
1981. The relevant infrastructure plans--sewerage, water, roads, electricity
were designed and submitted to the Mission in March 1981, with the initial
estimatee for the construction of the housing units and execution of
infrastructure. The Bills of Quantit .es and sources of additional funding
were also submitted and the mission considered these steps as a promising
beginning for Project execution.



- 86 -
ANNEX V
Page 10 of 13
Agreements
On February 24, 1979, a subsidiary agreement was signed between the
Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, represented by the Ministry of
Economy and the Low Income Housing Fund to deposit proceeds of the loan and
other funds made available by the Government to the Project under the State
Budgets. The Fund shall be responsible before the Executive Agency for Joint
Housing Projects, the Governorates and the other agencies involved in covering
the Project's funding requirements and disbursements.
On May 27, 1979, an agreement was signed between the Low Income
Housing Fund and the Credit Foncier Egyptien, whereby the Fund delegated and
entrusted the Credit Foncier to undertake its obligations set forth in the
subsidiary agreement signed on February 24, 1979 between the Egyptian
Government and the Fund.
Upon enactment of Law No. 43 of 1979 establishing the system of Local
Rule and its provision for the abolition o the Fund, Ministerial Decree No.
405 of 1979, dated December 5, 1979 was issued, stipulating that the Executive
Agency for Joint Housing Projects will assume the tasks and responsibilities
of implementing the Development Loan Agreement in place of the abolished Fund,
and that the Executive Agency for Joint Housing Projects will replace the Fund
in the agreement signed with the Credit Toncier Egyptien on May 27, 1979.
Therefore, an agreement was signed on December 16, 1979 between the
Executive Agency for Joint Housing Projects and the Credit Foncier Egyptien by
virtue of which the Executive Agency for Joint Housing Projects replaced the
Low Income Housing Fund abolished under Law No. 43 of 1979.



-87-
Page 11 of 13
Ref. No. 781
May 6, 1979
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Credit Foncie' Egyptien
This is in reference to your letter dated 15 March 1979, reporting
the Credit Foncier's Board approval on February 28, 1979, of the draft
agreement drawn between it and the Fund under which Credit Foncier would
discharge all or part of the Fund's obligations pertaining to the Project
under the IDA loan extended to the Arab Republic of Egypt.
I have the honor to inform you that the draft agreement was submitted
to the Fund's Board of Directors a.. its meeting on March 27, 1979, and the
Board decided to approve it. Credit Foncier shall thereby discharge all Fund
obligations set forth in the subsidiary loan agreement signed between the
Government and the Fund and in conformity with the conditions set forth in the
draft agreement with Credit Foncier. The Board of Directors' approval
contained the following points:
1.   Article 7 of the Draft Agreement means that the 2% service fee shall
be payable on amounts which Credit Foncier shall actually disburse on
account of the Project from the loan proceeds and budget allocations,
and not on the balance of amounts deposited by the Fund with Credit
Foncier. This is to avoid any confusion in this connection.
2.   Credit Foncier shall pay the prevailing interest rate on Fund
balances remaining in the Project Account longer than 15 days.
The Ministry of Housing has endorsed the resolutions of the Board
adopted at the aformentioned meeting in his letter Ref. No. 694 dated May 5,
1979.
The Fund hopes to receive confirmation of your understanding of
Article 7 as above indicated and your approval of the statement in item 2, so
that the time and place for signing the agreement can be decided upon.
With assurances of our esteem.
Undersecretary of the Ministry
Fund General Manager
Saad Mohammed Helmy



ANNEX V
Page 12 of 13
Credit Foncier Egyptien
May 14, 1985
Cairo
The Undersecretary
General Manager of tne Low-Income Housing Fund
This is in reference to your letter No. 781 dated May 6, 1979
concerning Credit Foncier's discharge of all obligations of the fund set forth
in the Subsidiary Loan Agr,ament between the Government and the Fund and in
conformity with the conditions set forth in the draft agreement with Credit
Foncier, and the Fund's Board approval on 27 March 1979.
I have the honor to state hereafter our understanding of Article 7 of
the Draft of Agre-ment:
The 2% service fee shall be charged on all payments debited to the
Project Account, regardless of whether directly disbursed by Credit Foncier or
by other entities and debited to the Project Account.
Concerning interest on the Current Account, Credit Foncier has no
objection to pay interest according to the rates determined by the Central
Bank of Egypt on any amounts credited to the Project Account, which the
responsible parties wish to keep in term of deposits.
With assurances of my esteem.
Signature
Credit Foncier



- 89 -
ANNEX V
Page 13 of 13
Ministry of Reconstruction and State
Ministry fo- Housing and Land Reclamation
Joint Housing Projects
Establishment of the Executive Agency for
Joint Housing Projects and its Units
Presidential Decree No. 48 of 1979 was issued instituting the
Executive Agency for Joint Housing Projects at the Ministry of
Housing, to undertake the execution of housing projects in conformity
with the agreements signed with foreign governments and the
international authority concerned with housing affairs.
Ministerial Decree No. 36 of 1979 was issued, establishing the
Steering Committee at the Ministry of Housing, and assigning it the
task of supervising, coordinating, monitoring and rendering technical
assistance to housing projects and development financed by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Decre!e No. 1 of 1979 of the Chairman of the Executive Agency for
Joint Housing Projects was issued, instituting a Central Unit for
Low-Income Housing Development and assigning it the task of assisting
the Steering Committee formed in conformity with Ministerial Decree
No, 36 of 1979, in supervising the execution of the First Urban
Development Project in Egypt.



MAP SECTION



IBRD  13443  (PC 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS IN ASSUIT
ffCE        2    rr,estr
P,oposed S,tes ond Servces Scheme  '9,8                                                                                                      cRd jOT
S,tes cnd Servaes Scheme octuCtlly
Developed under the Project                                           <\\'
- - -   Off St,e Sewer 'Ao,n 'Pro1ect,                           /\ss ute 2R
Sewoge Punipmg Stalton  Prolect                                                                                                    l,BYA     IARAb REP
4      Sewage Pump,ng Stotions ,Other ,
Water Pump,rn  Sto,ons                                                                                        .
O       Arleston Well                                                                                                                     CHAD    I
Mo    Comr,elcl Streets                                                                                                        L                'DAN
(  A
_  0,.Stree,s1\                                                                                 
O   C  ly                                                                                            O    _     _     _     _ 0  _ _5 1_0
KILOMETERS
:   ;Ne. C tr ,                                  J                                            -
Industr,al Arec;\                                                                            \
I,tmaton/ BoonAl8 nes
WATER TREATMENT
SOTH GHARB
/ ... _ SlTE~~~S AND
SRICES SHEME                                        -.   ~-
"A. Frde toil see
VWW1Ut Cn*f.
r^_vcrr.~~~~~~~~~~~~scr  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ 4 ~~iBRD 19069 fPCR)                                                                      r'  
.~r     .. dr                                                                 ..H  



Mop B
QUAITBAI FORT
ANFOUCHI
MIDAN
.                                                                                       -HUb4N. 
*~~ ~~ 991. *XX
.. .:.....          "''...'=..
-'''EL M* \ACAA.'..
SOuTH
MiTRAS
KiLC)MTERS



IBRD 13441 (PCR)
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS IN ALEXANDRIA
*     (   Compostmrg Pjont Fr-nrrced under the Project                                       .0..GREECE                                             28.     TURKEY
_____________  P oposed Prolect Arecs  19781 86>
Caricelled during Implernentat on                                                                                                     CRETE          YrLPS
;      Rp,,sde,ti,,l Arenm
Port        d ri  lcustroal Areas                                                                                                     tALEXANDRIA
a
_ *;                                                                                                                                               ''enwy  1 .-'.,-sr
+t ----       Rarlways                                                                                                                               IA
--  ,V  Arteroi  Slreets                                                                                                                   R PuR'
Cc als                                                                                                                                    ErnYPT
C.A r'-     -,
*\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ., A
/      ,AN
C.  S-I-' C' '   fZ    1SdW* '7Se  54    fl   C'  iACC    ,  S    .C]A
,,e...,e*'leer,m,FCNr.yrlr'..Ce,.werc. ,,'>.rcr.Y S.4_e.s
!o, n;'prrl'o'frr.l                                   ... Map  A
Map R
C         ~ ~~2    3
< OCME7ERS
> _r[ \\    '   ''  i    '-   tJe*+28Rrn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                            '



IBRD 13439 (PCR)
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPr
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS IN CAIRO
S   HOUISRAK8
P.) tR  ON PFPORT OF~ TF POYP spl  AN                                                                     c A
Dttv2''s Rc;;i' .    It: NAP:   SASED' i : - -:<',1>;................. i.;vk
N ___.... P'd/ p                                                                                                /
A
K LOMETERS / |/ /
U~ ~~ Dl  P  '1X APi > >C)P ~" PPO''; ''''
I~~~~~~~OK                                                        e A.
A\ t5 MA,  /ASKMANSHEIr NASSER
(JPGRADING SCHEME
t8RD 9067s PCRI rJd
vs_,. *W -36. a8L 8*bole  18RD 19068 PCR 
-w at a, |,  -/t Z
at', aZ 36                                        Ita n t                        \                                     i
MW' tw - 5G 856*  4aI  
'I: a_                                     ,,
. .                           ;   I \ \ NORTH BASSATEEN
UPGRADING SCHEME
s  ,              N         o     \       '          A          I  11~~~~~~~~~~F  AC



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MANSHEIT NASSER UPGRADING COMPONENT
ROAD NETWORK AND COMMUNITY FACILITIES
E3 - ,b E ~~~r t-;- .1'
y N
\ ... ' ' I - 1w i , "' '  A    ~.  ;<. ,
, 4?...   /                    _04 -
N    '     X -,  -  ,~ .,  .4,..A,.r .,' 
rsv -ez  F  *ra t   s. ..'cso~r  .w,o.. eZ
11~  /   1 4   "C_S d       - .t   ,J  s~/Sw,   Jd# *f.N
r_e Vflo<s *CA4     '*.    .nw_  . *      s_



IRRD 14067 vPCRI
'3'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
'3~~~~r 0,                                                              
n   b  _                             .e~',. 
,,,   <, _, , fl   * s   * >      4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
:           \            /  <    t                               ,         \                                                                   ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '
A               ....    's4--  //       S                      '  '           \s      a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
,                         u              %RX,  \Slab.*,R''HS'\''.\\
3~~~                                                                                                          ~ N, '    IA'<fJ%o 
X   ,  |   {  0  .  -  s  |  e .S.q.^,  ,  ,l.  ',*+. -'' ,''S z ' X _ ' ' ' *6s iA <s z We /S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 
A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                                                                   . l-X             A
*      ;                                                                '>       wrJler re56rvoir       j         /  '//;/3~~~S           K.-
=   > =    = _    <  =  t~~~~~ 4'
_   ,,   .  <i  /  .. . .. . . ... ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IEGYPT URBAN' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-AANSHEIT NASSER UPGRADING COMPONENT
-%ATER SUPPlY AND SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS
R,,li'dee"c"    4 -os    WI,    sf-le                 de,. ,, .  ',  -,
Rps,te:uw%ai Arecus Ztubol:,e Sell re  Pl -Kn,,  p 1,  W,1 ,,'I >; tl>fnrer the P-e, wr
`ocl,uco   Lo,lds  Co1ru-l   A-as                      r) ,,C\   , (.,Ia    l {s*      Plot!"  I
H ph,,,                                                 .  ',",k    ':        .*,p   .
F .; i^. (: t;. ~~~r -- --  1  t  
V~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                         ) i              ' 
*4 4   A     !r1e
-   -  - -   -   '  .    '  A   '   '  '   "   .   J   '   !   .   .    '   '  .   e   '  v  /
'   s    .  '  A  . "   ".   -   !   "   '   E   |   ,   \             z        5 6  ,A ~
11     *    " ' I  . "'t       ' ' ' :.'' " ". "  . ':                i \                             /    <,.T<"'     ;:,.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2t
\   \                                                                I      |      /    l  -            f e    _N  ' t       *' l} X~~~~~~i"
t\ . \ .. ' ~~~~~~~~-. Y-v;#-~ k A-.'SH;k'I^.    ,t~   
*\;   \   >    .  ,,    " :   .. i  .    .:  '   IR.X^, ,     >.  ,^   .1,  )   t.,  / |                          <               '  '/J
N~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                 : \ 'Y,F           N#;'        -
VI-_ . _s  s/  _A  __  vw  `! 7 F      .*  a.!h*  ..?i   :r.*   |                        e,         3                 /
l   [  I   v   *                                       B        ,-1     |  s l  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  S;D   \   ;'1,  3K I A8 A     R   /:
-i --- --------                                                                                    e>                           '        56*



IBRD 19068 (PCR
AA T E R5
1  ~  '0o    290    3C0    400    500
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o          0                               
45  .
:._-, --  - t19- '<t  W-''-" ' '' ;''V:Y   'h..."-I
\L.    /                        X =_                                19\5
--2.1  1. \s . '-?
,,_  . _                                                             -.
45~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uuT1s



-~~~I -                                                            L
II                                   CMUNT
CENTER 
L ____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
II   I      .    H..      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
BAKERY
II                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCHOOL
11~~~~~~~~~~~
.I--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD  19069 (PCR)
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOUTH GHARB EL BALAD SITES AND
SERVICES COMPONENT - ASSIUT
__ itT IL;
I-J-,  _.I  .  a '  9 L- __   :  }                              Project Deveiopment
I .  $   fi t   !  j j |                                           Land Use
DIII                                [ S 1   S  j ! '  _ ___    |                               C 1        Res'denntul Areas
:1 i: ,   t         | i--*--                  X                                 z         ResidentialCommerciol Areas
ge' I :i| i_Community Areas
:: - : .--.--_=--                                            Water Supply Network
4L |2 :w__L    .   _ _    _  _ __  J 11                                      __  Sewerage Network
F  Jl  K                           '~~r  _  ___                 ES                  ~         :. . :~ Roadways
;. iI-~'~~-~ '~ ~ ~~-~'~~~' ~~ ~~ ' . i ( Existifng Feutures:
~-'St'''t   I I       I '      '                -       I1  tCre
-- ---   OverheodJ Powerl;ne
tL J-:-    -.::
t-  j   !- _____                                           ,     ]
r,i ;-,                                      _,_   _ _ , , 
k  ,                           ~~~~~~~~~_,,_,,______,  . ._
1 -1  ^    r - ::  :- -::-:=            -           I        j
t.
_____________________________ *  i________________________________________ '___________________ --___________________________ ---  -    ___________ __________
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, *                                                                                              Q 



