Document of
FILE COPY   The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-2292-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 14, 1978
This douent has b  asbtited dls lom mad may be ued by ripdts only in the pefonmance of
their officia dude.. ht ontents my mt otwise be diwlod withut Word Bank suhozadon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                          US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                                =   LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                      =   US$1.43
1 US Dollar                                =   LE 0.7
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                                =   39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (m2)                        -   10.8 square feet (sq. ft.)
1 cubic meter (cu. m)                      =   35.3 cubic feet (cu. ft.)
1 kilometer (km)                           5    0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                             -   10,000 m2 or 2.471 acres
1 acre                                     -   4,047 m2 of 0.405 hectares
1 liter per capita per day (lcd)           =   0.264  US gallon per capita
per day (gpcd)
1 kilogram (kg)                            -   2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 pound (lb)                               -   0.454 kg
1 ton (short)                              =   2,000 lbs or 907 kg
1 tonne (metric)                           5   2,205 lbs or 1,000 kg
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DIB     -  Development Industrial Bank
EIDDC   -  Engineering and Industrial Design and Development Center
Fund    -  Low Income Housing Fund
GODE    -  Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt
GOPP    -  General Organization for Physical Planning
GOPW    -  General Organization for Potable Water
GOSSD   -  General Organization for Sewerage and Sanitary Drainage
HIPCO   -  Handicraft Industries and Productive Cooperatives
Organization
LIHDU   -  Low Income Housing Development Unit
MOHR-J  -  Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction
MOH-/   -  Ministry of Housing
MORNC2/ -  Ministry of Reconstruction and New Communities
NBE     -  National Bank of Egypt
PVT     -  Productivity and Vocational Training Department,
Ministry of Industry
USAID   -  U.S. Agency for International Development
1/   In existence until May 1978
2/   Created in the Cabinet reshuffle of May 1978



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:        1)  Low Income Housing Fund (Fund)
2) National Bank of Egypt (NBE)
Amount:               US$14 million
Terms:                Standard
Lending Terms:        The Government will make an amount of US$5.7 million
out of the credit available to the Low Income Housing
Fund on the same terms as the IDA credit. An amount
of US$0.6 million will be relent to the National Bank
of Egypt for a period of 15 years at 4.5 percent
interest. An amount of US$7.35 million will be chan-
nelled through the Low Income Housing Fund as grant
budgetary allocations. Finally about US$350,000 will
reimburse IDA for the Project Preparation Facility
advance.
The Low Income Housing Fund will relend the US$5.7
million to the governorates of Cairo, Alexandria and
Assiut on the following terms:
Prgject Component              Interest      Maturity
-  Upgrading                   7 percent      10 years
- Residential Sites and
Services                 7 percent      20 years
- Workshop Sites and
Services                 9 percent      10 years
The National Bank of Egypt will relend the US$0.6
million to the beneficiaries at 8 to 9 percent
interest for periods of up to 5 years.
Project
Description:        The objective of the project is to provide shelter,
employment and urban services for the lowest income
groups at costs they can afford, thus eliminating the
need for direct public subsidies and permitting the
project to be replicated on a larger scale. The
project is expected to improve living conditions and
increase employment opportunities for an immediate
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
design population of about 120,000 low income persons
in Cairo, Alexandria, and Assiut and will be primarily
executed by these three Governorates assisted by a
central government unit. The project would include six
closely related components: (i) comprehensive upgrading
of four settlements; (ii) sites and services on two
sites; (iii) a small business assistance and manpower
training program; (iv) improvements in solid waste
collection and disposal; (v) urgent repairs to water
supply and sewerage systems; and (vi) technical assistance
in project implementation and institution building.
The shortage of technical and administrative skills at
both Central Government and local Governorate levels
would present the main risks to project implementation.
However, such risks have been minimized by basing imple-
mentation arrangements largely on existing institutions
and by providing for technical assistance and staff
training.
Estimated Cost:
------------ US$ million -------------
Item                               Local Cost   Foreign Cost   Total Cost
Upgrading                              3.07           0.65           3.72
Sites and services                    4.76            1.01           5.77
Small business assistance              1.27           0.33           1.60
Solid waste collection and
disposal                            1.03           1.27           2.30
Repairs to water supply and
sewerage systems                    0.29           0.41           0.70
Technical assistance                  0.21            1.93           2.14
Project administration                0.37               -          0.37
Contingencies                         3.00           1.40           4.40
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   14.00           7.00          21.00
Unit Costs (1977 prices)
US$             LE
- Upgrading Component (per household)             210            145
- Sites and Services (per household)             1375            960
- Small Businesses (per job created)             1940           1350



-3-
Financing Plan:
---- US$ million equivalent
Local         Foreign       Total
IDA                                   7.0            7.0           14.0
Government of Egypt                   6.4              -            6.4
National Bank of Egypt                0.6             _             0.6
14.0           7.0           21.0
Estimated Disbursements:
----------- US$ million ----------
Fiscal Year                        1979       1980      1981       1982
Annual                              0.9        5.2       6.0        1.9
Cumulative                          0.9        6.1      12.1       14.0
Economic Rate
of Return:          19 percent for the aggregate of all project components
amenable to economic analysis (upgrading and site and
services components, totalling about one-half of total
project costs).
Appraisal Report:    No. 1976-EGT, dated June 6, 1978






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AxiW; _ECOMMENDATI3N OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of $14
million on standard IDA terms to help finance an Urban Development Project.
An amount of $5.7 million equivalent out of the proceeds of the Credit
will be made available to the Low Income Housing Fund on the same terms as
the IDA credit. An amount of $0.6 million equivalent will be relent to the
National Bank of Egypt for a period of 15 years, with interest at 4.5 per-
cent per annum. An amount of $7.35 equivalent will be channelled through
the Low Income Housing Fund as grant budgetary allocations. Finally, about
$350,000 will reimburse the Association for the Project Preparation Facility
advance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Arab Republic of Egypt:  Economic
Management in a Period of Transition" (No. 1815-EGT), and dated May 8, 1978,
has been distributed to the Executive Directors in six volumes. The report
was based on the findings of a basic economic mission which visited Egypt in
May/June 1976, as updated by a series of missions, the latest of which took
place in January 1978. A report on Recent Economic Developments and External
Capital Requirements (No. 2071-EGT), prepared for the June 14-16 meeting of
the Consultative Group, was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        From 1960 to 1966 Egypt experienced rapid growth (around 6 percent a
year in real terms) under fairly rigid centralized planning and control. This
system came under increasing pressure in the second half of the decade follow-
ing bad harvests and increased defense expenditures, particularly as a result
of the civil war in Yemen. It deteriorated further after the war of 1967,
with the loss of the Sinai oil fields, the closure of the Suez Canal, the
abandonment of the Canal cities and the cost of resettling the population of
about a million, and the virtual cessation of Western economic assistance.
With the continuing military confrontation in the Middle East, Egypt further
increased defense spending at the expense of other types of consumption and
of its development program. Thus, in 1973 the economic picture was one of
rigorously curtailed private consumption and inadequate investment, with a
deteriorating capital stock of infrastructure and productive facilities.
Real GDP growth for 1967-73 averaged only 3.5 percent a year.
1/   Except for paragraphs 2 and 6 this part is identical to Part I of the
recent President's Report No. P-2241-EGT for the Development Industrial
Bank Project, distributed to the Executive Directors on March 9, 1978.



4.        The changed political situation after October 1973 laid the ground-
work for a new "open-door" policy enunciated by President Sadat and approved
in a national referendum in May 1974. This policy reflects a major effort to
accelerate economic development through modernization and making Egypt's
largely publicly owned and centrally controlled economy more market-oriented.
Specifically, the policy envisages (i) decentralization of decision-making in
state-owned enterprises; (ii) liberalization of the private sector; (iii) in-
centives for private foreign investment; and (iv) expanded economic coopera-
tion with Arab countries.  Since 1974 Egypt has initiated a number of steps
towards restructuring the economy. In particular, steps have been taken to
remove some of the restrictions on private business activities, to decentralize
public enterprise management, to encourage foreign private investment, to
expand foreign exchange transactions outside the official rate, and to loosen
many of the restraints on banking activities.
5.        Substantial inflows of external assistance from both Arab countries
and Western aid donors and institutions have eased some of the problems of the
Egyptian economy in making the transition. However, major structural diffi-
cul'ties remain: largely due to the continuing tension in the region and the
neglect cf iinJes'-.-  These structural difficulties are linked to the major
weaknesses of the economy: the rapid increase in the population, slow growth
in agriculture, the large deficit in the balance of payments, the low level of
government savings, and low efficiency in the public sector.
6.        In November 1976, following elections to the People's Assembly,
which were the first in which a choice of candidates representing diverse
political views was offered to the voters, a new government was formed which
included a team of economic ministers headed by a Deputy Prime Minister.
President Sadat directed that economic questions should be in the forefront of
the new Cabinet's tasks. This team succeeded in considerably strengthening
Egypt's economic management and financial position. The position of Deputy
Prime Minister for Financial and Economic Affairs was eliminated in a minor
Cabinet reshuffle in May 1978. The other members of the economic team remain.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        Growth in National Income.  Real growth in GDP (1975 prices) in-
creased from 3.2 percent in 1974, to 9.8 percent in 1975, and 6.1 percent in
1976. The growth rate in 1977 is not yet available, but preliminary indica-
tions are that it was high. The more rapid growth after 1974 is attributed
largely to the recovery of industrial activity through the provision of
greater aid-financed inputs, increased petroleum production and construction
(particularly in the Canal Zone), and growth of trade and services.
8.        Investment.  Egypt was able to sustain a higher level of investment
during 1974 and 1975, largely as a result of generous external assistance from
Arab countries. Gross investment increased from $1,373 million in 1973 to
$2,867 million in 1975 (in 1975 prices). This included a considerable replen-
ishment of stocks, which had been drawn down in the pre-October 1973 period.
During 1976, as a result of shortages of both domestic and foreign resources,
investment is estimated at only about $2,300 million (1975 prices).



- 3 -
9.        Income Distribution.  It is estimated that in 1974/75, the lowest
40 percent of the household income distribution in both rural and urban areas
accounted for about 16 percent of income originating in the respective sector.
The income distribution per person was more egalitarian, with the distribution
in rural areas being somewhat more equitable than its urban counterpart, but
at a lower average income level. In the rural areas, those in the lowest 40
percent of the personal income distribution accounted for about 25 percent of
total incomes in that sector, compared with about 21 percent for the urban
areas; however, the average annual income in the rural areas was about $166,
while in urban areas it was $327.
10.       Public Finance.  Because of the size of the public sector, the bulk
of Egypt's domestic financial resources for development is mobilized through
the state budget and public sector corporations. Considerable efforts have
been made in the past to increase such resources, largely by way of taxation;
for example in 1976, tax revenues were 22 percent of GNP. Total public reve-
nues reached 41 percent of GNP, a major effort for a country of Egypt's low
per capita income.
11.       The high level of Government current expenditures, however, absorbed
most of these resources. This was almost entirely due to the level of defense
expenditures, and, more recently, to the growth of subsidies, which increased
from $480 million (about 5 percent of GNP) in 1973 to $1,415 1/ million (about
10 percent of GNP) in 1976, as the Government endeavored to protect consumers
from the sharp increases in the import prices of foodstuffs and other essential
commodities. Exact data on defense spending are not available, since a large
portion is channelled through a separate account, partly foreign financed--the
Emergency Fund.
12.       Credit expansion in 1976 was 19 percent, a much smaller increase
than the 44 percent registered in 1975. Credit policy was more restrictive
and the credit needs of public sector companies were reduced because of a
running down of inventories and a decline in import commitments. Money and
quasi-money expanded by 26 percent compared with 21 percent in 1975. The
official consumer price index for the urban population estimated the price
rise in 1976 at 10 percent, but the actual rate was probably much higher.
Indications are that the rate of inflation in 1977 remained high.
13.       Balance of Payments.  Despite an increase in the value of commodity
exports from $1,003 million to $1,612 million between 1973 and 1976, export
earnings fell well short of imports, which rose from $1,664 million to $4,214
million. Indeed the country's import bill almost tripled in this period due
to increases in quantities imported, and soaring food and other prices. The
imbalance in Egypt's trade was compensated to some extent by fast-growing
earnings from services and from workers' remittances; the latter rose from
$205 million in 1974 to $757 million 2/ in 1976. Nevertheless, the overall
deficit on the trade and services account reached $1,518 million in 1976,
increasing from $654 million in 1973.
1/   Including direct subsidies and public economic sector deficits.
2/   Including the financing for "own exchange" imports.



- 4 -
14.       Balance of Payments estimates for 1977 are still provisional.
The indications are that imports will be about $5.4 billion, while exports
are put at around $2.2 billion. A surplus of $1.6 billion is expected
on the services account (where the main contributor is workers remittances,
estimated at $1.4 billion); the current account deficit is thus estimated
at about $1.6 billion.
15.       The large deficits on the goods and services account in 1973-1977
were met mainly through assistance from Arab countries, Iran and the United
States. The Arab support comprised grants as well as loans, and deposits in
the Central Bank of Egypt. However, in 1973 and 1974 the deficit was also
met by substantial short-term borrowing, including the use of banking facili-
ties. The Government has taken action in 1977 to drastically reduce reliance
on such financing (see also paragraph 29).
Development Problems and Prospects
16.       Egypt's rapidly growing population, widespread poverty and dilapi-
dated infrastr.__tur_ -ire the generation of mora resources for investment
and a more rigorous determination of the priorities into which they are
channelled. In turn, this implies: (i) greater restraint on the growth of
consumption; (ii) the removal of constraints created by inadequate infrastruc-
ture (particularly ports, power, transport and telecommunications); (iii)
greater emphasis on quick-yielding projects; (iv) more emphasis on completing
ongoing projects than on starting new ones; (v) more active use of prices
(including the price of foreign exchange) as indicators of relative scarcities;
(vi) streamlining bureaucratic processes; (vii) a vigorous move towards
increasing industry's efficiency and making it more export-oriented and
employment-generating (which would involve using existing industrial capacity
more fully, paying more attention to considerations of quality, and encourag-
ing small-scale industry); and (viii) a strengthened program to curb the
growth of population and the articulation of urban and rural strategies
which would decentralize the growth of the urban population away from Cairo
and Alexandria and create more productive opportunities in smaller towns and
the rural areas. These issues will be addressed in the context of a medium-
term plan, which has been presented to the National Assembly. The first year
of the Plan has been approved and approval of the entire Plan is expected
during the current Parliamentary session.
17.       Over the long-run, Egypt's economic potential is considerable.  The
reasons for this are, in brief: (i) the country has a large domestic market, a
proficient population, low wages, varied raw materials, and a key geographical
location, which makes it a natural base for industries that wish to supply
the growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to con-
tinue to rise gradually until the Canal expansion program is completed in
about 1980--there is then likely to be a substantial increase; (iii) pros-
pects for oil production, which are put at one million barrels a day by 1982,
substantially exceed domestic requirements; (iv) considerably increased
earnings from tourism--these reached an estimated $398 million in 1976; and



(v) an increasing flow of remittances ($757 million in 1976) from Egyptians
working abroad. 1/
18.       However, Egypt's long-term potential also hinges upon a number of
factors outside its own control. The most important is a movement towards an
equitable and definitive peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, Egypt
requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from abroad; this, in turn,
must be preceded by preparation of a suitable portfolio of projects to which
potential investors, whether private or official, foreign or domestic, can
contribute. Finally, it requires fundamental changes in economic policies
and institutions. Hence, it will probably take at least 5-10 years to achieve
a significant restructuring of the economy.
19.       Recent Policy Actions.  Beginning in 1976, the Government, in close
consultation with the Bank and the IMF, began to undertake a series of policy
actions aimed at making more effective use of foreign resources, curbing excess
consumption, and improving allocative efficiency. Thus (i) the parallel
exchange market has been successively widened to comprise all exports except
raw cotton, rice and petroleum and Suez Canal revenues, and all imports except
basic mass consumption commodities; (ii) the parallel market rate itself was
further depreciated to about 56 percent of the official rate; (iii) the
attractiveness of the parallel market was increased by establishing a list of
items which may be imported through it without exchange restrictions; (iv)
parallel market imports were valued for customs duties at the parallel market
exchange rate (a measure equivalent to an increase of about 80 percent in the
tariff on applicable imports); (v) ceilings on interest rates were removed and
interest rates increased; (vi) the "general organizations" that exercised
rigid control over public industrial enterprises were dissolved and replaced
by "higher councils," which permit somewhat more initiative to the individual
enterprises; and (vii) in April 1977 the IMF approved a Stand-by arrangement
for an amount of SDR 125 million (about $145 million) over a 12-month period.
Discussions are in progress on what arrangements should follow the current
Stand-by.
20.       The Five-Year Plan (1978-82).  The 1978-82 Plan advocates a high
growth strategy spearheaded by an industrialization drive and supported by
increasing income from petroleum, the Suez Canal, and remittances from
Egyptians working abroad. In the context of the "open-door policy", the
domestic and foreign private sectors are expected to play an increasing role
in the development effort, although the public sector will retain its dominant
position.
1/   A substantial amount of remittances ($399 million in 1976) came in the
form of "own-exchange" imports, i.e. commodities financed by Egyptians
working abroad, and hence not involving a transfer of foreign exchange
from Egypt.



- 6 -
21.       Real output is projected to grow at 12 percent per annum.  This is
based both on a high level of investment and increased efficiency. The invest-
ment ratio is expected to increase from 20 percent in 1976 to 28 percent in
1982, and the incremental capital-output ratio is expected to average 2.5
during the Plan period.
22.       The Plan's investment allocations give primary emphasis to infra-
structure and industry. Thus, more than 50 percent of public investment is
designated for the various components of infrastructure, and around 30 per-
cent for industry and petroleum. Agriculture and irrigation are allocated
only 8.6 percent.
23.       The Five-Year Plan will be implemented through the mechanism of
Annual Plans, which will take account of the actual circumstances prevailing
at the time and modify the targets and the strategy in an appropriate manner.
The first such Annual Plan--that for 1978--has been approved. It aims at
a lower growth rate than implied by the 1978-82 Plan, and adopts a more
optimal strategy by allocating nearly 90 percent of investment to completing
or rehabilitating existing projects. However, the main targets of the Five-
Year Plan--for investment, growth, and the marginal rate of savings--remain
ambitious, and will probably require continued modification by subsequent
Annual Plans.
External Assistance
24.       In 1967 the substantial amounts of Western external aid which Egypt
had been receiving practically ceased, and up to 1974 service payments gen-
erally exceeded disbursements. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countries, estimated to have been in excess of $800 million,
financed the bulk of Egypt's development.
25.       Since 1973 the substantial deficits on the goods and services ac-
count have been financed primarily by official Arab grants, loans and deposits
with the Central Bank of Egypt. Commitments of Western medium- and long-term
(M&LT) capital assistance began to grow after October 1973, but because of the
slow disbursements inherent in the aid process, actual transfers began to
become substantial only from 1976.
26.       Among western aid donors, the US Government is currently committing
about $700 million of project and commodity aid per annum (in addition to about
$200 million of food assistance under US Law PL 480). Aid from the other OECD
countries, especially France, Germany and Japan, has remained at the increased
levels of 1974/75 (i.e., about $235 million per year). The European Community
is providing increasing amounts of food aid; moreover, in January 1977 the
Community signed a financial protocol with Egypt committing, over a five-year
period, $70 million in grants and $119 million in concessional loans.
27.       Consultative Group.  In July 1976, Egypt requested the Bank to set
up a Consultative Group comprising a number of oil-producing Arab countries,
Iran, major western countries and Japan, and leading international and regional
institutions, including the IMF. The first meeting of the Consultative Group



was held in Paris on May 11 and 12, 1977. At the meeting, the major aid-giving
countries and institutions discussed the most important problems confronting
the Egyptian economy, its prospects over the next few years, and its needs for
external assistance. The delegates recognized that the structural changes
undertaken by the Government would take a number of years to complete. They
felt that the Government was taking energetic steps towards accelerating
growth and expressed their support of the Government's statement on its
development strategy and of its efforts to direct future development within
the framework of an integrated plan. Another meeting of the Consultative
Group has been scheduled for June 1978. Estimates of the aid requirements
for 1978 are still very tentative (in part because the final outcome for 1977
is not yet available). The indications are that if Egypt succeeds in imple-
menting a substantial development effort in 1978 and continues to reduce the
use of banking facilities, it will require gross external inflow in the
neighborhood of $3.3 billion. Because of the already reduced use of banking
facilities and the greater effort expected from Egypt to mobilize its own
foreign exchange resources (e.g. through the use of development bonds) it
is likely that the cash aid requirements will decrease. However, commodity
aid requirements will remain important, both to meet the balance of payments
gap and to generate domestic resources.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
28.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at December 31, 1977 was estimated at about $8 billion as compared with
$5,858 million at December 31, 1976. A large part of this increase represented
the replacing of short-term (180 days) banking facilities, which had led to
serious liquidity problem, with loans of maturity of 10 years of more. Of
the total of about $8 billion, medium and long-term loans amounted to $5,458
million (of which $730 million was in clearing currencies), medium- and
long-term deposits with the Central Bank to $1,938 million, and suppliers
credits to $640 million. Major creditors were Kuwait and Saudi Arabia,
followed by the USA, USSR and the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt
comprised about 3 percent of the total debt disbursed and outstanding. Debt
service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated to amount to $897 million
in 1976, giving a debt service ratio of 25 percent. 1/ No reliable estimates
of military debt are available; Egypt is still making efforts to obtain
rescheduling of service payments on such debt.
29.       Commercial bankers' credit facilities outstanding at December 31,
1977 were $1,131 million of which $556 million were disbursed as compared to
$2,123 million, of which $1,396 million were disbursed at December 31, 1976.
This type of external indebtedness created severe liquidity problems for Egypt
in 1976 when payments arrears were building up. These increased substan-
tially during the first half of 1977 but by the beginning of September 1977
had all been cleared through receipt of $1,075 million under a cash loan from
1/   Ratio of amortization and interest on medium- and long-term (M and LT)
debt to foreign exchange earnings.



- 8 -
the Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt (GODE) and the mobilization
of additional foreign exchange resources by Egypt, 1/ specifically $200 mil-
lion in 5-7 year Development Bonds.
30.       The Government's recent policy actions (discussed in paragraph
19 above) have initiated the structural adjustments required by Egypt's
economic situation and international environment. The situation however,
requires continuing review and further action. At the Government's request,
the Bank has arranged to continue reviewing developments in the economy by
economic missions three or four times a year.
31.       If progress towards curbing the increase of both consumption expend-
itures and imports is maintained and the country's export earnings potential
realized, the deficit on the current account is estimated at about $2-2.4
billion per annum for the remainder of the decade. The required capital
inflows are large--but if they are available on the terms expected, Egypt
would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged,
including a limited amount on harder terms. The burden of servicing medium-
and long-term debt as a percentage of total foreign exchange earnings is
estimated at 25 percent in 1976 and is expected to decline to 16 percent in
1980. It is then expected to rise again to about 20 percent in 1983, before
starting to decline to about 17 percent in 1986. In these circumstances Egypt
may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount of Bank lending in addi-
tion to the IDA assistance which Egypt merits on the ground of its poverty and
difficult balance of payments position.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
32.       The proposed development credit, and the credit for the Agricultural
Development Project, also being presented to the Executive Directors, would be
the World Bank's thirty-fifth and thirty-sixth lending operations in Egypt.
Together, they would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970 to $1,108
million.  Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of
April 30, 1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
33.       The principal consideration of the Bank/IDA operational program in
Egypt is its positive developmental impact on institutions and sector policies.
Thus the program continues to provide for broad involvement in the major sec-
tors of the economy, so as to spread this impact as widely as possible. Proj-
ects are aimed at (i) increasing capacity utilization, (ii) increasing foreign
exchange earnings or substituting for imports, (iii) rehabilitation and
1/   The remaining tranche of $650 million from the GODE was diverted largely
into financing the import of an agreed list of commodities. By December
31, 1977 approximately $150 million had been disbursed.



expansion of infrastructure needed to facilitate development, (iv) developing
selected social sectors including population, education, and rural and urban
development, and (v) strengLiening institutions. The impact of Bank/IDA
participation in projeL tc-. been widened by attracting additional foreign
exchange required for sever.L of these projects from other donors.  Besides
including tech-l->cal assistar-e under many Bank/IDA projects, the Bank is
Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed National Power Sector Survey and for a
Master Plan for Water Resource Development and Use. The Bank also extended
limited technical assistance in the preparation of a five-year development
plan and in October 1977 in the establishment of an investment monitoring
system.
34.       Preparation of projects for future lending follows the strategy
outlined in the preceding paragraph. Second population and education
projects have been appraised and tourism and development finance
projects are to be appraised. soon. A pipeline of projects for possible
future lending is also being developed, including further projects in
water supply and sewerage, population, education, power, rural and urban
development, transportation, agriculture (including drainage), development
finance and industry.
35.       Bank Group disbursements continued in 1977 to represent less than
4 percent of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements. The Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 1 percent
and 2 percent, respectively at the end of 1977. For the future, the Bank
and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding
military debts) are estimated to reach about 4 and 2.5 percent respectively
in 1980. It is estimated that in 1980, debt service payments due to the Bank
and IDA will represent about 3.5 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of
service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
36.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project,
was approved by the Executive Directors in 1976, the second, for a ready-
made garment project, in 1977, and the third, a project for an agricultural
complex primarily for the production of sugarbeet, in May 1978. IFC is also
discussing several other private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - THE SECTOR
37.       With over 17 million (about 46 percent) of its 37 million resident
population living in urban settlements of more than 20,000 people, Egypt is
one of the most urbanized countries among those with comparable per capita
GNP. In the 30 years from 1947 to 1976 Egypt's population doubled from
about 19 million to 37 million. During that period the urban population
increased almost threefold from about 32 percent to 46 percent of total popu-
lation. A substantial portion of this increase was in Greater Cairo which,
besides the Governorate of Cairo proper, also includes the cities of Giza
and Embaba in the adjacent Giza Governorate, and the City of Shoubra el-Kheima



- 10 -
in the adjacent Kalyoubia Governorate; during that period the population of
Greater Cairo increased from about 2 million (representing 11 percent of total
population or about one-third of total urban population) to over 8 million
(representing 22 percent of total population or about one-half of total urban
population).
38.       Though part of this drastic increase in urban population and in its
concentration is attributable to natural population increase, it is primarily
due to domestic migration, a dominant feature of the urban growth pattern in
Egypt in the past 30 years. This situation has been further exacerbated by
the exodus of the Suez Canal area population towards inland urban centers,
primarily Cairo and Alexandria, due to the recent wars.  Also since agricul-
ture has made a comparatively limited contribution to employment and income
growth, the agricultural labor force has been more and more attracted to the
cities, where the dominant elements of employment are the government and
personal services sector (28.2 percent), the manufacturing sector (26 percent)
and trade and finance (18.4 percent), accounting together for nearly three-
quarters of total urban employment.
39.       Three major long-term migration trends have been identified in this
respect: (i) steady regional redistribution of population from the compara-
tively densely populated, basin-irrigated plains of Upper Egypt to the irri-
gated Delta area of Lower Egypt; (ii) population movements from rural areas
to already densely populated urban areas throughout the country; and (iii)
migration from both urban and rural areas to a number of the country's major
urban agglomerates, such as Greater Cairo and Alexandria.
40.       This pattern of urban growth and employment has been dominated by
the growth of Cairo, one of the world's largest cities, with a history of
continuous habitation of well over one thousand years. Policy considerations
pursued until recently by the government, coupled with a number of non-policy
considerations, account for this primacy of Cairo. First, there has been a
predilection in Egypt for centralized location. All ministries, except one
(the Maritime Ministry), and most authorities with a national function, are
located in Cairo. Second, as Egypt's seat of Government, the employment
structure is dominated by the services, Government and public sectors; the
number of Government employees increased from about 300,000 in 1947 to about
1.5 million in 1974. Third, Cairo is the location of three of the country's
major universities, where currently over 200,000 students are enrolled. Many
of these students come from provincial areas and are frequently accompanied by
supporting family members and job-seekers.
41.       The effect of this situation in the past has been not only that
Cairo's urban problems were outgrowing the administration's ability to deal
with them, but also that the urban problems of other parts of the country
were receiving relatively little attention from the Central Government. At
the same time, the Government system did not allow for active participation
by the local populations in dealing with their problems. To redress this
situation, the Government introduced in 1960 a system of local administra-
tion aimed at decentralization of Government functions and promotion of local
participation in the performance of these functions. Initially, success was



- 11 -
limited, but a new Local Government Law was enacted in 1975 to further devolve
power and responsibilities from the central government to the governorates.
In January 1978 the governorates officially started to take full control over
all local technical-and administrative staff, including those appointed by
the ministries.
42.       Egypt is divided into 25 governorates, each headed by a governor
appointed by the president and who acts as the local head of all civil ser-
vice staff. Twenty-three of these governorates have each an elected local
council, and are further subdivided into towns and villages with elected town
and village councils. Governorates are now, by law, responsible for planning,
execution, control and supervision of all central government organizations
operating in the governorate. As such, they are responsible for planning,
design and execution of urban development projects. To discharge this respon-
sibility, governorates have technical departments (directorates), which are
the extension of the central government at the local level. Main directorates
are: Housing, Education, Health, Social Affairs, Cooperation, Legal Affairs,
Finance, and Planning and Monitoring. At the same time, the governorates are
accountable to the Ministry of Local Government, the central government
ministry having jurisdiction over local affairs. This ministry also sets
general policies and guidelines in line with national development plans
and coordinates the action of local government units with central ministries.
43.       Although governorates have now full control over all local technical
and administrative matters in dealing with the problem of the growing urban
population, they frequently require central government technical support. Up
to May 1978 this support was mainly provided by the Ministry of Housing and
Reconstruction, which was responsible at the national level for the provision
of housing and most related infrastructure services (such as water supply and
sewerage) as well as for the reconstruction effort following the recent wars
in the area. This ministry also exercised central government control over a
number of general organizations. In particular it was directly responsible
for the specific task of drawing up regional development plans, assisting
local governments in developing master plans, designing urban development
projects and establishing building codes. Following the cabinet reshuffle of
May 1978 this ministry was split into a Ministry of Housing and a Ministry of
Reconstruction and New Communities. Together these two new ministries will
have all the functions and responsibilities of the previous Ministry of
Housing and Reconstruction.
44.       Egypt's urban sector is characterized by a critical shortage in
housing, coupled with substandard related urban services. Past Government
policies have helped accentuate this situation, on the one hand by nation-
alizing most private housing, and stressing rental rather than ownership,
thus leaving the full burden of maintenance and rent collection on the
public sector, while on the other hand the imposition of unrealistic rent
control and the restrictions on the allocations for import of building mate-
rials have discouraged private investment in the sector. The problem has
been compounded by the relatively high and thus costly standards for public



- 12 -
housing set by the Government, soaring construction costs, the shortage of
skilled labor, the limited capacity of the construction industry, as well as
the Government's past policy of allocating 50 percent of public housing units
to medium income groups, all of which combine to make the cheapest housing
provided under public housing programs (currently costing about $3,600 equiv-
alent per unit) beyond the reach of 90 percent of the country's urban popula-
tion, if it were not subsidized.
45.       As a result of these policies both public and private housing
investment in Egypt has been declining over the past two decades, dropping
from 25 percent of national investment in the 1950's to less than 10 percent
as of the 1960's. At the same time annual housing completion, which averaged
about seven units per thousand urban population in the 1950's (three units
short of the level required to maintain constant housing availability),
dropped to about 2.5 units per thousand in the 1960's and early 1970's. The
resulting housing deficit is currently officially estimated at about 1.5 mil-
lion and is growing at over 100,000 units annually. This is reflected in
severe overcrowding. In Greater Cairo occupancy averages 3.1 persons per room
and about 2 persons per room in other urban areas. Acute at all levels as it
may be, this shortage affects most heavily the poorer urban groups who occupy
housing units considered substandard due to their unsound structure and lack
of basic services such as water supply and sewerage. Most of these units have
been constructed illegally and therefore lack also security of tenure. These
dwellings make up the slums found in all urban areas and particularly in
Greater Cairo.
46.       Similarly urban services have also lagged behind the needs of the
growing population. As a result of the very limited investment in these
services in the past two decades and of the shortage of funds and qualified
staff for maintenance most of the existing water, sewerage and sanitary drain-
age facilities are overstrained, and in need of urgent repairs.  For instance,
water losses through leakage and other causes in city systems are almost 40
percent, while treated and/or filtered water is available to only some 70
percent of urban population with further supply becoming increasingly erratic,
and extensions to newly developed low income housing seldom made. Sewer
systems are generally confined to central areas of larger cities only, serving
only aLio  half of the urban population.  Refuse or solid waste collection is
a majcr problem throughout urban Egypt, with the governorates' responsibility
limited to street cleaning, and the house-to-house collection left to small
private contractors, the Zabbaleen. Zabbaleen are usually urban squatters
earning their living by sorting the refuse at their settlements and selling
all reusable matter, while, as in Cairo, raising pigs on the organic waste to
supplement their meager income.
47.       The Government's tariff and pricing policies have prevented authori-
ties responsible for urban services from raising enough revenues to adequately
maintain existing facilities and respond to new demands. Tariffs and charges
bear little relation to production and operating costs. Sewer services
are pro'iided free, actual receipts for water supply are only 10 to 20 percent
of cost of supply, electricity charges are increasingly inadequate and fare
revenues in public transport usually do not cover more than a fraction of
operatlng costs.



- 13 -
48.       Though relative to other sectors the provision of health and educa-
tion services in Egypt is good, they still do not reach the bulk of the poor.
While in urban areas primary school space is available to an average of about
75 percent of children ia the relevant age group, in low-income fringe areas
of Greater Cairo it is available to only 20 percent. Further there is an
oversupply of university graduates on the one hand but an acute shortage of    C
skilled and trained workers in industry and construction.
49.       The Egyptian Government has recognized the dimension of these grow-
ing problems and has recently begun developing a set of urban policies, within
the overall framework of its new economic development strategy. Though some
of these policies are still quite fragmented and at an exploratory stage, they
include key elements of a strategy aimed at improving the urban situation. At
the national level, the Government is presently trying to revive the private
sector by gradually lifting price controls on a selective basis, reassess its
control policy and build more public housing for sale rather than for rent.
With regards to infrastructure services, prices and charges are being increased
slowly while a number of master planning and project preparation studies are
underway, with substantial technical and financial assistance from the World
Bank Group (e.g. the Alexandria Water Supply Project approved last year by the
Bank), USAID and other aid donors. Some of these studies aim at developing
proposals for dealing with institutional and financial issues in the sectors
concerned.
50.       Spatially the Government has designed a settlement strategy aimed
at redirecting growth away from Greater Cairo and from agricultural land.
Main elements of this strategy are being currently reviewed by the Government
and by aid donors (such as USAID and the Bank through this project), to assess
their technical, financial, economic and social implications and to ascertain
the degree of their attractiveness to the potential ultimate beneficiaries.
51.       In the housing sector, the Government is reassessing its longer term
policy with a view of making more efficient use of its limited resources,
while at the same time reaching the lower income groups. In the short term
the Government has undertaken a number of steps aimed at dealing with the
immediate problems in the housing sector. A Low Income Housing Fund was
established in 1976 to help finance housing for low income groups. New
legislation to remove some of the anomalies of previous rent control laws has
been introduced in 1977. A crucial decision taken by the Government in early
1977 was to initiate a program of comprehensive low cost sites and services
and squatter area upgrading schemes (community development schemes). Though
its main focus is on the provision of shelter, the program would also address
such issues as low-cost design and affordability of infrastructure services
and low-cost job creation. Thus the program would bring together vital
aspects of the Government's hitherto fragmented urban initiatives, and is
expected to have important demonstration effects throughout the sector in
Egypt.
52.       The proposed project would represent the first phase of the program.
It is expected to demonstrate the feasibility of several important elements



- 14 -
of the Government's new urban policies and to help in devising adequate solu-
tions to the constraints on the development of the sector. It would be loca-
ted in Cairo, Alexandria and Assiut. Cairo and Alexandria are the country's
two largest cities and together account for about two-thirds of Egypt's urban
population. Assiut is representative of a wide range of small- to medium-
sized cities with relatively high growth rates.
Urban Situation in Project Cities
Cairo
53.       Living conditions are deteriorating in Cairo, where the present
housing deficit is officially estimated at 650,000 dwellings, corresponding to
the needs of over 3 million people out of a total population of over 8 million.
Utilities are in a poor condition. Large portions of the new residential and
industrial areas are not yet connected to the sewerage system, while the water
supply system caters to about 50 percent of all dwellings in Greater Cairo.
Garbage collection is poor and favors the high income neighborhoods, and
refuse accumulates on the streets at an average rate of 600 tons per day.
About 500,000 people live in the City of the Dead, a six-mile tract of cemete-
ries on the eastern side of the city, while illegal squatter settlements are
sprouting all around the city.
Alexandria
54.       Alexandria is the second largest city of Egypt with a population
of about 2.6 million, and the country's most important seaport and a major
industrial center. It is strung along a 25 km narrow coastal strip between
the Mediterranean and Lake Maryut, a location which severely constrains its
growth.
55.       Although Alexandria's population growth rate is substantially lower
than Cairo's, urban conditions in Alexandria are also poor, with a growing
housing deficit and deteriorating overloaded urban services. Although as a
longer term solution the Governorate is trying to develop a new settlement
about 12 km southwest of the city, the immediate needs for improved housing
and services must nonetheless be met close to the existing centers of employ-
ment in and around the city, where squatter settlements are also growing.
Assiut
56.       Assiut is on the Nile, about 375 km south of Cairo.  Its estimated
population of 270,000 is growing at about 3 percent per year. It is the
administrative center of the Assiut Governorate (population 1.7 million),
and an important market center for its agricultural hinterland. Some 60,000
persons live in the old part of the city where densities approach 80,000 per
square km. Most buildings there are in very poor condition with less than 20
percent having sewer connections. The expansion of the newer part of Assiut
is constrained by the Nile, valuable agricultural land and desert. The water
supply and sewerage systems are deteriorating and require urgent upgrading
before further city growth and improvements in living conditions can be
achieved.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
57.       The project would be the first urban development project to be
financed by the World Bank Group in Egypt. Its main objectives are to help
develop and implement low cost solutions to Egypt's urban problems in the
sectors of shelter, employment, and other urban services, and particularly
to make the investments responsive to the needs of the poor. To help ensure
replicability, the project will improve cost recovery especially for shelter
and related site infrastructure, for which costs have traditionally not been
adequately recovered. The project would also help establish and strengthen
institutions in the sector, including a new Low Income Housing Development
Unit (LIHDU), the Low Income Housing Fund (the Fund) in MOH and the Handicraft
Industries and Productive Cooperatives Organization (HIPCO) in the Ministry of
Local Government. In the context of the tremendous needs for assistance in
the sector, the project is viewed as a modest first demonstration project
which would test key elements of the Government's urban policy initiatives and
also help lay the basis for an expanded urban development program, currently
under consideration by the Government, with assistance envisaged from the
World Bank Group, USAID and other aid-donors.
58.       Project preparation started in early 1977.  It was conceived and
designed by a Project Preparation Unit (PPU) in the then Ministry of Housing
and Reconstruction (MOHR) with the assistance of foreign consultants financed
through a US$350,000 advance from the Project Preparation Facility. Appraisal
took place in November/December 1977. Negotiations were started in Washington
on May 10, 1978 and completed in the field on May 21, 1978. The Egyptian
delegation to Washington was led by Mr. M. Hafez Ali, from the Ministry of
Reconstruction and New Communities. Annex III contains supplementary project
data. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 1976-EGT, dated June 6, 1978, and entitled
"Arab Republic of Egypt - Egypt Urban Development Project" is being distri-
buted separately.
Project Description
59.       To help achieve the above objectives the project has been designed
taking into account the implementation capacity at both central as well as
local government levels. The project would include six closely related com-
ponents: (i) a comprehensive upgrading in four settlements; (ii) sites and
services on two sites; (iii) a small business assistance and manpower train-
ing program; (iv) improvements in solid waste collection and disposal; (v)
urgent repairs to water supply and sewerage systems; and (vi) technical as-
sistance in project implementation and institution building.
Upgrading
60.       Four low-income settlements--Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement),
Mansheit Nasser (Zabbaleen Settlement), and North Bassateen in Cairo, and
New Nagaa El-Arab in Alexandria--with a total population of about 97,000 and



- 16 -
covering 160 hectares would be improved. These settlements were selected
as representative of the upgrading problems that exist in rapidly expanding
settlements on the fringes of urban areas, for which appropriate designs
need to be developed and tested. Upgrading would be achieved through pro-
vision of secure tenure and improved or new on-site and off-site infrastruc-
ture including access, circulation, water supply, sanitation, electricity,
refuse collection, community facilities including schools, health and com-
munity centers, and building materials loans. Project costs are estimated to
average LE 145 ($210 equivalent) per household (1977 prices).
61.       The land in all four of the upgrading areas belongs to the gov-
ernorates. Residents would be subjected to minimal displacement only during
project execution and would be given freehold titles conditional upon satis-
factory payment of plot charges (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreements
between the Association and the Governorate of Cairo and between the Associa-
tion and the Governorate of Alexandria). However, in the case of the Zabbaleen
settlement in Mansheit Nasser, the results of the consultant study and the
response of the community to the detailed proposals will be reviewed by the
Cairo Governorate before a decision is taken on the timing of the granting of
freehold titles. This is due to the fact that the consultant's recommenda-
tions coOU1k _sibly result in a spatial reorganizaticn of the community.
Sites and Services
62.       Under this project component about 4,600 serviced plots, with
on-plot water supply and sewerage facilities, ablution units and perimeter
walls, home construction loans and community facilities would be provided,
as well as areas for workshops and commercial activities, benefitting a
population of approximately 23,000 people in two areas - South Metras in
Alexandria (9,000 persons) and South Gharb El-Balad in Assiut (14,000 per-
sons) covering about 40 ha. Project costs are estimated to average LE 960
($1,375 equivalent) per household (1977 prices).
63.       The sites were selected for low-income settlers on the basis of
proximity to suitable employment, availability of off-site infrastructure and
affordability of land prices. The site in South Metras in Alexandria is
part of a large swampy area on the shore of Lake Maryut. It is owned by the
Governorate and will be reclaimed. The South Gharb El-Balad site in Assiut
is part of a large area of flat land close to an expanding industrial area.
64.       Layouts for each site have been designed to ensure the most effec-
tive use of land and infrastructure. Land would be differentially priced
according to its location and accessibility as well as to its commercial
potential. Most plots would have an ablution unit and a perimeter wall. A
further 9 m2 room would be provided on 25 percent of the plots. Building
material would be made available to plot allottees to enable them to build a
first room through self-help. All plots will be sold with freehold titles to
the beneficiaries (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Governorate of Assiut and Section 2.09 of the draft Proj-
ect Agreement between the Association and the Governorate of Alexandria). The



- 17 -
lowest cost plot option would cost only an estimated LE 510 ($730 equivalent)
in Assiut and LE 640 ($915 equivalent) in Alexandria and would be affordable
to 90 percent and 80 percent of the urban population respectively.
Small Business Assistance and Manpower Training Program
65.       About 1,100 new jobs are expected to be created at the above sites
under this project component, at an average cost of LE 1,350 ($1,940 equiva-
lent). This component would include the provision of loans for small busi-
nesses, to be used for workshop construction, equipment purchase and working
capital. A line of credit totalling about LE 800,000 ($1.15 million equiva-
lent) would be provided for this purpose through the National Bank of Egypt
(NBE). Based on surveys carried out in project areas, loans would be up to a
maximum of LE 5,000 ($7,150 equivalent) per enterprise, though the average
loan is expected to be about LE 850 ($1,200 equivalent). Terms would be 8-9
percent interest, depending on type of loan (i.e., whether for construction,
equipment purchase, or working capital) and creditworthiness, for a period of
up to 5 years for building construction and up to 3 years for other purposes.
66.       The Handicraft Industries and Productive Cooperatives Organization
(HIPCO), which has responsibility for the artisan sector, would provide
improved extension services to the small businesses on the project sites and,
as appropriate, in the surrounding community. A team of three persons would
be organized for each site, including (i) a technical advisor with a trainee
assistant who would assist entrepreneurs in production engineering, product
quality, marketing, etc., and (ii) a liaison officer who would coordinate
and promote the various activities under the program (site development and
plot allocation, loans, technical advice and training) and provide general
counselling to entrepreneurs, employees, unemployed and trainees in the
community. HIPCO is currently providing some extension services in this
field. Its effectiveness is, however, limited, due to substantial manpower,
financial and technical constraints, which the technical assistance component
of the project is designed to alleviate (para. 71 below).
67.       Vocational and accelerated training programs would be provided by
HIPCO in fields that will complement the above assistance to be given to the
small business sector. At Mansheit Nasser, where no vocational training or
secondary school facilities are presently available, it is proposed, on the
basis of a survey of the area, to establish a center for 200 students that
will serve the training requirements of the four major cooperative societies
operating locally. The center will offer courses in (i) furniture and wood-
work, (ii) leatherwork, (iii) welding and metal work, and (iv) production of
handicrafts as well as accelerated training courses in woodwork and metal
work. For South Metras, the training program will be designed to increase
the technical skills of low-income site residents in a number of fields where
the availability of skilled labor is in short supply. Courses in the fields
of automotive repair, welding and sheet metal work would be offered together
with accelerated courses in general welding/metal work. In Assiut a program
of vocational courses for 20 students each in the fields of automative repair,
welding, and general metal work will be offered to complement the importance
and growth of the automotive repair industry near the residential sites and



- 18 -
services area. Accelerated courses in welding would also be available. Voca-
tional training in building trades for the above project sites are being con-
sidered for inclusion in the Second Education Project, currently under con-
sideration.
Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
68.       The initial phase of a program aimed at (i) introducing low-cost
intermediate technology waste disposal systems, and (ii) improving waste col-
lection particularly in low-income areas by expanding the role of the small
private contractors (the Zabbaleen) would be financed under the project. In
Cairo a pilot composting plant with a capacity of about 10 tonnes/day would
be built to test the composition of the waste being collected and the quality
and marketability of the resulting compost, and further to develop the appro-
priate design and operating procedures for a larger plant. After a test
period of about one year, a decision would be made on the design character-
istics of a 200 tonnes/day plant to be constructed. Consultant and advisory
services to assist in the design, testing and operation of the plants are also
included in the project. The experience from the proposed composting plants
and from the upgrading at Mansheit Nasser is expected to help form the basis
for a broader program of improvements in Cairo, the financing of which could
be considered under a second urban development project in about two years's
time.
69.       In Alexandria, the Governorate would (i) establish an organization
for street cleaning and waste management with a strong central unit; (ii)
enter into contracts with the Zabbaleen Union to collect waste from low-income
areas; (iii) establish disposal depots at which the contractors will sort,
sell or otherwise dispose of the wastes collected; and (iv) gradually intro-
duce intermediate technology composting plants at these depots. A first phase
of investments toward the implementation of these proposals is provided for
under the project and would include the provision of a pilot composting plant
with a capacity of 10 tonnes/day, as well as various other equipment.
Repairs to Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
70.       Under the proposed project consultant services to investigate the
water supply and sewerage systems in Assiut, and urgent repairs and possibly
minor extensions of the existing networks and plant would be financed. Also
staff in charge of the implementation of the immediate rehabilitation work for
water supply and sewerage, and staff responsible for ongoing maintenance and
administration of the systems, would be trained. The problems of Cairo's and
Alexandria's water supply and sewerage systems are being addressed by currently
ongoing studies (USAID) and through the Bank-financed Alexandria Water Supply
Project (para. 49 above).
Technical Assistance
71.       An amount of about $2 million will be provided under the proposed
credit to reimburse the amount of $350,000 advanced by the Association from
the Project Preparation Facility, and further to finance consultants to assist



- 19 -
(i) project implementation units at the central government level as well as
at the governorate level; (ii) in additional detailed design of project items;
(iii) in preparation of future upgrading schemes; (iv) HIPCO in small-scale
business development; (v) in financial management, accounting services and
banking advice for the newly established Low Income Housing Fund; (vi) in
identification of training needs in five Governorates; and (vii) in training
of project staff in the implementation agencies. This project item is con-
ceived primarily to help build up the design and implementation capacity of
institutions directly concerned with the development of the urban sector, and
in particular with this project.
Project Costs
72.       The project is estimated to cost $21 million equivalent including
physical and price contingencies. The foreign exchange component is estimated
at US$7 million equivalent, and local costs at $14 million equivalent. The
project is exempt of taxes. Cost estimates of the main project items are as
follows:
------------ US$ million -------------
Item                                   Local Cost   Foreign Cost   Total Cost
Upgrading                                 3.07           0.65           3.72
Sites and services                        4.76           1.01           5.77
Small business assistance                 1.27           0.33           1.60
Solid waste collection and disposal       1.03           1.27           2.30
Repairs to water supply and sewerage
systems                                 0.29           0.41           0.70
Technical assistance                      0.21           1.93           2.14
Project administration                    0.37                          0.37
TOTAL BASE COST                          11.00           5.60          16.60
Contingencies                             3.00           1.40           4.40
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       14.00           7.00          21.00
Financing Plan
73.       The proposed IDA credit of $14.0 million will be made to the Arab
Republic of Egypt to finance the estimated foreign exchange costs of the
project ($7 million equivalent) and 50 percent of its local costs ($7 million
equivalent), or about 67 percent of total project costs. The Government will
provide $6.4 million equivalent, and the National Bank of Egypt $0.6 million,
towards the financing of the project. This level of local cost financing is
recommended in view of Egypt's poverty level and tight budgetary situation.



- 20 -
74.       Of the total funds available for the project an amount of $7.9 mil-
lion will be for land acquisition, on-site infrastructure, housing cores and
construction materials, and will be directly recovered from beneficiaries.
This amount will be made available by the Borrower to the Fund on the same
terms as the IDA credit. The Fund will relend it to the three Governorates
concerned on the following terms:
Project Component                          Interest      Maturity
-  Upgrading                               7 percent      10 years
-  Residential Sites and Services          7 percent      20 years
-  Workshop Sites and Services             9 percent      10 years
The Governorates will further relend this amount to the beneficiaries on the
same above terms (Section 2.08(c) of the draft Project Agreements, and also
Section 2.09(c) of the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
the Governorate of Alexandria) and repay the Fund accordingly. This would
ensure the long-term availability of funds within the Fund to finance similar
future projetcs. Of the remaining project funds an amount of $10.2 million
will be for off-site infrastructure, community facilities, consultant services
and training, and will not be directly recovered from beneficiaries. This
amount will be channelled through the Fund and credited as budgetary grant
allocations to the governorates and executing agencies concerned, while an
amount of about $1.35 million will be directly credited by the Borrower to
the governorates for project management and design/supervision costs. With
respect to the small scale business component of the project, the Borrower
will make $0.6 million out of the proceeds of the credit available to the
National Bank of Egypt (NBE), at 4.5 percent interest, with repayment due at
the end of 15 years. The NBE will make an equivalent amount of $0.6 million
out of its own resources available for this project component and will relend
these funds to the beneficiaries at 8 to 9 percent (depending on type of loan
and creditworthiness of the beneficiaries) for a period of up to 5 years for
building construction and up to 3 years for all other purposes. This spread
of about 4 percent will be adequate to cover the operational costs of NBE
attributable to this project item, and the term of 15 years will allow the
complete recycling of project funds from 3 to 5 times. The Borrower would
ensure that adequate budget allocations, supplementing the proceeds of the
credit, be made to the different government agencies responsible for project
execution.  The execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower
and the Fund, and the Borrower and the NBE, and covering the terms and con-
ditions on which the Borrower would make the funds available to them would be
a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Implementation and Management
75.       Project implementation is expected to be completed by December 31,
1981. With the exception of two relatively minor project components, the
three Governorates of Cairo, Alexandria and Assiut would have prime responsi-
bilitv for project execution through their respective Directorates of Planning
and Monitoring, the head of which would be the general coordinator within each



- 21 -
governorate among all its directorates concerned with the project. The
Governorates will further, by July 31, 1978, appoint each a full-time officer
in the Directorate of Planning and Monitoring to be exclusively engaged as the
Low Income Housing Project Officer (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agree-
ments). Selection criteria for beneficiaries under the sites and services
component of the project have been agreed to during negotiations (Section 2.08
of the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the Governorate of
Assiut and Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and the Governorate of Alexandria).
76.       The small business component of the project would be implemented
through HIPCO and the National Bank of Egypt. HIPCO was established in 1973
as a public sector organization under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Local Government, the ministry responsible for central government relations
with the governorates. HIPCO is responsible for policy formulation and for
the provision of training and extension services in the artisanal sector and
for cooperative enterprises. HIPCO is headed by a deputy minister and has
branches in 21 governorates including the three project governorates. However
HIPCO is neither adequately organized nor staffed and funded to meet its
responsibilities. Consequently, provision for consultant and advisory ser-
vices to HIPCO is made under the project.
77.       The National Bank of Egypt, founded in 1898 is one of four public
sector commercial banks in Egypt. It is the largest commercial bank with
one-half the combined assets of the entire commercial banking sector, and has
93 branches and agencies, and a staff of about 6,500 persons. Since 1965 NBE
has been successfully operating a program of financial assistance to artisans
and small scale entrepreneurs, extending so far some 20,000 loans. Its
appraisal techniques are satisfactory and its long experience in this field
make it well suited to implement the proposed small loans component of the
project.
78.       The improvements to the water supply and sewerage systems in Assiut
would be implemented by the General Organization for Potable Water and the
General Organization for Sewerage and Sanitary Drainage. Both are central
government organizations under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Recon-
struction and New Communities, and would be assisted by consultants for the
design and supervision of implementation of this project component.
79.       The main channel for project financing would be the Low Income
Housing Fund. The Fund was established in 1976 as a legal entity under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction, 1/ to finance
low cost housing in Egypt and related recoverable cost items of social and
physical infrastructure. The Fund derives its equity from government and
governorate budgetary provisions, as well as from the sale of urban govern-
ment land and rents. It has no legally prescribed debt or equity levels or
ratios. The Fund can further borrow from the Government, banks and insurance
companies. The Fund is intended to play an important role in the development
1/   Following the split of this ministry in the recent cabinet reshuffle,
the Fund is now under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Housing.



- 22 -
of low income housing in Egypt. However, so far no concrete and comprehen-
sive development plan for low income housing has been formulated, nor has the
Fund developed a financing strategy. Therefore a meaningful forecast of the
Fund's balance sheets or cash flows cannot be undertaken yet. Furthermore
the Fund has not yet developed an effective working organization. The period
of the proposed project will be used by the Fund to plan its strategy and to
develop such an organization. Towards this end the Fund would retain by
December 31, 1978 the services of management, financing and accounting con-
sultants, as well as those of a banking adviser, to be financed under the
project (Section 3.03(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
80.       The newly established Low Income Housing Development Unit (LIHDU)
would have overall responsibility for coordinating and monitoring project
implementation. The unit would also assist the three governorates responsible
for the project and initiate future similar ones. It would further advise
agencies responsible for low income housing projects on all aspects of urban
development projects, including design, construction, operation, maintenance,
as well as employment generation, beneficiary selection, training of staff
and performance monitoring. To ensure that the LIHDU can address all princi-
pal areas of urban development, a basic team has been appointed as a nucleus
of an organization, the development of which will be assisted through the
provision of consultant and advisory services, to be financed under the
proposed credit (Section 3.03(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Cost Recovery
81.       The proposed project would be an important step towards the elimina-
tion of subsidies in the sector. Interest rates currently charged to benefi-
ciaries under public sector housing finance programs is 3 percent or less with
terms of up to 30 years, while funds mobilized for land development and housing
construction are borrowed by the Government (MOH) at 7 percent. This alone
implies a government subsidy of 4 percent. Although the 7 percent interest
rate proposed for upgrading as well as residential sites and services does not
reflect the opportunity cost of capital in Egypt today, it does represent a
major improvement over current practice, particularly when considered together
with the shorter repayment periods proposed (20 years in the sites and services
areas and 10 years in the upgrading areas).
82.       For workshop plots, costs would be recovered at 9 percent interest
over 10 years. Loans provided to small scale entrepreneurs would be recovered
over a period of up to 5 years at 8 to 9 percent interest. As the beneficia-
ries under this project item would be the smallest entrepreneurs, usually not
reached by financial institutions like DIB, these terms are acceptable. This
is particularly the case if these terms are compared with the 10 percent
interest rate to be charged to beneficiaries under the recently approved Bank
loan for the DIB project, with repayment over 15 years, and the 8 percent
interest rate to be charged under the loan made by the OPEC Special Fund,
which is cofinancing the DIB project with the Bank, with particular concentra-
tion however on the smaller of small scale enterprises.
83.       Total cost recoveries from sale of residential and workshop plots
would account for about 54 percent of the total cost of the upgrading



- 23 -
schemes and 69 percent of the total cost of the sites and services schemes.
The balance represents (a) costs of community facilities which would not be
recovered but charged to the budgets of these services (24 percent in upgrad-
ing areas and 6 percent in sites and services areas), and (b) costs of off-site
infrastructure improvements not chargeable to the plots but partly recovered
through utility tariffs (22 percent for upgrading and 25 percent for sites and
services). In addition, the value of the governorate-owned land in upgrading
areas would be recovered, generating a substantial surplus particularly for
the Governorate of Cairo.
Affordability
84.       Socio-economic surveys conducted during project preparation indi-
cated that households in the target income group pay about 20 to 25 percent of
their income for housing. Under the proposed project it is estimated that no
more than 18 percent of a family's income would need to be allocated for
housing. Thus the minimum plot option would be affordable to about 90 percent
of urban population (80 percent in Alexandria, due to higher land costs). It
is further estimated that about two-thirds of the population benefitting from
the upgrading and sites and services components of the project will fall below
Egypt's urban poverty level (estimated in 1977 at LE 383 or $980 equivalent 1/
per household per year, corresponding to about the 30th percentile on the
urban household income distribution scale).
Procurement
85.       Procurement for equipment, vehicles and civil works for (i) improve-
ments in collection and disposal of solid waste ($2.1 million) including com-
posting plants, a tin-baling plant, workshop equipment, garages and vehicles;
(ii) urgent repairs to water supply and sewerage systems in Assiut ($0.3 mil-
lion); (iii) the reclamation and site preparation works at South Metras in
Alexandria ($1.5 million); and (iv) site preparation and infrastructure provi-
sion in Cairo and Assiut ($1.2 million) will be on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. For bid comparison
purposes a margin of preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is lower, will be applied to domestic bidders offering domestically
manufactured goods.
86.       Small contracts of $50,000 or less for items of equipment, material
or supplies to be compatible with existing equipment, or items which, because
of their specialized nature and for reasons of economy are normally procured
without international competitive bidding, and aggregating no more than
$600,000, may be awarded after obtaining price quotations from at least three
suppliers.
87.       Contracts for all other civil works, with an estimated total value
of $7.8 million for sites and services and upgrading will be individually
1/   At the official rate of exchange of LE 1 - US$2.56.



- 24 -
small and dispersed. These works are not likely to attract foreign con-
tractors. It is consequently proposed that these civil works contracts,
together with contracts totalling about $0.9 million for self-help building
materials, will be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding proce-
dures acceptable to IDA. Consultant services would be procured individually
by the agencies responsible and awarded on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA.
Disbursement
88.       The proposed IDA Credit of $14 million is expected to be fully dis-
bursed by June 30, 1982. It would finance (i) 75 percent of expenditures for
civil works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported equipment
and building materials, or 100 percent of the ex-factory cost if manufactured
locally; (iii) 50 percent of loans advanced to small scale business for work-
shop construction, equipment and working capital; and (iv) 100 percent of
expenditures for consultants and advisory services. Under the last category
the $350,000 advance from the Project Preparation Facility would be reimbursed
to the Association.
Project Justification
89.       The proposed project would represent the first low-cost urban
development project to conform with the Government's recent urban policy
initiatives, particularly in the housing sector. Although in the context of
Egypt's formidable urban problems and needs it may seem modest, it is, never-
theless expected to have important demonstration effects and help lay the
basis for an appropriately designed urban program that, in subsequent phases,
could be undertaken on a scale sufficient to alleviate the plight of the urban
poor without undue costs. Particularly important in this respect are: (a)
the low unit cost for housing under the sites and services component of the
project (only 20-25 percent of the cost of conventional public housing in
Egypt); (b) the initiation of an upgrading program for unserviced low-income
areas at very low cost, averaging LE 145 ($210) per household under the
project; (c) the incorporation of job creation at low cost into shelter and
upgrading schemes; (d) the initiation of a program to improve at low cost the
collection and disposal of solid waste generated in urban areas, particularly
in low income areas; (e) the demonstration of the appropriateness of relying
on simple technology incorporated into project design in innovative ways, such
as the use of cesspits and vented pit latrines to improve sanitation at low
cost, and the use of intermediate technology composting techniques for solid
waste disposal; and (f) the establishment and strengthening of sector institu-
tions to help implement, monitor and evaluate the project and to expand it
into a larger program for the long term. About 67 percent of project costs
would be for items which would qualify for Urban Poverty Program target
lending.
90.       The economic rate of return for the upgrading and sites and services
components, representing about one half of project cost, is estimated at 19
percent. Rates of return were not computed for other project components due



- 25 -
to difficulties in the measurement and quantification of benefits. Quantifi-
able benefits include increase in property values, as well as imputed rental
values. Further the project would benefit about 120,000 persons, about two-
thirds of whom are below the country's urban poverty threshold. This demons-
trates the appropriateness of the project design. Furthermore, the project
would help create directly about 1,100 new jobs in the small business sector,
improve urban conditions, in particular health (70 percent of infant mortality
in Assiut is attributed to poor water supply and sanitary conditions) and
promote institution building.
Project Risks
91.       As the project would help explore new approaches to urban develop-
ment in Egypt and demonstrate their feasibility, it necessarily faces a number
of risks. Firstly, the reduction in design standards to lower costs combined
with the emphasis on cost recovery, including the substantial increase in
housing interest rates, is politically sensitive and will require continuing
strong government commitment to the project. Surveys and discussions with
project communities indicate, however, that the project would be well received,
particularly because of its provision of security of tenure and the very
minimal displacement it would require in upgrading areas. Secondly, due to
institutional weaknesses in the sector, including a serious shortage of
administrative and technical staff, the project could experience delays and
coordination problems. However, such risks have been minimized (a) by basing
the implementation arrangements as much as possible on already existing and
staffed organizations which would be strengthened and supported by advisors
and consultants as necessary, and (b) by providing for staff training under
the project. Partly in view of risks such as the above, the scope of this
first project has been kept limited.
92,       The project would also involve certain risks with regard to specific
components. Firstly, the reclamation of the South Metras site in Alexandria
would be a relatively large-scale undertaking costing an estimated $1.2 mil-
lion and requiring up to one year to complete. Delays might be experienced
both in the filling of the site and in subsequent infrastructure development
which would require ongoing settlement tests and possibly detailed design
adjustments. However, there is substantial experience of land reclamation in
Alexandria and areas next to the site have already been reclaimed and devel-
oped. Also, there is a strong economic justification for reclamation as
alternative housing sites in central Alexandria would only be available at a
price three times the cost of reclamation and therefore not affordable to the
lowest income groups. Secondly, the upgrading of the Zabbaleen settlement at
Mansheit Nasser is a technically complex and culturally and politically
sensitive scheme which could encounter unexpected difficulties. Again, the
risk is well worth taking in view of the expected benefits of improving the
extremely bad living conditions in the settlement and the long term potential
for expanding the role of the Zabbaleen in Cairo's waste management system.



- 26 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
93.       The draft- Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Asso-
ciation and the Governorate of Cairo, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Governorate of Alexandria, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the Governorate of Assiut, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
94.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
95.       An additional condition of effectiveness is the execution of Subsi-
diary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and the Low Income Housing Fund,
and between the Borrower and the National Bank of Egypt (Section 5.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
96.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
97.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
June 14, 1978
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
TABLE 3APae1o4pgs
EGYPT               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                    Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  ----------------------------  ------------------
EGYPT                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1001.4                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      29.9                         1960       197t,  ESTIMATE           PHILIPPINES   TURKEY            SPAIN **
_- -- -- - -- - - - - - -- -- -- - -- _- -   - _-_ _-- -- -_- --- -   --- -_-- ---- - _-_-_- -- -- -- ---
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     110.0*    170.0*    280.0*/a               230.0*      500.0*    15S0.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             25.8       33.3      38.1/a               36.9        35.6        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        26.0       33.0       38.0/a              123.0        46.0        67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        982.0      1125.0   1273.O/a              375.0         65.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)          44.5       42.1        37.8                44.2        40.6        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           20.7        17.0       14.0                13.2        14.4         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        109.0      116.0    100-115                81.0        153.0/a      27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        44.9       49.9        52.4                55.6        54.4        70.5
GROSS REPRUDUCTION RATE                 2.81a      3.0        3.0                 3.3         2. 6/b.c    1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TDTAL                                   2.4        2.6        2.3                 3.0         2.5         1.1
URBAN                                   6.0        3.6        3.4                 4.0         4.9/d       2.0
URBAN POPULATION C% OF TOTAL)            38.0       42.1       44.6                27.6        36.7        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        43.0       42.1          .                45.6         41.7        27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                        54.0       54.7           ,                51.6        54.0        62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                       3.0        3.2         .                  2.8         4.3         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      0.9        0.8                            0.9         0.9         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.8        1.8/a                          1.5         1 1/e        1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             .      488.0    1239.0                 320.0
USERS (x OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..         ..       21.1                 2           8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          7800.0/b  8300.0/b 9600.0/a              12400.0    14500.0/f  11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)           57.O7W    53.07W   43.975                 55.0/a      67.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)             5.0        3.0        1.47F               7.6         4.Ojj       1.1 /a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              19.2/C       .       21.0/c                 ..        32.8/h
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             43247          .      46.07E                 *-        60.;7E
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.7 6C                5.27 C                           2. 9_7*
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             14. 17-       ;       16.0/c                            9 947jh
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..         .          ..                   ,        53.0
% OWNED BY F-lALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                  ..         0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              2500.0/d  1910.0    1820.o/b d                 ..      2250.0       740.0/b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         2730.07Ze 1640.0/c  1520.0/de                  ..      1770.0/i
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            500.07\   460.0       460.0               850.0        500.0-      220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0      106.0       113.0               86.0       112.0        107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               66.0       66.0       70.7                45.0         78.0        81.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.0/f    16.0        16.0                22.0        22.011      40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              393          ..         ..                 6.6        14.7/k       0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        66.0       69.0       72.0               113.0       109.0       123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      16.0       33.0       40.0                49.0        28.0         57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.0                10.0        11.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(x OF SECONDARY)                      22.0       19.0       19.0                 6.0/b      14.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                 20.0          ..      40.0                   ..       5s.0/1      94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  1.6        ..          .                   ..         1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       60.0k        *-                           76.0        64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  38.0ig       ..       40.o/a,f            23.0        41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                       .          ..      20.0/a,f             7.0        18.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          58.0      132.0      140.0                72.0        89.0       214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0         4.0       6.0                 8.0         4.0        71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           102.0      228.0      280 n               235.0       247.0      1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 1.3        1.0             .             2.0          0.7        5.8
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ARNtEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NWTES
Url-e  othorwioc noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970,  nd for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 ard 175.
I    et Ir.fit  date are based on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
Spsic   succ-sefl diversification of its econosit atructura,, deSree of indostrieliaation and development of tourism makes it an appropriate
'ohiectv-" country.
EGYPT           1960    ta  1950-55;    /b  Figores relete to persons sin yeara and over, ecluding nmiad population;    Ic  1964-65;    /d  1962;
/I  Including assistant nurses and midwives;    /f  1960-62;    /R  Urban oly.
1970    Ia  Ratio of popolation cnder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force age 12-64 years;    /b  Relates to 12-64 years of age, 1966;
Ic Registered, not all practicing in the country.
MOST RECENT 1EST7iATE      tn  1976;    /b  1972;    /c  REral only, based on enpenditure  -urvey of ho-seholds;    /d  isgietered, not all
practicing in the coontry;    /n  1971;    /f  Percentage of population.
PhILIPPITES    1970    [0  As percentage of employment;    /b  Not  in-ldieg private vo-tional achoole.
TURSEY          1970    'a  1967;    /b  Excludea 17 eastern provinces;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    /e  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and
over to labor force 15 years and over;    If  15 yeare and over necludee nnenployed;    /g  Regietered only;    /h  Disposable
intone;    /i  Including  aseietent nuraea and nidwive-;    /1  1964-66;    /k  1967-68;    /I  Persona sin years and over
who tell the cenaur takers that they can read and write.
SPAfN           1970      o  Etployment office eatinate;    /b  Registered, not all prscticing in the country.
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lond Ates (ho    ")                                                                    PoPulatio  ce   uro person - Pupulotion divided by nunber of prscticing
Totl  - Total nurfaco ores compriaing land area and inland sisters,                      ma          le e greduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Aric. - Mont rIcoct estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or                    euxiliery personnel with training or experience
pnrtacently for  crorss  pasturen, merkt & kitchen gardens or tn  lie                poPulation per hospital bed - Popnlstisn divided by soeber of hospital beds
fo11c.                                                                                 available in public and private general and npecialieed hospital and
rehabilitation centers; eacludee nursing hboes and establiahlment for
,-er -a.I" (L$) - GNP per capita esrimntes at c-irrent market prices,                    cuestdial snd preventive  are.
cobl,-od by some convorsion nethod as World Bank Atloa (1973-75 basis);              Per c"pit. supply of calorieo  (7. of requirements) - Conputed from  energy
1965  19'S ard 1975 dat.                                                               equivalent of net fond  uppli-e availble in country per capita per day;
-d                                                        -.i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aslable nnpplien comPrise doneutic prm-L~tcmu, imports las  emports,
Evpu; ^^i and vital cracistion                                               and rhunges in atock; nat aupplien exclode animal feed, needs, qsantitisa
Pcpr,otion (mid-yr. million) - As of July first:  if cot available,                      used in food processing and looses On distribution; reqoirenents were
overago of t,o ond-y-ar nstimarte; 1960, 1970 and 1975 date,                           eatimated by FAO based on physiclogical needs for nornal activity and
health considering enviroogental temperaturn, body weights, age and see
Pcpulation d.n.iry - per aquare km - Mid-year population  per square kilo-               distribstions of popslstion, and allowing 107, for waste at honaehold level.
mietor (10 hectares) of  otal area.
Pcopiation denaity - per square km of  gric. land - Cfoputed as above for              Per capita supply of protein (Rrama per day) - Protein content of per
agricu!trral Inod only                                                                 capita net supply of fond per day; net supply of food is defined as
above; requirementn for oil countries established by USDA Economic
Lital . arnrist-                                                                         Research Sor-icee provido for r  nicimn    ollowacce of 60 graus 00
Coude olti rate  et -houeand, average - Annual live births per thousand                  total protein per day, and 20 grama of animal and pulae protein,of
of rfid-year popclation; ten year arithmetic  averages ending in 1960 and              which 10 grama should be animal protein; these  standards are Iloer
1970  and five-year average ending in 1975 for non  recent estimate.                   than those of 75 Srama of total protein sod 23 grams of animaI prteain
Crude deach rote per chocuand. aversRe - Annusl deaths per thousand of mid-              .e an average for the world, proposed by FAl in the  Third World Food
near populstioo; ten-vear oritloetic arrges ending in 1960 and 1970 and                Surey.
five-year -verage ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           Per testIs Protein ntlvyv from  animal and sulse - Protein supply of food
Irfact mortality rote (Ithon) - Annual deaths of infants under one year                  derived from anloLa.o and poises in gras per day.
of ag  por thoueaod live births.                                                     Death rote (/thou) aoes 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group
Life  txpectancy at birth (vre) - Average nokber of years of life remain-                1-4 years, to children in this age group;  uggegted as an indicator of
log or birth; unuallv fivn-year overoges ending in 1960, 1970 and                      malnutrition.
1975 for developing countries.
Crass r--rodc tifo- rte -Avorage cnubor of livo  daughters  a woman will               Education
bcar It. bor vonoal reproductive period if she onperiences present age-              Adjuted enrollment ratio - prinary school - Enrollnont of all ages as
oprolflr fertilitv rates; uully five-year averages ending in 1960,                     percentage of primary school-age population; inoludes children aged
197) ond 1975 for doveloping countriee.                                                6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
Popclotioon grmth rate 5%.) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-               for countriee with universal education, enroltent may emceed 1l07.
year population far 1950-fl, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                      since some pupilo are below or above the offioial school age.
popuLatioo grth rote (eii) - sri   - Computed like Srowth rate of total                Adjsted    edroitnon ratio - secondarv school - Conputed as sbove;
popolaIto; dfftere,     dfiiin  of orhm sines may effect cnpara-                       secondory aducetion requires at I..ot _Four years of epprov..d pr5mery
bfry of I   st- a-ong countr,ion.                                                      instruction; provides general, vocetional or teacher training
Lrhbn ooultlon (2 of total) - Ratio of urban to totsl population;                        instruction  for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence
differ-nt deficirions of urban  -ara  may affect comparability of data                 courses are gonora lly sxclsded.
-nog -cctriet.                                                                       Ier   fnhoigpoIe   firs,t and ...ond levels) - Totl.  Years Of
Age  t- rucurt  portent) - Childron (1-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),             schooling; at secondary level  voc tioalI instruction -ay be par-
sod retired  (65 yeare and over) as percentages of mid-year population.                tiaIly or completely excluded.
ho.e decendency ratio - Rntio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                Vocational enrollemet (% of secondary) - vocational institutions
those of agoe 15 through 64.                                                           include technical, industrial or other prograsn  which operate
Fcovooic drpendency ratio - Ratis of population under 15 and 65 and over                 independently or an departments of necondary institutione.
to the lbOor force in age group of 15-64 yeare.                                      Adult literacy rate (TI - Literate adnlta (able to read and write) oe
,a_.i  pLacnion  - acceptors (c-mulative, thou) - Cumulative nkber of                   percentage of total adult populatlon aged 15 years and over.
acc-pror- of birth-control devicos under auspices of national family
plucuLdc orofeon sioce ioception.                                                    lonming
Fanr.iy plennfin  - usern 5%> of married women) - Percentages of married               Persona per ron (urbenS - Average number of persona per room in
Ion of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who uae birth-control devioee                   oc-pied conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude
cc all norried woiieo to sane ago group,                                               non-permarentstructurte  and unoccupied partc.
OccuPied dwein     witha ut piped  ater        - Occupied conventional
Sitolovruott                                                        dw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O'elligsinurannd mrura  areas without inside or outside piped
Iotal loire forre (thousand) - Economirally active porsona, fncludieg                    water facilities as perrentaga of ell oocupied dwellings.
rtle.' zorre  nod -nemployed hut excluding housewives, students, etc.;               Access to electricity (% of all dwellingo) - Conventional dwellings
dohritn~ii sin varioos countrieu are not comparable.                                   with electricity in living quarters on percent of total dwellings in
Labor fror t  agri-ccltro G`.) - Agriculturel labor force (in faning,                    urban and rural areas.
fomenter. r-untiog act fishing) as percentage of total labor force.                  Rural dwellings connected to electricity  (7) - Computed as above for
oracplacef r, of labor forcol - Acooploynd are usually defined as                       rura  dwellings only.
perron  ohs arc oble and willing to tabs a Iob, out of   J job on
i.g.- day, ronsied our of a job, and seeking work for a specified                   Conaumption
mnirrcor pe:ciod not excending one week; mav nor be comparable bebteen               Radio receivers  (per thou pop) - All typos of receivers for radio broad-
Iunuclen doe to different defioitiona of umemployed and source of                    c.ots to general public par thousand of population; eocludea
lars. e.g.,  ooplovocot office ntatistic-, semple surweys, conpultory                  unlicensed r-ceivers in counretse end in years when registration of
uionr'ior tel r inucr-co.                                                              radio nets was in effect; dtat  for recent years nay not be comparable
sinoe mnot counsries abolished licenaing.
itco- 'e -cx'   tioon -      fercentage of privote inctme (both in tash and            Passenger care (er thou POP) - Paosenger care comprise motor cars
v- i td   bv rlch st 5_,  riheet 20%.. poorest 207., end poorest               seating less than eight persons; .coludoes nmb,lncos, hearses and
t, C--rcld-.                                                                       ilitary vehicles
Electricity fkluablc Per cap) - Aunual consomptiom  of industriol, com-
unitricccv 'f lond  Pneeroffo-foccnt- gos of land owned by wealthient                 nercial  public and private electricity in kilowatt hosra per capita;
''.-    rotr IQ7 of lard owners.                                               generally based on production dsta, without allowance for losse. in
grids but allowing for imp srts and .oporte of o1-triofty.
cxc-'" -   on                                                                  gNeprinrt (lkgyr oar cap) - o   Per capita a-nnul consu-ption in kilograus
!.lr ian- fopp' stion dividod by sonber of practicing         ea tinated frnc dunestic production plus net imports of newsprint.
ilS'ir]  fn m    t*edioal sch-cl er university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
EGYPT
ECONOMIC DOVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of US dollars)
Actual                              Projected         1973-  1975-
1973       1974      1975       1976            1980           1975   1980            1973  1975  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                   (Constant 1975 Prices)                     Average Annual
Growth Rates       As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                         10,517     10,849    11,912  12,636                16,288       6.3      6.4             99   100      99
Gains from Terms of Trade (+3                      57         365    ..           82                  113       .. -      .             +1      .     +1
Gross Domestic Income                          10,574     11,214    11,912  12,718                16,401       6.1      6.6            100   100   100
Imports(incl. noa-factor services)            -2,864      -4,052    -4,989  -3,904                -5,970      32.0      3.6             27    42    36
Exports (incl. non-factor services)             1.950      2.230     2.198   2.512                 4.226       6.2    14.0              18      19    26
Resource Gap                                     -914     -1,822    -2,791  -1,392                -1,744      75.0    -9.0               9    23      10
Consumption Expenditures                       10,115     10,887   11,836  11,806                  14,179      8.2      3.7             96    99    86
Investment Expenditures (incl. stocks)    1,373            2,149    2,867   2,304                  3,966    44.0        6.7             13    24    24
Domestic Savings                                  459        327         76      912               2,222   -60.0       95.0              4      1     14
MERChANDISE TRADE                               Annual Data at Current Prices                                                      As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                                   291        480        728      840                                                    17    16
Fuels and intermediate goods                    633      1.655     2.057   1,208                                                     *38    46
Conssmption Goods                               740      1,356     1,712   2,166                                                      45    38
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)           1,664       3,491    4,497   4,214                                                      100   100
Exports
Agricultural Products                           423        857        522      544                                                    42    33
Industrial Goods                                580        817     1.046   1,068                                                      58    67
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)           1,003       1,674     1,568   1,612                                                     100   100
Travel                                          156        266        332      465
Suez Canal                                      -           -          85      312
Merchandise Trade Indices                               Average 1975 - 100
Export Price Index                               68        122        100      109
Import Price Index                               67         95        100      105
Terms of Trade Index                            101        128        100      103
Exports Volume Index                             94         88        100      114
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                   As Percent of Total
Agriculture                                      33         34         33       31
Industry, Electricity & Construction             24         26         28       28
Services                                         43         40         39       41
Total                                          100        100       100       100
1977
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                           Rev.
Current Prices               Budget                                   As Percent of GDP
Current Receipts                            3,180       3,658     4,549   5,914      7,641                                        34      38
Current Expenditures                        2.818       3,623     5,246   6.072    6.748                                          30      44
Budgetary Savings                             362          35      -697    -158        893                                         4      -6
Public Sector Investment                    1,155       1,469     2,209   2,509      3,471                                        12      19
US $ million
DETAIL ON                    At 1975 P and ER
PUBLIC SECTOR             Draft Plan
INVESTMENT PROGRAM         (1978-82)        7, of Total
Agriculture                 2.240            9
Industry and Mining         7,085           27
Services                    2,501           10
Transport and com-
muw,ications (Inc. Suez)  7,111             27
Other                       7.111           27
Total Expenditures         26,048          107
SELECTED INDICATORS                                                  1973-    1975-
1975      1980
Average ICOR                                                         2.08       3.661/
Import Elasticity                                                    3.81      0.75-
LABOR FORCE AND
OUTPUT PER WORKER                                                   Total Labor Force                         Value Added Per Worker (Current Prices)
In Millions            7. of Total                        In US Dollars    7. of Average
1973      1975        1973    1975                         1973     1975      1973     1975
Agriculture                                                4.2       4.2           47       44                        624      858         67       69
Industry                                                   1.2       1.2           13       13                      1,557   2,087        167      167
Service 2/                                                 3.6       4.1          40        43                        615   1.374         66      110
Total                                                      9.0       9.5          10 00                               932   1,247        100      100
I/ Import elasticity for 1975-80 low because of decrease in imports experienced in 1976.  For the period 1977-80,
import elasticity is estimated at 1.00.
/ Includes distribution, electricity and cumstruction sectors.



EGYPT                                         ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                    Page 4 of 4
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual
1973      1974        1975    1976
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods, f.o.b.                                      1,003      1,674      1,568   1,612
Import of Goods, c.i.f.                                     -1,664    -3.491    -4,497  -4,214
Trade Balance                                               -661    -1,817    -2,929  -2,602
Service Receipts                                               421        726      1,250   1,980
Service Payments                                              -414       -541       -801    -896
Service Balance                                                7        185        449   1,084
A.   Deficit on Goods and Services                               -654          -1,632    -2,480  -1,518
B.   Amortization of LMT Debt                                    -407       -631       -476    -717
(of which suppliers' credits)                               (277)    (-285)      (-280)  (-414)
C.   Reductions of Balances on Bilateral Accounts                -113        -28       -241       --
D.   Foreign Exchange Requirements                             -1,174    -2,291    -3,197  -2,235
E.   Supply of Funds                                            1,290      2,119      3,217   2,208
Private unrequited transfers                                   6         42         91       87
Official grants                                              725      1,264        988      625
Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt                   --         --         --
Other MLT loans                                              170        199        583      760
Suppliers' credits                                           160        273        363      501
MLT deposits/loans CBE                                       --           5      1,580      550
Foreign investment                                           --           7         20       60
Net increase in short-term commercial bank credits           352        585       -264       -5
Other monetary movements, net 1/                            -123       -256       -144    -370
F.  Changes in Reserves                                           116      -172          20     -27
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like                                 725      1,264        988      625
Public MLT Loans
IBRD                                                         --          85         77      157
IDA                                                          75          55         55       40
Other Multilateral                                           --           6        100       95
Governments                                                 290         595      2,507      934
Suppliers/Commercial                                        160         273        363      501
Total Public MLT Loans                                      525       1,014      3,102   1,727
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE, MLT
(Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed)
Interest on Public Debt                                      79          95        111      180
Repayments on Public Debt                                   407         631        476      717
Total Public Debt Service                                   486         726        587      897
Burden on Exchange Earnings (%)
Public Debt Service                                         34.1        30.3       20.8    25.0
EXTERNAL DEBT                                  Actual Debt Outstanding on 0ecember 31, 1977
Disbursed Only           Percent
Loans                                                5,458.3                    67.9
(of which: IBRD)                                     ( 86.6)                   (1.1)
IDA)                                    (167.9)                   (2.1)
Deposits in CBE                                      1,938.3                    24.1
Suppliers Credits                                      640.7                     8.0
Total Public MLT Debt                                8  10R3
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                            556
1/ Includes errors and omissions



ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT                       Page 1 of 7
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of May 31, 1978)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit     Approved                                                                     less cancellations
Nambers          FY       Borrower          Purpose                             Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR          60        SCA             Suez Canal Expansion                 56.5       --       --
Cr 181-UAR          70        UAR             Nile Delta Drainage                   --       26.0      5.0
Cr 284-UAR          72        ARE             Railways  I                          --        30.0      1.6
Cr S-13-UAR 1/      73        ARE             Cotton Ginning Engineering            --        0.2      --
Cr 393-UAR          73        ARE             Upper Egypt Drainage                  --       36.0    14.4
Cr 412-UAR          73        ARE             Development Industrial Bank 2/        -        15.0      1.5
Cr 423-UAR          74        ARE             Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation        --        18.5      4.7
Cr 437-UAR          74        ARE             Population                            --        5.0      1.6
Cr S-15-UAR 3/      74        ARE             Talkha Engineering                    --        0.4      --
Cr 484-UAR          74        ARE             Talkba Fertilizer                     --       20.0      4.3
Cr 524-EGT          75        ARE             Ag/Ind Imports                       --        35.0      1.1
Ln 1062-EGT         75        ARE             Ag/Ind Imports                       35.0       --       1.3
Ln 1064-EGT         75        SCA             Suez Canal Rehabilitation            50.0       --      41.5
Ln 1085-EGT         75        ARE             Tourah Cement                        40.0       --      10.1
Ln 1098-EGT         75        ER              Railways II                         37.0        --      19.1
Cr 548-EGT          75        ARE             Telecommunications                    --       30.0    17.0
Cr 576-EGT          76        ARE             DIB II 2/                            --        25.0      9.2
Ln 1239-EGT         76        APA             Alexandria Port                     45.0        --     44.8
Ln 1276-EGT 4/      76        ARE             Fruit and Vegetable Dev.             50.0       --      49.3
Cr 637-EGT          76        APE             Upper Egypt Drainage II              --        40.0    36.4
Ln 1285-EGT         76        ARE             Upper Egypt Drainage II              10.0       --      10.0
Ln 1292-EGT         76        ARE             Textile Rehabilitation              52.0        --     51.6
Ln 1369-EGT         77        AWA             Alexandria Water Supplv             56.0        --     55.7
Cr 681-ECT          77        ARE             Education                            --        25.0    24.1
Cr 719-EGT          77        ARE             Nile Delta Drainage II               --        27.0    27.0
Ln 1439-EGT         77        ARE             Nile Delta Drainage II              27.0        --      27.0
Ln 1440-EGT 4/      77        ARE             Nile Delta Drainage II               12.0       _-      12.0
Ln 1453-EGT         77        EEA             Regional Electrification            48.0        --     47.7
Ln 1456-EGT         77        ARE             Industrial Imports                  70.0        --     69.9
Ln S-005-EGT        77        ARE             Iron Ore Beneficiation and            2.5       __       2.1
Enginecring
Ln 1482-EGT         78        SCA             Suez Canal Expansion               100.0        --     97.0
Cr S-20-EGT         78        ARE-            Water Supply Engineering              --        2.0      2.0
Cr 774-EGT         78         ARE             Telecommunications II                          53.0    53.0
LN 1533-EGT        78         DIB             Development Industrial Batik III   40.0         _      40.0
Totals                                                                       731.0      388.1
Of which has been repaid                                                      56.5        0.6
Total now outstanding                                                        674.5      387.5
Amount sold                                               7.5
Of which has been repaid                                  6.5                  1.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                               673.5      387.5   782.0
B. STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENIS
(Amount in US$ million)
Tear        Obligor                  Type of Business                      Loan      Equity      Total
1976        Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry                        4.25         .75       5.0
(plus .635
contingency        (5.635)
commitment)
1977        Nile Clothing Company  Ready Made Garment Industry             0,40        0.20       0.60
1978        Delta Sugar Company    Agricultural Production, mainly
sugar                                20.00        2.00      22.JO
(plus 1.0 standby
commitment)      (23.00)
1/ Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR
2/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria
3/ Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR
4/ Third Window Loan



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Full completion of the project is expected by mid-1980, nearly 3
years behind schedule. However, procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
It is expected that the whole of the credit will be committed in the near
future, and that disbursement will be completed during 1978. Progress in
project implementation during 1976 was satisfactory. However, during 1977
there were management changes in the Drainage Authority, and the project
again fell behind schedule, although achievements in the fourth quarter of
1977 were substantial. Local funds required for 1978 are included in the
approved budget, and a special fund has now been established for local cur-
rency expenditures for all four drainage projects. With the recent appoint-
ment of a new chairman for the Authority, we expect improved performance in
the future.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the closing date
for the parts of the credit allocated to signalling and telecommunications
items, originally September 30, 1976, has been postponed twice to March 31,
1979; the credit account for the parts allocated to other items was closed on
December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of June
8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Over 30 percent of the project is complete; construction of open
drains should be finished by the end of 1978, and full completion is expected
by end-1980, i.e., 6 months behind schedule. The bilharzia control program is
progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects.
As of April 30, 1978, $13.4 million had been disbursed. The transfer of
responsibility for this project to the newly established Development Indus-
trial Bank became effective on March 28, 1977.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in end-1980 and the remainder of the full project, financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed in 1981-2. The foreign cost of the project ($34.3 million) is
now firm as all procurement has been completed, but the local component con-
tinues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil works.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project had been greatly delayed by a shortage of local funds
and by administrative problems. It is now being carried out with a reduced
scope, and is again falling behind the revised schedule due to construction
delays. About half of the project facilities are now operating satisfactorily
and the remainder should be completed by the end of 1978.
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1975.
The credit was refinanced under Cr. 484 below.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
Procurement has been completed except for some small items. Accord-
ing to the latest indication the project is likely to be mechanically com-
pleted by March 1979 or 18 months later than estimated during appraisal.
Delays have been due to shortage of skilled labor and delays in the completion
of civil works drawings.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and disburse-
ments are well advanced. Nearly all six surveys of industrial subsectors
financed under the project have been completed. To allow utilization of the
undisbursed funds, the closing date, originally, December 31, was postponed to
June 30, 1978.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress to date has been good, although the implementation of the
reconstruction project proved to be much more complex than originally esti-
mated by the appraisal team. The financial situation of the Borrower is
sound; canal traffic and revenues are both considerably higher than expected
at appraisal. Procurement is proceeding well.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Contracts have been awarded for all equipment packages, and dis-
bursements are proceeding almost on schedule. More than 90 percent of
equipment have been delivered on site. Slow progress in civil works causes
significant delays which will result in a delay in the start-up of commercial
operations by about two years. Consultants which assisted in bid evaluation
are now assisting in supervision of project execution and improvement of the
existing plant.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress on physical investment items under the project is generally
satisfactory. However, the Egyptian Railways (ER) experienced operational
difficulties with a large number of locomotives out of service because of



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
inadequate maintenance largely due to lack of spare parts. Spare parts are
now being delivered and new locomotives have been obtained from bilateral
sources. Therefore, a gradual improvement of the traction and traffic situa-
tion is expected. Also, declining traffic and rising costs resulted in a
worsening of ER's financial position. Government is considering increases in
rail tariffs proposed by ER.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May .6,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Project works are about two years behind schedule, primarily because
of initial delays in building construction. However, construction has recently
accelerated and is expected to proceed satisfactorily. Contract awards for
cables have been largely completed: Telex equipment has been obtained with
financing from other sources and installation of the Cairo telex exchange was
deferred to the second project. The part of the credit originally allocated
for the telex exchange is being used for the purchase of additional cables.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
The credit is now nearly fully committed. The transfer of respon-
sibility for this project to the newly established Development Industrial Bank
became effective on March 28, 1977.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation was initially slower than expected and is now
entering an active phase. Civil engineering consultants have completed the
tender documents for dredging and berth construction, and these are to be
issued to prequalified contractors shortly. Procurement action on Bank-
financed equipment has commenced. Management consultants are in the field.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project start-up has been slower than expected. Civil engineering
consultants are at work on the drainage and irrigation components of the proj-
ect although the necessary counterpart staff have not always been present.
The Agricultural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is attempting, with the
help of a consultant and assistance from the World Bank, to ensure that the
various sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, and to
identify additional sub-borrowers. The project is about one year behind
schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-ECT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been slower than expected, but now
appears to be making satisfactory progress. Construction of open drains is
on schedule. Field drainage was delayed by slow procurement of equipment for
making pvc drains (financed by USAID).
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 20, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a seven-month delay caused by a later
and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The project is now
estimated to cost about US$17 million equivalent (all in local currency) more
than appraised, due mostly to increased scope of civil works. In part this is
due to the increased price of building materials recently approved by the Gov-
ernment; no difficulties are foreseen in financing this. Early management
problems have now been overcome and both companies have developed effective
Project Implementation Units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated
reflecting delays in procurement.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The tariff increase required under the project is in effect and
has been reflected in water bills beginning August 1, 1977. Consultants
for the final design of the project and the procurement of goods and ser-
vices have started work. In designing the project the consultants will
review and take into account the results of a USAID-financed interim Water
Supply Plan presented in September 1977.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Project
units have been set up in all Ministries concerned. Procurement of equip-
ment and furniture under the project is well advanced. Technical problems
have been encountered with the construction of the two Technical institutes
which needed to be redesigned, resulting in a two year delay. All technical
assistance contracts have been awarded.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The loans and credit were declared effective on April 17, 1978 after
three postponements. Implementation is behind schedule although design work
is well advanced.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Engineering consultants started work in June 1977. The first
tenders for electrification equipment and materials were issued in March 1978
and construction is scheduled to start in September 1978. Consultants for the
extension of the UNDP Power Sector Survey and for the Tariff Study are in the
field.  Proposals are being evaluated for the review of safety and inspection
procedures and for the training services.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Allocation of loan funds is almost completed. Procurement action has
commenced.
Ln No. 5-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Consultants to prepare both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have been appointed and are working.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project execution is satisfactory, although dredging is slower than
planned. One dredging contract to be financed by the Bank has been awarded
and the other is expected to be awarded soon; tender documents for equipment
are being drawn up. Project planning and supervision arrangements are
progressing well.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Consultants submissions are in the final stages of evaluation.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:            Ten months (February 1977 to
November 1977).
(b)  Agency which has prepared the                 General Organization for Physical
project:                                      Planning, assisted by consultants.
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:              February 1977
(d)  First Bank mission to consider
project:                                      May 1977
(e)  Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                      November 27, 1977
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:           May 21, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                October 30, 1978
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) The Bank has obtained assurances that:
(a) The Governorates of Cairo, Alexandria and Assiut would each appoint
by July 1978 a full-time Low-Income Housing Project Officer in their
respective Directorate of Planning and Monitoring to ensure
continuous coordination and monitoring of implementation among all
governorate's directorates concerned (para. 75).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) The Low Income Housing Fund would retain by December 31, 1978 the
services of management, financing and accounting consultants, as
well as those of a banking adviser (para. 79).
(c) The Government would issue freehold titles to beneficiaries under
the upgrading and sites and services components (paras. 61 and 64).
(d) The terms and conditions of cost recovery (paras. 74, 81 and 82)
and the plot options and beneficiary selection criteria (paras.
64 and 75) would be as discussed during negotiations.
(ii)   Special condition of effectiveness:
The execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower
and the Low Income Housing Fund, and between the Borrower and
the National Bank of Egypt (para. 74).






MAP SECTION
(Spelling of names of some localities on the following maps may
vary slightly from that in the text of this report.)






- IBRD 13439
APRIL 1978
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Location of Project Components in Cairo
g//QB   -Proposed Project Areas          0 
Urbanized Area           \        i9
/7/4X/5  Old City Center                                SHOU3RAH
Main Roads and Streets                         L I HE\,
Railways                                         SHOLBRAH EL KHEIMA
River                 \                               PROPOSED
\ \ 0 \\ X ~~COMPOStlNG PLANT/
Th,s map has been prepared bh the
Word Bank's staffeooh,sively for,g
the convenience of the readers of
the report to which ,t ,n attachedo
The den.m-nat,ons used and the
boundaroos shown on this map
do not omply, on the part of the
World Bank and 'to affiliates, any
udgment on the legal status of
any terrtory orany endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries
0 ~       ~         ~         i i2,,                                              -
o      1     2                          /                    ,                 /
KILOMETERS
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LomeTeX ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~timn
DOKK                                                   4IT\ NASSE
j A R | Q ' l 1, \ \ NORTH bASSATEEN \ >\/PGRA//N/
\   W ;S \kNSuARX  " X~~~~~~~~HEM






BRD 134S0c
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                                                                            2 10  20 30         400 
Monsheit Nasser Upgrading Component                                                                     0500                                          To
ES STANG                      PRPSDFEET
M  0/ Ees apr *a  amier 0 0reas ---Proeo,c b-ordory                                                                                                                                                                           A  f  R    C  A
eace  a aR did  c           `7o=    Eneirsio-n of resilenralareas/
= CabFes  ea-ec                      Aspha nadoacs -d 
H,gh-yc                       GadeS and conpcted cehicllan -a,s
R- o  aod                     Commumty center
Eep, W,ksh.p,             .   Sew workshop areA-sh
N        Mosques              E:4  Htea1h renter
M        Chrch                   J STerns grounas -
AC- q-11. ~   ~    C7~         seconk -d phase
\                   SCh~~~~~~~~~~eoal SLare              Schools                                                                                                          -a.
t mm citfs @ / t ba v  >   '\              r                         -          _
I <t           x
" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~ ~ -
oPI.c.or>che,~~~~~~ 34                                                                                                                                                                                                                      af
\\   \                                                    I                              r5.~~~~~~~~~~~~      r     as                     A~~~~~~~
O                                                    -  -             ro$l           ~~~
a  a   3m  C,yyy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
a   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~73QT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0  /EO3GT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-a  -\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ......
"r,-~~~~~~N  ~ ~         ~        ~        er~g gN-0~
na  I                     *.r~~~~~~~~~P
<-N   rry                      \4?>             On-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4&  AX'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>  'e~~~~~~~~~......
5  p         - C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ,
"P"~~~~~~~~~~~~~<<i                                                                       






IBRD 13441
APRIL 1978
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
44 D:  T ,F R1                    'EAN~                    A
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Location  of Project Components in Alexandria
ANFOUCHI                                                                                                                       TRE
/   ~   ~          ~          ~          ~            A .E r  ~~~~~~~~~~ZYZ~~~~~j ~~Proposed Project Areas                                                           ,
W~~~5t    4~~~~A9~~~Q'~~~               H                        Lj  ~~~~Residential Areas                      IToRAQ 
f~1*- Port and lndustrial Areas                                                                -
Main Arterial Streets                 NIA R
Railways                                             LIBYA
Tromwoys                                                           EGYPT              SAUDI
Canals                                                                                 ARABIA
*1~~~~~~~~~~~AR
rh, mp hs ee prpaedyth Wo/ Bakataf soonsnsCHAD Os OSUDANO                        A
b-ow,da-shso  o  o 'opd   o  opc on thI. pe f bohn  Wood ba-k bIp OnI  U ANTo
shhd,/oaeso,o/dg-ea  on ohs e~pa  -rrc  of any   -1rto/  o -dy-ornnnon  or7
MOtIARRAM  BEY                              gonE               M~~~~~~~~~4fE4T/TfPR~A NifA AlI  SrtA
ARRAM SEY~~~~~~~~~9/oo~
ARAR
0  )                                              0                                           ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    1   2   2
TC/LOMPIERS                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS






IBRD 134 
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT                                                                                                                                                                                                               APRIL 1978
X,'S,' f S ''S-                                  U--_'
-    -    -    - /                 -    -
tSHiSS;A  000'Z  ,l ,,  . ,"                ,                    -E~ :-                            X      I<,4L                                                                                           . 4 
X  /  |~~~~~~~E7EE H~                                                                                                                       ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT z-
fJ   J I  I I  I 1-1 1 1 tJ    11                                                            ~~~EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
X  {                 { [  1    i 1ll                       \                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~South Metras Sites and Services and  New  Nagaa El
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aa    U S   -~pgra    oding  Coponents - Alexandria |''MTR
.-  1   ^    .    .     .         i 1 !                                    ,                  a       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Res,dent,al Area2 Zone A
1  |   Z   \   \   l  l  f  ^  f  1 18 1 ) 4 2 ! P P | I 11 i, Residentiol AreG Zone C Res,dential Are. Z.ne=
-,;'   j',   *,'  '  -'j,-S  "t  l E Geen Arcs ; ;0 I P tolly Sown onThis MP) | lGr_een Are ,
WX   t  j  jX   i  1   1  ! I I 1  1  1_1  f  I I I I    J               \  \  I                 @      FllstingStczndipipe                                          ||-( E-ting Stndp,peANA |
E  W   /;   t0   11  1  1  1  1  1 1 1 i | t t l \ GrOded VehicUhr RorJcs | | llrVA , GadedGVehicur., Ro.&                                                                             GYP -
X y | > ] h \ J | ! ] ] ^ y } j [ j ] | \ 1/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pedestriavn Pcatksllr, -W-X
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
u      HD) UAd/  >C>ts T
= t  , ' 22  |,lEHlrl -> _ _  






IBRD 13443
APRIL 1978
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Location of Project Components in Assiut
Proposed Sites and Services Scheme                                                  Etce           TURRET
Old City                                                                                  CR  W f  , SIRA4    IQ
New City                                                                                  4\\\ _r- 5'  IRAQ
A.R 
New Industrial Area                                                                 LIBYA        T AI UT 
I;d    Sewage Pumping Stations                                                             L       IEGYPT           SAUDi
*      Water Pumping Stations                                                                        EY...          ARABIA
O      Artesian Well I
MVain Commnercial Streets                                  f                       CHADi            .    '     'j.
M\ain Streets                                                  J\                           uA-  ^g
WATER TREATMENT
Thr ,ha         to Wrt hrksstafota  forAT
ofteredr o  h  rpr  o  dc  ..te ...h t t h
o                                                       \  or tOrmp   t   he   t
H/zZ  //  \  <~~~~~~~~~~~......
/ff/\t. cp jdtth      ......oa .......o
arcepter...........t......






IBRD 13444
_________________________alJ  S S SEE  9                                                                                                                                                          ARAB      REPUBLIC  OF  EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
South  Ghorb  El Balad  Sites and  Services
Component - Assiut
. . . . . . .   . . . . . . .__ __ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ ___.__ _R____ __ __                                                                                                                        -ndrr .l Are.  Zone  A
Rns,denpia  Area Zon  B
R:sid-rial Area Z_one.C
C       iy Fa -  n jijij
. ~Green Are-
_______  Asphaired Veirclap Roaar
Graded Vej,c.l.r Roads
`.eanirlon Paihc
C77;                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Canal
-  . -   .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... . ...n'                                                           4   4 
rz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ni
L                  'nA          -A
Li  J   Li                                                        Li         Li       U             U         Li  j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arn                                          c
oucac               PcrO-



