Document of
The World Bank                       RETURN TO
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               REPORTS D_SK
WITHI N
ONE WEKEJ.
Report No.1976-EGT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
June 6, 1978
Urban Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 EgypLian Pound (LE)               =  US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                         =  LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)               =  US$1.43
1 US Dollar                         =  LE 0.7
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)      2=  39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (m )                 =   10.8 square feet (sq. ft.)
1 cubic meter (cu. m)               =   35.3 cubic feet (cu. ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    =   0.62 mil  (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                      =   10,000 2  or 2.471 acres
1 acre                              =   4,047 m  or 0.405 hectares
1 liter per capita per day (lcd)   =   0.264 US gallon per capita
per day (gpcd)
1 kilogram (kg)                     =   2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 pound (lb)                        =   0.454 kg
1 ton (short)                       =   2,000 lbs or 907 kg
1 tonne (metric)                    =   2,205 lbs or 1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DIB    -  Development Industrial Bank
EIDDC  -  Engineering and Industrial Design and Development Center
Fund   -  Low Income Housing Fund
GOPP   -  General Organization for Physical Planning
GOPW   -  General Organization for Potable Water
GOSSD  -  General Organization for Sewerage and Sanitary Drainage
HIPCO  -  Handicraft Industries and Productive Cooperatives
Organization
LIHDU  - Low Income Housing Development Unit
MOH    -  Ministry of Housing
MORNC  -  Ministry of Reconstruction and New Communities
PVT    -  Productivity and Vocational Training Department,
Ministry of Industry
USAID  -  U.S. Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .................................................                1
A.   Urban Development in Egypt              ...........................    1
B.   The Project Cities           ...................................    6
II.  THE PROJECT ... .... ....                           ..................   8
A.   Objectives  ...........................................    8
B.   Main Features ......          .............................           8
C.   Detailed Description .................................   10
III.   PROJECT COSTS, EXECUTION AND FINANCING .........               ...........   24
A.   Cost Estimates .......................................   24
B.   Execution ............................................   26
C.   Financing              ............................................   27
D.   Procurement and Disbursement               .........................   31
E.   Accounts and Audits  ..................................   32
IV.   COST RECOVERY .......           ......................................   33
A.   Cost Recovery and Pricing ............................   33
B.   Affordability and Income Distributions  ............          ...   35
V.   ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND FINANCE .................           .....   36
A.   Low Income Housing Fund ..............................   36
B.   Low Income Housing Development Unit ...............           ...   38
C.   Governorates  .........................................   40
D.   The National Bank of Egypt ...........................   43
E.   Handicraft Industries and Productive Cooperatives
Organization ........................................   45
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...........................   47
VII.   RECOMMENDATION .............................................    50
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Egypt in
December 1977. Mission members included Sven Sandstrom, Ramzi Fares and
Maurice Mould (IDA) and Alain Bertaud, John Kirke and Peter Nichols (Con-
sultants). This report was prepared by the mission members and Bernard
Verdier and Sally Cameron.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.   Detailed Cost Estimates
Table I - Sites and Services and Upgrading
Table 2 - Small Business Assistance and Manpower Training
Table 3 - Improvements in Solid Waste Collection and
Disposal
Table 4 - Investigations and Urgent Repairs to Assiut Water Supply
and Sewerage Systems
Table 5 - Consultant and Advisory Services
2.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
PHOTOGRAPHS
1.   Typical Conditions in Mansheit Nasser - Main Settlement (Cairo)
2.   Typical Conditions in Mansheit Nasser - Zabbaleen Settlement (Cairo)
3.   Typical Conditions in North Bassateen (Cairo) and New Nagaa El Arab
(Alexandria)
4.   Typical Conditions in El Gamalia (Central Cairo)
MAPPS
1.   IBRD 13439 - Location of Project Components in Cairo
2.   IBRD 13440 - Mansheit Nasser Upgrading Component - Cairo
3.   IBRD 13544 - Mansheit Nasser Upgrading Component:  Water Supply
and Sanitary Sewer Systems
4.   IBRD 13441 - Location of Project Components in Alexandria
5.   IBRD 13442 - South Metras Sites and Services and New Nagaa
El Arab Upgrading Components - Alexandria
6.   IBRD 13443 - Location of Project Components in Assiut
7.   IBRD 13444 - South Gharb El Balad Sites and Services Component -
Assiut



EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Urban Development in Egypt
Urbanization Trends
1.01      Egypt is a highly urbanized country considering its economic
structure and per capita GNP (US$280 in 1976). Out of a resident population
of 37 million, 17 million (46%) live in urban settlements of more than 20,000
people. Greater Cairo, which includes the Governorate of Cairo, the cities
of Giza and Embaba in the Giza Governorate and the city of Shoubra El Kheima
in the Kalyoubia Governorate, now has a population of about 8.5 million, or
about half of the country's urban population, increasing at a rate of about
4% per year. Urbanization is continuing at a rapid pace. Whereas Egypt's
population is growing at about 2.3% per year, its urban population is increas-
ing at 3.6% annually. About 31% of the urban population, or 5.3 million per-
sons, have incomes below the Bank-defined urban poverty threshold of LE 383
(US$547) per household per year (1977).
1.02      Most of Egypt's population is concentrated on only 4% of its land
along the banks of the Nile and its delta. Population pressure on inhabit2d
land is severe, with the average density of more than 1,000 persons per km
among the highest in the world. Per capita cultivated area has dropped from
about 0.5 acres at the turn of the century to less than 0.2 acres today. Job
seekers are forced to migrate in increasing numbers to the urban areas and in
particular to Greater Cairo. Although the growth of the two largest cities,
Cairo and Alexandria, is occurring largely on non-arable land, there is in
many places a serious conflict between the expansion of urban areas and the
need to preserve arable land.
Administration
1.03      Responsibility for meeting the needs of the growing urban popula-
tion is shared by local and central government institutions. The Ministry
of Local Government is responsible for development and supervision of local
government institutions. Under this ministry the country is divided into
25 governorates, each headed by a governor. He is appointed by the President
and is the local head of all civil government staff. Each governorate has a
local elected council and most are further organized into district, town and
village councils. All councils are subordinate to the governor. The Cairo
Governorate has no town or village councils but has a local council and 11
district councils. The two other governorates of Greater Cairo (Giza and
Kalyoubia) follow the norm and have local, town and village councils.
Alexandria Governorate has a local council and four district councils.
Assiut Governorate, in Upper Egypt, has local, town and village councils.
1.04      Mandatory powers are vested in governorates to control and supervise
all local activities and also to oversee central government organizations
operating in the governorates. In this respect, planning, design and execution
of urban development projects are governorate responsibilities. To fulfill



- 2 -
these functions each governorate has a number of technical departments, mostly
called directorates, which are the extension of the central government at the
local level.
1.05      Frequently local government bodies look to the central government
for technical support, particularly to the Ministry of Housing (MOH) and the
Ministry of Reconstruction and New Communities (MORNC) 1/ which are respons-
ible nationally for the provision of housing and most infrastructure services
as well as for the reconstruction effort following the recent wars. MORNC
shares with the governorates the control over General Organizations, such as
the General Organization for Potable Water (GOPW), and the General Organiza-
tion for Sewerage and Sanitary Drainage (GOSSD). MORNC also has overall
responsibility for the General Organization for Physical Planning (GOPP) which
in 1975 replaced the Greater Cairo Planning Commission. GOPP is entrusted
with drawing up regional development plans and assisting local government in
developing master plans, designing urban development projects and establishing
building codes. The Ministry of Local Government is responsible for the
provision of training and technical assistance to small-scale entrepreneurs
through its Handicraft Industries and Productive Cooperatives Organization
(HIPCO).
1.06      In 1975, legislation was enacted to further devolve powers and
responsibilities from the central government to the governorates. In 1977,
eight economic regions and regional planning councils were established, whose
main purpose is to help set priorities for allocation of central and local
government resources and to develop social and economic development policies
at the regional level. In January 1978, as part of the devolution process,
the governorates took full control over all local technical and administrative
staff, including those appointed by the ministries.
Urban Conditions and Policies
1.07      Housing:  The dramatic increase in urban population has not been
matched by a corresponding increase in urban housing and services. Public
and private housing investment in Egypt has declined markedly in the last two
decades. During the 1950's public and private housing investments as a per-
centage of national investment averaged more than 25%, which is about the
norm for growing economies such as Egypt's. During this period annual housing
completions averaged some seven units per thousand urban population, which is
less than the approximately ten per thousand that would have been required to
maintain the level of housing availability. During the 1960's, the level of
housing investment dropped dramatically to less than 10% of national invest-
ment due mainly to a marked reduction in formal private investments. The
construction rate per thousand urban population declined to around 2.5 units
per thousand, excluding informal sector production.
1.08    f"Government policies have contributed to the housing shortage.
Private investment in new housing has been deterred by rent control which
also has led to inadequate maintenance and often to the abandonment of build-
ings by the owners. Publicly built housing has in the__past been rented, at
1/   MOH and MORNC were created in May 1978 by dividing the previous Ministry
of Housing and Reconstruction into two ministries.



subsidized rents, leaving the full burden of maintenance and collection to the
public sector which has not been adequately equipped to carry out these
functions. The cheapest public housing unit currently costs about LE 2,500
(US$3,570) and would without subsidies be beyond the reach of about 90% of the
urban population.}{ As a result, the public housing program, although limited
in scale, has increasingly drained scarce public resources and the housing
built has quickly become dilapidated. The declining level of housing invest-
ment has resulted in a growing housing deficit, mostly reflected in severe
over-crowding. The deficit is officially estimated at 1.5 million units.
Concentration of population reaches sometimes dramatic proportions, particu-
larly in central areas of Cairo. Occupancy rates are high, averaging 3.1
persDns per room in Greater Cairo and about 2 persons per room in other urban
areas.
1.09      While there are shortages of housing at all income levels, the
burden of the urban housing deficit falls most heavily on the poorer groups.
Allocation criteria for subsidized public housing have not been designed to
favor low-income groups and some criteria have even discriminated against
these groups. Privately built housing in the formal sector is only afford-
able to higher income groups. The poor have largely resorted to informal
housing construction through self-help on unserviced public land, without
building permits. It is estimated that about half of all private housing
construction in Egypt takes place in the informal sector and a large and
increasing portion of the housing stock is "illegal". Such informal hous-
ing is generally of good quality and site layouts are efficient with ade-
quate right-of-ways, in contrast to squatter areas in many other countries.
The major problems are lack of security of tenure and lack of services. p
1.10      Infrastructure Services:  The provision of urban services has not
kept pace with the growing population. A few cities, notably Alexandria,
are relatively well served with water, although often at the cost of over-
loading treatment works. Systems in other cities, however, provide at best
intermittent supply and low pressures. There are water shortages in city
centers and little or no access to public supplies in fringe areas. In-
dustries have frequently developed their own sources of water. After allowing
for leakage and other losses, estimated at about 40%, an overall average of
about 120 lcd remains available for all purposes. The comparable figure
for other Middle Eastern cities with similar climatic and developmental char-
acteristics is 140 lcd or more. These figures suggest an overall shortage
of water in Egyptian cities, in addition to its uneven distribution between
and within cities. Sewer systems in Egypt are generally confined to the
central areas of larger cities and serve only about half of the urban popu-
lation. Reliable data are not available on the overall availability and use
of alternative waste disposal systems such as septic tanks.
1.11      Solid waste collection is a major problem throughout urban Egypt.
The governorates' responsibility for refuse collection is limited to street
cleansing. House-to-house collection is left to small private contrac-
tors called Zabbaleen who pay fees to middlemen for the right to collect waste
from designated buildings. Zabbaleen are usually squatters earning their
living by sorting the refuse at their settlements and selling all reusable



- 4 -
matter. In Cairo, the Zabbaleen also feed organic waste to pigs which they
raise to sell to supplement their income. Composted waste is sold to farmers
as fertilizer. It is more profitable for the Zabbaleen to collect refuse from
wealthy areas and-poor neighborhoods are neglected. In Cairo, for instance,
the Zabbaleen collect by donkey cart about 45% of all household waste, or
1,800 tonnes per day, at no cost to the governorate. This comprises most of
the waste from wealthy and middle class neighborhoods, about half the waste
from lower middle class areas and none from the low income districts. In
Alexandria, the Zabbaleen collect about 50% of the city's domestic waste. In
both cities, uncollected waste is thrown onto the streets from where some is
subsequently removed by the governorates' street cleansing departments. Waste
therefore accumulates on the streets where it constitutes a serious health
hazard, particularly in the poorer areas. Streets in the old central areas of
Cairo are often covered by up to half a meter of accumulated refuse mixed with
sewage and water from overloaded and broken pipes. Refuse is often dumped
into sewer manholes further aggravating the problems of sewerage.
1.12      The Government's tariff and pricing policies have not permitted suf-
ficient revenues to be raised to adequately maintain existing infrastructure
facilities or to respond to new and changing demands. Water charges have
generally remained fixed for many years and bear little relation to produc-
tion or operating costs. Actual receipts collected are only 10% to 20% of
the cost of water supply. Sewer services are provided free. Electricity
charges are increasingly inadequate. Fares for public transport in Greater
Cairo were last set in 1952 and fare revenues of Cairo Transport Authority
now cover only one third of operating costs.
1.13      Health and Education Services:  The provision of health and educa-
tion facilities and personnel in Egypt is generally good relative to other
sectors, and improving. Again, however, the services do not reach the major-
ity of the poor, due partly to managerial difficulties. For instance, while
primary school spaces in urban areas are available for an average of about
75% of children in the relevant age group, the provision in low-income fringe
areas in Greater Cairo is on the order of only 20%. There is an oversupply
of university graduates but a critical shortage of trained workers in indus-
trial and construction trades.
1.14      Employment:  Open unemployment in Egypt is low (reportedly about
2% of the labor force), although underemployment is high. Productivity is
low and a serious shortage of skilled labor has recently developed. Oppor-
tunities for generating productive employment particularly in low-income
areas exist in the private industrial sector, mainly through credit, techni-
cal assistance, and manpower training. The private sector accounts for
some 623,000 jobs or 54% of total industrial employment (1974), with more
than half, or 330,000 jobs, in the artisan sector (establishments with 1-9
employees). Administrative responsibilities for small scale industry are
ill-defined which has hampered the development and implementation of effective
support measures. The recently approved Bank loan to the Development Indus-
trial Bank (DIB) will initiate a concerted effort to assist small scale
industry through DIB, the Engineering and Industrial Design and Development
Center, and the Productivity and Vocational Training Department of the Ministry



of Industry, although little of this assistance would be directed to the
artisan sector per se.
New Responses to Urban Needs
1.15      The Government recognizes the dimension and severity of the growing
urban problems and is in response developing a set of urban policies within
the overall framework of its new economic development strategy and liberaliza-
tion process. Although many of these urban policy initiatives are still at an
exploratory stage and fragmented, they include key elements of a strategy to
help improve the urban situation. A coherent overview and analysis of these
initiatives, their interrelationships and their potential impact remains
to be done, however. It is nevertheless apparent that major improvements
can only be achieved over the long term, due to severe constraints such
as (a) the political difficulty of an immediate move to eliminate built-
in subsidies for urban services, (b) institutional weaknesses in the sector
including a serious and growing shortage of qualified administrators and
technicians, and (c) the high cost of rehabilitating and expanding neglected
infrastructure facilities.
1.16      Spatially, the Government intends to redirect growth away from
Greater Cairo and to areas with non-agricultural land. Reconstruction and
expansion of the Canal Zone cities of Port Said, Ismailia and Suez have begun.
Detailed planning has also started for three new desert cities, each located
about 50 km from Cairo: Sadat City (to the northwest of Cairo), Tenth of
Ramadan (to the northeast) and King Khaled City (to the southwest). Develop-
ment of the desert coastal strip west of Alexandria also forms part of the
spatial strategy. The redirection of urban growth and development of new
cities would require substantial managerial and capital resources but may
be a viable part of a long-term solution to Egypt's urban problems. However,
the high per capita development cost and the feasibility of job creation
in the new cities as currently planned are issues that urgently need to be
addressed.
1.17      With regard to infrastructure services, a number of master planning
and project preparation studies are under way for water supply, sewerage and
electricity, with financing already committed for several projects. For
instance, a Bank loan for a US$122 million water supply project in Alexandria
was approved in early 1977. In mid-1977 the Bank also approved a loan for
a US$70.6 million regional electrification project serving 13 cities and 19
rural zones. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
in late 1977 approved financing for a sewerage project in Alexandria and a
water supply project in Cairo. More importantly, studies of institutional
and financial issues in these sectors have been initiated. In this regard,
IDA is providing assistance through a technical assistance credit for a Water
Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project approved in December
1977. USAID is helping finance a management and tariff study of water supply
and sewerage in the six largest cities.
1.18      To deal with immediate problems in the housing sector, the Govern-
ment has recently taken several important initiatives. A Low Income Housing



- 6 -
Fund under MOH was established in 1976, to help finance low cost housing for
low income groups. New legislation that would inter alia remove some of the
anomalies of the rent control laws was introduced in 1977, although rent
control per se would remain. The MOH has also, with assistance from USAID,
recently completed a study of the housing sector including proposals for cost
reduction through modified design standards and improved site planning, in-
creased cost recovery and mobilization of private savings for housing.
1.19      A crucial decision taken by the Government in early 1977 was to
initiate a program of comprehensive low cost sites and services and squatter
area upgrading schemes (community development schemes). Although this
program would focus on the provision of new and improved shelter, it would
also address issues of low cost design and affordability of infrastructure
services and of low cost job creation, thereby bringing together in one
program several vital aspects of the Government's hitherto rather fragmented
urban initiatives requiring concerted analyses and developmental efforts.
The program is expected to have important demonstration effects throughout
Egypt's urban sector. The proposed project would represent a first phase of
the program. It has been conceived and designed by a Project Preparation
Unit in GOPP, with the assistance of consultants financed by IDA through an
advance from the Project Preparation Facility.
1.20      The proposed project would be located in Cairo, Alexandria and
Assiut. Egypt's urban problems are concentrated in Cairo and Alexandria
which are the two largest urban areas, together accounting for two-thirds
of the country's urban population. Assiut is representative of a wide range
of small- to medium-sized cities with quite high growth rates. Discussions
are also underway between the Government and USAID regarding possible USAID
financial assistance for a housing project in Greater Cairo, principally in
Helwan on the southern fringe of the metropolitan area.
B. The Project Cities
Cairo
1.21      Greater Cairo is the largest metropolitan area on the African con-
tinent, with a population of about 8.5 million (para 1.01). It is also one
of the world's oldest cities. The area, particularly Heliopolis, Memphis
and Giza, played an important political and religious role throughout anti-
quity. Alexandria (see para 1.23) became the capital during the Greek and
Roman periods but with the Moslem conquest in the seventh century A.D., the
capital was transferred back to Cairo (to Old Cairo, in the southern part of
the city). Each new dynasty subsequently built its own "madina," including
El Qahira in present-day central Cairo (about 970 A.D.). The last of the
madinas was the Citadel, built around 1175 A.D. The population peaked at
about 300,000 in the 13th and 14th centuries and then declined during the
Ottoman period. Since the early 19th century, the population has steadily
increased. The city is one of the world's most important religious and cul-
tural centers, with more than 400 mosques, 100 churches and 25 museums. It
is also a major political, financial and commercial center for the Middle
East and the Arab world.



1.22      Severe population pressures and deteriorating urban services have
over the past two decades led to a worsening of living conditions in Cairo.
Many attempts have been made to reverse this trend. For instance, over the
past two decades, three master plans and several housing and transport plans
have been drawn up, but neither the local nor the central government has had
the institutional capacity or financial resources to implement them. In the
absence of an effective development policy and adequate housing investments,
the rapidly expanding low income population has suffered heavily. Up to the
early 1960s most of the low income population growth was accommodated in the
medieval districts of central Cairo where Iive to six story apartment build-
ings now house up to 150,000 people per km . When the central core became
saturated, migrants began to settle in a six-mile tract of tombs, known as
the City of the Dead, along the eastern edge of Cairo. Now close to half a
million people live among the tombs. Unserviced squatter settlements have
also developed in many other parts of the metropolitan area.
Alexandria
1.23      Alexandria was founded by Alexander the Great in 332 B.C. on the
site of an old settlement, Rakoda. It was seized by Caesar in 48 B.C. and
became the second city of the Roman empire with a population of 500,000.
The city declined after the transfer of the capital to Cairo in the seventh
century. The construction of the Mahmudiya canal in the early 19th century
connected Alexandria with the Nile and allowed irrigation of surrounding
land. The city prospered again. Today, Alexandria, strung out 25 kilometers
along a narrow coastal strip between the Mediterranean and Lake Maryut, has
a population estimated at 2.6 million increasing at a rate of about 3% per
year. It is the nation's most important seaport and holiday resort and also
an important industrial center.
1.24      The growth of Alexandria is constrained by the sea to the northwest,
valuable agricultural land to the northeast and Lake Maryut to the southeast
esee Map 4). New migrants tend to seek shelter in a few limited areas near
the center of the city and the port. To ease pressure on these areas and to
prevent the growth of slums, it is intended to concentrate future growth in
the area of El Ameriya, some 12 km southwest of the city. The immediate needs
for housing must, however, be met by providing new and improved housing close
to existing centers of employment. A number of low income squatter settle-
ments have established themselves along the edge of Lake Maryut.
Assiut
1.25      Assiut is located 375 km south of Cairo on the west bank of the
River Nile. The city has a population of around 270,000, growing at about
3% per year. It is a market center for its agricultural hinterland, and
also the2administrative center of the Assiut Governorate which covers some
1,550 km with a population of 1.7 million. It is an educational center,
with 30,000 students at the University of Assiut and a branch of El Azhar
University.



- 8 -
1.26      The city comprises two distinct parts - the old town to the west
and the modern town to the east. The modern town dates back to mid-19th
century. It grew largely in association with the construction of the Assiut
Barrage across the Nile and the Ibrahimiya Canal, which irrigates an area of
more than 400,000 ha between Assiut and Cairo. The old historic town has an
estimated population of 60,000 living at densities approaching 800 persons
per hectare. Many of the buildings are in poor structural condition and less
than 20% are connected to the water supply or sewerage systems. Extensive
use is therefore made of communal 'catch pits' for tipping of sullage and
solid wastes. Improvements to infrastructure, particularly the sewerage and
water supply systems are a prerequisite of further growth and of improved
living conditions in Assiut.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
2.01      The main objective of the project is to help develop and implement
low cost solutions to Egypt's urban problems in the sectors of shelter, em-
ployment, and other urban services, and particularly to make the investments
responsive to the needs of the poor. To help ensure replicability, the
project will improve cost recovery especially for shelter and related site
infrastructure, for which costs have traditionally not been adequately re-
covered. The project would also help establish and strengthen institutions
in the sector, including a new Low Income Housing Development Unit, the Low
Income Housing Fund in MOH (see paras 5.02-5.09) and the Handicraft Industries
and Productive Cooperatives Organization (HIPCO) in the Ministry of Local
Government (see para 5.25). The project is viewed as a modest first demon-
stration project which would test key elements of the Government's urban
policy initiatives and also help lay the basis for an expanded urban develop-
ment program (para. 1.19).
B. Main Features
2.02      To achieve the above objectives the project would comprise:
(a) Upgrading: The upgrading of four low-income settlements
- Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement), Mansheit Nasser
(Zabbaleen Settlement), and North Bassateen in Cairo, and
New Nagaa El Arab in Alexandria - with a total population
of about 97,000 people and covering 160 hectares. These
settlements were selected as representative of the upgrading
problems that exist in rapidly expanding settlements on
the fringes of urban areas, for which appropriate designs
need to be developed and tested. Upgrading would be
achieved through provision of secure tenure; improved or



- 9 -
new on-site and off-site infrastructure including access
and circulation roads, water supply, sanitation, electricity,
and refuse collection; community facilities including schools,
health and community centers; and building materials loans.
Project costs would average LE 145 (US$210) per household
(1977 prices).
(b) Sites and Services: Provision of about 4,600 serviced
plots, with on-plot water supply and sewerage facilities,
ablution units, plot perimeter walls, home construction
loans and community facilities, as well as areas for work-
shops and commercial activities, benefiting a population
of approximately 23,000 people in two areas - South Metras
in Alexandria (9,000 persons) and South Gharb el Balad in
Assiut (14,000 persons) covering about 40 ha. Project
costs would average LE 960 (US$1,375) per household (1977
prices).
(c) Small Business Assistance and Manpower Training Program:
Provision, at the above sites, of (i) loans for small
businesses, to be used for workshop construction, equipment
and working capital, (ii) technical assistance and training
for small businesses, and (iii) vocational training and
accelerated training. About 1,100 jobs would be created at
an average cost of LE 1,350 (US$1,940) per job.
(d)  Improvements in Solid Waste Collection and Disposal:  The
initial phase of a program aimed at (i) introducing low-
cost intermediate technology waste disposal systems, and
(ii) improving waste collection particularly in low-in-
come areas by expanding the role of small private con-
tractors (the Zabbaleen) (para 1.11):
Cairo: Provison of a 10 tonnes/day pilot composting plant
at Shoubra (see Map 1); after one year of testing and moni-
toring performance, a 200 tonnes/day plant would be built.
Provision of a 35 tonnes/day plant at Mansheit Nasser with
technical assistance and training to the Zabbaleen and in-
troduction of a daily collection service in the main Mansheit
Nasser settlement.
Alexandria: Provision of street cleaning equipment, depots,
maintenance equipment and vehicles to help strengthen the
Governorate's street cleaning and waste management service.
Provision of a pilot composting plant with a 10 tonnes/day
capacity at South Metras with daily collection of household
waste from the project areas.
(e) Urgent Repairs of Assiut Water Supply and Sewerage Systems:
Provision of consultant services to design and assist in
urgent repairs to treatment plants, pumping station and



10 -
networks. Provision of vehicles, workshop facilities and
equipment for testing, maintaining and monitoring the
operation of plants and networks.
(f)  Consultant and Advisory Services:  Provision of consul-
tant and advisory services for (i) project design and
implementation, (ii) preparation of further projects,
and (iii) management and technical assistance to the Low
Income Housing Fund and HIPCO.
2.03      The project would demonstrate the feasibility of providing low cost
housing affordable to the lowest income groups. The minimum plot options,
costing a total of about US$910 in Alexandria and US$730 in Assiut, would be
affordable to about 80% and 90% of Egypt's urban population, respectively.
These costs are only 20%-25% of the cost of the cheapest public housing now
available in Egypt (para 1.08). The project would also initiate slum upgrad-
ing with provision of security of tenure as a low cost approach to improving
the living conditions of the urban poor. The creation of permanent jobs in
the artisan sector would be integrated with the provision of housing and urban
services, at low cost. A beginning would also be made in introducing low cost
intermediate technology solutions to city-wide deficiencies in the delivery of
urban services, particularly solid waste collection and disposal which in the
past has been seriously neglected (para 1.11). Institutions would be strength-
ened, firstly, to help implement, monitor and evaluate the project schemes,
and, secondly, to help expand the new approaches to low cost urban develop-
ment initiated under the project on a larger scale for the long term.
C. Detailed Description
Upgrading
2.04      Cairo:  Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement):  This settlement is sit-
uated on the eastern edge of Cairo's built-up area between the City of the
Dead and the Mokattam Hills (see Map 1). The settlement has been developed
on quarried land. Some quarrying continues in the eastern part of the site.
The main settlement extends over approximately 96 ha and has a population
estimated at about 55,000 persons. The number of households is approximately
11,000 living on about 2,500 plots. There is extensive small-scale manufactur-
ing activity on the site and in surrounding areas, including handicraft (Khan
El Khalili). The settlers have built houses of generally good quality brick
or stone construction. The two main problems in the settlement are the very
low level of services and insecurity of tenure. Due to the rocky nature of
the site and steep slopes, the improvement of infrastructure poses technical
problems particularly in view of the need for low cost design solutions.
2.05      Access to the site is difficult with no surfaced roads and all
roads are in a very bad condition. Water supply is poor - less than 10%
of the plots have water connections and most of the settlers rely on water
vendors and on eight public standpipes of which several are not functioning.



- 11 -
Substantial individual investments have been made in cesspits which have been
constructed for about 80% of the plots. They are emptied irregularly with
donkey carts. There is no solid waste collection. Electricity service to
plots is fairly good, via a system of on-ground cables, but there is no
street lighting. Community facilities are poor. There is only one primary
school of 16 classrooms, meeting only about 18% of the need. The following
improvements are proposed under the project (see Maps 2 and 3):
(a) Surfacing of about 6,400 m of access and circulation
roads, including the three access points to the settle-
ment and the main commercial streets.  A further 3,000
m of secondary access routes would be graded.
(b) Improvement to water supply facilities by provision of
a new booster pump and 650 m of 300 mm diameter mains.
Extension of existing network by provision of 7,200 m
of new pipeline, allowing up to 60% of the plots to have
individual house connections. Repair or replacement of
the eight existing standpipes and the provision of 23 new
standpipes to provide water within 100 m of all other
plots on the basis of 1 standpipe/400 persons.
(c) Improvements in sanitation. Four hundred and fifty existing
cesspits would be repaired or reconstructed and up to 400
new units would be provided while 100 existing ones would
be abandoned, bringing the total number of cesspits to
about 2,300. Eight hundred plots within the central area
which will be provided with on-plot water would be con-
nected to a new piped sewerage system by the provision of
9,000 m of pipe. Existing cesspits will be used to form
manholes wherever economical. In certain areas with shallow
depth of cover to rock, existing cesspits will be retained
in use but connected with pipes that will convey overflowing
effluent to the central system. Specially designed donkey
carts with hand pumps would be provided to empty cesspits in
other areas. Piped sewage and effluent from the cesspits
would be discharged into a pumping station now being com-
pleted next to the site.
(d)  Extension of the electricity system by the provision, off-
site, of 4,000 m of power lines and 8 new 500 kva trans-
formers. On-site works would include the burying of
8,000 m of existing cable and the laying of 7,800 m of new
cables providing 1,300 plots with direct access to elec-
tricity supply. About 500 street lights would provide
security lighting in all main streets and access roads.
(e) Solid waste collection by the Zabbaleen (see para 2.07).
(f) Provision of materials for home improvement. Loans
averaging LE 50 would be available for about 5,000 house-
holds.



- 12 -
(g) Improvement of community facilities. Community facilities
would be improved to the average level of service prevail-
ing in Greater Cairo through the provision of (i) three
primary schools of 14 classrooms, each with a capacity
of 45 students per class and operating on double shifts;
(ii) one secondary school for girls with 14 classrooms;
(iii) a health clinic and a dispensary with integrated
health and family planning services to be provided as
under the IDA-assisted population project; and (iv) a
community center. Open areas would be provided with
simple landscaping. The design principles for community
facilities and the services provided would be similar for
the other upgrading and sites and services schemes.
(h)  Development of about 385 new or infill plots with water
supply, sewerage and ablution units.
2.06      Service levels and chargeable costs are indicated in Table II-1.
Total project cost per household for all of the above improvements averages
only LE 135 (US$190). The improvements would represent a first phase of
upgrading the settlement. They are partly determined by constraints such as
the off-site availability of trunk water supply and central sewage disposal
facilities and also by the low income level in the settlement. As such
constraints are gradually removed in the future, further upgrading would
be undertaken. The project design makes maximum use of existing facilities
and allows these to be integrated into new or improved systems over time with
substantial cost savings as a result. For instance, many cesspits will con-
tinue to be used individually for several years but may eventually form part
of an expanding sewerage system to which overflowing effluent may be conveyed
from the cesspits, or where they can function as manholes where individual
plots are connected to the central system.
2.07      Cairo:  Mansheit Nasser (Zabbaleen Settlement):  Next to the main
Mansheit Nasser site is the largest Zabbaleen settlement in Cairo (para 1.11).
This 30 hectare settlement provides basic shelter, refuse sorting areas and
small pig breeding areas for about 15,000 people but lacks basic infrastruc-
ture facilities. Access roads are unsurfaced, in very poor condition and
dangerously steep. There are no water or sanitation facilities on the site.
About 1,000 tons of waste is collected daily by the inhabitants and brought
to the settlement by donkey cart for recycling. The waste is first sorted,
mostly by women and children. Tin, glass, etc. is mainly sold to middlemen
who in turn sell these materials to small workshops in central Cairo. Organic
waste is fed to the pigs who share living quarters with each family. Organic
waste not eaten by the pigs is mixed with animal and human excreta and, after
composting, sold to farmers. Other combustible waste was in the past sold as
fuel, mainly to bakeries, but can no longer compete with other fuels such as
oil and is accumulating on the site, creating a serious fire hazard. Living
conditions are extremely bad. It is estimated that less than 40% of children
survive their first year. Proposed improvements would cost an average of
LE 130 (US$185) per household and are as follows:



EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table II-1: Plot Options, Charges and Affordability (1977 Prices)
Slum Upgrading Areas
Chargeable                                                                  Percent
plot Charges and       Estimated       Coat per       Estimated        Average Cost       Average Monthly          of Income      Yearly      Percentile
Affordability       Numsber of        Plot         Nsmber of            per               Payment per             for          Income       Reached
Plots            (LE)       Households       Household               Household 1/         Repayment       (LE)       (Egypt Urban
Plot Options                                                                                       (LE)                 (LE)                                            Population)
A. MANSHEIT NASSER (CAIRO)
(a) Central Area:  Land and Basic              600           418.9           3,630             69.3                   0.8                  5.0           196            8th
Infrastructure
(b) Option (a) plus water and                  310           612.9           1,870            101.6                   1,2                  5.0          290            19th
sewerage connections
(c) Option (b) plus building loans              90           732.0             550             119.8                  1.4                  c.0           210           10th
(d) Peripheral Area: Land and Basic            820           234.8           2,715             70.9                   0.8                  5.0          202             9th
Infrastructure
(e) Option (d) plus cesspit repair             340           295.1           1,125             89.1                   1.1                  5.0          254            16th
(f) Option (d) plus new cesspit                130           346.5             420            107.3                   1.3                  5.0          305            21st
(g)  Option (d) plus building loan             210           342.5             690            104.2                   1.2                  8.0           180            7th
(h) New plots with ablution unit and           385           349.6             580            232.1                   2.7                  15.0          216           11th
building loan
Total Mansheit Nasser                    2,885                          11,580             90.8
B. NORTH BASSATEEN (CAIRO)
(a) Land plus basic infrastructure           1,980           142.0           2,970             94.7                   1.1                   5.0          264           15th
plus building loans
(b) New Plots (60 m2): ablution unit           500           390.0             750            260.0                   3.1                  15.0          248           14th
plus building loan
(c) New Plots (80 a2); ablution unit           100           570.0             150            380.0                   4.5                  15.0          360           26th
plus building loan
Total North Bassateen                    2,580                           3,870            137.8
C.  NEP NACAA EL ARAB (ALEXANDRIA)
(a) Land plus basic infrastructure             300           125.0             550             68.2                   0.8                   5.0          192            8th
(b) Option (a) plus pit latrines               370           150.0             450            123.3                   1.5                   5.0          360           26th
Total New Nagaa El Arab                    670                           1,000             93.0
1/  7. interest over 10 years



- 14 -
(a) Two main access roads and the main artery (about 1,700 m)
would be graded and asphalted. Two additional access
roads of 1,500 m would be graded and improved;
(b) Water supply would be brought to the settlement and would
serve four multi-tap standpipes, three public ablution
units each incorporating about 20 showers and washing
sheds, and three fire hydrants. 1,600 m of new water
mains would be required;
(c) Electricity would be provided to community buildings and
ablution units. 1,600 m of cable would be provided, with
some 30 street lights;
(d) Demonstration housing for living, waste sorting and pig
breeding would be constructed. Building materials for
self-help improvement of existing houses would be provided
at a value of up to LE 50 per household. Loans of the
same amount would be provided for repair and replacement
of donkey carts;
(e) A tin-baling plant and a composting plant with a 35
tonnes per day capacity would be installed to be operated
by the community; and
(f) One primary school of 14 classrooms with a capacity of
45 students per class and operating on double shifts;
one health center; and one community center would be
constructed.
2.08      Consultant services would be provided specifically to assist in
further studying the settlement and in the detailed design and implementation
of this complex upgrading scheme. The proposed improvements would represent
only a first cautious phase of upgrading with a second phase to be considered
only after the further study of the settlement and its role in Cairo's waste
management system. Attention will also be given to the extensive use presently
made of child labor.
2.09      Cairo:  North Bassateen (Kulaha Settlement):  The 23 hectare settle-
ment of Kulaha, with a present population of 15,000 people is located 7 kilo-
meters from the center of Cairo and is close to a 12-hectare industrial site
(see Map 1). Access to the site is good and roads within the site are ade-
quate, but there is no water supply, no sewerage, no waste disposal facilities
and no community facilities. Proposed improvements would cost an average of
LE 200 (US$285) per household and would include:
(a) Water supply through standpipes and private connections;
(b) Sewerage improvements through cesspit rehabilitation;
(c) Sanitary facilities through public ablution units and
washing sheds;



- 15 -
(d) Refuse collection;
(e)  Materials for home improvement, at LE 50 per household;
(f) Community facilities including one primary school of 14
classrooms with a capacity of 45 students per class,
operating on a double shift, one health center, one
community center and one playground; and
(g) Development of about 600 plots on vacant land, with
water supply, sewerage and ablution units.
2.10      Alexandria:  New Nagaa El Arab:  New Nagaa El Arab consists of two
small settlements located in close proximity to each other and to the proposed
sites and services area of South Metras by Lake Maryut (see para. 2.13 and
Map 4). One settlement is located on reclaimed land and one on the shore of
the lake. The population of some 5,000 people live in generally well-built
brick houses, but the general level of infrastructure is very poor. Access
routes are unsurfaced and in very poor repair. Water supply is inadequate.
The standpipe serving the reclaimed area is located in a low lying constantly
flooded area. There are no fire hydrants. Sewerage is through cesspits and
soakaways but the high water table and inadequate design prevents normal
sewage disposal and is resulting in accumulation of septic waste on the
ground. There is no electricity, no solid waste collection and no community
facilities on the site. Proposed improvements would cost an average of LE 155
(US$220) per household and would include:
(a) Vehicular access to within 75 m of every plot;
(b) Water supply via external taps within 50 m of every
house;
(c) Improved sanitation through the provision of above-
ground vented pit privies;
(d) Provision of a refuse collection service from bins
located within 50 m of all plots;
(e) Facility for on-plot electricity connections by provi-
sion of one 500 kva transformer, 2,000 m of cable and
security lighting;
(f) Materials for home improvement at LE 50 per house-
hold; and
(g) A primary school and a health center would be provided
in the adjoining sites and services area of South Metras
(see para. 2.19).



- 16 -
2.11      Land Tenure:  The land in all four of the upgrading areas belongs
to the governorates. Residents would be given freehold titles conditional
upon satisfactory payment of plot charges. However, in the case of the
Zabbaleen settlement at Mansheit Nasser, the results of the consultant study
and the response of the community to the detailed proposals will be reviewed
by the Cairo Governorate before a decision is taken on the timing of the
granting of freehold titles. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that freehold titles will be provided in all upgrading areas.
Sites and Services
2.12      Sites and services would be provided at the South Metras site in
Alexandria (covering 15.1 ha, with a design population of 9,000 persons) and
at the South Gharb El Balad site in Assiut (24.4 ha, 14,000 persons). Project
costs would average LE 1,150 (US$1,640) per household in Alexandria and LE 805
(US$1,150) in Assiut. The sites were selected for low-income settlers on
the basis of proximity to suitable employment, availability of off-site
infrastructure and affordability of land prices.
2.13      The South Metras site (see Map 4) is part of a large swampy area on
the edge of Lake Maryut near the port. It is owned by the Alexandria Governo-
rate and will be reclaimed. The site is within walking distance of the em-
ployment centers of the western port, an industrial area, and the major mar-
ket areas. The Alexandria - Mersa Matruh railway line adjoins the northern
boundary of the site and town bus routes are within 400 m. The site is served
by a water main parallel to the railway and a new sewage treatment plant is
under construction on reclaimed land immediately east of the site.
2.14      The South Gharb El Balad site (see Map 6) is part of a large area
of generally flat agricultural land on the southern edge of the city of
Assiut. It is within walking distance of the central commercial areas to the
north and the expanding industrial area to the east. An asphalted road
adjoins the northern boundary of the site alongside the El Mallah canal.
Overhead power lines cross the site and a 40 m right of way free of construc-
tion would be provided under them. The land has recently been acquired by the
Assiut Governorate.
2.15      Site layout and land use:  Layouts for each site have been designed
to ensure the most effective use of land and infrastructure (see Maps 5 and
7).  Most residential plots would be provided with pedestrian access only.
Vehicular access would be limited to primary and secondary roads, providing
service to within 75 m of every plot. Residential areas are distributed in
such a way as to provide vehicular access to all the larger plots which would
bear a greater part of the total infrastructure cost and which would eventual-
ly develop commercial frontages. Land would be differentially priced accord-
ing to its location and accessibility.  Three price zones have been distin-
guished within the residential areas: Zone A with no specific activity
potential, Zone B with small retail activity potential and Zone C with high
commercial potential.



- 17 -
2.16      Land use distribution for each site is shown in Table II-2 below:
Table II-2: Summary of Land Use
ALEXANDRIA                 ASSIUT
South Metras        South Gharb El Balad
A.  Marketable land (to which         Area    Percent of        Area    Percent of
costs are allocated)              (ha)       Total          (ha)       Total
1.  Residential (total)          (9.65)      (63.7)       (14.93)      (61.3)
Zone A                      7.01        46.3         12.26       50.3
Zone B                      1.14         7.5          0.62         2.5
Zone C                      1.50         9.9          2.05         8.5
2.  Workshops                     0.44         3.0          1.58         6.5
3.  Fishermen                     0.09         0.6
4.  Community facilities          0.83         5.5          0.65         2.7
Subtotal                   11.01        72.8        17.16        70.5
B. Non-marketable land (to which
costs are not allocated)
5.  Open space                    0.26         1.7          0.43         1.8
6.  Vehicular circulation         1.70        11.2          2.31         9.4
7.  Pedestrian Circulation        2.17        14.3          4.46        18.3
Subtotal                    4.13       27.2          7.20        29.5
TOTAL                      15.14      100.0         24.36       100.0
2.17      Plot sizes and plot development:  Some 1,822 plots would be developed
in A exandria and 2,791 plots in Assiut. Three plot sizes would be provided:
45 m , 54 m and 72 m . All plots would have individual water supply and
sewerage connections. Sewage disposal would be via an on-site pumping station
to the adjoining treatment plant at Alexandria and to the central pumping
station at Assiut. A low tension electricity network would bring electricity
to the boundary of every plot, while street lighting would be provided on all
primary and secondary circulation routes. Solid waste would be collected from
refuse bins located on-street within 75 meters of every plot.
2.18      In addition to the above basic infrastructure, most plots would be
provided with an ablution unit consisting of a lime brick wall enclosure
located at the back of the plot. The ablution unit would contain a flush
toilet with a water tap on the external wall. Most plots would also have a



- 18 -
perimeter wall built of lime brick. Walls between plots will be built to
support a second story. The perimeter wall is considered a vital element
of the sche es as it provides immediate privacy on occupation of the plot. A
room of 9 m would be provided on 25% of the plots. Building materials would
be made available to plot allottees to enable them to build a first room
through self-help. The various plot options are shown in Table II-3 and
Sketch II-1. Table II-3 also indicates chargeable costs and affordability.
The minimum plot option would cost only an estimated LE 510 (US$730) in
Assiut and LE 640 (US$910) in Alexandria, which is affordable to 90% and
80% of Egypt's urban population, respectively (see Chapter IV).
2.19      Community Facilities:  The project would provide for the construc-
tion of one school of 14 classrooms and one health center in both Assiut and
Alexandria. Community facilities provided for in the sites and services area
of Alexandria (South Metras) would also cater to the needs of the population
of New Nagaa El Arab (para. 2.10).
2.20      Land Tenure:  Land at South Metras is owned by the Alexandria
Governorate. Land at South Gharb El Balad has been acquired by the Assiut
Governorate for the purpose of the project (para. 2.14). All plots would be
sold with freehold titles to beneficiaries, conditional upon satisfactory
payments.
Small Business Assistance and Manpower Training Program
2.21      The project includes:  (i) small business loans, (ii) extension ser-
vices, and (iii) manpower training. Small business loans would be provided
for workshop construction, equipment purchase and working capital in the up-
grading and sites and services areas. A line of credit of LE 805,000 (US$1.15
million) is proposed for this purpose. The National Bank of Egypt which has
branch offices in all project cities and experience of similar schemes (see
paras 5.21-5.24) would implement the loan program. Loans would be up to a
maximum of LE 5,000 (US$7,150) per enterprise, but the average individual loan
would be about LE 850 (US$1,200). These demand estimates are based on surveys
carried out in project areas, typical workshop designs, and experience of
similar schemes.
2.22      The Handicraft Industries and Productive Cooperatives Organization
(HIPCO) which has responsibility for the artisan sector (see para. 5.25) would
provide extension services to the small businesses on the project sites and,
as appropriate, in the surrounding community. A team of three persons would
be organized for each site, including (i) a technical advisor with a trainee
assistant who would assist entrepreneurs in production engineering, product
quality, marketing, etc., and (ii) a liaison officer who would coordinate and
promote the various activities under the program (site development and plot
allocation, loans, technical advice and training) and provide general coun-
selling to entrepreneurs, employees, unemployed and trainees in the community.
Consultants would assist HIPCO in providing these extension services (see
para. 2.28).
2.23      Vocational and accelerated training programs would be provided by
HIPCO in fields that will complement the assistance given to the small busi-
ness sector. At Mansheit Nasser, where no vocational training or secondary



EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table II-3: Plot Options, Charges and Affordability (1977 Prices).
Sites and Services
ALEXANDRIA                                                            ASSIUT
(South Metras)                                                  South Charb El Balad
1.  Plot type                                  1     2      3     4      6    Workshop   Fish.         1     2      3      4     5    Workshop    Workshop    Workshop
2.  Number of plots                           550   454   400   210   208       61         16         550  1,050  762   114   285         55          88           36
3.  Plot size (m2)                             45    54    54    54    72        72        54          45      54   54    54    72        72          90          108
4.  Plot dimensions (m)                       5x9   6x9   6x9   6x9   6x12   6xl2         6x9         5x9   6x9   6x9   6x9    6x12        -           -           -
5.  Price zone                                 A     A      A     B       C   Workshop   Fish.         A     A      A      B      C   Workshop    Workshop    Workshop
6.  Price per m2 (LE)                         7.7   7.7   7.7   14       25     25         13         4.8   4.8  4.3       8     10       15          15           15
7.  Total price for land and infra-           347   416   416  756  1,800    1,800        702        215    258  258    432   720   1,080          1,350          1,620
structure including interest
during construction and manage-
ment cost (LE/Plot)
8.  Connection cost (LE/plot)                  23    23    23   23       -         -       _          23      23   23      23    23         -
9.  Ablution unit (L&/plot)                    68    68    68   68       -         -       -          68      68   68      68    68        -
10.  Perimeter wall (LE/plot)                  146   160   118   71       -         _        -        146    160  118       71    29         -
11.  Built room (LE/plot)                       -      -    183   -       -         -       -          -       -   183      -      -         -          -            -
12.  Self-help materials (LE/plot)              30    30    -    -        -         -        -         30      30   -       -      -         -           -           -
13. Interest during construction
and management cost (LE/plot)              25    27    42   17       -         -       -          28     29   46       19    14
14.  Total on-Plot Cost (LE/plot)              292   308   434  179       -         -       _         295    310  438    181   134
15.  Total Price (L7  +  L14)                  639   724   850  935  1,800   1,800        702         510    568  696    613   854   1,080          1,350          1,620
1/       /                  =/
16.  Downpayment (LE/plot)                      32    36    42   47    180          -                  26      28   35      31    85        -
17.  Loan balance (LE/plot)                    607   688   808  888  1,620          -        -        484    540  661    582   769
18.  Monthly payment (LE/plot)                4.7   5.2   6.2  6.9   12.5           -        -        3.7    4.2  5.1    4.5   6.0
19.  Percent of income for housing              16    18    18   18    15           -        -          18     18   18       13    13       -            -           -
20.  Monthly income required (LE/hh)            26    29    34   35    83           -        _          20      23   28      34    46
21.  Annual income required (LE/hh)            312   348   408  456   996           -        _         240    276  336    408   552         -            -            _
22.  Percentile reached                        21    27    34   40    81            -        -          13      17   25      34    55       -            -            -
23. Income ranges for beneficiary
selection (LE; yearly incomes)
- upper range             340   410   450  510                                    260    340  380    450
- lower range             300   341   380  451    to be auctioned off             210    261  300    381               to be auctioned off
24.  Percentile range
- upper range              25    35    40   50    -             -       -          15      25   30      40   -
- lower range              20    25    30  40    -              -       _          10      15   20      31   -
1/ To be auctioned off.



- 20 -
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sketch II-1: Plot Options
Ablution Units
Typ  1.     ,. e.  -  - ..      ,   , ,  ,                  _-;- -      _ _ 
Type 1                     Type 2                          Type 3
45 m2                      54 m2                            54 m2
Initial Plots as Sold to Users
W1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9. 11. ." .                       la I 
Subsequent Phases as Developed by Users



- 21 -
school facilities are presently available, it is proposed to establish a
center that will serve the training requirements of the four major coopera-
tive societies that operate locally and which represent an important element
in the artisanal sector of the community. This center will accommodate 200
students and will offer courses in (i) furniture and woodwork, (ii) leather-
work, (iii) welding and metal work, and (iv) production of handicrafts, as
well as accelerated training courses in woodwork and metal work. For South
Metras, the training program will be designed to increase the technical
skills of low-income site residents in a number of fields where the avail-
ability of skilled labor is in short supply. Existing Ministry of Industry
training facilities in the site vicinity would be used, and courses in the
fields of automotive repair, welding and sheet metal work would be offered
together with accelerated courses in general welding/metal work. In Assiut
a program of vocational courses for 20 students each in the fields of auto-
motive repair, welding, and general metal work will be offered to complement
the importance and growth of the automotive repair industry near the residen-
tial sites and services area. Accelerated courses in welding would also be
available. It is expected that the central bus depot of Assiut will be re-
located to the project site. A HIPCO training center is located in Assiut
and has the available capacity and facilities to accommodate the program.
Vocational training in building trades for the above project sites are being
considered for inclusion in the proposed Second Education Project.
Improvements in Solid Waste Collection and Disposal - Cairo and Alexandria
2.24      In Cairo a pilot composting plant with a capacity of about 10 tonnes/
day would be built at the Shoubra disposal site to test the composition of
the waste being collected and the quality and marketability of the resulting
compost and further to develop the appropriate design and operating procedures
for a larger plant. After a test period of about one year, a decision would
be made on the design characteristics of a larger plant to be constructed. It
is expected that this plant would have a capacity of about 200 tonnes/day.
Consultant and advisory services to assist in the design, testing and operation
of the plants are also included in the project (see para. 2.28). The experi-
ence from the proposed composting plants and from the upgrading at Mansheit
Nasser is expected to help form the basis for a broader program of improvements
in Cairo.
2.25      In Alexandria, the Governorate would (i) establish an organization
for street cleaning and waste management with a strong central unit; (ii)
enter into contracts with the Zabbaleen Union to collect waste from low-income
areas; (iii) establish disposal depots at which the contractors will sort,
sell or otherwise dispose of the wastes collected; and (iv) gradually introduce
intermediate technology composting plants at these depots. A first phase of
investments toward the implementation of these proposals have been provided
for under the project and would include the provision of a pilot "windrow-type"
composting plant with a capacity of 10 tonnes/day; 300 donkey carts for waste
collection; 600 hand carts and 40 depots for street cleaning; 2 sorting depots
for disposal; 2 workshops for repair of street refuse collection vehicles;
equipment for 4 garages; and 4 jeeps for supervision (vehicles for street
refuse collection are being acquired with financial assistance from USAID).
Consultant services to help implement this scheme are also included in the
project.



- 22 -
Urgent Repairs to the Assiut Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
2.26      The project would provide for (i) investigations by consultants
of the water supply and sewerage systems in Assiut, (ii) urgent repairs and
possibly extensions of existing networks and plant, and (iii) preparation of
broad technical master plans for water supply and sewerage. The immediate
rehabilitation program included under the project covers:
(a) Water Supply: Provision of spare parts including fil-
ters and pumps, stores, laboratory, detection and main-
tenance equipment, and vehicles necessary to locate and
repair pipelines and to improve the pressure, quantity
and quality of water delivered in the city. Repair and
rehabilitation of the existing Nile extraction plant is
also provided for under the project.
(b) Sewerage: Provision of pumps, spare parts, tools, equip-
ment and vehicles necessary for the repair and rehabilita-
tion of the central pumping station and the non-operational
sewage treatment works. Minor extensions to the existing
treatment works are also provided for under the project.
2.27      The project would also include training for (a) staff in charge of
the implementation of the immediate rehabilitation works for water supply and
sewerage and (b) staff responsible for ongoing maintenance and administration
of the systems.
Consultants and Advisory Services and Training
2.28      Consultant and advisory services would be provided for the following
purposes (detailed draft terms of reference acceptable to IDA and the Govern-
ment have been prepared for all services except (b), (f) and (k)):
(a) Project preparation (IDA advance made in 1977), covering
the identification of project components together with
the preparation of site layouts, preliminary engineering
designs and costs. The work was undertaken by GOPP using
a local project preparation unit assisted by consultants
(para. 1.19);
(b) Project implementation advice. Provision has been made
for advisers to assist the Low Income Housing Development
Unit (i) in undertaking central project coordination and
monitoring and (ii) in assisting the Governorates in
project execution. Terms of reference would be drafted
after LIHDU staff have been appointed (see paras. 5.07-5.09);
(c) Detailed design and implementation of the upgrading scheme
for the Zabbaleen settlement at Mansheit Nasser (para. 2.08);



- 23 -
(d)  Preparation of future upgrading schemes for Central Cairo,
particularly for El Gamalia (para 1.22);
(e) Assistance to HIPCO in project implementation and also to
(i) assess both the assistance requirements of the artisan/
small business sector in Egypt and the existing and proposed
systems for delivery of this assistance, (ii) advise on
HIPCO's organization and staffing, and (iii) help train
HIPCO staff. The proposed assistance to HIPCO is based on
the recommendations of the IDF Division's report "Arab
Republic of Egypt: Survey of Small Scale Industry" dated
December 2, 1977;
(f) Preparation and implementation of schemes to improve solid
waste collection and disposal in Cairo and Alexandria
(paras 2.24-2.25);
(g) Investigations and urgent repairs to the water supply and
sewerage systems in Assiut (para 2.26);
(h) Financial management and accounting services for the
recently established Low Income Housing Fund (see paras
5.02-5.06). Consultant services will be provided to
forecast the likely long-term operations of the Fund and
to design a system of accounting and financial management
and a staffing organization to meet the requirements of
the Fund for the next several years;
Ci) Banking advice. The project includes provision for a
full-time banking advisor to be made available to the Low
Income Housing Fund for a period of one year to assist
the Fund's management to formulate and implement sound
financial and banking practices at this early stage in
its development;
(j) Identification of training needs in five Governorates.
In 1978 the first major impact of devolution of functions
from Central Government is likely to be felt by the Gover-
norates. Studies would be undertaken in five Governorates -
Cairo, Alexandria, Assiut, Ismailia and Gharbiya - to es-
timate the likely requirements for training within the
Governorates on a nationwide basis; and
(k) Training of project staff in the implementing agencies.



- 24 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, EXECUTION AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      The total project cost including contingencies is estimated at
LE 14.70 million (US$21.00 million) with a foreign exchange component of
LE 4.90 million (US$7.00 million) or about 33% of project costs. Summary
cost estimates are given in Table III-1 and detailed cost estimates in
Annex 1. The base cost estimates are in November 1977 prices. Cost estimates
are based on (a) preliminary engineering designs for civil works, except for
the North Bassateen upgrading scheme where estimates are based on indicative
engineering sketches, and (b) latest quotations from suppliers or executing
agencies for materials, vehicles and equipment. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that all final engineering designs would be satisfactory
to IDA. Average man-month costs for consultant and advisory services are
estimated at US$6,000 for foreign services and US$600 for locally obtained
services. Physical contingencies have been included as follows: 15% for
land reclamation, 10% for infrastructure and community facilities, 5% for
connections and core units. No physical contingencies have been included for
self-help building materials, small business credit, manpower training and
consultant and advisory services. Price contingencies for civil works are
slightly higher than the IDA guidelines reflecting expectations regarding
continued inflationary pressures in the construction sector in Egypt, whereas
rates of escalation for equipment follow the guidelines:
Civil Works          Equipment
1978                    10%                 7%
1979                    10%                 6.5%
1980                     9%                 6%
1981                     9%                 6%



- 25 -
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table III-1: Summary Cost Table
Percent    Percent
-------LE (Million) ------      ------US$ (Million)-          Foreign   of Total
Local     Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign  Total        Exchange  Base Cost
I. Cairo:
Upgrading - Mansheit Nasser
a)  Main Settlement               1.17       0.25      1.42        1.67      0.36     2.03        18.0         12.0
b)  Zabbaleen Settlement          0.30       0.05      0.35        0.43      0.07     0.50        14.0          3.0
II. Cairo:
Upgrading - North Bassateen       0.56       0.13      0.69        0.80      0.19     0.99        19.0          6.0
III. Alexandria:
a)  Sites and Services -          1.45       0.42      1.87        2.07      0.60     2.67        22.0         16.0
South Metras
b)  Upgrading - New Nagaa         0.12       0.02      0.14        0.17      0.03     0.20        15.0          1.0
el Arab
IV. Assiut:
Sites and Services - South        1.88       0.29      2.17        2.69      0.41     3.10        13.0        J9.0
Gharb el Balad
V.  Small Business Assistance and   0.89         0.23       1.12       1.27      0.33      1.60       21.0         10.0
Manpower Training Program
VI.  Improvement in Solid Waste        0.72       0.89       1.61        1.03     1.27     2.30        55.0         14.0
Collection and Disposal -
Cairo and Alexandria
VII.  Urgent Repairs to the Water       0.20       0.29       0.49       0.29      0.41     0.70        59.0          4.0
Supply and Sewerage Systems
in Assiut
VIII.  Consultant and Advisory            0.15      1.35       1.50       0.21      1.93      2.14       90.0         13.0
Services
IX.  Project Administration            0.26         -       0.26        0.37      -        0.37         0.0         2.0
TOTAL BASE COST                   7.70       3.92     11.62       11.00     5.60    16.60         34.0       100.0
X. Physical Contingencies             0.45       0.23      0.68        0.65      0.32     0.97        33.0         -
XI.  Price Cpntingencies               1.65       0.75       2.40       2.35      1.08     3.43        32.0         -
Sub-Total                         2.10       0.98      3.08        3.00     1.40      4.40       32.0          -
TOTAL PROJECT COST                9.80      4.90      14.70       14.00     7.00    21.00        33.0          -
:~~                                         _



- 26 -
B. Execution
3.02      The responsibilities for implementing individual project compo-
nents would fall primarily on the Governorates of Cairo, Alexandria and
Assiut through their various directorates. Responsibilities are as follows:
Component                               Agency
I.   Upgrading and sites and services        Governorates of Cairo, Alexan-
in Cairo, Alexandria and Assiut         dria and Assiut through their
Directorates of Planning and
Monitoring as general coordi-
nators and their respective
directorates as listed below:
- Land acquisition, site develop-       Directorates of Housing and
ment and construction of core         Social Affairs
units, on- and off-site infra-
structure, and community
facilities
- Advice on school building design    Directorates of Education and
and furniture and equipment pro-    Social Affairs
vision
- Advice on provision and equipping   Directorates of Health and
of health centers and community       Social Affairs
centers
- Selection of beneficiaries            Directorates of Housing/Finance/
Social Affairs and Local Council
II.   Small business assistance and
manpower training program
(a)  Loans to entrepreneurs            National Bank of Egypt
(b)  Extension services                 HIPCO/Engineering and Industrial
Design and Development Center
(c)  Vocational training                HIPCO/Ministry of Industry (Pro-
ductivity and Vocational Training
Department)
III.   Improvement in solid waste
collection and disposal
- Cairo                                 Governorate of Cairo
- Alexandria                            Governorate of Alexandria



- 27 -
Component                               Agency
IV.   Urgent repairs to water supply          General Organizations for
and sewerage in Assiut                  Potable Water (GOPW) and
Sewerage and Sanitary
Drainage (GOSSD), Governorate
of Assiut
V.   Consultant and advisory services        Governorates/GOPW/GOSSD/HIPCO/
and training                            Low Income Housing Development
Unit/Fund/GOPP
VI.   Project administration                  All agencies listed above with
coordination by LIHDU
3.03      All project components will be implemented largely by existing
institutions without major organizational changes. However, a new organiza-
tional unit, the Low Income Housing Development Unit, has been established
(see paras 5.07-5.09) to coordinate project implementation and advise agencies
responsible for low income housing projects on all aspects of design, construc-
tion, operation and maintenance of such projects including employment genera-
tion, beneficiary selection, training of staff and performance monitoring.
The unit would provide the governorates of Cairo, Alexandria and Assiut with
technical assistance and support for the proposed project. Further details
on the executing agencies are given in Chapter V.
3.04      The project would be implemented over a four-year period, January 1,
1978 to December 31, 1981. An implementation schedule is shown in Chart III-1.
Disbursements are expected through June 30, 1982 and the closing date would be
December 31, 1982.
C. Financing
3.05      The proposed IDA credit of US$14.0 million (LE 9.8 million) will
be used to finance about 67% of total project costs (the project is exempt
from taxes). The credit will cover 100% of estimated foreign exchange costs
(US$7.0 million) and 50% of local costs. The Government will provide US$6.4
million (LE 4.5 million), and the National Bank of Egypt, as part of the small
business credit scheme, US$0.6 million (LE 0.4 million). The financing plan
is summarized below and further details are shown in Chart III-2:



- 28 -
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHART 1Il-1; lmplemonfation Schedule
197B   1979                  79BD                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19B1
PROJECT ELEMENT                                                                             _
1    2    3    4       1    2      3    4     1    2    3    4        1    2    3    4
Al PROJECTPREPARATION
El UPGRADING
1. MANSHEIT NASSER
SURVEY/DETAI LED DESIGN
CONTRACT PREPARATION
TENDERING
CONSTRUCTION
MATERIAL LOANS
2. ZABBALEEN SETTLEMENT
SURVEY/DETAILED DESIGN
CONTRACT PREPARATION
TENDERING
CONSTRUCTION
MATERIAL LOANS
3. NORTH BASSATEEN
SURVEY/DETAILED DESIGN
CONTRACT PREPARATION
TENDERING
CONSTRUCTION
MATERIAL LOANS
4. NEW NAGAA EL ARAB
SURVEY/DETAILED DESIGN
CONTRACT PREPARATION
TENDERING
CONSTRUCTION
MATERIAL LOANS
Cl SITES AND SERVICES
1. SOUTH METRAS
SURVEY/DETAILED DESIGN
CONTRACT PREPARATION
TENDERING
RECLAMATION
CONSTRUCTION
MATERIAL LOANS
2. SOUTH GHARS EL BALAD
SURVEY/DETAILED DESIGN
CONTRACT PREPARATION
TENDERING
CONSTRUCTION
MATERIAL LOANS
Di IMPROVEMENTS TO SOLID WASTE
1. CAIRO
DESIGN/CONTRACT PREPARATION
TENDERING
CONSTRUCTION
MONITORING/EVALUATION
2. ALEXANDRIA
DESIGN/CONTRACT PREPARATION
TENDERING
SUPPLY/CONSTRUCTION
El REPAIRS TO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
1. WATER SUPPLY -ASSIUT
INVESTIGATION/DESIGN
CONTRACT PREPARATION
TENDERING
CONSTRUCTIONISUPPLY
TRAINING
2. SEWERAGE -ASSIUT
INVESTIGATIONS/DESIGN
CONTRACT PREPARATION
TENDERING
CONSTRUCTION/SUPPLY
TRAINING
Fl HIPCO EXTENSION SERVICES
TRAINING AND MANAGEMENT
GI SMALL BUSINESS LOANS
ADMINISTRATION TRAINING
TRAINING CENTER ICAIRO)
EOUIPMENT (CAIROI
Hl CONSULTANT AND ADVISORY SERVICES
I. UPGRADING GAMALIA ICAIROI
2. UPGRADING ZABBALEEN (CAIRO)
3. SOLIDWASTE
4. WATER SUPPLY ASSIUT
5 SEWERAGE ASSIUT
E PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
7.HIPCD
a. FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION
9. TRAINING
10 OTHER
W=,o =e-, - 18703



- 29 -
--US$ million equivalent-- -LE million equivalent
Source of Finance          Local      Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign  Total
IDA                         7.0        7.0        14.0     4.9      4.9     9.8
Government of Egypt         6.4          -         6.4     4.5       -      4.5
National Bank of Egypt      0.6          -         0.6     0.4       -       0.4
14.0       7.0        21.0      9.8     4.9    14.7
3.06      The Government of Egypt would make the proceeds of the IDA credit
and its own contribution available to the Low Income Housing Fund (the Fund),
to the National Bank and, by way of budget allocations, to the governorates
to cover local design and supervision and project administration costs (see
Chart III-2). Project finances received by the Fund will include about LE 5.5
million (US$7.9 million) for land acquisition, on-site infrastructure, housing
cores and construction materials which can ultimately be recovered from bene-
ficiaries through plot sales and materials loans. This amount will be passed
as loans from the Fund to the respective governorates and the Fund will in
turn be responsible for repayment of a like amount to the Government (see
para. 3.07). The remaining amounts flowing through the Fund, LE 7.2 million
(US$10.2 million) for consultant services, off-site infrastructure, community
facilities, and training will not be directly recovered from beneficiaries and
will be credited as budgetary grant allocations to the responsible governorates
and executing agencies. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
adequate budgetary provisions will be made available to the executing agencies
to ensure the timely implementation of the project.
3.07      Funds onlent to the governorates by the Fund would be recovered from
the governorates as follows: (a) for upgrading schemes, 7% interest rate over
10 years; and (b) for sites and services, 7% over 20 years (residential) and
9% over 10 years (workshops). Loans repayable by the Fund to the Government
would carry the standard IDA terms of 10 years grace, with 40 years phased
repayment thereafter at no interest. This arrangement would ensure the
long-term availability of project funds to undertake future urban projects.
Recovery of administrative costs and terms to beneficiaries are discussed in
Chapter IV.
3.08      Under the small business credit scheme, IDA would reimburse 50%
of the approved loans made by the National Bank each quarter, up to the
agreed total. The Government would advance the IDA credit to the National
Bank at 4.5% interest with repayment due at the end of 15 years. This would
provide the National Bank with about 4% spread to cover its administrative
costs (see para 4.05) and also allow project funds to be recycled.
3.09      Project sources and applications of funds statements are shown in
Table V-1 for the Fund, in Table V-2 for the Governorate of Cairo and in
Table V-3 for the National Bank of Egypt.



- 30 -
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CRART III-2: Flow of Funds
(LE millions)
Government of Egypt    4.49       Grant     Consultant services.
IDA                     9.80                to GOPP for project
National Bank           0.41   L 0.5        preparation
Total        14.70
Loan 0.40                                                  Loans      5.53 (IDA terms)                      Budgetary
(4-1/2%, repayment in Year 15)                             Grants    7.17                                   allocations    0.94
(Internal sources 0.41)                                    Total    12.70                                   (grant)
National Bank of Egypt                                   Low Income Housing Fund                                  Governorates
Internal sources 0,41
Govt/IDA         0.40                           Loans to Governorates             5.53                      Cairo              0.35
Total          0.81                           Budgetary grant alloca-
tions to Governorates          4.62                      Alexandria         0.31
Budgetary grant alloca-
tions to other agencies        2.33                      Assiut            0.28
Consultant services to                                         Total         TM
Fund                           0.22
Loans to small businesses                                           Total
8% - 9% interest
1 - 5 year term
Total disbursements to                              Costs incurred by Governorates
Governorates/Agencies LE 12.48                             for project management and
design/supervision
Manpower training       _ 0.58       |                                   Cairo Governorate              Upgrading - Hansheit Nasser - 1.71
Extension services      - 0,07                                                                                     - Zabbaleen        - 0.46
Consultant services    - 0.38          Budget allocation      1.03       Loans                  1.72               - N.Bassateen      - 0.88
Budgetary grant                Solid waste improvements    - 1.07
allocation          2.47    Consultant services            - 0.07
Total 
LIHDU                    Alexandria Governorate         Sites and services            - 2.25
C onsultant and serviceX .                                                             -     -     _     pgrading                     - 0.17
advisory services            '~*     Budget allocation      0.40        Loans                1.89  , Solid waste improvements    - 1.06
Budgetary grant              Consultant services            - 0.07
allocation          1.66
Total         3.55
GOPW and GOSSD                Assiut Governorate
Water supply/sewerage  - 0.60          Budget allocation       0.87       Loans                 1.92    Sites and services
Consultant services    - 0.27                                             Budgetary grant
allocation          0.49
nMin. of-Local Government                 Total         2.41
Consultant and                                                                  <..
advisory services                    Bi
BudgtAllocation         003



- 31 -
D. Procurement and Disbursement
3.10      Contracts for a total value estimated at about US$5.1 million will
be let on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
IDA guidelines, for the procurement of (a) equipment and vehicles for (i)
improvements to solid waste collection and disposal in Cairo and Alexandria
(US$2.1 million) and (ii) repairs to water supply and sewerage systems in
Assiut (US$0.3 million), and (b) civil works with contract values above
US$500,000 each, for (i) site reclamation and preparation at South Metras in
Alexandria (US$1.5 million) and (ii) site preparation and infrastructure
provision at Mansheit Nasser in Cairo and South Gharb El Balad in Assiut
(US$1.2 million). A margin of preference of 15% or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is lower, will be applied to domestic bidders offering do-
mestically manufactured goods. Local bidders are expected to win all civil
works contracts and one third of the contracts for equipment and vehicles.
3.11      Small contracts of US$50,000 or less for items of equipment, mate-
rial or supplies to be compatible with existing equipment, or items which,
because of their specialized nature and for reasons of economy are normally
procured without international competitive bidding, may be awarded after
obtaining, wherever possible, price quotations from at least three suppliers.
The aggregate expenditure for items so procured would not, however, exceed
US$600,000.
3.12      Contracts for all other civil works, with an estimated total value
of US$7.8 million, mostly for sites and services and upgrading, will be
individually small and dispersed. More than 50 individual contracts, ranging
in value from US$10,000 to US$500,000, with the bulk of the contracts below
US$100,000, will be awarded over the 4-year project period. Civil works
contracts in the same area will be combined as far as is practicable.
These works are not likely to attract any foreign contractors and will,
together with contracts totalling US$0.9 million for self-help building
materials, be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to IDA. Consultant services would be procured individually by the
agencies responsible and awarded on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
3.13      Disbursement of the proceeds of the IDA Credit would be made on the
following basis:
(a) 75% of expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment,
vehicles and building materials; or 100% of the ex-
factory cost if manufactured locally;
(c) 50% of expenditures on loans to small-scale businesses
for workshop construction, equipment and working capital;
and
(d) 100% of expenditures for consultant and advisory
services.



- 32 -
3.14      Disbursements for (c) above will be made against statements of ex-
penditures and the executing agency will retain the supporting documents for
inspection by supervision missions. An advance of US$350,000 from the Project
Preparation Facility was made to prepare the project during 1977, and will
fall under category (d) upon credit effectiveness. A schedule of estimated
disbursements of the IDA Credit is presented in Table III-2. Any undisbursed
balance at the end of the project implementation period would be used to
provide further construction material loans and small business loans, if the
demand warrants. Otherwise the undisbursed balance would be cancelled.
Table III-2
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Cumulative
IDA                                        Disbursements           Disbursements
Fiscal Year          Quarter Ending              (US$'000)               (US$'000)
79        March 31, 1979                          285                    285
June 30, 1979                          630                     915
80        September 30, 1979                      930                  1,845
December 31, 1979                    1,285                   3,130
March 31, 1980                       1,430                   4,560
June 30, 1980                        1,530                   6,090
81        September 30, 1980                    1,570                  7,660
December 31, 1980                    1,570                   9,230
March 31, 1981                       1,450                  10,680
June 30, 1981                        1,430                 12,110
82        September 30, 1981                      940                 13,050
December 31, 1981                      470                 13,520
March 31 1982                          330                  13,850
June 30, 1982                          150                 14,000
E. Accounts and Audits
3.15      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that each executing
agency will maintain separate project accounts and that the Fund will compile
consolidated project accounts. Assurances were also obtained that not later
than nine months after the close of each financial year, suitable financial
statements including cash flow statements and balance sheets as of the year
end reflecting the financial operations and position of the principal project
entities will be made available to IDA. These financial statements would be
accompanied by a report on the accounts and statements of each entity by an
auditor acceptable to IDA. The Government's Central Agency for Accounting has
been deemed acceptable to IDA for this purpose. In respect of all entities
except the Fund, the reports and statements could be restricted to the speci-
fic project activities only and need not address all financial activities of
each organization.



- 33 -
IV. COST RECOVERY
A. Cost Recovery and Pricing
4.01      Cost recovery sources for project components are as follows:
Cost Item                         Recovery Source
1.   Land                                   Plot charges
2.   Site preparation                              "
3.   On-site infrastructure
Water supply
Sewerage (including cesspits)
Roads
Refuse bins
Street lighting                         I
Electricity                       Electricity tariffs
4.   Off-site infrastructure
Water supply                      Water tariffs
Sewerage                         Not recovered
Roads                                   if
Electricity                       Electricity tariffs
5.   Ablution and core units, plot          Plot charges
perimeter walls, water/sewer/
electricity connections
6.   Building materials for self-help       Loan repayments
construction and home improvement
7.   Small business loans (for workshop   Loan repayments to National
construction, equipment and work-    Bank by entrepreneurs
ing capital)
8.   Manpower training                      Not recovered
9.   Design and supervision fees,           Plot charges, except where
project management costs               applicable to non-recoverable
items, e.g. schools
10.  Interest during construction                 "
11.  Community centers, schools,            Not recovered
health centers



- 34 -
Cost Item                         Recovery Source
12.  Solid waste improvements -             Not recovered except for on-site
Cairo and Alexandria                   costs (e.g. bins)
13.  Sewerage improvements - Assiut         Not recovered
14.  Water supply improvements - Assiut   Water tariffs
15.  Consultant and advisory services       Limited recovery depending on
service involved
4.02      Land, site preparation and infrastructure costs relating to schools
and health and community centers will be charged to budgets of these services
and would not be directly recovered from beneficiaries.   Basic plot charges
in the sites and services areas would be differentiated to take into account
the location, the plot accessibility and commercial potential of the plots
(see Table II-3). Basic charges in slum upgrading areas would not be dif-
ferentiated except in Mansheit Nasser where a differentiation would be made to
take into account location and the varying standards and levels of services
(see Table II-1).
4.03      A 5% downpayment would be required for residential plots in the two
lower-priced zones in the sites and services areas (para. 2.15) and 10% for
plots in the highest-priced zone. No downpayments would be required in up-
grading areas. The balance would be paid through monthly payments at 7% over
20 years in the sites and services areas and 7% over 10 years in the upgrad-
ing areas. The financial charge of 7% includes a basic 5% interest rate and
a 2% administrative charge to cover administrative costs at the central level
(LIHDU and the Fund). Administrative costs at the governorate level are
covered through a surcharge on plot prices. In case of default on payments,
plotholders would be given six months notice and evicted if they did not
pay within this period. The freehold titles would be transferable from the
outset. However, for five years from the date of initial purchase of each
plot the Directorate of Housing in each governorate would have the first
option. Thereafter, plots could be freely sold by the title holder.
4.04      The proposed financial charge of 7% for cost recovery would repre-
sent a substantial increase over interest rates now charged under public
sector housing finance programs and its adoption under the project would be
a major step toward elimination of subsidies in the sector. The interest
rates currently charged, when charged at all, are generally 3% or less, with
terms of up to 30 years. Cooperatives can borrow at 3% from MOH which in
turn obtains such funds at 7% from commercial banks, with the difference of
4% subsidized by the Government. Little housing finance is available to
beneficiaries directly from commercial banks or insurance companies, the
main exception being Credit Foncier which currently lends at 6.5%, mainly
to higher income groups. The substantial increase in financial charges,



- 35 -
from 3% or less to 7%, should also be viewed in conjunction with other steps
taken under the project to reduce overall subsidies, such as (a) the reduction
in repayment terms from normally 30 years to 20 years, for sites and services,
and 10 years, for upgrading, and (b) the elimination of all capital subsidies
for land, on-site development and housing which subsidies under present public
housing programs normally amount to about 75% of costs.
4.05      For workshop plots, costs would be recovered at 9% interest over 10
years. Loans provided to small scale entrepreneurs in the project areas would
be recovered over a maximum of 5 years for workshop construction loans and
over a maximum of 3 years for all other loans, with interest rates varying
from 8% to 9% depending on purpose of loan and credit worthiness. These
interest rates are lower than the approximately 10% that would be charged by
the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) under the recently approved Bank loan
for a DIB project, but higher than the 8% that would be charged under the
small scale industry component of the same project, financed by the OPEC
Special Fund (OSF). Terms under the OSF component would be up to 12 years.
4.06      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that terms and con-
ditions for cost recovery from beneficiaries would be as above. Total cost
recoveries from sale of residential and workshop plots would account for
about 54% of the total cost of the upgrading schemes and 69% of the total
cost of the sites and services schemes. The balance represents (a) costs for
community facilities such as schools and health centers which would not be
recovered, 24% in upgrading areas and 6% in sites and services areas, and
(b) costs of off-site infrastructure improvements not chargeable to the plots
but partly recovered through utility tariffs, 22% for upgrading and 25% for
sites and services. In addition, the value of the governorate-owned land in
upgrading areas would be recovered, generating a substantial surplus particu-
larly for the Governorate of Cairo (see Table V-2).
B. Affordability and Income Distributions
4.07      In the slum upgrading areas, monthly payments would not exceed 8%
of household income for upgrading of existing plots and 15% in the case of
new or infill plots. If utility charges are added, payments as proportion of
income would only increase by a maximum of two percentage points. Table II-1
indicates plot options, monthly charges and percentiles reached.
4.08      Table II-3 indicates plot options, monthly charges and percentiles
reached in the two sites and services areas. No more than 18% of income
would need to be allocated for housing. The minimum plot option would in
Alexandria be affordable to about 80% of Egypt's urban population and in
Assiut to about 90% of the population. The difference is mainly due to the
higher land costs in Alexandria. Settler selection criteria would include
the income of beneficiaries to correspond to the percentage ranges indicated
in Table II-3. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that selection
criteria would be satisfactory to IDA.



- 36 -
4.09      Chart IV-I provides a comparison between the estimated income dis-
tribution in the project areas and the urban income distribution for Egypt.
This graph shows that about two thirds of the population benefitted by the
upgrading and sites and services components are below the urban poverty level
(estimated at LE 383 per household per year in 1977, corresponding to the 31st
percentile on the urban household income distribution).
V. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND FINANCE
5.01      The organization of the proposed project is broadly as follows.  The
main channel for project financing would be the Low Income Housing Fund. The
Low Income Housing Development Unit would have overall responsibility for
project coordination and for the initiation of future upgrading and sites
and services schemes. The Unit would also assist the three governorates of
Cairo, Alexandria and Assiut who would have prime responsibility for project
execution through their various directorates coordinated by the Directorate of
Planning and Monitoring within each governorate. Exceptions to these arrange-
ments would be the implementation of (a) the small business component which
would mainly be the responsibility of the National Bank and HIPCO, and (b) the
consultant studies and repairs of the water supply and sewerage systems in
Assiut which would be the responsibility of GOPW and GOSSD, respectively.
A. Low Income Housing Fund
5.02      The Minister of Housing is responsible for the Fund which was estab-
lished as a legal entity in 1976. Its Board consists of a Chairman, who
is an Under-Secretary of State, and four members representing the Ministries
of Finance and Local Government and the Authorities for Government Services
and Wakf (religious institutions). The Fund's objective is to finance low
cost housing in Egypt, which may include recoverable cost items of social and
physical infrastructure.
5.03      There are no legally prescribed debt or equity levels or ratios for
the Fund, which derives its equity from government and governorate budgetary
provisions, and from government's urban land sales and rents. Borrowing will
be from government, banks and insurance companies. The principal sources
will be government budgets and loans, including the IDA credit to government
for this project (para 3.06).
5.04      The Fund began operations by participating in the financing of
middle income housing in 1977 and in 1978 is involved in financing lower-
middle income housing in a number of governorates. No adequate development
plan for low income housing has been formulated, nor has the Fund financed
such operations, nor developed a financing strategy. However, the Fund is
intended to play an important role in encouraging the development of low
income housing in Egypt. Its links with government should ensure that it is
the principal funding source for this category of housing and, in conjunction



- 37 -
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart IV-l: Beneficiaries' Income Distribution
(1977 prices)
Household
Cumulativei
Percentile                         Relative poverty level for urban households (1)
100/  Income of beneficiaries:  cumulative distribution (2)
10 _0   v                   ,                            ___ _  _
Egypt urban household
income distribution.(3)
80                                              __    __           _ _
70                    --U-                          _              _
60                            E     U            _I 
50                    -AN_
40
30
20                                        __
10               L              n ome o3 bene ficia ies:  freq+ency ( istribution (2)
100  200   300  / 400 500   600  700   800  900  1000  1100
383                                          Annual income
per household (LE)
(1) IDA estimate.
(2) Sites and services and upgrading beneficiaries.
(3) Household Budget Survey 1974/1975, updated to mid-1977 - Central Agency
for Public Mobilization and Statistics, Cairo.



- 38 -
with the LIHDU, it should be able to control prices, standards and replic-
ability and develop projects which reach down to the lower income levels.
5.05      The Chairman is also Finance Director of a number of associated
authorities or agencies. The Board is currently determining the best way of
establishing and operating the Fund, but until a clear lead on low income
housing planning and construction standards can be given by the LIHDU, the
Fund may not be able to develop a meaningful long-term policy. Further, the
Government's policy on interest rates (para 4.04) currently prevents sound
financing of such a fund. The Board hopes that over time the Fund can be
allowed to operate more like an independent housing bank.
5.06      The development period of this project will be used by the Fund
and LIHDU to plan their strategies, and to build up effective working organi-
zations.  Until a program for low income housing is developed by LIHDU and
the Fund, no meaningful cash flows or balance sheets can be forecast for the
Fund. However, the impact of the project is given in Table V-1. The Fund
would by December 31, 1978 (a) retain the services of consultants to advise
on, and install management, financing and accounting systems for the Fund and
(b) appoint for at least one year a suitably experienced banker to advise on
the Fund's capital structure and optimum use of resources using sound banking
practices. Assurances on the engagement of such consultant and advisory
assistance were obtained during negotiations.
B. Low Income Housing Development Unit
5.07      In April 1978, Government established the Low Income Housing Develop-
ment Unit and appointed its General Manager. The General Manager participated
in negotiations.
5.08      The objectives of the Unit are to plan and develop, in association
with all responsible agencies, lowest cost housing units and schemes through-
out urban areas in Egypt. The Unit, therefore, will advise and assist all
authorities concerned with development and operation of low income housing
projects. The Unit will have to participate in considerable forward planning
and budgeting (in conjunction with the Fund) with governorates to expedite the
development of new projects. The governorates will need considerable advice
on site and beneficiary selection, on site planning and development of new
standards, and on staff training.
5.09      A key feature of the Unit's operation will be monitoring of per-
formance of the responsible authorities, and, in conjunction with HIPCO
(see para 5.25) ensuring that projects contain adequate steps to generate
local employment for beneficiaries. To ensure that the Unit can address
all principal areas of such development and operations, a basic team under
the Administrator or General Manager has been substantially appointed by



- 39 -
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table V-1: LOW INCOME HOUSING FUND
Project Sources and Applications of Funds
(LE 000's)
Total
1978        1979        1980        1981  1978-1981         1982        1983        1984        1985
SOURCES OF FUXDS
1.  Government of Egypt/IDA
a.  Loans                                            815.7    2,067.0    2,069.5          575.6    5,527.8          _            _
b.  Grant allocations                                259.9    2.520.0    3.370.9   1.021.2    7,172 (1 0                         -           -           -
Sub-total   1,075.6    4,587.0    5,440.4    1,596.8   12,699.8                            -                 -
2. Loan repayments from Governorate
a.  Cairo                                             -     -                -           163.7        163.7       243.4       236.0       236.0       236.0
b.  Alexandria                                        -          -                        140.8       140.8       178.5       178.5       178.5       178.5
c.  Assiut                                                                               228.9        228.9       197.1       197.1       197.1       197.1
Sub-total       -          _           _           533.4       533.4       619.0        611.6       611.6       611.6
Total Sources of Funds                             1,075.6    4,587.0    5,440.4    2,130.2   13,233.2            619.0       611.6       611.6       611.6
_  ,==                                 = _-
APPLICATIONS OF FUNS
1. Loans to Governorates
a.  Cairo                                             21.7       427.7        812.8        450.4   1,712.6         -
b.  Alexandria                                       181.0       892.0        738.9         81.1   1,893.0         -             -           _           _
c.  Assiut                                           613.0       747.3       517.8          44.1   1,922.2         -                   -      
Sub-total       815.7    2,067.0    2,069.5          575.6   5,527.8          -
2. Budgetary grants to Governorates
a.  Cairo                                             35.6       316.7    1,517.0          ,09.8   2,479,1                       -
b. Alexandria                                         14.5       467.5    1,024.5          154.2   1,660.7         -
c.  Assiut                                            24.2       205.6       259.6      _            489.6                       -           -           -
Sub-total        74.3       990.0    2,801.1         764.0   4,629.4
3. Budgetary grants to various agencies
a.  HIPCO                                             38.3       508.1       307.7         172.1   1,026.2          -
b.  LrIDU                                             65.4       181.3         81.3         68.8      396.8         -            -           -
c.  GOPW/GOSSD                                        36.3       723.7       109.7           -       869.7          -            -           -           _
d. Ministry of Local Governmuent                       -           5.0        10.0          15.0       30.0
Sub-total      140.0    1,418.1        508.7        255.9   2,322.7                              -                 -
4.  Consultant and advisory services to Fund               45.6       111.9        61.1          1.3      219.9         -            -
5.  Administrative costs                                   10.0        20.0        22.0         24.0       76.0        25.2        26.7         28.3        30.0
Total Applications of Funds                        1,085.6    4,607.0    5,462.4        1,620.8  12,775.8          25.2        26.7        28.3        30.0
Surplus (Deficit)-/                                  (10.0)      (20.0)      (22.0)       509.4      457,4        593.8       584.9       583.3       581.6
1/  The deficits in the early years are due to administrative expenditure.  They would be met by the Fund's own resources and eventually recovered
from plot allottees.



- 40 -
Government, as shown in Chart V-1. This initial team is the nucleus of an
organization which should be capable of achieving the Unit's objectives and
operating throughout Egypt. Much of their work will be advice and training,
finding the right people, and overcoming legal difficulties; hence the inclu-
sion of the Technical Assistance and the Legal Officers. The project contains
provision for technical assistance for future project planning and develop-
ment to the Unit and to governorates (para 2.28).
C. Governorates
5.10      The General Secretaries of the Cairo and Assiut Governorates and
the Assistant Secretary of the Alexandria Governorate would have full re-
sponsibility to the respective Governors for the implementation of the
respective project components and for the subsequent operation of facilities
and services and the meeting of financial commitments to the Fund. Project
implementation would be carried out within the functional organizational
structure shown in Chart V-2, which would ensure effective coordination and
interaction between the various directorates of each governorate.
5.11      The Director of Planning and Monitoring would be the key project
coordinator in each governorate. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that each governorate by July 1, 1978 will appoint a full time officer
to be exclusively engaged as the Low Income Housing Project Officer. This
officer would also liaise with the LIHDU (para 5.07).
5.12      The Under-Secretary (or Director) of Housing would be responsible
for land acquisition, site development, and design and construction of housing
cores and on-site infrastructure. He would also be responsible for construction
of schools, health centers and community centers, and for ensuring the pro-
vision of off-site infrastructure. These activities would be executed by the
existing Directorate of Housing.
5.13      The Under-Secretary (or Director) of Housing would also be responsible,
in conjunction with the legal and financial departments and local and district
councils for the selection of beneficiaries, allocation and pricing of plots
and completion of transfers of housing and workshop land with any related
structures thereon. Also, these departments would be responsible for allo-
cating credits in kind (building materials) for home improvement.
5.14      The Education Directorate would be responsible for advising on
school building design and for furniture and equipment provision as part of
their routine duties. Similarly the Health Directorate and Social Affairs
Directorate would advise on provision and equipping of health and community
centers. Each directorate would nominate one officer to have a special
responsibility for low income housing schemes.



- 41 -
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHART V-1; LOW INCOME HOUSING DEVELOPMENT UNIT
Organization Chart
ADM IN ISTRATOR/GENERA LMAGE 
TECHNICAL TEAM                                              A
-Architect/Planner                               -Monitoring Officer
-Economist/Financial                             -Technical Assisance
Analist                                          and Personnel Officer
-Engineer                                         Legal Officer
-Small Scale Business
Development Officer
CHART V-2; GOVERNORATE
Typical Project Organization Chart
GENERAL SECRETARY
I
DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
AND
MONiTORING
IIz~Iz
LOW INCOME HOUSING
PROJECT OFFICER
DIRE CTO R                             DIRECTOR
OF                                     OF
FINANCE    J                      | LEGAL AFFAIRS
DIRECTOR           DIRECTOR            DIRECTOR            DIRECTOR      l      Rl
OF                 OF                  OF                  OF              DIRECTOF
HOUSING           EDUCATION         SOCIAL AFFAIRS      COOPERATION            HEALTH
IH IPCOEaLTH
World Bank-1 8702



- 42 -
5.15      Each Social Affairs Directorate would have the additional respon-
sibility of appointing or nominating at least three social service officers
with special responsibility for low income housing. These officers would
inter alia be responsible for: (a) conducting social surveys and monitoring
key aspects of the project, e.g. employment and health; (b) advising on
designs and on modifications during implementation to ensure satisfactory
development of schemes; (c) assisting in the selection of beneficiaries; and
(d) formation of site committees and cooperatives.
5.16      The Directorate of Cooperation would have a special employment
and training responsibility, particularly through its HIPCO staff. The
director would appoint at least three suitable staff to work with the social
workers and with the Under Secretary (or Director) of Rousing to ensure
adequate provision of commercial and industrial sites and facilities to
generate employment opportunities for beneficiaries. These staff would
work with all responsible employment generating agencies and the banking
sector, particularly the National Bank, to obtain work opportunities and
credit for cooperatives, entrepreneurs and artisans. They would also deter-
mine training needs among the beneficiaries.
5.17      Local and district councils would help select beneficiaries for
new housing sites and services schemes. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that beneficiary selection criteria acceptable to IDA will be
adopted. They would include, inter alia, requirements that the settlers:
(a) have incomes within the prescribed income ranges (para. 4.08 and Table
II-3); (b) own no other dwelling; (c) are in clear need of shelter; and (d)
are willing and able to pay at least a 5-10% deposit and to remit the balance
by monthly installments.
5.18      The legal officer of the central LIHDU would draft standard forms of
agreement and make them available to the governorates' legal officers, as
required. The legal officers of each governorate are assessing the workload
involved in processing large numbers of beneficiaries' agreements. Consulta-
tions with the Low Income Housing Project Officer and the social workers would
take place to establish a program for informing people of their rights and
obligations and the implications of the documents which they would be asked to
complete.
5.19      The Finance Department would become involved at the selection stage
to ensure that adequate basic records are established to the satisfaction of
the Fund and the Ministry of Finance. The Finance Department would be
required to verify the total allocable design and construction costs and
resultant annual repayment charges payable by beneficiaries which would
include adequate management charges to meet each governorate's costs of
administering the schemes. Arrangements for collection of charges would be
the responsibility of the governorates.
5.20      In the event that any directorate or department of a governorate
needs advice, technical assistance or specialized manpower to implement the
project, the key officials in each directorate or department would consult
with the Low Income Housing Project Officer and their counterparts in the



- 43 -
LIHDU. Departments of district, town or city councils would have responsi-
bility for operation and maintenance of facilities. The project sources and
applications of funds statement for the Governorate of Cairo is shown in Table
V-2, as typical for the three governorates.
D. The National Bank of Egypt
5.21      The National Bank was founded in 1898 and is one of four public
sector commercial banks operating in Egypt. It is the largest of the
commercial banks, with one-half the combined assets of the entire commercial
banking sector. It offers a wide range of services, including retail and
commercial banking, domestic and foreign joint venture participation,
investment trustee services, etc. The Bank is growing rapidly -- its
assets tripled over the period 1972 to 1976 to LE 2.25 billion. Revenues
in 1976 amounted to LE 46.4 million. The Bank operates a branch network
totalling 93 units, including 43 branches and 50 agencies and offices,
with a staff of 6,500 persons.
5.22      Since 1965, the National Bank has been successfully operating
a program of financial assistance to artisans and small-scale entrepreneurs
under its small loans scheme. This program is administered by a special
department with ten staff members and, at mid-1977, comprised 2,465 outstand-
ing loan accounts amounting to TE 356,000. Loans are limited to businesses
with fixed assets plus working capital not exceeding LE 5,000. The processing
of loan applications by Bank staff involves normal and satisfactory appraisal
techniques, which include an evaluation of the personal background of the
owner-applicant, an on-site inspection and appraisal of the firm's assets and
operations, and an assessment of the financial performance of the operation
and its loan repayment capability. The Bank has processed some 20,000 loans
to date, without a single default, but has over the past few years reduced the
scale of the operation due to the low interest rate it was allowed by the
Government to charge. The interest rate ceiling has recently been increased
to 9% and the Bank is now revitalizing the program.
5.23      The National Bank is an organization well suited to implement
the proposed small loans component of the project:
(i) it is a major and well-established financial institution
with branch offices in each of the project cities;
(ii) the expected size and profile of prospective small loans
recipients under the project is particularly compatible
with the Bank's small loans scheme;
(iii) the Bank has developed considerable small loans experience
and staff capability over the past decade; and
(iv) the project provides an opportunity to encourage the
continuation and expansion of the Bank's program.



- 44 -
EGYPT UPB4N DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Table V-2: SOVER0UiOATE OF CAIRO
Relict Sources gnd Applications of Funds
(LE 000)
Total
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                            1978       1979       1980       1981     1978-1981        1982       1983       1984       1985
1. Low Income Housing Fund
a. Upgrading - Nansheit Nasser (main settlement)
L.  Loans for recoverable costs of area                    21.7      230.0     527.2      163.6         942.5          -          -          -          -
development and materials
ii.  Budgetary grants for off-site infrastructure           35.6      255.8     473.3        2.2         766.9
and cooity facilities                                   _                                                                                _
Sub-total                                          57.3     485.8   1,000.5       165.8       1,709.4          -          -          -         -
b. Upgrading - Hansheit Nasser (Zabbaleon ares)
i.  Loans for recoverable costs of area                     -         36.1      84.0       82.7         202.8          -          -          _          _
developinest and materials
ii.  Budgetary grants for off-site infrastructure             -        12.2     237.0         -          249.2
and cosuity facilities                                  _          _                                                          _           _
Sub-total                                           -        48.3      321.0       82.7         452.0          -          -          -         -
c.  Upgrading/sites and  ervices - North Bassateen
i.  Loans for recoverable costs of area                     -        161.6     201.6      204.1         567.3
development and   terials
ii.  Budgetary grants for off-site infrastructure            -         10.2      267.9      39.4         317.5
and cosnunity facilities
Sub-total                                           -       171.8      469.5      243.5         884.8          -         -          -          -
d.   Solid Waste Component
i.  Budgetary grants for isprovesents                       -         13.4     512.0      549.1       1,074.5
ii.  Budgetary grants for consultant  services              _          25.1       26.8      19.1          71.0
Sub-total                                          -         38.5      538.8      568.2       1,145.5          -         -          -          -
2.  Norma budgetary allocations for design/supervision
and project management
i.  Upgrading schene                                       15.2       92.4      164.0      54.2         325.8
ii.  Other components                                        0.4        8.7        9.7      10.2          29.0
Sub-total                                          15.6     101.1      173.7       64.4         354.8          -         -          -          -
3. Project Revenues
i. ManHheit Nasser (main settlement)
- dosn payments (workshop space)                        -          6.1      18.2        6.1          30.4
- monthly payments                                      _          -        98.4      251.8         350.2      278.6      278.6        278.6   278.6
ii. Manaheit Nasser (Zabbaloon ores)
Mi.  North Rassateen                                                                -        26.0          26.0        31.9       31.9         31.9    31.9
- down paynento                                        _                     -         14.8          14.8         7.4        -          -         -
- monthly payments                                                  -        -         40.9          40.9        71.3       71.3        71.3    71.3
Sub-total                                          -         6.1      116.6      339.6        462.3       389.2      381.8        381.8   381.8
Total Sources of F-nds                                         72.9     151.6   2,620.1   1,464.2        5,008.8       389.2      381.8        381.8   381.8
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS          W
1. Project Costs
- Upgrading Mansheit Nasser
a)  Main settlement                                    72.5    548.7    1,091.9       191.3       1,904.4
b)  ZSabalecn sttl-nent                                 -        56.8      344.7       86.0         487.5
- Upgrading/cites and services - North Ba"sateen             -       192.8      518.4      268.9         980.1
- Solid waste Component                                      -        21.7      521.1      558.9       1,101.7
- Consultant services (including Project Management          0.4      25.5       27.4       19.5          72.8         -        _           _          -
and Training)
72.9    845.5    2,503.5   1,124.6        4,546.5         -          -            _       _
2. Loan repayments tn the Fund
- Dn payments 1/                                             -         -           -        45.2          45.2         7.4       -            -        -
- Monthly payments 2/                                        _         -           -       118.5         118.5      236.0      236.0        236.0   236.0
Sub-total                                          -        -           -        163.7        163.7       243.4      236.0       236.0   236.0
3.  Adnintatration  and collection costs  3/                                                         3.5          3.5        11.5       11.5         11.5    11.5
Total Applications of Fuods                      72.9    845.5    2,503.5   1,291.8         4,713.7       254.9     247.5        247.5   247.5
Surplus (Deficit) 4/                               -        6.1       116.6     172.4         295.1       134.3      134.3       134.3   134.3
11  Down paym..to received by tho Govcrnnratc would flow back to the fund in 1981 cod 1982 to reduce the G-o-rorsten' outstanding debt.
2/ Manshoit Nasser - Main sottlomest.  Loan of LE 942.5 plus LE70.9 isterest during construction - LE 1,013.4,1.ss down payse.ts.
Man.heil Nassn.    - Zabbolecn s-ttl-mont. Loan of LE 202.8 plus Li 10 interest during construction = LE 212.8.
North BSna.teon. Lo.n of LE 567.3 plus LE 37.5 interest doring construction - LE 604.8, loss down paymo-ts.
3/  As-uoed at 3% of annual collection.
4/  Surplus i  doe to proceeds of land sale.



- 45 -
5.24      The Bank would be responsible for reviewing expected loan
applications, supervising loan use and loan repayments, as well as monitoring
and evaluating implementation of the small loans program. A designated
member of each local project team would assist in reviewing loan applications
and ensuring that prospective small loan beneficiaries meet eligibility
criteria under the program. To assist in overcoming the managerial de-
ficiencies normally associated with small-scale artisanal and commercial
establishments, and which will undoubtedly be encountered by the small firms
in starting up, expanding, or relocating, the National Bank would provide
advisory services and management assistance to local entrepreneurs through
a qualified staff member at each of its site offices. This service can be
provided in conjunction with the periodic liaison which would be necessary
as part of the Bank's loan monitoring and business development program.
Provision is made under the project for training of Bank staff as necessary.
A project source and application of funds statement for the National Bank is
shown in Table V-3.
E. Handicraft Industries and Productive Cooperatives Organization
5.25      The Handicraft Industries and Productive Cooperatives Organization
(HIPCO) was established in 1973, superseding an earlier organization estab-
lished in 1960. HIPCO is a public sector organization under the supervision
of the Ministry of Local Government and has the responsibility for policy
formulation and for providing training and extension services in the artisanal
sector, which is defined to include small-scale industries with less than ten
employees as well as all cooperative enterprises. HIPCO is managed by a High
Committee chaired by the Minister of Local Government. This High Committee is
responsible for formulating and implementing the program of HIPCO. HIPCO has
branches in 21 governorates, known as the Directorates of Cooperation which
include accountants, cooperative organizers, engineers, and technicians.
5.26      HIPCO administers 18 vocational training centers throughout the
country, of which 10 are in operation. Eight are either closed or used for
outright production, due to shortage of training equipment and staff. Also
curricula are not always geared to the needs and stipends have been too low
to attract trainees. Instruction is provided in woodworking, car repair,
fitting, tuning, welding, sheet metal work, casting, blacksmithing, printing,
shoe-making, weaving, garments, carpets, and artistic handicrafts. The
centers have a potential annual capacity exceeding 2,000 trainees. The
Ministry of Labor originally participated in the establishment of these
centers and a number of programs are operated on behalf of that Ministry by
HIPCO. HIPCO also has a small number of engineers and part-time consultants
who provide extension services to artisanal enterprises.
5.27      HIPCO would have overall responsibility for providing the small
business extension service and man-power training program included in the
project (paras 2.22 - 2.23). HIPCO is neither organized nor adequately
staffed and funded to meet its already formidable tasks and to ensure effec-
tive project implementation. Consequently, provision is included in the



EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table V-3: NATIONAL BANK OF EGYPT
Project Sources and Applications of Funds
(LE 000's)
Total
1978       1979        1980        1981   1978-1981   1982          1983        1984        1985        1986   1987-1994   1995
SOURCES OF FUNDS
1.  Government of Egypt                   1/
a)  Loans for small business creditl-                -          70.0      160.0        170.0     400.0       -           -           -           -
2.  Internal sources                                     -          74.4       156.1       174.6      405.1       -           -          -            -           -        -           -
3. Repayments from small business beneficiaries
a)  Interest 2/                                      -          -           23.0       46.2       69.2      48.9        25.6        12.3         6.8         2.3      -           -
b)  Principal 3/                                     -          -           54.9       175.0     229.9    262.7        167.8        64.4        52.8        27.5      -           -
Total Sources of Funds                               -         144.4      394.0       565.8   1,104.2    311.6         193.4        76.7        59.6        29.8      -           -
APPLICATIONS OP FINDS
1.  Small business loan disbursements 4/                 -         144.4       316.1       344.6     805.1      -           -            -            -           -       -_
2.  Interest payments on Government loans I/             -          -            6.1        13.4       19.5     18.0        18.0        18.0         18.0        18.0    18.0         -
3.  Interest payments on National Bank funds 5/          -          -            8.2        18.0       26.2      24.3        24.3        24.3        24.3        24.3    24.3         24.3
4.  Loan repayment I/-                                                           -           -          -         -           -           -           -           -        -        400.0
5.  Administrative costs                                             1.4         6.0        16.0       23.4     16.1        16.1        16.1         16.1        16.1      16.1       16.1
Total Applications of Funds                         -         145.8       336.4       392.0      874.2      58.4        58.4        58.4        58.4        58.4      58.4      440.4
Surplus (Deficit) 6/                                            (1.4)       57.6       173.8      230.0    253.2       135.0        18.3          1.2      (28.6)   (58.4)   (440.4)
1/  Annual interest @ 4-1/2%, repayment of principal in Year 15.
2/  Assumes average interest rate of 8-1/2 7 on small business loans, with 407 of loans with 5 year terms and 60% with 2 year tern.
3/ Assumes 40% loans for workshop construction @ 5 year term; remaining 60% for equipment and working capital with average term of 2 years.
4/  Includes only loan disbursementsunder the project.  It is expected that repayments of these loans will be recycled by way of further loans
to small scale entrepreneurs.
5/ Assumed @ 6% per annum.
6/ Cumulative deficit shown here would be covered through interest payments on recycled funds.



- 47 -
project for consultant and advisory services to HIPCO (para 2.28) to: (a)
assist in providing extension services and manpower training; (b) monitor and
evaluate the effectiveness of the program; (c) assess both the assistance
requirements of the artisan sector and the existing and proposed systems for
delivery of this assistance; (d) advise on HIPCO's organizational and staffing
requirements; and (e) train HIPCO staff. The Engineering and Industrial
Design and Development Center (para 1.14) would assist by training HIPCO staff
and providing general guidance. HIPCO would also work closely with the
Productivity and Vocational Training Department of Ministry of Industry (paras
1.14 and 2.23).
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.01      The proposed project would represent the first low cost urban devel-
opment project to conform with the Government's recent urban policy initia-
tives, particularly in the housing sector. Its scope is modest in view of
the immense urban problems in Egypt. It would, however, have important
demonstration effects and help lay the basis for an appropriately designed
urban program that in subsequent phases could be undertaken on a scale suf-
ficient to alleviate the plight of the urban poor without undue costs. Par-
ticularly important in this respect are: (a) the low unit cost for housing
under the sites and services component of the project (only 20-25% of the cost
of conventional public housing in Egypt): (b) the initiation of an upgrading
program for unserviced low income areas at very low cost, averaging LE 145
(US$210) per household under the project; (c) the incorporation of job crea-
tion at low cost into shelter and upgrading schemes; (d) the initiation of
a program to improve at low cost the collection and disposal of solid waste
generated in urban areas, particularly in low income areas; (e) the demon-
stration of the appropriateness of relying on simple technology incorporated
into project design in innovative ways, for instance the use of cesspits in
Mansheit Nasser (para 2.06) and vented pit latrines in New Nagaa El Arab
(para 2.10) to improve sanitation at low cost, and the use of intermediate
technology composting techniques for solid waste disposal; and (f) the
establishment and strengthening of sector institutions to help implement,
monitor and evaluate the project and to expand it into a larger program for
the long term. The appropriateness of the project design is indicated by the
fact that some two thirds of project beneficiaries in the upgrading and sites
and services areas are below the urban poverty threshold (para 4.09). About
67% of total project cost would benefit households with incomes below the
poverty threshold.
6.02      The economic rate of return for the upgrading and sites and services
components, representing about one half of project cost, is estimated at 19%
(see paras 6.03-6.05). Rates of return were not computed for other project
components due to difficulties in the measurement and quantification of
benefits. However, alternative indicators of the economic merits of these
components are discussed in paras 6.06-6.08.



- 48 -
Upgrading and Sites and Services
6.03      Benefit valuation in upgrading areas is based on estimates of the
increase in property values brought about by the improvements. In sites and
services areas, imputed rental values for housing and market sale prices for
workshop plots were used to measure benefits. Information regarding land and
rental values in areas with similar location characteristics was provided by
the Governorates or obtained through direct surveys carried out by the Proj-
ect Preparation Unit. The following values were arrived at:
Land and Rent Values in November 1977 prices
Upgrading (Land values in LE per m ):        Without Prolect    With Project
Mansheit Nasser - main settlement                 15                 21
- Zabbaleen area                  6                12
North Bassateen                                   13                 23
New Nagaa el Arab                                  7                 12
Sites and Services (rents in LE
per month per room):
South Metras                                       -                 7
South Gharb el Balad                                                 5
6.04      The following project costs were included in the analysis:  (a)
site development costs including site preparation and on-site infrastructure
costs, the share of off-site infrastructure costs allocable to the site,
administrative expenses, design and supervision costs, and physical contin-
gencies; (b) on-plot development costs including costs of self-help building
materials and related labor, water and sewer connections, core units and
perimeter walls; and (c) annual operation and maintenance cost estimated at 3%
of total development costs.
6.05      The sites and services and upgrading components together would
yield an estimated economic rate of return of 19%. The sites and services
schemes would have a return of 16% and the upgrading schemes 23%. Sen-
sitivity analyses show that an increase of 10% in the benefits or a decrease
of 10% in the costs increases the rates of return by two and six percent-
age points for sites and services and upgrading, respectively. A 10% decrease
in benefits or increase in cost, decreases the rates of return by two and six
points as well.
Small Business Assistance and Manpower Training Program
6.06      A total of about 1,100 jobs are expected to be generated in the
project areas through the provision of serviced plots, credit, extension
services and manpower training. The average incremental cost per job is



- 49 -
estimated at LE 1,350 (US$1,930), ranging from LE 1,150 (US$1,640) in Mansheit
Nasser to LE 1,700 (US$2,430) in Alexandria, which is below the 1977 urban
poverty capital/labor threshold for Egypt (US$3,000). The breakdown of the
average cost per job is as follows: (a) 25% for serviced plots; (b) 53% for
loans and equity contribution for workshop construction, equipment and working
capital; (c) 19% for manpower training; and (d) 3% for extension services.
Improvements in Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
6.07      The project would provide for solid waste collection from the low-
income project sites as demonstration schemes and help lay the basis for
extending collection to other low-income urban areas in the future with
disposal through appropriate recycling and composting methods. The proposed
expanded use of existing private contractors together with intermediate
technology composting could allow collection and disposal of domestic and
street wastes from all of Alexandria and Cairo at the very low annual per
capita cost of LE 0.50 (US$0.70) and LE 0.85 (US$1.20), respectively.
These costs are only about 25% of the cost of the fully mechanized collection
and high-technology composting systems that have been under consideration by
the two Governorates.
Urgent Repairs to the Water Supply and Sewerage Systems in Assiut
6.08      One of the benefits expected from the immediate rehabilitation works
to the water supply system will be the reduction of network losses currently
estimated to be about 50% of production, thus improving supply to and revenue
from areas already connected and allowing more connections to be made from
the existing networks. In addition the supply of water to areas supplied by
public standpipes would be dramatically improved. The urgent repairs to the
sewerage system will significantly reduce serious health hazards, particularly
near the non-operational treatment works where raw sewage is currently used to
irrigate fields producing crops for human consumption. There would thus be
savings through improved health, although lack of adequate data precludes any
quantification of these results. The benefits are however likely to be
substantial as 70% of infant mortality in Assiut has been attributed to poor
water supply and sanitary conditions.
Project Risks
6.09      As the project would help explore new approaches to urban develop-
ment in Egypt and demonstrate their feasibility, it necessarily faces a number
of risks. Firstly, the reduction in design standards to lower costs combined
with the emphasis on cost recovery, including the substantial increase in
housing interest rates, is politically sensitive and will require continuing
strong Government commitment to the project. Surveys and discussions with
project communities indicate, however, that the project would be well re-
ceived, particularly because of its provision of security of tenure and the
very minimal displacement it would require in upgrading areas. Secondly, due
to institutional weaknesses in the sector, including a serious shortage of
administrative and technical staff, the project could experience delays and



- 50 -
coordination problems. However, such risks have been minimized (a) by basing
the implementation arrangements as much as possible on already existing and
staffed organizations which would be strengthened and supported by advisors
and consultants as necessary, and (b) by providing for staff training under
the project. Partly in view of risks such as the above, the scope of this
first project has been kept limited.
6.10      The project would also involve certain risks with regard to specific
components. Firstly, the reclamation of the South Metras site in Alexandria
(para 2.13) would be a relatively large-scale undertaking costing an estimated
US$1.2 million. Delays could be experienced both in the filling of the site
and in subsequent infrastructure development which would require on-going
settlement tests and possibly detailed design adjustments. However, there is
substantial experience of land reclamation in Alexandria and areas next to the
site have already been reclaimed and developed. Also, there is a strong
economic justification for reclamation as alternative housing sites in central
Alexandria would only be available at a price three times the cost of reclama-
tion and therefore not affordable to the lowest income groups. Secondly, the
upgrading of the Zabbaleen settlement at Mansheit Nasser is a technically
complex and culturally and politically sensitive scheme which could encounter
unexpected difficulties. Again, the risk is well worth taking in view of the
expected benefits of improving the extremely bad living conditions in the
settlement and the long term potential for expanding the role of the Zabbaleen
in Cairo's waste management system.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following main
points:
(a) freehold titles would be granted to residents of the
slum upgrading and sites and services areas (paras. 2.11
and 2.20);
(b) all final engineering designs would be satisfactory to IDA
(para. 3.01);
(c) adequate budgetary provisions would be made available
to the executing agencies to ensure the timely implementa-
tion of the project (para. 3.06).
(d) (i) each executing agency would maintain separate project
accounts and the Fund would compile consolidated project
accounts, (ii) financial statements and audit reports for
each executing agency would be submitted to IDA not later
than nine months after the close of each financial year,
and (iii) all executing agencies would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA (para. 3.15);



- 51 -
(e) terms and conditions for cost recovery would be satisfac-
tory to IDA (para. 4.06);
(f) beneficiary selection criteria would be satisfactory to
IDA (paras. 4.08 and 5.17);
(g) consultant and advisory services would be obtained by
December 31, 1978 to advise the Fund on the management,
accounting and financing of its operations (para. 5.06);
and
(h) a full-time Low Income Housing Project Officer would be
appointed in each Governorate by July 1, 1978 (para. 5.11).
7.02      With the assurances received the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$14 million.



- 52-                                                    ANNEX 1
EGYPT tIREAN DEVESWPMEH PROJECT
Table 1: Detailed Cost E.timatan
Sites snd Services and Upgrading
(LE 003)
Cairo                                         Alexandria                             Ansiut
Manoheit Nasser              North Bassateen        South Metros          New  ages Sl Arab       South Ghirb El Balad
main         Zebbeleen                             Sites/Servioe.            Upgrading               Site/Serviceo
Settlement     Settleent                                                                 _ 
A. Land Acquisition                              -              _                                                                  -                     61o0.
B. Site Preparation end Surveys                  9.2            -                 102.0                  809.7                     -                      73.2
C. On-Site Infrantructure
1. Roade                                    79.0           19.0                39.5                   54.o                     38.8                  141.0
2. Water Supply                             51.2           26.5                13.9                   17.2                      9.4                   23.0
3. Sewerage (inn. o.sepits)                 87.2            -                  50.6                   82.(                    11.1                   105.0
4. Street Lighting                          34.0            4.0                 5,8                   9.0                     11.4                     2.5
5. Improvement of Comeunity Space           17.0                                -                      -
6. BeCome Collection                         3.0            -                   4.8                    3.5                      2.0                    5.0
Sob-total C                       271.4           49.5               114.6                  165.7                     72.7                  276.5
D. O:-Plot Derelopaent
1. Water Cooneotince                        51.0            -                  16.0                   21.4                     -                      36.6
2. Swer Conneotimne                         12.0            -                   6.6                   LL5                      -                      19.7
3.  sspits
a. Repair                                15.0                      -                                             -
b. Conntruetion                         101.1                                                        -                                              -
4. Ablution Unite                           23.1            -                  37.6                   92.9                     -                     158.9
5. Perimeter Walls                           -              -                  52.7                  182.0                     -                     333.2
6. Core Unite                                               -                   -                     61.9                      -                    118.0
7. Denonetration Housing                     -.0                                - 
Sub-total D                       202.2            3.0               112.9                  363.7                      -                    633.4
E. Self-Help Conetructioc Materilsa            250.0          100.0                85.3                   60.1                    33.5                    81.0
F. Off-Site Infrastructure
1. Roads                                    90.0            -                  22.2                   10.0                     -                      20.0
2. Water Supply                             26.8            -                   6.6                    -                       -                      18.5
3. Sewerage                                  _              -                   -                     18.0                     -                      22.0
4. Electricity                             143.2                               32.5                  106 s22.2                                       115.5
Sub-total F                       260o0                               61.7                  134.5                    22.2                   176.0
G. Co-unity Facilities
1. Schools                                 182.0           36.0                42.0                   42.0                     -                      42.C
2. Health Centers                           94,0            94.0               94.0                   94.0                     -                      94.0
3. Cocrunity Centers/Dispensaries           24.0           20.0                22.0                   22.0                     _                      24.o
4. Other
a. Tin Baling Plant                       -             20.0                 -                      -
b. Composting Plant                       -              10.0                -                        _                    -                       -
Sub-total G                       300.0          180.0               L58.0                  158.0                     -                     160.0
H. Design aol Supervision                      122.2           22.3                60.4                 171,2                     13.2                   162.2
HASE CS3T A-H                            1,415.0          354.8               694.9                1,568.9                   i4i.6                 2,172.3
C. Project Msn.agement                          37.0            7.4                16.2                   47.8                     3.8                   53.3
Sob-tot.a i-I                            1,452.0          362.2               711.1                1,916.7                   145.4                 2,225.6
J. Physical Contingencies                       94 9           23.2                55.2                  183.8                     9.6                   104.1
Sob-total A-J                            1,546.9          385.4                766.3              2, 102.5                   155.0                 2,329.7
K. Price Contingencies                         357.            102si              206.6                 408.3                     36-.5                _30 8
TOTAL COST                               1,904.4           487.5              972.9                2,510.8                   191.5                 2,668.5



- 53 -                      ANNEX 1
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Detailed Cost Estimates
Small Business Assistance and Manpower Training
Estimated Cost (LE '000)
A.  Small Business Loans
Workshop Construction                                      250.0
Equipment and Working Capital                              375.0
Sub-Total                                                  625.0
Price Contingencies                                        180.1
Total Cost (A)                                             805.1
S.  Extension Services
Recurring Costs                                             50.4
Project Administration                                       1.2
Sub-Total                                                   51.6
Price Contingencies                                         13.7
Total Cost (B)                                              65.3
C. Manpower Training
Training Center                                             65.0
Equipment and Tools                                         50.0
Recurring Costs                                            326.4
Design and Supervision                                       6.5
Sub-Total                                                  447.9
Project Administration                                      11.5
Sub-Total                                                  459.4
Physical Contingencies                                      13.8
Price Contingencies                                        104.9
Total Cost (C)                                             578.1
TOTAL COST (A + B + C)                                   1_448.5
Table 3: Detailed Cost Estimates
Improvements in Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
Estimated Cost (LE '000)
A.  Cairo
Pilot composting plant at Shoubra                           10.0
Main plant - 200 tonnes/day                                700.0
Design and Supervision                                      78.1
Sub-Tntal                                                  788.1
Project Administration                                      21.5
Sub-Total                                                  809.6
Physical Contingencies                                      71.0
Price Contingencies                                        221.1
Total Cost (A)                                           1,101.7
B.  Alexandria
Collection - 300 donkey carts                              105.0
Street cleansing
- 600 handcarts                                 60.0
-  40 depots                                   120.0
Disposal
- 2 sorting depots                             200.0
- 1 pilot composting plant                      20.0
Workshops
- 1 workshop                                   150.0
- 1 mobile workshop                             10.0
Garages    - equipment                                      80.0
Supervision- 4 jeeps                                        20.0
Design and Supervision                                      52.5
Sub-Total                                                 817.5
Project Administration                                      22.3
Sub-Total                                                 839.8
Physical Contingencies                                      74.5
Price Contingencies                                        175.5
Total Cost (B)                                          1.089,8
TOTAL COST (A + B)                                      2 191.5



- 54 -                         ANNEX 1
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: Detailed Cost Estimates
Investigations and Urgent Repairs to Assiut Water SIIODlv and Seweraee Svstems
Estimated Cost (LE '000)
A. Water Supply System
Improvements to water quality                               12.0
Workshops, stores and laboratory                            38.6
Leak detection equipment and meters                          1.8
Vehicles                                                    45.0
Staff recruitment and training                              10.0
Computer staff and time                                     70.0
Repair of Nile plant                                        53.5
Sub-Total (A)                                        230.9
B. Sewerage System
Equipment, pumps, repairs                                   48.0
Rehabilitation of treatment works                           44.0
Vehicles and equipment                                     105.0
Staff training                                              10.0
Minor extensions to existing treatment works                50.0
Sub-Total (B)                                        257.0
Total (A + B)                                        487.9
C.  Project Administration                                       13.4
Sub-Total (A - C)                                    501.3
D.  Physical Contingencies                                      48.8
E.  Price Contingencies                                         67.6
TOTAL COST (A - E)                                   617.7
Table 5: Detailed Cost Estimates
Consultant and Advisory Services
Estimated Cost (LE '000)
A.  Project preparation (PPF advance)                          245.0
B.  Project implementation advisors to LIHDU                    60.0
C.  Preparation of upgrading schemes in Gamalia                127.0
D.  Preparation and implementation of upgrading scheme
for Mansheit Nasser Zabbaleen settlement                   75.0
E.  Studies to determine the characteristics of the
artisan sector and to make recommendations
regarding its development                                 330.0
F. Investigations and repairs to water supply and
sewerage systems in Assiut                                240.0
G. Preparation and implementation of schemes to
improve solid waste collection and disposal
systems in Cairo and Alexandria                           120.0
H. Financial and management accounting services
to the Fund                                                60.0
I. Provision for installation of any systems
recommended in (H)                                        120.0
J.  Banking advisor to the Fund                                  12.0
K.  Identification of training needs in Governorates             25.0
L.  Staff training                                               86.0
Sub-Total (A-L)                                          1,500.0
M.  Project Administration                                       30.0
Sub-Total (A-M)                                          1,530.0
N.  Price Contingencies                                         172.2
TOTAL COST (A-N)                                         1,702.2



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected reports on the urban sector in Egypt
Al   Housing Finance in Egypt.  MOHR/USAID, August 1977.
A2   Urban Land Use in Egypt.  MOHR/USAID - 2 Volumes - June and
August 1977.
A3   Housing and Community Upgrading for Low-Income Egyptians.
MOHR/USAID, August 1977.
A4   Summary Report:  Housing Finance, Urban Land Use Policy,
Housing and Community Upgrading for Low-Income Egyptians.
MOHR/USAID August 1977.
A5   Immediate Action Proposals for Housing in Egypt.  MOHR/USAID -
2 Volumes - June 1976.
A6   Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Study.  World Health Organization/
World Bank Cooperative Programme - 2 Volumes - June 1977.
A7   Survey of Small Scale Industry.  Document of the World Bank.
Report No. 1818-EGT - December 2, 1977.
B.   Project related reports
B1   Egypt Urban Development Project:  Study for Lowest Income Housing
3 Volumes, Doxiadis International, December 1977.
B2   Solid Wastes Management in Cairo and Alexandria and at Sites and
Services and Upgrading Projects, Frank Flintoff, December 1977.
B3 Egypt Urban Development Project. Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire -
December 1977.
C.   Selected working papers
Cl   Upgrading and Sites and Services:  Detailed Description.
C2   Small Business Assistance and Manpower Training Programme.
C3   Improvements in Solid Waste Collection and Disposal:  Cairo
and Alexandria.
C4   Investigations and Urgent Repairs to Assiut Water Supply and
Sewerage Systems.
C5   Draft Outline of Terms of Reference:  Preparation of Upgrading
Schemes in Gamalia.
C6   Draft Terms of Reference:  Detailed Planning and Design for
Upgrading of Zabbaleen Settlement at Mansheit Nasser.
C7   Draft Terms of Reference:  Preparation of Program to Assist
Artisan Enterprises.
C8   Draft Terms of Reference:  Investigations and Repairs to Water
Supply System in Assiut.
C9   Draft Terms of Reference:  Investigations and Repairs to the
Sewerage System in Assiut.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
C10 Terms of Reference and Job Descriptions: Low Income Housing
Development Unit.
Cll Job Description: Low Income Housing Project Officer in
Governorates.
C12 Draft Terms of Reference: Financial and Management Accounting
Services to Low Income Housing Fund.
C13 Draft Terms of Reference: Banking Advisor to Low Income Housing
Fund.
C14 Draft Terms of Reference: Survey of Training Needs of Governorates
of Egypt.
C15 Project Sources and Applications of Funds Statements: Governorates
of Alexandria and Assiut, HIPCO.



EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Conditions in Mansheit Nasser - Main Settlement (Cairo)
Note:  (1) Well-built permanent structures. (2) Plot perimeter walls built at'early stage
of development.
Jote: (1) Temporary roofs built during initial phase are later replaced with concrete roofs
to allow vertical expansion. (2) Cesspit under construction in the street in foreground.






EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Conditions in Mansheit Nasser - Zabaline Settlement (Cairo)
Note: (1) Citadel in background and quarry in foreground. (2) Donkey carts bringing refuse tc
settlement. (3) Accumulation of refuse in settlement.
Note: (1) Buildings are of temporary construction. (2) Refuse collected in the morning has
been dumped at each building for sorting.






EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Conditions in North Bassateen (Cairo)
Typical Conditions in New Nag~aa El Arab (Alexandria)
Note: Self-help housing of different quality and in different stages of construction.
~~~ -~~E!
.'~~~~~~1 A        -'~''-"~'X
' 'W   ,' >  ' '      ,<'            ';,  r






EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Conditions in El Gamalia (Central Cairo)
~oc:Water and sewage
flowing from
broken pipes.
' r g i-:6'    j!~~4



I



- IBRD 13439
APRIL 1978
ARAB  REPUBLIC  OF EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Location of Project Components in Cairo
//XXvSm   Proposed Project Areas                     t
Urbanized Area                  \
Old City Center                                           SHOUBRAH
Main Roads and Streets                                    EL KHEtMA
---------Railways                                                       SHOUSRAH EL KHEIMA
River                                                               PROPOSED
\  \    0  \\    \        ~~COMPOSTING PLANT/
This map has been prepared by the
World Bank's staff esclusively for
the conven,ence of the readers of
the report to which it is attached
The deno-,atons used and the
boundaries shown on this map
do not rmply, on the part of the
World Bank and its affliates, any
uodgrent on the legal status of
any teritory or any endorsement
or acceptance of sach boondaries
( C1I    2SDS                                                                                            /  /l
KLOMIETERS 
j A P  { Qi   -'           /    \ \      NORTH ~ASSATEEN  1        ~         // //   /        //
sX SUDAN  /  <      <         \    \        UPGRADIN                         // ,'/;    / / 
CHAD  I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IERD 13 440
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                        C       lAD     PPA     300     fOC      5AM
Mansheit Nasser Upgrading Component                                                                     M  ES
_EXISTING               PROPOSED                                                                          ETIT
R saaessEl  areae  M   EhsenssnoirafsdeeaeEal a eap                                                                                                                            a /5 i 9l);.,3
ZZobl ne  seEsfesesl    A,sphalsd r-dsa
f5555Hghwoys                  G,sdeed aad -pterPd claph sEa-d
a     Ro --ad Mao             C mnly -cessr
M f oseshaPs          asA<NawwaaEssha areas \, ,, 
m   M~q-squesth -.I healEr caEer 
Chusch              --'  SporEs gEAE                                                                                                       i A
\~~~~~~~LZIIMEI                           Echool School ,     , ?           W 
\                ;if'2!.wg~~~5Aar5s  laS q5alrlae  L U_gsnchO s9cond pEase  F 7                                 -m  \  E  ./   - _       5a-                 0
--  twC f f srtSo;*   <m3
I     4)5tL               |                        2 ot  _-m
TM3                                                                                  o   s '-W  vO      E! M   mg,S pI 5    5   'd
-a.X7. '5-n'.WX-.X-  Ft^-'"-'Xl   V
5CnaMs     tE MMMS >   -f a55 E'                        S0*'                  FThM14 af Di     A -d5Mmar 
..  OAUE MUne M  .........                                                                                                                                    /VX /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........
nsF  ~   ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~        ~~~~ a...p------
M.A"A   a






W                                     ~~~ ~ ~~~/ K>
I  -vj~~~~~~~~~~
f ~=> 0;4 \ i ; ;                   _ _ /                           \' ''tN
l//gsf V3     ,gt{            Z!      =  k         < i2
ow          4_
It
7~~~~~~
::D~~~~~~~~~~ <                                       
O B O  S C U(              I      
:1               I      \ j',C V 7&se 
_,/            






IBRD 13441
APRIL 1978
M5QITYi :,>: ;:9: :g: ji r vR;5pRA rN 5d,;0;,:;, 5, ^,:, 5;,'jr::<i9';VE  ,:,:i'10;,'AMjz2:ij;!'t;;;Tijri:                             ARAB  REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Location of Project Components in Alexandria
ANFOUCHI                                                                                                                         REY*          -
/   r;                                                                                              / ::; r ; :  \ff; 1 ir r AS1 rF 5 %\ ';j ;;;iv101 !; ;'S 't (<   l i tkir! t#j; t fl (D  2  PrProposed Project Areos  I  X  K'  /
Xj/ ; - <;F>f;r Heit>it!jr5                                            *0     2     l 4;AW;i; ;,: :0l&? MA   tp  g yri*PFjZr45kji;00 = Residentiid ol Areas  |eIY Y14                    IRAQ  t
7/zG ;i;;, M!rlPort ond Industrial Areos                                  ALEXANDIA  .1
Main Arterial Streets                 N                            A R  (          -
Railways                                              LBA          EY                  AD
TramwaiysLIA                                                       EGPSAD
Canals                                                                                  RABIA
'  l M        '     SUDANCHAD         A S U D A    '  
t:   "   ;:-   J   i   i;  0t  "!  :f  Wrn -r ;r .t jtV !; Vi,R%, ;;3 t/ _ -} \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kA IVA 4                   \  
8  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      
RILOMetRAS                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS






rBRD 13442
SEWAGE REATMENTAT.                                                                                                                                                                         ARL 
-  .  r.  .  > r  _  _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _,                                    /    2;          .                            /__
.,/  ,,, , ;;,==C L  Ml                                                        I m
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
v -~~~~~ 
,,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  I          ,.   ,    ,f.._g,g;0tt
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  L II _   1 
1 / 08 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPTz-
[-S.-.     Z | |I  I  i i1, f/-                          I               EGYP  URBANDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
W  j ) 6 0 0 J f | Residentl:l Arss Zore A AtETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                 20   40    60    TO    TO
'WX   /   X   \   \    2 lRiE4 eTIdA,ZT Ar                             eo Zn I,OE0    0
ffA     M- ~ ~     ~    CET6~  ERA         A
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TECy ~     EO
S t. . IN,Ud71wtAL | / i: i l l i \ \ \ \ E ProSosed 5t0ndpipe5 ||-* ) 71-OOdE                                                                      /           A
Arab__    Up radin   Copoets-AETndi
2 0        TA   .AA
X   ;     .    .ARe   |  i i    \     |      |    / j    I fi  ] i    d      gp -gded c l o   Rogds,  | |RT  - - CAA |
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                                 R-It. Ari Z.. |A                                             U4      o  s






IBRD 13443
APRIL 1978
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Location of Project Components in Assiut
-,  ~~~     TURK(EY
Proposed Sites and Services Scheme                                                           ,'
Old City                                                                                                     I zo;QQA/ee; 5et" k IRAG ,
:ZI--. lNew City                                                                                       AR J             -'
;- - -::w;New Industrial Area                                                                         ASSIUTI 9
l]     Sewage Pumping Stations                                                                      E GYP          SAUDI
*      Water Pumping Stations                                            /                                    >   ARABIA
O      Artesion Well 1
Main Commercial Streets                                                           CHAD  i          .       /V-'/
Main Streets                                            f                                 SUDAN       /
Railways                                         >    d        W            
WATER TREATMENT
/   \   \; \                        b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.,dso.,O bhoese so th/h sp do notreIply  on th, pert 0/ the World Psolt nd 1to
\   %%\                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooeptsooe oh soth bosodvler/e ls --               /tY  dym mmn 






EBRD 13444
_                                                                                                                                APR,L 078~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI ti1-   
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~:~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
._____                                                1                                            . ........... .... ..... .. ..  4  X  AEGYPT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
South Gharb El Baloc Sites and Serv ces
. .....                                                                                            Component - Assiut
r 1 ........... i F k .. . .........   R e s i d   e     n     h    o     l         A r e :              Zons              e
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......                                                                                                                      R-. in  l . 0l A,. Z.- A ^^v^J  
R-ed-ntial Ar-  Zo-  B
RR~,4dent, A,.. Zone C
A,po-  V.11.   Wh,c , R-d,s
j                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Grad.cd Veh,. or Rood,
Pederrr an. Poths
i                                                                2 0      0c     0 0 ; , 
R<-
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Co I1 -- =n;



