CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 831 EGT
Project Agreement
(Egypt Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GOVERNORATE OF ALEXANDRIA
Dated August 30, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 831 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 30, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
GOVERNORATE OF ALEXANDRIA (hereinafter called G. Alexandria).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that, inter alia, G. Alexandria agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the LIH Fund, part of the proceeds
of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to G. Alexandria on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS G. Alexandria, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. G. Alexandria shall carry out Part B of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment, which is set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, with


﻿-2-
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist G. Alexandria in coordina-
ting the carrying out of Part B of the Project with the LIH Fund
and the LIHD Unit, G. Alexandria shall promptly appoint a full-
time Low Income Housing Project Officer whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associ-
ation.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works for Part B of the
Project which are to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) G. Alexandria undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the LIH Fund against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by G. Alexandria to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, G.
Alexandria shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the LIH Fund to be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.05. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association
may otherwise agree, G. Alexandria shall furnish, through the LIHD
Unit, to the Association, for its approval, prior to their being
finalized: (i) the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for carrying out Part B of
the Project; and (ii) any material modifications of or additions
to such documents.
(b) G. Alexandria: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part B of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the


﻿-3-
proceeds of the Credit by the LIH Fund, and to disclose their use
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in Part B of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, through the LIHD
Unit to the Association, at regular intervals, all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Part B
of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. G. Alexandria shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into
between the Borrower and the LIH Fund. Except as the Borrower and
the Association shall otherwise agree, G. Alexandria shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving such Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) G. Alexandria shall at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement referred to in Section 2.06 of this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) G. Alexandria shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with, the progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by G. Alexandria of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement referred to in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Section 2.08. G. Alexandria shall, in carrying out Part B (i)
of the Project, grant to residents in New Nagaa El Arab freehold
titles to the plots occupied by such residents, on terms and
conditions that are satisfactory to the Association and which
provide, inter alia, that the resident:
(a) will pay a purchase price for the plot that is suffi-
cient to recover a pro rata share of the full capital cost of the
land, on-site infrastructure (comprising water supply, sewerage,
roads, refuse bins and street lighting), building materials loans,


﻿-4-4
plot utility connections, design and supervision fees, adminis-
tration costs, and financial charges accrued during construction
at the rate of not less than 7% per annum;
(b) may not, within five years of a freehold title being
granted, sell the plot or lease the whole of the plot without the
written approval of G. Alexandria, which shall have the first
option to purchase the plot for its market value, as determined by
G. Alexandria; and
(c) must pay the purchase price of the plot plus financial
charges at the rate of not less than 7% per annum, in equal
monthly installments over a period of 10 years.
Section 2.09. G. Alexandria shall, in carrying out Part B
(ii) of the Project:
(a) Establish beneficiary selection criteria that are
satisfactory to the Association and which provide, inter alia,
that beneficiaries must: (i) have incomes within prescribed
income ranges; (ii) own no other dwelling; (iii) be in need of
shelter; and (iv) be financially able to make the downpayment and
pay the monthly installments specified in sub-paragraph (c) (v) of
this Section.
(b) Determine, in a manner satisfactory to the Association
prices forthe sale of plots that are sufficient to recover a pro
rata share of the full cost of the land, earthworks, on-site
infrastructure (comprising water supply, sewerage, roads, refuse
bins and street lighting), core housing, building materials loans,
plot utility connections, design and supervision fees, adminis-
tration costs, and financial charges accrued during construction
at the rate of not less than 7% per annum.
(c) Prepare, in consultation with the Association, the
standard agreements to be entered into for the sale of plots, that
provide, inter alia, that the beneficiary: (i) will pay a purchase
price for the plot that has been determined in accordance with the
provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of this Section; (ii) must phys-
ically occupy the plot within one year of its being ready for
occupation; (iii) may not, within five years of the plot being
ready for occupation sell the plot or sub-let the whole of the
plot without the written approval of G Alexandria which shall have
the first option to purchase the plot for its market value, as
determined by G. Alexandria; (iv) will be given a freehold title


﻿-5-
to the plot; (v) must make a downpayment of not less than 5% of
such purchase price prior to the signature of the agreement of
sale and pay the balance, plus financial charges at the rate of
not less than 7% per annum, in equal monthly installments over a
period of 20 years.
Section 2.10. G. Alexandria shall, in consultation with the
National Bank and HIPCO, assist enterprises and residents in the
settlement included in Part B of the Project to obtain, when this
is appropriate, the small-scale business loans, training and other
assistance specified in Part D of the Project.
Section 2.11. G. Alexandria shall introduce and maintain in
existence, in consultation with the LIHD Unit, a monitoring and
evaluation system satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, which will, inter alia, monitor and evaluate the carrying
out of Part B of the Project.
Section 2.12. G. Alexandria shall, whenever this is neces-
sary, make satisfactory arrangements to relocate any residents in
the settlements included in Part B (i) of the Project who are
required to move as a result of the carrying out of this Part of
the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of G. Alexandria
Section 3.01. G. Alexandria shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. G. Alexandria shall:(i) at all times operate
and maintain its plants, facilities, equipment, machinery and
other property, and promptly as required make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate
engineering and management practices; and (ii) take all such
action as may be necessary to ensure that GOPW or GOSSD follow
similar practices, when either is carrying out a Part of the
Project within the jurisdiction of G. Alexandria.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. G. Alexandria shall: (i) maintain separate
Project accounts and financial statements adequate to reflect in


﻿-6-
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition in respect of
Part B of the Project; (ii) open a separate Project bank account
to which will be credited the proceeds of the Credit made avail-
able to G. Alexandria by the LIH Fund under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement entered into between the Borrower and the LIH Fund; and
(iii) ensure that, at all times, an adequate working capital
balance is maintained in such Project bank account with which to
finance the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
Section 4.02. G. Alexandria shall: (i) have its Project
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association; (ii) furnish to the Borrower and the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of such financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Borrower and the Association such other
information concerning the aforesaid Project accounts and finan-
cial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of G. Alexandria thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement.


﻿-7-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Borrower and G. Alexandria of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Governorate of Alexandria:
Undersecretary for Housing
Alexandria Governorate
Alexandria
Cable address:
Undersecretary for Housing
Alexandria Governorate


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of G. Alexandria may be taken or executed by
the Undersecretary for Housing, Alexandria Governorate or such
other person or persons as the Undersecretary for Housing, Alexan-
dria Governorate shall designate in writing, and G. Alexandria
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
fi.   above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ A. David Knox
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
GOVERNORATE OF ALEXANDRIA
By Is/ A. Ghorbal
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
Part A:
The provision in Cairo of:
(i) Upgrading of about 96 hectares with about 11,600 house-
holds in Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement); of about 30
hectares with about 3,000 households in Mansheit Nasser
(Zabbaleen Settlement) and of about 23 hectares with
about 3,900 households in North Bassateen (Kulaha
Settlement), which will include:
(a) the improvement of access and circulation roads;
(b) the improvement of water supply facilities through
the extension of the existing water distribution
networks, the provision of new equipment and the
repair and replacement of existing equipment;
(c) the improvement of sanitation through the recon-
struction of existing cesspits, the provision of
new cesspits, and the extension of the piped
sewerage system in Mansheit Nasser (Main Settle-
ment); and the provision of public ablution units
and washing sheds in Mansheit Nasser (Zabbaleen
Settlement) and North Bassateen (Kulaha Settle-
ment);
(d) the extension of the electricity systems including
the provision of additional power lines, trans-
formers, and street lighting;
(e) the provision of solid waste collection services in
Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement) and North
Bassateen (Kulaha Settlement);
(f) the provision of new plots for residential and
small business purposes;
(g) the improvement of community facilities through the
construction of three primary schools, one second-
ary school for girls, one health clinic, one
combined dispensary and community center, and
playgrounds in Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement);


﻿- 10 -
(h) the improvement of community facilities through the
construction of one primary school, one health
clinic and one community center in Mansheit Nasser
(Zabbaleen Settlement);
(i) the improvement of community facilities through the
construction of one primary school, one health
clinic, one community center and one playground in
North Bassateen (Kulaha Settlement);
(j) the self-help improvement and construction of
houses through the provision of building materials
to residents in the above settlements, and demon-
stration houses in Mansheit Nasser (Zabbaleen
Settlement); and
(k) the improvement of solid waste collection and
disposal through the provision of a 35 ton per day
composting plant, a tin baling plant, and loans for
the repair and replacement of donkey carts in
Mansheit Nasser (Zabbaleen Settlement).
(ii) The construction of a pilot composting plant at Shoubra
and, when its performance is satisfactory, the construc-
tion of a 200 tons per day composting plant at Shoubra
for the purpose of improving solid waste disposal.
Part B:
The provision in Alexandria of:
(i) Upgrading of about 11 hectares with about 1,000 house-
holds in New Nagaa El Arab, which will include:
(a) the improvement of access and circulation roads;
(b) the installation of mains and water taps to improve
the water supply;
(c) the provision of above-ground vented pit privies to
improve sanitation facilities;
(d) the installation of a transformer and the extension
of the electricity distribution system to provide
street lighting and to permit on-plot electricity
connections;


﻿- 11 -
(e) the provision of solid waste collection services;
(f) the improvement of community facilities through the
construction of one primary school, one health
clinic and one community center in the adjoining
sites and services area of South Metras as speci-
fied in Part B (2) (d) of this Schedule; and
(g) the provision of building materials to residents
for home improvement through self-help.
(ii) Sites and services for about 1800 residential plots and
about 80 workshop plots on about 15 hectares in South
Metras, which will include:
(a) land reclamation and preparation;
(b) infrastructure facilities including roads, water
supply and sewerage;
(c) ablution units and plot perimeter walls for resi-
dential plots;
(d) community facilities comprising one primary school,
one health clinic and one community center; and
(e) provision of building materials to residents for
home construction through self-help.
(iii) The improvement of solid waste collection and disposal,
particularly for low income areas, through:
(a) the establishment of an organization for street
cleansing and solid waste management;
(b) the establishment of contractual arrangements with
private contractors for collection of solid waste
from low income areas;
(c) the construction of disposal depots at which such
contractors will sort, sell or otherwise dispose of
wastes; and
(d) the provision of one pilot composting plant, donkey
carts for waste collection, hand carts for street
cleaning, workshops, repair and maintenance equip-
ment, and vehicles.


﻿- 12 -
Part C:
The provision in Assiut of sites and services for about 2,800
residential plots and 200 workshop plots, on about 25 hectares at
South Gharb El Balad, which will include:
(i) Land preparation;
(ii) Infrastructure facilities, including roads, water supply
and sewerage;
(iii) Ablution units and plot perimeter walls for residential
plots;
(iv) Community facilities comprising one primary school, one
health center, and one community center; and
(v) Provision of building materials to residents for home
construction through self-help.
Part D:
The provision of:
(i) Small-scale business loans of not more than LE5,000 each
to enterprises in the Project Areas for workshop con-
struction, equipment and for use as working capital;
(ii) Technical assistance and training for entrepreneurs in
the Project Areas for the management and operation of
small-scale businesses; and
(iii) Vocational training and accelerated training of manpower
in various fields.
Part E:
The repair and rehabilitation of the water supply and sewer-
age systems at Assiut through:
(i) Repairs to the water supply facilities at Assiut includ-
ing the water extraction plants and the water distribu-
tion network, together with the provision of essential
vehicles, workshop facilities and the equipment required
to test, maintain and monitor the operation of such
plants and network; and


﻿- 13 -
(ii) Rehabilitation of the central sewage pumping station,
and the existing sewage disposal works at Assiut and the
minor extensions needed to increase the capacity of
these facilities, together with the provision of essen-
tial vehicles, workshop facilities and the equipment
required to test, maintain and monitor the operation of
such facilities.
Part F:
The provision to the Borrower of consultancy and advisory
services to assist in:
(i) Project design and implementation;
(ii) The preparation of further urban development projects;
(iii) The improvement of the organization and the financial,
accounting and management procedures followed by the LIH
Fund;
(iv) A survey of the small business sector in Egypt and the
improvement of HIPCO's organization and staffing; and
(v) The identification of training needs in the Governorates
of Cairo, Alexandria, Assiut, Ismailia and Gharbiya.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 2
Procurmnt
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
$50,000 and for civil works estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $500,000 shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, G. Alexandria shall prepare
and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the proposed date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. G. Alexandria
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
G. Alexandria may: (i) award contracts for civil works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less by means of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with G.
Alexandria's normal procedures; (ii) purchase items of equipment
under Category (3) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or less through prudent shopping on the basis of at least three
price quotations, provided that the aggregate amount of such
purchases does not exceed the equivalent of $150,000; and (iii)
procure materials for home improvement that are made available


﻿- 15 -
under Category (3) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement by means of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with G. Alexandria's normal procedures, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $150,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
1.   Bids shall be evaluated on the basis of the parallel market
rate of exchange established by Decree No. 64 of 1974 of the
Borrower's Minister of Finance, and, if the said rate ceases to
be applicable, at such rate of exchange as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association.
2.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the purchaser of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
3.   In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Egypt
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding docunents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of G. Alexandria and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿- 16 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Egypt.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the following
procedures shall apply to all contracts for civil works estimated
to cost more than the equivalent of $500,000 and for items of
equipment estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, G. Alexandria shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 17 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, G. Alexan-
dria shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
G. Alexandria and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, G. Alexandria shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and G. Alexandria and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
is-suing any change order under such contract (except in the case
of extreme urgency), which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 10% of the original price, G. Alexandria shall
inform the Association of the proposed modification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Associa-
tion, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform G.
Alexandria and state the reasons for its determination.


