CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 831 EGT
Project Agreement
(Egypt Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GOVERNORATE OF ASSIUT
Dated August 30, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 831 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 30, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
GOVERNORATE OF ASSIUT (hereinafter called G. Assiut).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that, inter alia, G. Assiut agrees to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the LIH Fund, part of the proceeds
of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to G. Assiut on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS G. Assiut, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. G. Assiut shall carry out Part C of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, which
is set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, with due diligence


﻿-2-
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist G. Assiut in coordinating
the carrying out of Part C of the Project with the LIH Fund and
the LIHD Unit, G. Assiut shall promptly appoint a full-time Low
Income Housing Project Officer whose qualifications and experience
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works for Part C of the
Project which are to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) G, Assiut undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the LIH
Fund against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by G. Assiut to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, G. Assiut
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the LIH Fund to be used exclusively for
the Project until its completion.
Section 2.05. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association
may otherwise agree, G. Assiut shall furnish, through the LIHD
Unit, to the Association, for its approval, prior to their being
finalised (i) the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for carrying out Part C of
the Project; and (ii) any material modifications of or additions
to such documents.
(b) G. Assiut: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part C of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the LIH Fund, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associ-
ation's accredited representatives to visit the facilities


﻿-3-
and construction sites included in Part C of the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish,
through the LIRD Unit, to the Association, at regular intervals,
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Part C of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of such
proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. G. Assiut shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into between the
Borrower and the LIH Fund. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, G. Assiut shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving such Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) G. Assiut shall at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of Part C of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement referred to in Section 2.06 of this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) G. Assiut shall promptly i4. orm the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of Part C of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by G. Assiut of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement referred to in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Section 2.08. G. Assiut shall, in carrying out Part C of the
Project:
(a) Establish beneficiary selection criteria that are
satisfactory to the Association and which provide, inter alia,
that beneficiaries must: (i) have incomes within prescribed income
ranges; (ii) own no other dwelling; (iii) be in need of shelter;
and (iv) be financially able to make the downpayment and pay the
monthly installments specified in sub-paragraph (c) (v) of this
Section.
(b) Determine, in a manner satisfactory to the Association
prices for the sale of plots that are sufficient to recover a pro
rata share of the full cost of the land, earthworks, on-site


﻿infrastructure (comprising water supply, sewerage, roads, refuse
bins and street lighting), core housing, building materials loans,
plot utility connections, design and supervision fees, administra-
tion costs, and financial charges accrued during construction at
the rate of not less than seven per cent (7%) per annum.
(c) Prepare, in consultation with the Association, the
standard agreements to be entered into for the sale of plots,
that provide, inter alia, that the beneficiary: (i) will pay a
purchase price for the plot that has been determined in accordance
with the provisions of subparagraph (b) of this Section; (ii) must
physically occupy the plot within one year of its being ready for
occupation; (iii) may not, within five years of the plot being
ready for occupation sell the plot or sub-let the whole of the
plot without the written approval of G. Assiut which shall have
the first option to purchase the plot for its market value, as
determined by G. Assiut; (iv) will be given a freehold title to
the plot; (v) must make a downpayment of not less than 5% of such
purchase price prior to the signature of the agreement of sale and
pay the balance, plus financial charges at the rate of 7% per
annum, in equal monthly instalments over a period of 20 years.
Section 2.09. G. Assiut shall, in consultation with the
National Bank and HIPCO, assist enterprises and residents in the
settlement included in Part C of the Project to obtain, when this
is appropriate, the small-scale business loans, training and other
assistance specified in Part D of the Project.
Section 2.10. G. Assiut shall introduce and maintain in
existence, in consultation with the LIHD Unit, a monitoring and
evaluation system satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, which will, inter alia, monitor and evaluate the carrying
out of Part C of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of G. Assiut
Section 3.01. G. Assiut shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.02. G. Assiut shall: (i) at all times operate
and maintain its plants, facilities, equipment, machinery and


﻿-5-
other property, and promptly as required make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate
engineering and management practices; and (ii) take all such
action as may be necessary to ensure that GOPW or GOSSD follow
similar practices, when either is carrying out a Part of the
Project within the jurisdiction of G. Assiut.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. G. Assiut shall: (i) maintain separate Project
accounts and financial statements adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting prac-
tices its operations and financial condition in respect of Part C
of the Project; (ii) open a separate Project bank account to which
will be credited the proceeds of the Credit made available to G.
Assiut by the LIH Fund under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered
into between the Borrower and the LIH Fund; and (iii) ensure that,
at all times, an adequate working capital balance is maintained in
such Project bank account with which to finance the carrying out
of Part C of the Project.
Section 4.02. G. Assiut shall: (i) have its Project accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association; (ii) furnish to the Borrower and the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Borrower and the Association such other
information concerning the aforesaid Project accounts and finan-
cial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿-6-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of G. Assiut thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Borrower and G. Assiut of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effact notwithstanding any cancellition or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at suii 4arty's address hereinafter
specified or at such other addres   as s;uch party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RUL) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For The Governorate of Assiut:
President of Assiut Council
Assiut
Governorate of Assiut
Cable address:
President Assiut Council
Assiut
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of G. Assiut may be taken or executed by the
President of Assiut Council or such other person or persons as the
President of Assiut Council shall designate in writing, and G.
Assiut shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. David Knox
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
GOVERNORATE OF ASSIUT
By /s/ A. Ghorbal
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
Part A:   The provision in Cairo of:
(i) Upgrading of about 96 hectares with about 11,600
households in Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement); of
about 30 hectares with about 3,000 households in Man-
sheit Nasser (Zabbaleen Settlement) and of about 23
hectares with about 3,900 households in North Bassateen
(Kulaha Settlement) which will include:
(a) The improvement of access and circulation roads;
(b) The improvement of water supply facilities through
the extension of the existing water distribution
networks, the provision of new equipment and the
repair and replacement of existing equipment;
(c) The improvement of sanitation through the recon-
struction of existing cesspits, the provision of
new cesspits, and the extension of the piped
sewerage system in Mansheit Nasser (Main Settle-
ment); and the provision of public ablution units
and washing sheds in Mansheit Nasser (Zabbaleen
Settlement) and North Bassateen (Kulaha Settle-
ment);
(d) The extension of the electricity systems including
the provision of additional power lines, trans-
formers, and street lighting;
(e) The provision of solid waste collection services
in Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement) and North
Bassateen (Kulaha Settlement);
(f) The provision of new plots for residential and
small business purposes;
(g) The improvement of community facilities through
the construction of three primary schools, one
secondary school for girls, one health clinic, one
combined dispensary and community center, and
playgrounds in Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement);


﻿(h) The improvement of community facilities through
the construction of one primary school, one health
clinic and one community center in Mansheit Nasser
(Zabbaleen Settlement);
(i) The improvement of community facilities through
the construction of one primary school, one health
clinic, one community center and one playground in
North Bassateen (Kulaha Settlement);
(j) The self-help improvement and construction of
houses through the provision of building materials
to residents in the above settlements, and demon-
stration houses in Mansheit Nasser (Zabbaleen
Settlement); and
(k) The improvement of solid waste collection and
disposal through the provision of a 35 tonnes per
day composting plant, a tin baling plant, and loans
for the repair and replacement of donkey carts in
Mansheit Nasser (Zabbaleen Settlement).
(ii) The construction of a pilot composting plant at Shoubra
and, when its performance is satisfactory, the construc-
tion of a 200 tonnes per day composting plant at Shoubra
for the purpose of improving solid waste disposal.
Part B:   The provision in Alexandria of:
(i) Upgrading of about 11 hectares with about 1,000 house-
holds in New Nagaa El Arab, which will include:
(a) The improvement of access and circulation roads;
(b) The installation of mains and water taps to improve
the water supply;
(c) The provision of above-ground vented pit privies to
improve sanitation facilities;
(d) The installation of a transformer and the extension
of the electricity distribution system to provide
street lighting and to permit on-plot electricity
connections;


﻿- 10 -
(e) The provision of solid waste collection services;
(f) The improvement of community facilities through
the construction of one primary school, one health
clinic and one community center in the adjoining
sites and services area of South Metras as spec-
ified in Part B (ii) (d) of this Schedule; and
(g) The provision of building materials to residents
for home improvement through self-help.
(ii) Sites and services for about 1,800 residential plots
and about 80 workshop plots on about 15 hectares in
South Metras, which will include:
(a) Land reclamation and preparation;
(b) Infrastructure facilities including roads, water
supply and sewerage;
(c) Ablution units and plot perimeter walls for resi-
dential plots:
(d) Community facilities comprising one primary school,
one health clinic and one community center; and
(e) Provision of building materials to residents for
home construction through self-help.
(iii) The improvement of solid waste collection and disposal,
particularly for low income areas, through:
(a) The establishment of an organization for street
cleansing and solid waste management;
(b) The establishment of contractual arrangements with
private contractors for collection of solid waste
from low income areas;
(c) The construction of disposal depots at which such
contractors will sort, sell or otherwise dispose of
wastes; and
(d) The provision of one pilot composting plant, donkey
carts for waste collection, hand carts for street


﻿-~ 11 -
cleansing, workshops, repair and maintenance equip-
ment, and vehicles.
Part C:   The provision in Assiut of sites and services for aboul
2,800 residential plots and 200 workshop plots, on about
25 hectares, at South Gharb El Balad, which will
includei
(a) Land preparation;
(b) Infrastructure facilities, including roads, water
supply and sewerage;
(c) Ablution units and plot perimeter walls for resi-
dential plots;
(d) Community facilities comprising one primary school;
one health center, and one community center; and
(e) Provision of building materials to residents for
home construction through self-help.
Pa:t D:  The provision of:
(i) Small-scale business loans of not more than LE5,000
each to enterprises in the Project Areas for work-
shop construction, equipment and for use as working
capital;
(ii) Technical assistance and training for entrepreneurs
in the Project Areas for the management and opera-
tion of small-scale businesses; and
(iii) Vocational training and accelerated training of
manpower in various fields.
Part E:   The repair and rehabilitation of the water supply and
sewerage systems at Assiut through:
(i) &epairs to the water supply facilities of Assiut
including the water extraction plants and the water
distribution network, together with the provision
of essential vehicles, workshop facilities and the
equipment required to test, maintain and monitor
the operation of such plants and network; and


﻿- 12 -
(ii) Rehabilitation of the central sewage pumping
station and the existing sewage disposal works at
Assiut and the minor extensions needed to increase
the capacity of these facilities, together with the
provision of essential vehicles, workshop facili-
ties and the equipment required to test, maintain
and monitor the operation of such facilities.
Part F:   The provision to the Borrower of consultancy and
advisory services to assist in:
(i) Project design and implementation;
(ii) The preparation of further urban development
projects;
(iii) The improvement of the organization and the
financial, accounting and management procedures
followed by the LIH Fund;
(iv) A survey of the small business sector in Egypt
and the improvement of HIPCO's organization and
staffing and;
(v) The identification of training needs in the
Governorates of Cairo, Alexandria, Assiut, Ismailia
and Gharbiya.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
$50,000 and for civil works estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $500,000 shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding under Part C of the Project, in
addition to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines,
G. Assiut shall prepare and forward to the Association as soon as
possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
proposed date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. G. Assiut
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
G. Assiut may: (i) award contracts for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less by means of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with G. Assiut's
normal procedures; (ii) purchase items of equipment under Category
(3) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less through
prudent shopping on the basis of at l6ast three price quotations,
provided that the aggregate amount of such purchases does not
exceed the equivalent of $150,000; and (iii) procure materials for
home improvement that are made available under Category (3) of
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement by


﻿- 14 -
means of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance
with G. Assiut's normal procedures, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $150,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
1.   Bids shall be evaluated on the basis of the parallel market
rate of exchange established by Decree No. 64 of 1974 of the
Borrower's Minister of Finance, and, if the said rate ceases to be
applicable, at such rate of exchange as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association.
2.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the purchaser of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
3.   In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Egypt
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of G. Assiut and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Egypt.


﻿- 15 -
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, n bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the following
procedures shall apply to all contracts for civil works estimated
to cost more than the equivalent of $500,000 and for goods
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, G. Assiut shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, G. Assiut
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the


﻿- 16 -
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform G. Assiut and state
the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, G. Assiut shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
G. Assiut and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in the case
of extreme urgency), which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 10% of the original price, G. Assiut shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform G. Assiut and
state the reasons for its determination.


