CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 831 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Egypt Urban Development Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 30, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 831 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 30, 1978, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Project, with the exception of Parts D, E and F
thereof, will be carried out by the Governorates with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to the LIH Fund and also to the National Bank
part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreements of even date herewith between the Association and
the Governorates;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Project Agreements" means the agreements between
the Association and the Governorates of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Project Agreements and all agree-
ments supplemental to the Project Agreements;
(b) "LIH Fund" means the Borrower's Low Income Housing
Fund, or any successor thereto;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and the LIH Fund and
between the Borrower and the National Bank pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements;
(d) "Governorates" means the Governorate of Cairo, the
Governorate of Alexandria and the Governorate of Assiut, or
any successor to one or more of such Governorates;
(e) "National Bank" means the National Bank of Egypt,
a public sector commercial bank founded in 1898, or any successor
thereto;
(f) "Project Areas" means the areas specified in Parts A,
B and C of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(g) "MORNC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Reconstruction
and New Communities, or any successor thereto;
(h) "LIHD Unit" means the Low Income Housing Development
Unit established by the Borrower in its MORNC and referred to in
Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(i) "HIPCO" means the Borrower's Handicraft Industries and
Productive Cooperatives Organization in its Ministry of Local
Government, or any successor thereto;
(j) "GOPW" means the Borrower's General Organization for
Potable Water, or any successor thereto;
(k) "GOSSD" means the Borrower's General Organization for
Sewerage and Sanitary Drainage, or any successor thereto; and
(1) "LE" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a)
above, the Association shall, on the Effective Date of this
Agreement, withdraw from the Credit Account, on behalf of the
Borrower, and pay to itself, an amount equivalent to the amount
of the Project Preparation Facility of up to $350,000 made avail-
able to the Borrower by the Association on April 7, 1977, and
outstanding on such Effective Date, together with the accrued
service charge thereon.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and of Schedule 2 to each of the
Project Agreements.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Association shall establish at the
request of the Borrower. The Association -hall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February
15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1988, and ending February
15, 2028, each installment to and including the installment
payable on February 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and Pich installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part D (i)
of the Project through the National Bank, Part D (ii) and (iii)
through HIPCO, Part E through its GOPW and GOSSD, Part F (i) and
(ii) through the LIHD Unit, Part F (iii) through the LIH Fund,
Part F (iv) through HIPCO and Part F (v) through its Ministry
of Local Government, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative and financial practices and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for this purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the Governorates to carry out Parts A, B and
C of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreements and the obligations therein set forth -And shall take
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds through the LIH Fund and the provision of the facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
the Governorates to perform such obligations.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) make an amount not exceeding
the equivalent of thirteen million one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars ($13,150,000) from the proceeds of the Credit available
to the LIH Fund and, through the LIH Fund, to the Governorates,
HIPCO, the LIHD Unit, GOPW and GOSSD; and (ii) make an amount
not exceeding the equivalent of five hundred and seventy thousand
dollars ($570,000) from the proceeds of the Credit available
to the National Bank; under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and the LIH Fund and between the


﻿-5-
Borrower and the National Bank on terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any of the provisions thereof.
(e) In order to assist the Governorates and the agencies
specified in sub-paragraph (c) (i) above in carrying out the Parts
of the Project for which they are responsible, the Borrower shall
make available to the LIH Fund sufficient funds for this purpose
in the form of annual budget allocations and, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the LIH
Fund, including the budget allocations referred to above, will
be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for
carrying out the Parts of the Project for which they are respon-
sible, the Borrower shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, promptly to provide the LIH Fund, or cause it to be
provided with, such additional funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain in existence
the LIH Fund and the LIHD Unit and ensure that their organization,
membership, procedures, powers and responsibilities continue to
be satisfactory; (ii) continue to employ a competent General
Manager for the LIHD Unit; and (iii) assign to or, if necessary,
recruit sufficient qualified and experienced staff for the LIH
Fund and the LIHD Unit to enable them to undertake the work
involved in carrying out the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the LIHD Unit in carry-
ing out Part F (i) and (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause the LIHD Unit to employ consultants and, if necessary,
.advisors, whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
(b) In order to assist the LIH Fund in carrying out Part F
(iii) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the LIH Fund, by
December 31, 1978, to employ consultants and advisors, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-6-
(c) In order to assist HIPCO in carrying out Part F (iv)
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause HIPCO to employ consul-
tants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) exchange views with the Associa-
tion regarding the recommendations made by the consultants and
advisors employed by the LIHD Unit, the LIH Fund and HIPCO under
Part F of the Project; and (ii) take, or cause to be taken, the
action necessary to implement the recommendations mutually accept-
able to the Borrower and to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause HIPCO to make avail-
able an adequate number of experienced staff and sufficient
resources to undertake, in consultation with the Governorates
and in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association,
the technical assistance and vocational training to enterprises
and residents in the Project Areas that are specified in Parts D
(ii) and (iii) of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the LIHD Unit to
introduce and maintain in existence, a monitoring and evaluation
system satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, which
will, inter alia, monitor and evaluate the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 3.06. Promptly after completion of the Project,
but in any event not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance
by the Borrower, the Association and the Governorates of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement
and Project Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the Governorates,
whenever this is necesary, to make satisfactory arrangements to
relocate any residents in the Project Areas who are required to
move as a result of the carrying out of the Project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the LIHD
Unit, the National Bank, HIPCO, GOPW and GOSSD to maintain sepa-
rate Project accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their
operations in respect of the Part or Parts of the Project being
carried out by them and (ii) cause the LIH Fund to maintain
consolidated Project accounts in accordance with similar account-
ing practices.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the agencies specified in
sub-paragraph (a) above to: (i) have their accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the Associ-
ation; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than nine months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associ-
ation such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of such agencies and the audit thereof as the Associ-
ation shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Governorates or any one of them shall have failed
to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation of the Govern-
orates under the Project Agreements.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Governorates will be able to
perform their obligations under the Project Agreements.
(cy The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestab-
lishment of the Governorates or for the suspension of their
operations.


﻿-8-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and the Governorates; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have
been executed on behalf of the Borrower, the LIH Fund and the
National Bank, respectively.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized
or ratified by the Governorates, and are legally binding upon the
Governorates in accordance with their terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower, the LIH Fund and the
National Bank and are legally binding upon the Borrower, the LIH
Fund and the National Bank in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date December 28, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02, 3.08 and 4.01 (a) of this Agreement shall cease and deter-
mine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower;
Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Economic Coopera-
tion or the Under Secretary of State for Economic Organizations
and International Finance of the Borrower are designated as
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Economic
Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                    Telex:
Ministry of Economy                348 GAFEC
and Economic Cooperation
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                                440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 10 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By Is/ A. Ghorbal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. David Knox
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
S'CHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   6,200,000         75%
(2) Loans under Part D              570,000         50% of dis-
of the Project                                 bursements
made by the
National Bank
(3) Equipment, materials          3,350,000
and vehicles
(a) imported                                  100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) manufactured                               100% of local
locally                                   expenditures
(ex-factory)
(4) Consultants' ser-             1,700,000        100%
vices, technical
assistance and
training
(5) Repayment of advance            300,000        100%
(6) Unallocated                   1,880,000
TOTAL             14,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other


﻿- 12 -
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   For the purposes of: (i) disbursement in local currency
of proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) the calculation of project
costs, including the determination of plot prices and charges for
cost recovery; the parallel market rate of exchange established
by Decree No. 64 of 1974 of the Borrower's Minister of Finance
shall be applied, and, if the said rate ceases to be applicable,
such rate of exchange as shall be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which
are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion
of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated
shortfall, reouce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿- 13 -
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   The provision in Cairo of:
(i) Upgrading of about 96 hectares with about 11,600 house-
holds in Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement); of about 30
hectares with about 3,000 households in Mansheit Nasser
(Zabbaleen Settlement) and of about 23 hectares with
about 3,900 households in North Bassateen (Kulaha
Settlement), which will include:
(a) the improvement of access and circulation roads;
(b) the improvement of water supply facilities through
the extension of the existing water distribution
networks, the provision of new equipment and
the repair and replacement of existing equipment;
(c) the improvement of sanitation through the recon-
struction of existing cesspits, the provision of
new cesspits, and the extension of the piped
sewerage system in Mansheit Nasser (Main Settle-
ment); and the provision of public ablution units
and washing sheds in Mansheit Nasser (Zabbaleen
Settlement) and North Bassateen (Kulaha Settle-
ment);
(d) the extension of the electricity systems including
the provision of additional power lines, trans-
formers, and street lighting;
(e) the provision of solid waste collection services
in Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement) and North
Bassateen (Kulaha Settlement);
(f) the provision of new plots for residential and
small business purposes;
(g) the improvement of community facilities through
the construction of three primary schools, one
secondary school for girls, one health clinic, one
combined dispensary and community center, and
playgrounds in Mansheit Nasser (Main Settlement);


﻿- 15 -
(h) the improvement of community facilities through
the construction of one primary school, one health
clinic and one community center in Mansheit Nasser
(Zabbaleen Settlement);
(i) the improvement of community facilities through the
construction of one primary school, one health
clinic, one community center and one playground in
North Bassateen (Kulaha Settlement);
(j) the self-help improvement and construction of
houses through the provision of building materials
to residents in the above settlements, and demon-
stration houses in Mansheit Nasser (Zabbaleen
Settlement); and
(k) the improvement of solid waste collection and
disposal through the provision of a 35 tonnes per
day composting plant, a tin baling plant, and loans
for the repair and replacement of donkey carts in
Mansheit Nasser (Zabbaleen Settlement).
(ii) The construction of a pilot composting plant at Shoubra
and, when its performance is satisfactory, the construc-
tion of a 200 tonnes per day composting plant at Shoubra
for the purpose of improving solid waste disposal.
Part B:   The provision in Alexandria of:
(i) Upgrading of about 11 hectares with about 1,000 house-
holds in New Nagaa El Arab, which will include:
(a) the improvement of access and circulation roads;
(b) the installation of mains and water taps to improve
the water supply;
(c) the provision of above-ground vented pit privies to
improve sanitation facilities;
(d) the installation of a transformer and the extension
of the electricity distribution system to provide
street lighting and to permit on-plot electricity
connections;


﻿- 16 -
(e) the provision of solid waste collection services;
(f) the improvement of community facilities through
the construction of one primary school, one health
clinic and one community center in the adjoining
sites and services area of South Metras as speci-
fied in Part B (ii) (d) of this Schedule; and
(g) the provision of building materials to residents
for home improvement through self-help.
(ii) Sites and services for about 1,800 residential plots and
about 80 workshop plots on about 15 hectares in South
Metras, which will include:
(a) land reclamation and preparation;
(b) infrastructure facilities including roads, water
supply and sewerage;
(c) ablution units and plot perimeter walls for resi-
dential plots;
(d) community facilities comprising one primary school,
one health clinic and one community center; and
(e) provision of building materials to residents for
home construction through self-help.
(iii) The improvement of solid waste collection and disposal,
particularly for low income areas, through:
(a) the establishment of an organization for street
cleansing and solid waste management;
(b) the establishment of contractual arrangements with
private contractors for collection of solid waste
from low income areas;
(c) the construction of disposal depots at which such
contractors will sort, sell or otherwise dispose of
wastes; and
(d) the provision of one pilot composting plant, donkey
carts for waste collection, hand carts for street


﻿- 17 -
cleaning, workshops, repair and maintenance equip-
ment, and vehicles.
Part C:   The provision in Assiut of sites and services for about
2,800 residential plots and 200 workshop plots, on about
25 hectares at South Gharb El Balad, which will include:
(a) land preparation;
(b) infrastructure facilities, including roads, water supply
and sewerage;
(c) ablution units and plot perimeter walls for residential
plots;
(d) community facilities comprising one primary school;
one health center, and one community center; and
(e) provision of building materials to residents for home
construction through self-help.
Part D:   The provision of:
(i) Small-scale business loans of not more than LE5,000
each to enterprises in the Project Areas for work-
shop construction, equipment and for use as working
capital;
(ii) Technical assistance and training for entrepreneurs
in the Project Areas for the management and operation of
small-scale businesses; and
(iii) Vocational training and accelerated training of manpower
in various fields.
Part E:   The repair and rehabilitation of the water supply and
sewerage systems at Assiut through:
(i) Repairs to the water supply facilities at Assiut
including the water extraction plants and the water
distribution network, together with the provision
of essential vehicles, workshop facilities and the
equipment required to test, maintain and monitor the
operation of such plants and network; and


﻿- 18 -
(ii) Rehabilitation of the central sewage pumping station
and the existing sewage disposal works at Assiut and
the minor extensions needed to increase the capacity
of these facilities, together with the provision of
essential vehicles, workshop facilities and the equip-
ment required to test, maintain and monitor the opera-
tion of such facilities.
Part F:   The provision to the Borrower of consultancy and
advisory services to assist in:
(i) Project design and implementation;
(ii) The preparation of further urban development projects;
(iii) The improvement of the organization and the financial,
accounting and management procedures followed by the LIH
Fund;
(iv) A survey of the small business sector in Egypt and the
improvement of HIPCO's organization and staffing; and
(v) The identification of training needs in the Governorates
of Cairo, Alexandria, Assiut, Ismailia and Gharbiya.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
$50,000 and for civil works estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $500,000 shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding under Parts D, E and F of the
Project, in addition to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the
Guidelines, the Borrower shall cause to be prepared and forwarded
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the proposed date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall cause the necessary informa-
tion to update such notice to be provided annually so long as any
goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
In carrying out Parts D, E and F of the Project, the Borrower
may: (i) award contracts for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or less by means of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with its normal procedures; and
(ii) purchase items of equipment or materials under Category (3)
of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less through
prudent shopping on the basis of at least three price quotations,
provided that the aggregate amount of such purchases does not
exceed the equivalent of $150,000.


﻿- 20 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
1.   Bids shall be evaluated on the basis of the parallel market
rate of exchange established by Decree No. 64 of 1974 of the
Borrower's Minister of Finance, and, if the said rate ceases to be
applicable, at such rate of exchange as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association.
2.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the purchaser of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
3.   In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Egypt
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids. -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Egypt.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 21 -
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the following
procedures shall apply to all contracts for civil works estimated
to cost more than the equivalent of $500,000 and for goods esti-
mated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in


﻿- 22 -
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Association promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency), which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


