Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18035
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR.2246-BD)
June 18, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
Soutlh Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       =       Taka (Tk)
At Appraisal/April 1991: Tk 34.9            US$1 (official exchange rate)
Tk 35.6           US$I (secondary exchange rate)
At ICR/June 1998 Tk 45.0                    US$1
Intermediate Year annual averages Tk per US$1:
1992/93          Tk 39.3                    1995/96           Tk 41.0
1993/94          Tk 39.9                    1996/97    =    Tk 42.7
1994/95          Tk 40.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I kilometre (km)          0.621 mile (mi)                   I meter (m)                    =  3.28 feet (ft)
I hectare (ha)            2.471 acres (ac)                  I cubic meter per second (m3/s)  =  35.31 cubic feet
I horsepower (hp)         0.745 kilowatt (kW)                                                 per second (cusec)
I liter per second (l/s)  0.035 cubic feet per second (cusec) I millimetre (mm)           =  0.039 inches (ins)
1 metric ton (ton)        2,204.6 pounds (lbs)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank                               NGO        Non-Government Organisation
ATIA        Appropriate Technology Information in Agriculture     NMIC      National Minor Irrigation Census
AWLR        Automatic Water Level Recorders                       PCMC    Project Co-ordination & Monitoring
BADC        Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation                 Committing
BB          Bangladesh Bank                                       PD        Project Director
BRDB        Bangladesh Rural Development Board                    PIU       Project Implementation Unit
BWDB        Bangladesh Water Development Board                   PRMAC   Public Resource Mgmt. Adjustment Credit
CEC         Commission of the European Community                  SAR       Staff Appraisal Report BRDB
DAE         Department of Agricultural Extension                 TA         Technical Assistance
DCA         Dealer's/Contractor's Agreement                      TAT        Technical Assistance Team
DPHE        Department of Public Health Engineering              Thana      Sub-district or upazilla
DSSTW       Deep Set Shallow Tubewells                           UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
DTW         Deep Tubewells                                        Upazilla   Sub-district or thana
EGIS        Environmental and Geographic Information Systems      USAID    US Agency for International Development
(for Water Sector Planning - A Ministry of Water   VDSSTW  Very Deep Set Shallow Tubewells
Resources Project funded by the Netherlands        WARPO   Water Resources Planning Organisation
Government)                                        WUA        Water User Associations
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP      Food and Agriculture Organisation/World Bank
Cooperative Programme
FMTW        Force Mode Tubewell
FRR         Financial Rate of Return
GOB         Government of Bangladesh
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IDSU        Irrigation Development Support Unit
ISAC        Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
l LP        Low-Lift Pump
L/S         Litre per Second
MIISU       Minor Irrigation Information Support Unit
MIS         Management Information System
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
MTR         Mid-term Review
Vice President    Mieko Nishimizu
Sector Managers    Ridwan Ali/Michael Baxter
Country Director    Pierre Landell-Mills
Task Manager   Wahida Huq



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BATiGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.2246-BD)
Table of Contents
PREFACE................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY.1i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ..............................................................1I
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES .....................................................                     1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .....................................................4
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ....................................................     10
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control ........................................ 10
Factors Generally Subject t to Government Control .............................................  10
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control ...............................1  I
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .....................................................11
E. IDA  PERFORMANCE .....................................................1.1
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ....................................................                                   12
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ....................................................                                  12
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ....................................................                                      12
I.  KEY  LESSONS LEARNED ....................................................                                  13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANALYSIS
1.     Summary of Assessment ....................................................                              14
2.      Related Bank Loans/Credits ....................................................                        16
3.     ProjectTimetable ..................................................... 19
4.      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................................... 19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorisation



5.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................                       20
6.     Key Indicators for Project Operation ..................................                            22
7.     Studies Included in Project ..................................                                     22
8A. Project Costs ..................................                                                      25
8B.  Project Financing ..................................                                                 26
9.     Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................                                     26
10.   Status of Legal Covenants ..................................                                        27
11.   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................................                    30
12.   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..................................                                    30
13. Bank Resources: Missions ....................                                                         31
ANNEX A: AIDE MEMOIRE ....................                                                            32
Attachment 1: Guidance on Government's Contribution to the ICR .                       39
ANNEX B: NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION CENSUS OF BANGLADESH . 40
ANNEX C: REVIEW OF TECHNICAL ISSUES .42
ANNEX D: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .45
Attachment 1: Impact of Pilot surface Water Schemes of NMIDP .                          65
Attachment 2: Returns to Groundwater Irrigation for Non-Rice Crops .                    67
MAP#: IBRD 22422



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRI'GATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.2246-BD)
Preface
This is the Implementation Cornpletion Report (ICR) for the National Minor Irrigation
Development Project in Bangladesh for which Cr.2246-BD in the amount of SDR 38.1 million
(US$54 million) was approved on 23 May 1991 and made effective on 31 December 1991.
T'he credit closed on 31 December 1997, as planned. Final disbursement occurred on April 6,
1998. Due to several factors mentioned in the report, including in particular much lower than anticipated
private sector demand for Deep Tubewells (I)TW) disbursement of International Development Agency
(IDA) Credit was only SDR 1.3 million (US$1.9 million). SDR 35.9 million (US$48.4 million equivalent)
was cancelled during implementation starting with SDR 15 million cancelled in January 1995 following
the Mid-Term Review (MTR), followed by SDR 6.7 million in January 1996 and SDR 14.2 million in
April 1997. The Government has refunded rernaining Special Account balance of SDR 0.89 million. The
remaining balance of SDR 0.9 million (US$1.2 million) was cancelled effective June 07, 1998. Financing
for the project was also provided by the Commission of the European Communities (CEC) (US$19.1
million equivalent) and the Government of Batngladesh (US$4.1 million equivalent) and farmers (US$4.1
million equivalent).
The draft ICR was prepared by the FAO/World Bank Co-operative Programme (FAO/CP)
missionl which visited Bangladesh in January 1998. The draft ICR was reviewed and subsequently
revised by the staff of the Rural Development Sector Unit, South Asia Region, based on additional
information and comments from peer reviewers.2 No comments were received from the Borrower or the
CEC.
The report is based on a review of'project files in Dhaka, information and reports provided by
the Project Management, field investigations and discussions with Government and project staff and
interested agencies and institutions. The aide-memoire (Annex A) incorporates the views expressed at the
final inter-ministerial meeting chaired by Ministry of Agriculture. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire.
I J. H. Weatherhogg (FAO/CP Mission Leader, Agricultural Economist), N. K. Bandyopadhyay (Irrigation Engineer, World
Bank), C. Gregorio (FAO/CP Environmental Specialist), M. A. Sattar Mandal (Economist, Consultant).
2 Isabelle Tsakok (Economist) and Masood Ahmad (Senior Irrigation Engineer), World Bank



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.2246-BD)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        In policy dialogue between the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and the International
Development Agency (IDA) stemming from the Agricultural Sector Review in 1988/89, participants
saw the potential for increased agricultural production and farm incomes through expansion of minor
irrigation. They also recognised the need iFor policy changes to reduce regulation of minor irrigation
and agriculture development and to encourage growth of the private sector. GOB agreed to an
Action Programme for Policy and Institutional Reforms with the main development partners for the
minor irrigation sector covering liberalisation of minor irrigation equipment and inputs supply,
foodgrain management and institutional reform, including phasing out the Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation (BADC) from the supply of minor irrigation equipment and spare parts.
The strategy of policy reform was also supported by the Shallow Tubewells and Low lift Pumps
Project (Cr.2253-BD), the Agricultural Support Services Project (Cr.2233-BD), both financed by
IDA and the Foodcrop Development Programme and the North-East Minor Irrigation Project,
financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The Agricultural and Rural Credit Project, also
intended to support the policy changes and to be financed by IDA, ADB and USAID, did not
eventuate.
Project Objectives
2.        The project's primary development objective was to promote faster growth in agriculture
through increased private sector investment in minor irrigation. The objective was to be attained mainly
through support of overall policy change to eliminate regulations, subsidies and other advantages which
favoured the public sector over the private sector in the provision of minor irrigation and to allow wide,
equitable access to minor irrigation. Policy liberalisation aimed at allowing farmers easy access to a range
of deep tubewells (DTW or force-mode tu'bewells - FMTW) and better market conditions for private
sector suppliers. The changes included (i) phiasing out the 70 percent subsidy on 56 I/sec (2 cusec) DTW;
(ii) harmonising duty rates on equipment imported by public and private entities; (iii) eliminating
standardisation requirements on types and capacities of equipment marketed; (iv) providing private sector
access to resources on the same terms as public agencies; (v) public sector pricing of equipment, which
reflects its full cost; and (vi) eventual phasing out of public sector direct involvement. The objectives
were to be realised through (i) introduction of smaller capacity DTWs to meet location-specific needs and
to make irrigation more accessible to small farmers; (ii) liberalisation of trade in DTW equipment;
(iii) adjusting BADC's institutional capability in line with its changing role; (iv) extending DTW
ownership to associations other than village-based co-operatives and to private individuals; (v) provision



of technical assistance and training in support of increased private sector participation in the supply and
maintenance of irrigation equipment; and (vi) introducing and maintaining a consistent approach to minor
irrigation development, regardless of the source of funding. Although national in scope, the project gave
particular emphasis to 105 upazillas (sub-districts or thanas) for DTW development and 50 upazillas in
southern areas for pumped surface water irrigation. Physical objectives were to support irrigation
development over about 265,000  ha  through  new  14  and  281\s DTW           (45  percent),
privatisation/rehabilitation of old DTWs owned by BADC (15 percent), widening and deepening canals to
enable their use for low-lift pumps (28 percent), operation of pontoon mounted pumps (8 percent) and
demonstrations of alternative minor irrigation methods (4 percent). The project aimed to increase irrigated
area by about 170,000 ha from groundwater and 95,000 ha from surface water, benefiting some 314,000
families. The IDA credit was to provide the foreign exchange for letters of credit to be purchased by
equipment importers. There was no on-lending. Farmers were required to purchase irrigation equipment
and rehabilitate old DTWs with their own resources or through credit arranged by them. In addition to the
above, over 20 percent of project cost was devoted to technical assistance in two components: for
Capacity Building, covering environmental protection, training and information, and institutional
development - particularly of BADC; and Project Implementation Support, including assistance in
planning and implementing minor irrigation, formnation of water users' associations (WIUA), selection of
equipment, project monitoring and evaluation, assessment of the feasibility of irrigation growth based on
LLPs, hydrological exploration, and trials of innovative and cost-effective groundwater technologies,
materials and rehabilitation methods. The project was to be managed by an Irrigation Development
Support Unit (IDSU) established for the purpose with staff recruited on a temporary basis for the seven
year project period, assisted by BADC which was to be responsible for implementation of the surface
water (canal) schemes and irrigation demonstrations as well as its own reorientation and institutional
development programme. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) originally included over 30
covenants, of which half referred to BADC reorientation and restructuring and the balance to pre-
conditions for use of the credit, equalisation of import duties between the public and private sectors,
establishment of a Project Co-ordination and Monitoring Committee and project management and staffing.
3.        As a result of a joint IDA/CEC mission in 1994 (IDA Mid-term Review-MTR), project
design was revised to reflect changes in GOB policy and economic environment and the recommendations
of the project's Technical Assistance Team's (TAT) (para 18). The main changes were (i) to reduce the
project's overall scope and to include Very Deep Set Shallow Tubewells (VDSSTW), namely wells with
centrifugal pumps sunk from 2 to 7 metres into the ground, as well as smaller capacity DTW/FMTW;
(ii) promotion activities were to concentrate on the private sector, not only farmers and dealers, but also
manufacturers, importers, wholesalers, well drillers and mechanics, as well as bank and government
agency staff and NGOs; (iii) all project tasks originally assigned to BADC, which had been withdrawn
from minor irrigation in October 1994, were to be assumed by IDSU; (iv) canal improvement for
irrigation using LLP was to be reduced to pilot project dimensions; (v) the pontoon based pump
component was to be dropped; (vi) DTW rehabilitation was only to be undertaken in cases where
ownership of the well had been transferred to farmers by BADC; and (vii) the project was to prepare a
programme of actions for hand-over of monitoring, census and other technical support tasks and outputs
to appropriate GOB agencies. These changes reduced projected expenditures in irrigation development
from US$106 million at appraisal to around US$42 million. The TA component marginally increased in
cost to US$29.9 million, over 40 percent of project base costs3. Following the MTR in 1994, the DCA
3 Total project base costs in the Revised Project (RPP) were estimated at US$73.4 million. Total project cost, including
contingencies, amounted to US$77.8 million to be financed US$23.6 million by IDA, US$39.4 million by CEC, US$1.8
million by GOB and US$13.0 million by farmers.
ii



was amended to reflect the changes in project design and status of BADC and the covenants related to
BADC were deleted.
4.        The policy reforms by this and two companion projects - Shallow Tubelwell and Low Lift
Pump, Food Crop Development Loan - were clear and well developed. They have had substantial
positive impacts in increasing irrigated area., agricultural production and farmers' income. However, the
incentive package included in this project to help to motivate the implementation of the reforms had
several major deficiencies (para 8). These were: (a) at appraisal, there had been inadequate appreciation of
(i) the huge impact of liberalisation of minor irrigation and subsequent response of the private sector in
spreading Shallow Tubewells (STW - a less expensive technology) and the consequent reduction, in real
terms, of the price of rice; and; (ii) farmers innovative ways of irrigating with STWs in areas previously
thought to require DTW; (b) the appraisal report based its calculation of feasibility and benefits on overly
optimistic estimates of area irrigated per well without adequate recognition of the problem of formation of
farmers groups and the impact of this on operating area per well; (c) the use of BADC for implementation
of surface water schemes, on-farm water management demonstration and rehabilitation of DTW was
inconsistent with BADC's previous record in implementation of prior projects and project objectives of
reducing BADC's role in minor irrigation; and (d) estimates of the technical assistance needs were too
high.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.        The policies agreed between the Government and the development partners have been very
successful in increasing irrigated area and production. The private sector traders have taken full advantage
of the expansion of the market to distribute irrigation equipment, particularly STWs. There has been
significant reduction in prices of engines and other irrigation equipment. With the growth of local shops,
farmers have a wide range of choice about the quality and type of engines they want to purchase. There
has also been a simultaneous growth of rural workshops and mechanics to provide repair and maintenance
facilities.. The average annual growth rate of STW (including Deepset and Very Deepset STWs) was 23
percent during the period 1988-89 to 1996-97. As a result of the withdrawal of subsidy from DTWs, the
reduction in the price of STWs, reduction in the price of rice and increase in the price of diesel, there has
been virtually no development of new DTWs since 1991-92. Private contractors have begun to purchase
used DTWs in areas where STWs are adequate and to reinstall them in areas of deeper water tables, at
much lower prices than possible for new DTWs. The privatised minor irrigation development has also had
significant positive impact on equity as more and more small and medium farmers are gaining increased
access to irrigation benefits though pump ownership. (Para 10-15)
4.        A delay of over 19 months in fielding the CEC financed Technical Assistance Team (TAT)
meant that project activities only commenced from May 1993. Since appraisal there had been a sharp
increase in diesel price and some fall in paddy price and these together with the high investment costs, the
difficulties of group formation, lack of credit and competition from the highly financially attractive
shallow tubewells (STW) reduced farmer interest in DTWs. Use of the IDA credit for import of
equipment was subject to conditions and aLgreements by participating banks and machinery importers.
Since foreign exchange had become much more freely available, this, together with the lack of demand
for DTW, meant that the credit was not drawn on by importers (para 16). Due to these factors, the
project's original targets were revised. The project's promotional activities have only been really effective
in the last two years from a small beginning in 1994/95. The promotion programme has been impressive
in the number and type of activities undertaken and has had a significant beneficial impact on the
understanding and application of minor irrigation technology, focused on, but not limited to, VDSSTW.
...



However, insufficient emphasis has been given to proper well development and correct matching of
pumps and engines, with adverse effects on well life and efficiency (Annex C). By end-December 1997, a
total of 3,476 VDSSTW and 137 FMTW (DTW) had been sunk and a total of 486 DTW
rehabilitated/relocated. The pilot surface water irrigation component with LLP has apparently had very
little impact, but a final evaluation of the pilot schemes has yet to be made. Total incremental irrigated
area is only around 20,000 ha, or only about 8% of the 265,000 ha appraisal target. In addition to these
tasks, the project has supported the National Minor Irrigation Census (NMIC) with considerable success
(Annex B) and undertaken training, studies surveys and other technical assistance tasks.
5.        Sustainability of the project's promotional, technical and advisory program is yet to be
proven. The project is expected to continue until June 1999, with CEC funding, during which time actions
are planned to ensure that the momentum continues through formation of dealer and manufacturer
associations and information networks and by divesting the infornation system developed to an
appropriate agency. If these actions are taken, then it is expected that the impact of promotional and
advisory programs will be sustained. The impact of the policy changes made by GOB and supported by
the project have been extremely beneficial and expected to be sustained. Sustainability is therefore rated
as likely (para. 37).
6.        Total project costs at ICR (compared with SAR) are estimated at US$25.2 million (US$171.1
million), of which IDA US$1.9 million (US$54.0 million), CEC US$19.1 million (US$88.0 million) and
GOB/farmers US$4.2 million (US$29.2 million).
7.        The main factors affecting disbursement under the project have been the following:
(a) availability of financially feasible and attractive STW coupled with the realisation by farmers that in
most situations STW could provide the water needed for irrigation with much less difficulty in group
formation and management; (b) the difficulty in forming groups large enough to allow profitable operation
of FMTW, the strong competition from STW, high diesel and low paddy prices and lack of credit; and (c)
the difficulty farmers face in handling as well as repairing and maintaining DTWs (para. 31-35). IDA
performance was very good in establishing a policy dialogue with GOB, and encouraging a set of policy
reforms which had profound positive results on expansion of irrigation and food production. However,
the design of the incentive program appears to have seriously underestimated the strong response to the
deregulation including the reduction of STW prices and rice prices, the complexity of group formation,
and the effect of these on profitable well operation. The design did not anticipate farmers innovations in
use of STW to reach deep aquifers and overestimated TA requirements. Supervision by IDA relied
heavily on technical expertise of specialists provided by CEC, which proved inadequate (para. 39). The
Borrower's performance was very good in undertaking and carrying through the policy changes and
predominantly satisfactory in supporting project implementation (para. 40).
8.        The positive effects of the policy package far outweighs the unsatisfactory performance in
achieving the physical targets of the incentive program. The economic rate of return (Annex D) at ICR is
between 16 percent and 12 percent, based on the assumptions made regarding the impact of the
promotional activities of the project (para 29). The impact of the promotional activities is not immediately
felt but it can be expected to have positive effects lasting beyond the project period (para. 41).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
9.        Findings. The project benefited from good sector work and an agreed framework of correct
policy changes which it supported. It has been most successful in achieving the agreed policy goals for
iv



liberalisation of the 'Minor irrigation -sector. Paradoxically the very success of these policies and rapid
expansion in sinking of STW, combined with problems of group formation and lack of credit, reduced the
demand for DTWs which the project was designed to support. The assumptions made at preparation and
appraisal that there would be substantial demiand for unsubsidised DTW in a liberalising market was ill-
founded: it wrongly assumed that DTW were the only, or most cost-effective, means of exploiting deeper
groundwater and that their installation would be both socially feasible and financially viable. For surface
water irrigation schemes, the optimistic assumptions at appraisal of 75,000 ha to be covered did not
adequately recognise the social and land ownership issues in the areas to be served. The magnitude of the
TA was out of proportion to the scale of activities at appraisal and especially so when project targets had
been reduced. Implementation was constrained by unnecessary delays on the part of the co-financier.
10.       Future Operation. Project implementation will continue to June 1999 financed by GOB and
CEC. Sustainability of the project's support and promotion activities will depend on proper arrangements
being made for the proper handover of IDSU activities, information and equipment to the appropriate
government agencies (para. 42-43).
IL.       Key Lessons. The main lessons learned were: (a) the value of good sector work in assisting
governments in undertaking policy changes; (b) policy changes can have unexpected effects on the
viability of investments or the implementation mechanisms, therefore supervision missions should be alert
to re-examine project design assumptions; (c) benefits of promotional activities are unlikely to prove
dramatic over a normal project period; (d) success of surface water schemes depends, among other things,
on social/land ownership patterns; (d) delays in hiring technical assistance teams can have deleterious
effect on project implementation; and (e) technical assistance should be also be accountable to the
Government; and (f) ground water table should be monitored regularly to determine scope for further
expansion of minor irrigation (para. 44).
v



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BADNGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.2246-BD)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.        The project's primary objective was to promote faster growth in agriculture through
increased private sector investment in minor irrigation. This objective was to be attained mainly through
support of policy change to eliminate regulations, subsidies and other advantages which favoured the
public sector over the private sector in the provision of minor irrigation and to allow wide, equitable
access to minor irrigation to meet area-specific needs. In addition, the project included an incentive
program of financing of irrigation investmrents to assist in motivating the reform. Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) developed and agreed with the development partners (European Community and IDA)
on an Action Programme for Policy and Institutional Reforms for the minor irrigation sub-sector, covering
minor irrigation and power tillers, complementary inputs, foodgrain management and institutional reform.
Emphasis was given to de-regulation and encouragement of minor irrigation led by the private sector,
including phasing out Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) from supplying minor
irrigation equipment pumps and spare parts. Project specific policy changes were to allow farmers easy
access to a range of deep tubewells (DTW oir force-mode tubewells -- FMTW) and provide private sector
equipment suppliers with improved market conditions and fair trade practices. For demand-driven
equipment supply to grow, policies on trade and marketing of irrigation equipment were to be liberalised
by (i) phasing out the 70 percent subsidy on 56 I/sec (2 cusec) DTW, (ii) harmonising duty rates on
equipment imports by public and private entities, (iii) eliminating standardisation requirements on types
and capacities of equipment marketed, (iv) piroviding private sector access to resources on the same terms
as public agencies, (v) public sector pricing of equipment which reflects its full cost, and (vi) eventual
phasing out of public sector direct involvement.
2.        The project design included: (i) introduction of smaller capacity DTWs to meet location
specific and small farmers' needs; (ii) liberalised trade in DTW equipment; (iii) adjusting BADC's
institutional capability in line with its changing role; (iv) extending DTW ownership to associations other
than village based co-operatives and to private individuals; (v) providing technical assistance and training
to support increased private sector supply and maintenance of irrigation equipment; and (vi) introducing
and maintaining a consistent approach to minor irrigation development, regardless of the source of
funding.
3.        The agreed policy strategy was also embodied in the Shallow Tubewells and Low-Lift Pump
Irrigation Project (Cr.2253-BD), the Agriculture Support Services Project (Cr.2233-BD), both financed by
IDA, and the Foodcrop Development Programme and the Northeast Minor Irrigation Project, financed by
the Asian Development Bank (ADB). An Agricultural and Rural Credit Project, which was also intended
to support the same policy changes and was to have been jointly financed by IDA, ADB and USAID, did
not eventuate.
1



4.         Although national in scope, the project gave particular emphasis to 105 thanas (second lowest
tier in the administrative structure which was earlier referred to as upazillas or sub-districts) where DTW
technology was considered to be the only reliable option for groundwater development, and coastal areas
(covering about 50 thanas ) where saline intrusion meant only surface irrigation was possible. The project
was to support irrigation development over about 265,000 ha, of which 120,000 ha (45 percent) would be
through new DTW, 40,000 ha (15 percent) through privatisation/rehabilitation of DTW owned by BADC,
75,000 ha (28 percent) by widening and deepening of canals in coastal areas in the south to enable their
use for low-lift pump (LLP) operation, 20,000 ha (8 percent) through pontoon mounted pump schemes,
and 10,000 ha (4 percent) through demonstrations of alternative minor irrigation methods. The new
DTWs were to be provided according to the farmers' choice, but in order to estimate costs and benefits it
was assumed that 1,500 units would be 56 I/sec (2 cusec), each covering an area of 24 ha; 5,000 units of
28 l/sec, each covering 12 ha; and 4,000 units of 14 I/sec, each covering 6 ha. Privatisation/rehabilitation
was expected to cover around 1,800 units of 56 I/sec.
5.         Technical assistance, estimated at over 20 percent of project cost (US$28.7 million of project
base cost -- around US$35 million with contingencies) was devoted to two components for Capacity
Building and Project Implementation Support. The first had three sub-components: environmental
protection -- particularly monitoring of ground water levels and quality; training and information supply --
focused on the private sector, but also for government agencies, banks and NGOs; and institutional
development, aimed at restructuring/improving BADC  through  financial and human resources
management and incentives for voluntary retirement, and helping dealers/manufacturers in procurement
and joint venture promotion. Project Implementation Support was to (a) assist in planning and
implementing minor irrigation, including formation of water users associations (WUA) and selection of
equipment, (b) monitor and evaluate the project, (c) assess the feasibility of irrigation growth based on
LLPs, (d) carry out hydrological explorations where aquifer data were missing or inadequate, and
(e) carry out trials of innovative and cost effective groundwater technologies, including tubewell
construction materials, possible alternatives to vertical shaft turbine pumps, and options for tubewell
rehabilitation.
6.         Project responsibility rested with the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) which was to set up:
(i) a Project Co-ordination and Monitoring Committee (PCMC), chaired by the Secretary MOA, to
oversee, co-ordinate and assist the project with representatives from Bangladesh Bank, commercial banks,
BADC, private sector, and the Project Director, and; (ii) an Irrigation Development Support Unit (IDSU),
headed by the Project Director, assisted by a consultant team and support staff employed on a temporary
basis for the project period. IDSU would prepare annual work plans and review and consolidate those of
other project agencies; manage the consultants; co-ordinate activities between agencies; approve BADC
surface water and demonstrations; monitor project and irrigation facilities' performance; identify private
sector constraints; and prepare consolidated progress reports for the PCMC. BADC was to identify and
implement surface water schemes (canal improvement); design and implement irrigation demonstrations;
and carry out institutional reorientation to divest itself of commercial activities and redeploy staff. For
these purposes it was to establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), headed by a Chief Engineer with
Additional Chief Engineers and staff in four Regional Offices.
7.         Total project cost was estimated at US$171.1 million, including US$15.7 million taxes and
duties, funded by IDA (US$54 million), the European Community (CEC) (US$88 million), GOB
(US$25.9 million) and farmers (US$3.2 million). Project investments (i.e. excluding TA components)
were to be co-financed by IDA and CEC on a pro rata basis 35%:65% to cover 100 percent of import
costs and 85 percent of local costs4. To ease the foreign exchange crunch faced by the Government at
4 Although co-financing was the aim at appraisal, during implementation it became more in the nature of parallel financing.
2



that time, the IDA credit was channelled through the Bangladesh Bank (BB) which established a foreign
exchange facility to be drawn on by equipment importers through their commercial banks, as letters of
credit. Payment at all levels was on a cash basis with Bangladesh Bank receiving payment in Taka to the
value of the letter of credit from the dealer/imaporter, who sold the equipment to farmers. There was,
therefore, no on-lending of the credit. Commercial banks had to enter into a Participation Agreement with
Bangladesh Bank and dealers/contractors (including BADC) had to enter into a Dealer's or Contractor's
Agreement with each participating commercial bank in order to receive financing assistance, the main aim
being to ensure that the funds were only used for minor irrigation development. Thus, at the same time as
encouraging deregulation, the requirement of paper documentation constrained unfettered access to the
foreign exchange facility of the project. The TA components were to be 100% financed by CEC. Part of
the local funds generated from the sale of CEC financed equipment was to be used for providing
inducements to encourage voluntary retirement by BADC staff.
8.         The policy reforms supported by the project were clear and well developed, based on
adequate sector studies and strengthened by good dialogue and agreement between GOB and the main
development partners. They have had substantial positive effects (as described in paras 10-16 below) in
increasing irrigated area, agricultural production and farmers income. However, the incentive package
included to help motivate the implementation of the reforms had several major deficiencies. First, at
appraisal there had been inadequate appreciation of the huge impact of liberalisation of minor irrigation
and the subsequent response of the private sector in spreading Shallow Tubewells (STW - a less expensive
technology than FMTW). This increased rice production and lowered rice price in real terms, affecting
the incentives for other types of irrigation equipment. While official rice production statistics are
unreliable, real rice prices, deflated by the consumer price index declined by 3.3 percent a year from FY90
to FY96, while population grew by 1.6 percent per year5. Second, farmers innovative ways of irrigating
with STWs through placing them in pits to reach deeper water tables than traditionally reached by STWs
had not been anticipated. Third, farmers also find it difficult to operate and maintain DTWs which are
complex technology compared to STWs. Furthermore, lack of repair and maintenance facilities in the
local village markets make this technology relatively unattractive to farmers. Fourth the appraisal report
based its calculations of feasibility and benefits on overly optimistic estimates of area irrigated per well.
The 56 I/sec well was expected to cover 24 ha but present estimates indicate 20 ha. Similarly, the 28 I/sec
and 14 I/sec wells had expected coverage of 12 ha and 6 ha respectively, but actual coverage of 8 ha and
3.5 ha. This reflected both the difficulties in organising farmers groups, and the desire of farmers to use
STWs, wherever feasible. Fifth, the use of BADC for implementation of surface water schemes, on-farm
water management demonstrations and rehabilitation of DTWs seems in retrospect to be inconsistent with
BADC's poor record in implementation of prior projects and the project's objective of reducing BADC's
role in minor ifrigation. Sixth, SAR estimates of the technical assistance needs of the project seems
particularly surprising. A total of around 3,650 person months (pm), of which 840 pm of international
recruited specialists and 2,810 pm locally recruited were to be provided. This may be compared with
2,340 pm, of which about 560 pm international and 1,780 pm local, suggested in the FAO/CP Preparation
report.
9.         As a result of the above developments, particularly the first and the third, the financial rate of
return on DTWs decreased substantially. While financial rates of return on new DTWs were estimated at
25-31 percent at appraisal (depending on size and location), the ICR mission estimated the rate of return
to be minus 11 percent. The relatively high cost of DTW/FMTW makes the technology unprofitable to
farmers except in situations where the area inrigated per well can be increased, or where high value non-
rice crops can be produced, but the markets for such crops are cufrently limited and not adequately
5 Mitchell Donald: Promoting Growth in Bangladesh Agriculture (draft) March 12, 1998, World Bank.
3



developed. In contrast, STWs and Deep Set Shallow Tubewells (DSSTWs)6 are very profitable - 52 and
34 percent financial rates of return respectively. On the other hand, Very Deep Set Shallow Tubewells
(VDSSTW)7 with fully lined pits are only marginally profitable at 14 percent.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
10.         The policy agreements reached between the Government and the development partners have
been very successful in increasing irrigated area and production8. The major elements of privatisation
policy in this regard have entailed the liberalisation of the importation of engines and spare parts by private
sector traders and their distribution through open market sales, removal of engine standardisation restrictions,
withdrawal of pump spacing and siting regulations, and withdrawal of subsidies on irrigation equipment
prices. The most significant impact of the market liberalisation policy has been that small and inexpensive
diesel engines for Shallow Tubewells (STW) and Low-lift Pumps (LLP) are now widely available in the
market. Since the reforms, the market has been dominated by less expensive engines from China which
have displaced the sale of more expensive but more durable engines which in earlier periods were imported
mostly from Japan.
11.         The private sector traders have quickly taken the full advantage of the expansion of market to
distribute STW and LLP engines, pumps and other irrigation equipment at the local markets. There has been
significant reduction in prices of engines and other irrigation equipment. With the growth of local equipment
shops, buyers have a wide range of choices about the quality and scale of engines they want to buy. One of
the implications of this reduction in engine price is that the irrigation equipment became much more
affordable to interested farmers. There has been a rapid growth of local level workshops to manufacture
spare parts for irrigation equipment and provide repair facilities. There has also been simultaneous growth of
rural mechanics services to provide repair and maintenance facilities for irrigation equipment.
12.         The IIMI/BSERT9 study shows that in 96 villages in the 5 study districts there has been a sharp
growth in all the districts in terms of the number of operating STWs during the period 1988/89 and 1994/95.
During this period, STWs grew at an annual rate of 32 per cent, whereas LLPs grew annually at a rate of
about 3 per cent, although the districts more advanced in minor irrigation development showed somewhat
higher growth rates per year than did the later starting districts. A nation-wide estimate based on National
Minor Irrigation Census (Annex B) data, which was carried out for this review, shows that during the period
1988/89 to 1996/97, the number of STWs grew from 223,435 to 629,834 (which include 26,245 DSSTWs
and 3,313 VDSSTWs), meaning an average annual growth rate of 22.7 percent. During the same period
STW irrigation area grew by 16.2 percent per annum. During this period, LLPs grew at an annual rate of 3
percent in number and 2.3% in area irrigated. Deep Tubewells number grew more slowly from 22,436 in
1988/89 to 25,411 in 1996/97. As a result of the withdrawal of subsidy from DTWs, the increased
profitability of STWs, and the innovations in their use in areas previously thought to require DTWs, there has
6 Deep-set Shallow Tubewell refers to tubewells with suction pumpset in a unlined pit of a depth less than 2 meters.
7 Very Dep-set Shallow Tubewell refers to tubewells with suction pump set in a lined or unlined pit of a depth greater than 2
meters.
8 The following paragraphs (10-11 and 13-15) on the impact of policy changes on the development of minor irrigation in
Bangladesh is based on the section by Mandal et.al., "Pump-level Performance of Minor Irrigation: STW and LLPs," in the
report, Study on Privatisation of Minor Irrigation in Bangladesh. International Irrigation Management Institute with the
Bureau of Socio-economic Research and Training of the Bangladesh Agriculture University, Mymensingh, Bangladesh,
March 1996
9 Study on Privatisation of Minor Irrigation in Bangladesh, Final Report. TA:BAN1822, March 1996. International Irrigation
Management Institute with the Bureau of Socio-economic Research and Training of Bangladesh Agriculture
University/Ministry of Agriculture and Asian Development Bank.
4



virtually been no development of new DTWs since 1991/92. Private contractors have begun to purchase
used DTWs in areas where STWs are adequate and to reinstall them in areas of deeper water tables, at much
lower prices than possible for new DTWs.
13.       The reduction of engine prices has also brought about elements of competition in the irrigation
water market inducing individuals or groups of farmers to procure tubewells and pumps for irrigating their
own land and for selling water to other farmers. The emerging competition in the irrigation water market has
also meant entry of new entrepreneur pump owners as well as exit of those owners with poorly performing
tubewells. In some cases, the average command area per pump has declined because many of the newly
installed STWs irrigate land which was in the command areas of existing wells. In other cases, command
areas of efficiently operated tubewells expanded by including land from poorly functioning tubewells. This
does not necessarily mean encroachment by tubewells. Rather it demonstrates elements of competition in the
water market and encouraging tubewell owners to improve the quality and reliability of their irrigation water
supply.
14.       The privatised minor irrigation development has also had significant positive impact on equity
as more and more small and medium farmers are gaining increased access to irrigation benefits through
pump ownership. There is no apparent sign of monopolistic control of the irrigation water market by the
'water lords'.
15.       Overall, the irrigated agriculture has been greatly benefited by the policy changes towards
market liberalisation, implying that the current liberalised policies concerning private sector involvement in
minor irrigation equipment importation, distribution, siting and operation should be continued.
16.       The IDA credit became effective on 31 December 1991. However, commencement of
project activities was delayed by 19 months or so, as the selecting and fielding the project's technical
assistance team, financed by CEC took until May 1993. The situation which prevailed at appraisal also
had changed by the time that implementation of the project effectively started in mid-May 1993. Since
appraisal, foreign exchange had become much more freely available, both as a result of increased foreign
exchange reserves as well as funds provided by the IDA Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC) and
the Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit (PRMAC). This, together with the restrictions
imposed by the need for Participation Agreements from banks and Dealers' or Contractors' Agreements,
discouraged use of the IDA credit. Moreover, since appraisal the price of paddy had declined from
Tk 5,896 (US$169) per ton in 1989/90 to arotnd Tk 5,700 (US$145) per ton in 1992/93. Over the same
period the price of diesel had also increased sharply from around Tk 8 (US$0.23) per litre to about Tk 14
(US$0.36) per litre. The flow of institutional credit for farmers was reduced due to high default rates.
The impact of these price changes; the relatively high initial investment costs; the continued difficulty
facing farmers in obtaining bank loans for minor irrigation; and, above all, competition from the much
cheaper, and easier to operate and maintain STW technology (with their prices reduced sharply from
about $15,000 to $550-1,000 following liberalisation -- which allowed individual or small group
ownership; appear to have been the main factors causing the low level of farmer interest in DTW
investment.
17.       The Cabinet of Ministers decidecl in October 1994 that BADC should withdraw from minor
irrigation, which was in full conformity with the liberalisation policy. The decision effectively pre-empted
and attained in large measure the project objective of reorienting and restructuring BADC to convert it into a
smaller technical agency and to enable the private sector to take over its procurement and supply of
equipment functions.
5



18.       The need for considerable restructuring of the project was recognised and undertaken by a
joint IDA/CEC Review Mission in May 1994, which concluded that: (a) tasks previously assigned to
BADC including groundwater monitoring, development of surface water schemes, provision of advisory
services to farmers and the private sector, and rehabilitation of privatised DTWs, should all be undertaken
by the IDSU, (b) the potential for promoting the farmer's innovation in setting STWs in pits as a cost
effective alternative to DTW was recognised by the project's Technical Assistance Team (TAT). Farmers
were already operating so called Deep Set Shallow Tubewells (DSSTW) with the well-head in a pit up to
2 metres deep. Based on the TAT's examination of the groundwater database, there appeared to be
considerable scope for the use of a technology intermediate between the DSSTW and the force mode or
DTW technology. It was therefore agreed that Very Deep Set Shallow Tubewells (VDSSTW) with pits of
from 2 to 7 metres deep would be a pragmatic and cost effective option for irrigation in areas with deeper
water tables and should be actively promoted in addition to the DTW or force mode pumping technology.
The restructured project had a reduced scope in recognition of the high potential for STW irrigation
relative to DTW/FMTW, pontoon pumps and surface water irrigation schemes. The revised project also
reduced the number of demonstration wells due to lack of farmer's interest in sharing costs. The review
mission also recommended to do away with the Participation and Dealer Agreements. Instead, the
mission suggested a method for disbursement based on the incremental installation of VDSSTW,
DTW/FMTW and rehabilitation of old DTWs. Based on the revised project estimate, SDR 15 million was
cancelled from the Credit. These changes were agreed with GOB and the DCA amended in January 1995.
19.       In April 1995, a joint IDA/CEC Review Mission recommended that: (a) the promotional
campaign for groundwater development should be undertaken in a more cost effective way, with
particular and increased emphasis on private sector suppliers; (b) initial impressions of the surface
water schemes involving deepening of canals to permit the use of LLP did not appear very promising.
This component was therefore to proceed on a pilot basis covering about 4,000 ha in order to make
an assessment of the sustainability of the project's actions; (c) project assistance in rehabilitation of
DTWs was only to occur in cases where ownership of the well had been already transferred to
farmers by BADC; and (d) the project should prepare a programme of actions by which public sector
functions in monitoring, census of minor irrigation equipment and technical expertise undertaken by
IDSU could be eventually transferred to MOA or other appropriate agencies.
20.       A further joint IDA/CEC Review Mission in September 1995 recommended that: (a) further
emphasis be given to promotion to ensure that it reached not only farmers and dealers but also
manufacturers, importers, wholesalers, well drillers, mechanics, bank and government agency staff, and
NGOs; (b) the programme of groundwater exploration in Sylhet was not to be further pursued as earlier
investigations by the project indicated low potential from groundwater irrigation; (c) in view of other
government agencies already monitoring groundwater levels, the proposal for IDSU to establish 100
Automatic Water Level Recorders (AWLR) was to be dropped; (d) surface water irrigation development
through improvement of channels to enable use of LLP should concentrate only on developing replicable
and sustainable models. Based on the supervision mission's estimate of likely demand for project
supported investments, it recommended that additional SDR 10 million be cancelled. However, the
Government only agreed to a cancellation of SDR 6.7 million, which took place in January 1996.
21.       These changes were incorporated in a Revised Project Plan (RPP) presented by the IDSU in
January 1996, which formed the basis of an amended GOB Project Proforma (PP) approved in November
1996. The most significant changes were: (i) to reduce investment in irrigation development from the
US$106 million estimated at appraisal to around US$42 million through a much reduced programme for
both groundwater development and surface water schemes and dropping the pontoon mounted pump
sclhemes; and (ii) reallocate 48 percent, or around US$43 million, of the CEC finance for rural water
6



supply activities. No significant change was made to the technical assistance component, which
marginally increased in cost by about 4 percent from around US$29 million base cost to almost US$30
million, representing over 40 percent of the revised project base cost.
22.        By January 1997, it was evident that the remaining Credit amount of SDR 16.4 million would
not be spent by the Credit closing date. Based on Government's request, IDA cancelled SDR 14.18
million on April 1997. IDA suggested that the remaining amount be spent only for groundwater
development but Ministry of Agriculture specifically requested that a small amount be left in the Credit
category for experimenting with innovative participatory surface water schemes. Unfortunately, the
project was not able to prepare such schemes.
23.        As a result of slow project start-up, caused by the long delay in fielding the Technical
Assistance Team (TAT), Government requested CEC to consider June 2000 as the closing date for the
CEC funds. The delay in project start-up has meant that significant progress has only been made in the last
two years. Cumulative targets and achievements in groundwater development up to end December 1997
are detailed in Part II, Table 5 and summarised below.
Year                   VDSSTW                                   FMTW
Promotion Area"     Rest of    Total     Promotion Area     Rest of  Total
couitry2'                               Country
Target    Achieved                       Target    Achieved
1994/95                 21 (c)     -         21        -                  136     136
1995/96     300 (n)    388 (n)    305       960        72        32        -       32
300 (c)    267 (c)
1996/97    1300 (n)    1734 (n)    -       2800       120       105               105
900 (c)    1066 (c)
1997/98    1800 (n)    1063 (n)    -       2314       250       145               145
1200 (c)    1251 (c)
1/ Numbers are for both newly installed (n) VDSSTW as well as STW converted (c) to VDSSTW installed within the
area designated under the project for promotion of VDSSTW.
2/ The number of wells reported in the census outside the area of project emphasis.
24.        The project management was focused towards a rapid dissemination and promotion of the
VDSSTW technology. Inadequate attention has been given to the technical aspects of the irrigation
technology. As a result, the appropriate technology to be promoted by the project has not been adequately
defined. In particular, insufficient emphasis has been given to the importance of proper well development
and correct matching of pump and engine, which are essential for a long lasting and efficient well
operation (Annex C). Length of well life will be an important consideration for VDSSTW since they are
much more difficult to move or re-sink than STW.
25.        Despite these deficiencies in some of the basic technical aspects, the project's promotional
activities have been undertaken energetically and appear to have had a significant beneficial impact. The
data summarised in Part II Table 5 show the large expansion in activities from 1994/95 to 1996/97, the
breadth of the programme in including farmers, dealers, drillers, manufacturers, banks, government
agencies and NGOs, and the depth in type of activities, including production of video films, village film
shows, agricultural fairs, field days, workshops, visits to farmers, suppliers, markets and banks. The
project has performed well in this aspect and has had a significant beneficial impact in the understanding
and application of minor irrigation technology, focused on, but not limited to VDSSTW. The cost of
7



promotion was high, amounting to over US$1,000 per well compared to an investment cost of about
Tk 42,000 (US$933) for a lined-pit VDSSTW. On the other hand, it is recognised that promotion
activities require a lead time before the impact becomes apparent and similarly the effects of such a
programme are likely to persist after its conclusionl0.
26.        Other project achievements have been below the expectations. DTW rehabilitation has been
slo,w due to delays in transfer of ownership to farmers by BADC. Despite MOA, IDA and CEC
agreement in 1994 that the old rental DTW would be sold to farmers for the nominal payment of Tk 1, so
far of the 1,800 surveyed as suitable for rehabilitation, 120 have been rehabilitated with technical advice
from the project staff and a further 366 relocated and rehabilitatedl Iby the private contractors (para 12).
The total area irrigated by the rehabilitated DTW is 5800 ha. The surface water irrigation component has
been reduced to a pilot size. After the first year's experience with surface water (canal re-excavation)
schemes, it became evident that development of common resources (canals) for irrigation is difficult
unless farmers express strong demand and are willing to share the cost of development. Poor response
from farmers was also due to the existence of a similar but "softer" program, implemented by another
government agency funded by a multilateral development partner. This program required the farmers to
pay only 5 percent of the cost of the scheme compared to 30 percent required under this project. Of some
19 schemes, 15 are being implemented directly by IDSU and 4 by NGOs. Another 8 schemes are planned
in the current (1997/98) season with the help of NGOs. A field survey by the project in March 1997
showed mixed results. Of the 10 schemes started in 1994/95 half were considered failures, while all three
schemes implemented in 1995/96 had made good progress, two expanding irrigated area beyond
expectations.  In 12 schemes, farmers had formed operation and maintenance groups and were
undertaking cleaning and desilting from their own resources, but in total, in 1996/97, only 371 ha were
irrigated by 35 LLP compared to 4,000 ha target set by the April 1995 review mission.
27.        In addition to promoting the above investments, the project has undertaken, data collection
surveys, monitoring and evaluation, training, demonstration and technology development. Data collection
activities included further developing and improving the National Minor Irrigation census (NMIC). The
Census has been substantially revised, data completely computerised, purpose built data entry software
developed, and training provided to the collaborating DAE staff in each of the last three years. As a result
the NMIC is considered reliable and is one of the project's achievements (see Annex B). Some 101
demonstration wells have been sunk out of an original programme of 150 which was suspended in
October 1996. The mission found that the selection of sites, determination of tubewell size and strainer
length and selection of matching pumpsets were inconsistent with the recommendations included in the
technical papers produced by the project, thereby impairing their use as demonstrations. Ecological
monitoring has been confined to a baseline survey of limited area and groundwater level monitoring of
33 wells sunk under the Deep Tubewell II Project. Although the methodology was sound, the results are
not particularly significant or conclusive. Proposals for repeat surveys were not approved by CEC.
Water quality monitoring was first undertaken on a small scale with 95 samples analysed in 1994 and
100 planned for 1995. The October 1995 Review Mission suggested that the project should carry out a
structured investigation, rather than routine collection. The IDSU accordingly prepared a draft two-year
research programme. This included a review based on the analysis of 151 samples, which showed
10 The TA team has projected that the farmers will install an additional 32,000 VDSSTW by the year 2000 and that the promotion
cost per well would fall to US$154 by that time. It should also be noted that lining the pit for VDSSTW is done by the
farmers in stages over several seasons to spread the investment cost. So far about 14% of VDSSTW investors have adopted
the project's recommendations on lining of pits.
11 The high proportion of DTW relocated reflects the finding already widely reported (e.g. Bangladesh: Second Deep Tubewells
Project (Credit 1287-BD) Project Completion Report. WB October, 1991, or Study of Privatisation of Minor Irrigation in
Bangladesh. Final Report. TA:BAN 1822 March 1996, IMMI/BAU, MOA/ADB) that large numbers of DTW were sited in
areas which could be satisfactorily irrigated by STW.
8



presence of both organo-chlorides and ammonium ions, as well as monthly monitoring of water quality
from 31 wells over the period January 1996 to December 1997, but with such a small number of samples
the results cannot be considered useful. The proposed survey was rejected by the September 1996
IDA/CEC Supervision Mission, which considered that monitoring of ecological and water quality aspects
should be undertaken by an independent agency. Groundwater level monitoring by the project was
based on adaptation of a model developed by UNICEF/Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE),
mainly with a view to improving its ability to make predictions about demand for irrigation and enabling a
possible future use as a planning instrument for MOA and does not appear very suitable for more general
use.'2 The proposal for the project to install 100 Automatic Water Level Recorders (AWLR) was also
dropped as inappropriate for the project. In addition to the above, monitoring and evaluation has
included establishing an MIS, carrying out surveys to validate the NMIC results, and surveys to assess the
impact of the promotion activities. The latter two have not been undertaken in 1996/97 due to lack of
CEC approval and a further study is still required to evaluate the success of the pilot surface water
irrigation schemes. Training has included 496 former BADC mechanics to work in the private sector; 21
person months (pm) of training to DAE staff for NMIC, plus 20 workshops and a one-week training
course on NMIC data entry; 101 pm for Irrigation Group Organisers; 71 pm in promotional activities; 10
pm of overseas fellowships and 14 pm of local training. Technology development by the project has
been somewhat limited to demonstration, s.ome testing and improvements to equipment and materials
available for minor irrigation in Bangladesh and development of pit lining technology and dissemination
of this information. While this has had a good and positive effect, these findings and recommendations
have not always been adopted by farmer investors. Greater involvement of TAT in research and
development was not a priority in the project. Reporting by the project has been prolific. A total of 197
reports are listed, of which 41 are on feasibility/procurement, 22 on environmental monitoring, 26 on
work plans, 17 on monitoring and evaluaition, 17 on policy aspects, 15 on training and institutional
development, 11 on market development and promotion, 10 on technology development and 38 on other
subjects.
28.        Annex D provides the financial and economic analysis of FMTW and VDSSTW. Financial
rate of return for FMTW is minus 1 I percent while for VDSSTW (lined pit) it is 14 percent. This analysis
indicates that FMTW is not profitable for predominantly paddy cultivation at present prices and with the
current low command areas due to problems in social organisation mentioned above as well as the
increased farmer use of STW wherever feasible. Pit-lined VDSSTWs are marginally attractive due to the
high initial investment cost for the construction of the pit. It has been observed that farmers therefore tend
to spread the investment cost of pit construction over several seasons. Financial returns from a
rehabilitated DTW is 61 percent. On the other hand, economic rates of return even for DTW are 27% and
are very high (96% and 156% respectivel,y) for VDSSTW and rehabilitated DTW. The much higher
values of the economic rates of return as compared to the financial rates of return reflects the domestic
prices of food grains which are substantially below import parity (due in part to food aid), as well high tax
rates on diesel.
29.        Economic analysis of the project (Annex D) has been done based on costs directly related to
groundwater development and the benefits arising from the additional area irrigated as a result of farmers
investments in VDSSTW, FMTW and rehabilitation of old DTWs. Canal re-excavation schemes were not
included in the analysis due to lack of relialble data on costs and benefits. The project's economic rate of
return is estimated at 16 percent on the assumption that farmers decision to invest in all the VDSSTWs,
12 The issue of arsenic contamination is a much wider subject and unrelated to the project, Therefore no data was cancelled by
the project. However, at the request of MOA, IDSUfHalcrow produced a document, "Arsenic Pollution in Bangladesh -
Background Papers, April 1997" which reviewecl some of the information available on the problem. The mission found no
evidence to suggest that the emergence of the problem was in any way related to the increased exploitation of groundwater,
but clearly a full and detailed study is required.
9



FMTWs and rehabilitated DTWs from the beginning of project activities to the Credit closing date has
been directly influenced by the project's promotional activities. It is difficult to estimate the numbers of
wells that would be installed without the project. Clearly, the number of rehabilitated DTWs would be
quite small in the "without the project" situation. It would be reasonable to assume that, had the subsidies
on DTWs been not withdrawn, there would be no incentives for farmers to rehabilitate DTWs. Following
the same argument, installation of VDSSTWs would also have been modest. Based on the assumption
that not more than 20 percent of the wells, in aggregate, would have been installed, without project
interventions, the project's rate of return falls to 12 percent. The economic rate of return for the project in
the SAR was stated to be 48 percent.
30.       The economic analysis has the following critical caveat. Impact of promotional activities is
not apparent immediately. Therefore, the inclusion of only the number of wells constructed prior to the
Credit closing date in the analysis probably underestimates the rate of return on the promotional activities.
Moreover, in addition to the direct irrigation and agricultural benefit from the technologies promoted
under the project, there has been a number of unquantifiable benefits in use of tubewell motors for other
purposes, assistance to the manufacturing and equipment supply sectors, training, studies, data collection,
environmental aspects and groundwater exploration, which have not been quantified.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
31.       Factors not generally subject to government control. The main factor affecting the
disbursement of the Credit was the availability of financially feasible and attractive STWs (at greatly
reduced prices following liberalisation) coupled with the realisation by farmers that in most situations
STWs could provide the water needed for irrigation with much less difficulty in group establishment and
operation. In great measure it appears that the project was unable to promote force mode irrigation by
virtue of the very same liberalisation of minor irrigation equipment provision which the project supported.
The fact that there has been such an expansion in irrigated area also shows the error of the previous policy
of the government which encouraged farmers to adopt DTW technology, often in areas which could be
adequately served by STW. The installation of DTW was largely at Government's expense, since the
equipment was subsidised by 70 percent and the recovery rate of loans for DTW up to January 1991 was
less than one third.
32.       Success of the surface water schemes has been constrained by the social/land ownership
situation in the southern coastal areas, where sharecropping is common and there is a degree of absentee
land ownership. Sharecroppers already pay for water as a share of the crop and do not have the resources,
nor, as tenants normally without any security, the interest in contributing to capital works such as channel
improvement.
33.       Other factors which adversely affected project disbursement included the increase in diesel
prices and decline in paddy prices; and delays in implementation due to administrative slowness by the
co-financier. These included over 19 months delay in fielding the TAT and delays in approving annual
work plans, which together with frequent, and not always consistent, instructions for changes in the scope
of the components created problems for the project management.
34.       Factors generally subject to government control. Government should be given full credit
for effectively carrying out the reform program, leading to significant increase in irrigated area and
production. The PCMC was largely inactive in a situation where it could have materially assisted project
implementation. Canal excavation schemes implemented by another government agency, which involved
10



only a 5% contribution from beneficiaries, and food-for-work schemes requiring no contribution, have
resulted in resistance to providing the 30% contribution required by this project for similar schemes.
35.       Factors generally subject to implementation agency control. In this situation, TAT was
mainly responsible for the promotion/investment aspects of the project. Despite considerable energy in
promotion of technologies, TAT's inadequate attention at the start of the project to development of
appropriate recommendations concerning tubewell design, construction, well development and matching
of pumpsets has reduced the clarity of technicalI advice delivered by the project to suppliers and investors.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
36.       The policy changes made by CGOB and supported by the project have been extremely
beneficial in encouraging private sector growth in minor irrigation. In 1995/96 the minor irrigation
market is reported by the project to have an annual turnover in sales and repairs of over Tk 1.5 billion
(US$36.5 million) with a rapid growth in local manufacturing of pumps and spare parts, local level
workshops, mechanics, drillers and equipment dealers. Most of the expansion has been in STW, numbers
of which increased over the period 1988/89 to 1996/97 at an annual rate of almost 23%. Area irrigated by
this method increased over the same period by more than 16% annually (para 12).
37.       The sustainability of the project's promotional, technical and advisory program is yet to be
proven. The project is expected to continue until June 1999 with CEC fundings during which time actions
are planned to ensure that the momentum continues through formation of dealer and manufacturer
associations and information networks and by divesting the information system developed on availability
and cost of minor irrigation equipment to the Marketing Directorate of DAE. If these actions are taken,
then it is expected that the impact of the promotional and advisory programs will be sustained.
38.       Concerns, frequently expressed and discussed, regarding possible over-exploitation of
aquifers by STW do not seem to be supported by the available data. While there may be problems in
years of drought, the annual recharge in normal years appears to leave significant margin for further
expansion of groundwater irrigation without the risk of "mining".  Continued monitoring of the
groundwater situation is, however, required and is being undertaken.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
39.       IDA performance in pre-appraisal of sector reform recommendations and helping GOB to
develop a sound policy strategy in close collaboration with the other development partners was excellent.
However, with the benefit of hindsight, the project design appears to have seriously underestimated the
strong response to the deregulation resulting, in a 23 percent annual growth of STW installations and
innovations by farmers to install STWs in pits in areas where groundwater was beyond the reach of
conventional STW. Even allowing for all the re-orientation and institutional change originally proposed
for BADC, it is difficult to understand how the very large technical assistance component was justified.
Changes to project design following the mid-term review, while sensibly reducing the scale of the ground
and surface water development, left the technical assistance component marginally larger. Supervision by
IDA relied heavily on the technical expertise of specialists provided by CEC, which proved inadequate.
The IDA recommendation to cancel, in stages, 89 percent of the Credit was sensible. Relations with the
Borrower were generally supportive and satisfactory.
11



F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
40.       Borrower performance was good in undertaking the difficult policy changes supported by the
project, all of which were successfully carried out. GOB, however, was unable to persuade BADC to
transfer ownership of DTW in need of rehabilitation to farmers expeditiously and as a result around 73%
of the DTW surveyed as being suitable for repair remain broken down. A more active performance by
PCMC could have materially assisted project implementation.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41.       The project, with the related projects having similar policy aims, was successful in supporting
Government in making the important policy changes to liberalise the minor irrigation sub-sector. The
success of liberalisation policies is well demonstrated by the rapid development both in minor irrigation
and in the services catering to this technology. For various reasons discussed above, the project's physical
achievements are a fraction of those anticipated at appraisal. The positive effects of the policy package
far outweighs the unsatisfactory performance in achieving the physical targets. The promotional
activities, with regard to the VDSSTW can be expected to have positive effects lasting beyond the project
period, as additional farmers adopt these techniques. The project outcome has therefore been assessed as
having significant positive effects on the Bangladesh economy, despite its disappointing disbursement
performance.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
42.       IDSU has already started to make, and will continue to make, up to eventual closure in June
1999, arrangements to strengthen the sustainability of its activities and handover of its monitoring, data
collection and technology support functions. Private sector networks and associations have already been
formed to provide a simple means for supply of information to suppliers. Handover of the NMIC to DAE
is already arranged. The market information system developed by the project is to be provided to the
Directorate of Agricultural Marketing of DAE. At the end of the project DAE would also receive the
vehicles, equipment and materials developed for the promotion and advisory programme, together with
training in their use. IDSU is currently preparing CD ROMs and a manual containing the data bases
established by the project, copies of which will be distributed to the main concerned government agencies.
Information acquired by the project on water quality and groundwater monitoring could most
appropriately be provided to Water Resources Planning Organisation (WARPO) / Environment and
Geographical Information System (EGIS). The Ministry of Agriculture is contemplating to set up a Minor
Irrigation Information Support Unit (MIISU) within MOA, which should be a small cell, mainly for the
provision of information, and in close co-operation with WARPO, as well as keeping all the technical
reports provided by the project. No final evaluation has yet been made of the pilot surface water schemes
established by the project. It is important that such a survey should be completed in order that experience
can be gained for any future initiative for LLP development.
43.       All of the above project completion and handover activities will need to be undertaken
carefully if the full benefit is to be achieved of the project's work to date. Adequate funding for these
essential completion activities needs to be ensured by the co-financier and the Government.
12



I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44.        The following lessons were learned:
(i)   Good sector work prior to appraisal and co-ordination between development partners
can be very valuable in assisting governments to embark on correct, but politically
difficult, sector policy changes.
(ii)  Policy changes can have unexpected effects on the viability of investments or the
implementation mechanisrns. At times of rapid policy change, supervision missions
should be alert to re-examine project design assumptions.
(iii)  Promotional activities tend to be long term in their effects and benefits are unlikely to
prove dramatic over a normal project period.
(iv)  Even in a project mainly focused on promotion of technology, it is important to
provide the necessary technical advice and information to ensure the quality of
equipment and its correct installation.
(v)  Success of surface water sclhemes depends on social/land ownership patterns.
(vi)  The prior policy of the Government of insisting on grant-financed technical assistance
can be costly in the long-run. Delays in hiring the technical assistance team by co-
financiers can have serious detrimental effects in project implementation.
(vii) Technical assistance components need to be designed in balance with other project
components. Both size and phasing of supply of technical assistance can be quite
critical for their success. Where large teams are the only solution, careful phasing is
required to minimise these difficulties.
(viii) TA teams should be accountable to the Government as well as the funding agency.
(ix)  Over-reliance during supervision on technical expertise from a cofinancing partner
may impede IDA's forming, its own technical judgements.
(x)  Regular monitoring of ground water table should be carried out to determine scope for
further expansion of minor irrigation.
13



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                     [3                        El            El
Sector policies                     m           E            El            E
Financial objectives                 a           El                        El
Institutional development           E           E71          El            El
Physical objectives                 El          El           []            El
Poverty reduction                  El                        El            El
Gender issues                      El           El            E 
Other social objectives            El           El           E      l. 
Environmental objectives           El           []           El            El
Public sector management            m           E            El            El
Private sector development                       El          El            El
Other (specify)                    El           El            El           El
B. Project sustainability          Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
71  0El   E
HiWy
C. Bank performance             satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                      l         [3]          El
Preparation assistance (FAO/CP)    El         El           [EC
Appraisal                           l         El 
Supervision13                     El                       El
13 IDA supervision relied heavily on technical expertise of specialists provided by CEC, which proved inadequate.
14



Highl
D. Borrower performance         satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation                               17 E 1
Implementation                 [           E           E
Covenant compliance            F7 I 
Operation (if applicable)       a          E           E
lEgLv                        ~~~~~~~Highly
E. Assessment of outcome      satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
15



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title              Purpose              Year of   Status
approval
Preceding operations
1.   Cr.1215-BD             Expansion of training and visit    1982  PCR 1992
Extension & Research II  system of extension.                  PAR 1994
2.   Cr. 1287-BD            Increase food production by     1982     PCR 1991
Deep Tubewells II     increasing irrigated area and
strengthening cooperative
system
3.   Cr. 13 84-BD           Strengthen and expand co-       1984     PCR 1993
Rural Dev. II          operative system and
Bangladesh Rural
Development Board (BRDB)
4.   Cr.1455-BD             Strengthen agricultural         1984     PCR
Agric. Research II     research system                         November 1993
5.   Cr.1467-BD             Improve water regime to raise  1985      PCR 1996
BWDB Small Schemes   crop production
6.   Cr.1591-BD             Increase in crop production     1985    ICR 1996
Third Flood Control and  through flood control and
Drainage               drainage; strengthen BWDB
7.   Cr. 1784-BD            Increase in crop production     1987    ICR 1996
Fourth Flood Control    through flood control and
and Drainage           drainage; strengthen
Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB)
8.   Cr. 1870-BD            Increase in crop production     1988    ICR 1996
Small-Scale Flood      through flood control and
Control and Drainage II  drainage; strengthen BWDB.
9.   Cr.1876-BD             Protect and increase            1988     PCR 1991
Flood Rehabilitation II   agricultural production by
restoring priority infrastructure
10.  Cr.2048-BD             Protect and increase            1989    ICR 1997
Third Flood            agricultural production by
Rehabilitation         restoring priority infrastructure
(Emergency)
16



Loan/credit title              Purpose             Year of   Status
approval
11.  Cr.2253-BD             Deregulate the minor irrigation  1991    ICR 1996
Shallow Tubewells and   sector and withdrawal of
Low-Lift Pump          subsidies on fertiliser
Irrigation
12.  Cr.2361-BD             Efficient use of public        1992    ICR 1996
Public Resource        resources in the development
Management             budget
Adjustment Credit
13   Cr.2427-BD             Import liberalisation and      1993    ICR 1996
Industrial Sector      promotion of private sector
Adjustment Credit II
Following operations
1.   Cr.2233-BD             Provide agriculture knowledge  1991     Credit closes
Agricultural Support    to farmers                             June 30, 1998
Services
2.   Cr.2791-BD             Protection of river banks and  1995     Ongoing
River Bank Protection    formulation of National Water
Plan
3.   Cr.2783-BD             Rehabilitate existing polders  1995     Ongoing
Coastal Embankment
Rehabilitation
4.   Water Sector           Increase agricultural          2001     Under preparation
Improvement            production & incomes. Flood  (proposed)
protection. Redefine GOB role
in water sector. Beneficiary
participation. Rehabilitation
and Improvement
17



Related Projects Financed by the Asian Development Bank
Loan/credit title     Purpose              Year of approval      Status
1. Loan No.1045-     Deregulation of minor   1990                Closed, December
BAN Foodcrops    irrigation sub-sector,                       1994
Development       withdrawal of
Programme         subsidies on fertiliser
2. Loan No.1 125-     Familiarise           1991                 Originally planned to
BAN North-East   DTW/FMTW                                     close September 1998
Minor Irrigation    technology for                            but at GOB request
Project           demonstration in                            extended to June 1999
greater Sylhet district
3. Small-Scale Water  Introduce the thana   1994                 Closes in 2001
Resources Project  irrigation scheme
concept
18



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date planned            Date actual/
latest estimate
Preparation                                          _            November 1989
Appraisal                                     March 1990           April 1990
Negotiations                                                       March 1991
Board presentation                            August 1990          May 23, 1991
Signing                                  _                        May 23, 1991
Effectiveness                                                      December 31, 1991
Midterm review                                __May 1994
Project completion                            31/12/1997           For IDA: December 31,
1997
For CEC and project:
___ __ __ __ ___ __ __ __ ___ __ __ __   _June  30, 1999
Credit closing                                3 1/12/1997          December 31, 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate           5,500   14,000   23,000   33,000   43,500   53,000   54,000
Actual                      2,5071/   2,507    4072/       407    1,164    2,123  1,8773/
Actual as % of estimate         46       18         2        1        3        4         3
Date of final disbursement   April 6, 1998
1/Initial disbursement to establish Special Accounts.
2/ After partial refund of initial disbursement.
3/ Estimate after refund of remaining Special Account balances.
19



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Staff Appraisal Report   Revised during MTR and    Achievement
Supervision Missions
Policy           BADC or any other public   BADC or any other public   BADC is no longer
sector agencies to withdraw  sector agencies to withdraw  involved in the sale and
from renting of DTW,     from renting of DTW,      distribution of minor
pontoon mounted pumps    pontoon mounted pumps,   irrigation development. At
and sale or rehabilitation on  VDSSTW and sale or  MTR it was agreed that
a subsidised basis DTW,    rehabilitation on a     Barind Development
pontoon mounted pumps    subsidised basis DTW,     Authority would be outside
VDSSTW, pontoon          this restriction. To date
mounted pumps            BWDB continues to
operate some DTWs.
Government should treat    Government should treat    Achieved
both public and private  both public and private
sector sellers of DTW or    sector sellers of DTW,
pontoon mounted pumps in  VDSSTW or pontoon
terms of tax treatment or    mounted pumps in terms of
access foreign exchange  tax treatment or access
foreign exchange
Government to revise laws                          Appropriate amendments
to enable farmer groups to                         were made to allow farmers
acquire legal personality                          groups to be legally
with appropriate powers                            registered as Water Users
and functions                                      Associations
Import duty on DTW                                 Achieved
components and spare parts
be established at a uniform
rate of about 15% for both
public and private sector.
BADC should write-off as                           Partially achieved. IDA
assets from its balance                            received a letter officially
sheets, DTWs deemed not                            confirming the write-off; of
to be suitable for repair and                      the 1800 DTWs identified
sell DTWs that have not                            for transfer to private sector
been written-off to the                            only 338 have been
private sector                                     transferred so far.
20



Staff Appraisal Report      Revised during MTR and      Achievement
Supervision Missions
Development of    Installation of DTW/FMTW:  Installation of FMTW up to   Installation of FMTW up to
Groundwater       *  4000 units of 141/s      1997-98 irrigation season:  March 1998:
serving 24,000 ha       *  250 units of 141/s and   *  145 units installed
*  5000 units of 281/s         281/s                       serving approximately
serving 60,000 ha       *  No targets for new DTW       438 ha
*  1500 units serving          were set
36,000 ha                                           *  3885 units irrigating
Installation of VDSSTW:        approximately 12,900 ha
Rehabilitation of DTW:      *  6400 units
*  1800 units serving                                   Rehabilitated up to March
40,000 ha               Rehabilitation of DTW:      1998:
*  1800 units serving       *  155 units14 irrigating
40,000 ha                   1860 ha
Development of    Excavation of canal         Excavation of canal         Achievement up to March
surface water     schemes:                    schemes:                     1998:
*  150 schemes              *  at MTR reduced to pilot   *  14 schemes serving 171
60 schemes serving 4000     ha
ha; subsequently reduced
to 15 schemes due to
institutional and other
problems
Pontoon Mounted Pumps:      *  Dropped at MTR due to   *  101 schemes covering
*  200 schemes serving         lack of demand              367 ha
20,000 ha
Demonstration irrigation    *  Dropped in 1996 due to
system:                        lack of demand from
*  500 covering 10,000 ha      farmers
Monitoring                                    Undertake annual National    NMIC undertaken every year
Minor Irrigation Census    from 1994-95
(NMIC)
Technical         *  International - 842                                  *  International - 603 pm
Assistance            person-months                                       *  National - 3888 pm
*  National - 2810 person-
months
Groundwater       *  Exploratory drilling in  *  Exploratory drilling in
Monitoring            Sylhet - 40                 Sylhet - dropped
*  Automatic Water level    *  Automatic Water level
Recorders - 100             Recorders - dropped
Training          *  ex-BADC mechanics -                                  *  5952 trainee days
6000 trainee days    __
Studies lS
14 An additional 366 DTWs have been either relocated/rehabilitated by farmers/private traders independently of project's
technical advice.
15 Listed in Table 7
21



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key operating indicator                     Estimated                             Actual
Total area of Irrigation developed               265,00 ha                           19,117 ha
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study             Purpose as defined         Status                       Impact of study
at appraisal/redefined
1.    Environmental    To establish benchmarks    Completed       The studies undertaken were too limited in area and
Baseline Survey   against which to evaluate                 based on too few samples to provide any reliable
the impact of surface and                  conclusions.
groundwater abstraction on
(a) surface water bodies;
(b) the sustainability of
aquifer drawdown; and
(c) the quality of water for
irrigation and its
alternative uses, such as
domestic water supply.
2.    Assessment of    Testing for agro-chemicals.  Partial.      Initially the project undertook some limited sampling of
agro-chemical                                               water and the October 1995 Review Mission suggested
concentrations in                                           a structured investigation should be undertaken but
soil and water.                                             proposals for this were rejected by the September 1996
Supervision Mission which felt that monitoring
ecological and water quality aspects should be
undertaken by an independent agency. 195 samples
were analysed in 1994 and 1995 and water quality
monitored in 31 wells over the period January 1996 -
December 1997.
3.    Exploratory      To properly define the    Completed.       40 exploratory wells were drilled up to 1995 which
Programme for    hydrological situation in                  showed the difficulty of tubewell development in the
Groundwater      the area and suitability for               area, particularly the problem of a strata of large stones
Development in  tubewell development.                       which made hand drilling methods unfeasible. A
Sylhet.                                                     proposal by the TAT to drill a further 15 exploratory
wells was not accepted.
4.    Survey of        To conduct a survey on    Partial.          Both the project staff and BADC carried out surveys to
existing DTW.    existing DTW to assess the                identify DTW suitable for rehabilitation.
extent of poor operation,
identify reasons, identify
and test a range of options
for re-development and
assess the physical and
cost-effectiveness of
rehabilitation methods.
22



Study           Purpose as defined         Status                      Impact of study
at appraisal/redefined
5.    The Cost of      Analyse the impacts of   Completed        Assist in the policy formulation of electricity and diesel
Power for Minor  subsidy and taxes on                      pricing.
Irrigation:      electricity and diesel fuel
Impact of Price    pricing and the resulting
Distribution &   agricultural production
Policy          responsiveness.
Implication.
6.    Report on the    Investigate the accuracy of   Completed   Helped to improve data collection and analysis
Validation      the census
Survey of the
NMIC
7.    National Minor   Make a national summary    Completed      Provided data on the status of total irrigated area and
Irrigation      of different types of pumps                contribution of surface water and ground water.
Census,         used, their performance in
Bangladesh      terms of area and crops
1994/95         being irrigated.
Irrigation Season
8.    Report of the    Estimate profitability of  Completed      Assist in further analysis of crop budget, labour budget,
1994/95         irrigation, changes in                     yield comparison, farm level and tubewell budgets and
Groundwater      irrigation practice and                   climatic variables and agroecological zone.
Irrigation      conditions, efficiency of
Survey          equipment, and
employment benefits
9.    Baseline Survey   Detect fertiliser and   Completed        Groundwater in Bangladesh was found to be suitable
Water Quality    pesticide residues in water               for drinking water with exceptions in coastal and
Part I           and to test its suitability               esturian areas and also suitable for irrigation purposes.
for irrigation and for
drinking water
10.   Proceedings of    Identify the necessity and   Completed   Assist in formulating a countrywide monitoring
the Workshop     importance of                             system
Groundwater     groundwater monitoring
Level
Monitoring in
Bangladesh
11.   Central          Evaluate existing data on    Completed    Assist in the development of an environmental
Environmental    adverse contaminant                       protection policy and the establishment of the legal and
Policy and      impact ensuring from the                   institutional infrastructure to achieve such a policy
Groundwater      use of fertilisers and
Protection      pesticides and formulation
of environmental programs
12.   Topic Report on   Identify the potential use    Completed  Assist in the formulation of a development scenario
Groundwater      of optimal irrigation
Resources       technologies in different
Development      regions.
Potential
13.   Towards an       Develop and implement an   Completed      Help establish the Minor Irrigation Information Services
Institutional   institutional framework to                 Unit and Policy Advisory Group to help the MOA with
Framework for    strengthen the policy                    information services and policy planning
Minor Irrigation   planning and the
Information     monitoring and evaluation
Services within   functions of the Ministry
MOA              of Agriculture
23



Study           Purpose as defined        Status                       Impact of study
at appraisal/redefined
14.   Preliminary     Give an overview of the   Completed       Assist the commercial banks, development partners and
Report on Credit  rural credit situation for              other organisations to stimulate the flow of credit to
Sector          irrigation and the reasons                NMIDP investors along with institutional arrangement
for commercial banks                     and management needs.
unwillingness to lend for
this section in particular
15.   Surface Water    Determine appropriate    Completed       Would help develop a program for the introduction of
Irrigation -    mechanisms for                            appropriate pump technologies
Revised Plan for  sustainable community-
Pilot Project   based common reasons
development
16.   Experimental    To provide data on the   Completed        Installation of most appropriate technologies - both
Programme       performance of the                        financially and technically.
different groundwater
abstraction technologies
and to use them for
demonstration purposes
17.   Topic Report on   Address the present status   Completed  proposal to CEC to increase fund for the testing of
Groundwater     of the ground water                       pumping equipment and recommendation of FMTWs
Abstraction     abstraction technology and                and VDSSTWs for the farmers as the best choice
Technology      its effects on minor
irrigation development
24



Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                                   Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)l/
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
costs     costs               costs     costs
1. Irrigation Development               54.7      51.8      106.5                1.6       1.6
2. Demonstration Irrigation Systems      3.4       0.0        3.4      -         0.0       0.0
3. Capacity Building Technical           5.3       7.5       12.8     2.9       12.6      15.5
Assistance
- Enviromnental Protection            1.8       3.1        4.9     0.5        1.6       2.1
- Training and Information            3.0       2.1        5.1     0.7        1.7       2.4
Dissemination
- Institutional Development           0.5       2.3        2.8     1.7        9.2       10.9
4. Project Support Technical             2.5      13.4       15.9     1.8        6.2       8.0
Assistance
- Implementation Support &            0.9      10.0      10.9      0.4        1.3       1.7
Monitoring
- Groundwater Exploration &           0.6        1.7       2.3     0.5        2.3       2.8
Technology Improvement
- Feasibility Study for LLP-          1.0        1.7       2.7     0.8        2.7       3.5
Based Minor Irrigation Project
Total Baseline Cost                     65.9      72.7      138.6     4.7       20.5      25.2
Physical Contingencies                    1.8      0.6        2.4
Price Contingencies                     17.11     13.0       30.1
TOTAL                                  84.8      86.3      171.1     4.7       20.5      25.2
11In addition to the costs listed in the table, the Government budget for the project included the cost of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of BADC. Over the period 1991/92 to 1995/96 this expenditure amounted to Tk 826.3 million
(US$20.9 million). Since these 2,590 staff did not become involved in the project's activities it has not been treated as a
project cost
25



Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                          Appraisal estimate (US$M)           Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign      Total         Local        Foreign      Total
costs      costs                     costs         costs
IDA                              23.2       30.8        54.0             0.4          1.5        1.9
EEC                             32.5         55.5       88.0             0.1         19.0       19.1
Domestic contribution            29.1        -          29.1             4.2          -          4.21/
TOTAL                            84.8       86.3       171.1             4.7         20.5       25.2
I/ IDA-financed cost of installation of VDSSTW (pit-lined), FMTW and DTW (56 I/s) rehabilitated. These installations were
financed by the farmers but IDA reimbursed the Government for the foreign exchange cost of the pumps and engines (85 percent).
For surface water schemes, IDA financed 85% of GOB's provision of 70% of the cost, while farmers contributed 30%.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
As described in Annex D, since the project actions in groundwater development for irrigation were aimed at
promoting and supporting sinking of VDSSTW and FMTW by farmers, the analysis compared net
agricultural benefits from wells sunk up to the Credit closing at end December 1997 with project costs
directly related to this activity. The analysis shows that, if the total number of wells sunkis considered as a
direct result of the project, the economic rate of return is 16%. It is difficult to estimate how many wells
would have been sunk without the project. However, if it is assumed that only 20% of the wells would have
been sunk by farmers in the without project situation, the economic rate of return would fall to 12%. It
should also be recognised that the impact of promotional activities is not immediately apparent. In addition
to the direct agriculture benefits from the technologies promoted under the project, there has been a number
of unquantifiable benefits. Therefore, it is probable that the analysis underestimates the rate of return.
26



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Bangladesh
National Minor Irrigation Development Project (Cr. 2246-BD)
Original   Revised    Description of
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present fulfilment  fuliilment  covenant                            Comments
type      status   date       date.
DCA         3.02     2, 3      C                              Borrower's agreement with BB
regarding the administration by BB of
facility to be made available to the
private sector and BADC under Part A
(i), (ii) and (iv) of the Project.
3.03 (a)           DELT                           BB to enter into a Participation   Section 3.03 has been fornally
Agreement with each participating bank. deleted
3.03 (b)           DELT                           BB shall cause PBs to enter into
Dealer's/Contractor's Agreement.
3.03 (c)           DELT                           BB shall cause PBs, providing financial
assistance to BADC, to enter into an
agreement with BADC on the same
terms and conditions as a
Dealer's/Contractor's Agreement
5.01     2         C                              The Borrower:                      This covenant has been formally
(a) shall not undertake nor permit any   revised. Barind Multipurpose
public sector entity to undertake (i) rental Development Authority is outside
of DTW, VDSSTW or pontoon mounted these restrictions.
pumps or (ii) sale or rehabilitation on a
subsidised basis of DTW, VDSSTW or
pontoon mounted pumps; and
(b) shall not provide more favourable tax
treatment, regulatory treatment or access
to foreign exchange to any public sector
sellers of DTW, VDSSTW or pontoon
mounted pumps than are available to
private sector firms in this field.
5.02     10        CD      31 Dec.    between    The Borrower shall take all such actions
1991       September  as shall be necessary to enable farmer
1992 and   groups to acquire legal personality with
June 1993  appropriate powers and functions.
7.01 (a)  2        C                              Financing agreement with EEC.
7.01 (b)  5        CD                             Appointment of a Project Director.  Appointment of PD on a fulltime
basis and appointment of key s
was delayed (after September
1992)
7.01 (c)  12       C                              The Borrower has taken all necessary
measures to ensure that import duty on
DTW components and spare parts are
established at a uniform rate of about
15% for all imports, public and private
sector.
7.01 (d)  5        C                              The project proforma for carrying out the
project has been approved by the
Borrower.
27



Original   Revised
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present fulfilment  fulfilment  Description of                         Comments
type      status   date        date       covenant
Schedule 4  1.       5          C                               The Borrower shall establish a Project
Co-ordination and Monitoring
Committee, with membership and TOR
agreed with IDA, to co-ordinate and
supervise implementation of the project
2 (a)    5          CD                              The Bonfower shall establish an     Delay in IDSU becoming
Irrigation Development Support Unit   functional was related to delay in
(IDSU) in its Ministry of Agriculture,    TA Team arrival (May 1993)
with adequate powers, staff, facilities
and resources, and TOR satisfactory to
IDA, to be responsible for the overall
implementation of the project.
2 (b)    5          C                               IDSU shall be headed by a PD with
qualifications and experience satisfactory
to IDA
3.       5          CD                             The Borrower shall establish an      same as 2 (a)
Environment Cell within IDSU, with
adequate powers, staff, facilities and
resources, and TOR satisfactory to IDA,
to be responsible for the implementation
of Part C of the project.
4.       5          CP                             The Borrower shall establish a Project   same as above
Monitoring and Performance Evaluation
Unit (MPEU) in IDSU under the
direction of the PD, with adequate
powers, staff, facilities and resources,
and TOR satisfactory to IDA.
5.       9          C                              The Borrower shall undertake annual    This covenant has been formally
census of DTW, VDSSTW and pontoon  revised.
mounted pumps using methods and
procedures satisfactory to IDA.
6.       5                                          The Borrower shall take all such actions  Irrelevant in view of the October
as shall be necessary to cause BADC to  1994 GOB's decision that BADC
emphasise quality enhancement,      should no longer be involved in
technical assistance and market     minor irrigation activities.
information and de-emphasize
commercially oriented activities, all
satisfactory to IDA.
7.                                                 The Borrower shall cause BADC, in a
manner satisfactory to IDA, to:
7 (a)    12         CD      30 June    31 Dec.    - provide such write-offs as shall be
1992       1993        necessary to eliminate as assets on
BADC's balance sheet all DTWs not
deemed suitable for repair;
7 (b)    12         CP      30 June    31 Dec.    - sell to the private sector all of BADC's
1993       1993        DTWs that shall not have been written
off pursuant to 7 (a) above;
7 (c)    12         CD      31 Dec.                - provide such write-offs as shall be
1993                   necessary to eliminate as assets on
BADC's balance sheet all DTWs
reflected in the latter's audited financial
statements for fiscal year 1993;
28



Original    Revised
Agreement  Section Covenant  Present fulfilment  fulfilment   Description of                       Comments
type      status   date        date       covenant
7 (d)    12       C                               - include in the price of irrigation
equipment the full cost of taxes, duties,
handling charges, distribution costs and
appropriate administrative overheads, all
calculated in accordance with accounting
principles satisfactory to IDA;
7 (e)    2        ??                              - deposit promptly into the Borrower's
consolidation fund the entire proceeds
from the sale of irrigation equipment.
8.                C (*)                           The Borrower shall, in line with the  (*) Covenants which are
changes in BADC's business orientation  important for the development of
and focus, cause BADC, in a manner    minor irrigation sector have been
satisfactory to IDA, to:           complied and the rest are
irrelevant in view of the Oct.'94
GOB's decision that BADC
should no longer be involved in
minor irrigation activities.
8 (a)    5                                        - submit to IDA an inventory of BADC's
personnel and their skills and an analysis
of its future skill requirements, in light of
the contemplated change in BADC's
business orientation and focus;
8 (b)   5                                         - adopt a retirement plan for BADC's
staff mechanics, satisfactory to IDA;
8 (c)    5                 30 June                - abolish the staff position of mechanics
1993                   for servicing irrigation schemes, except
those required for irrigation
demonstration systems;
8 (d)    5                                        - appoint a chief engineer and four
additional chief engineers in the PIU with
qualifications and experience satisfactory
to IDA;
8 (e)    12       CD       31 March               - take all necessary steps to (i) reorient
1994                   the operations of BADC in accordance
with its revised business orientation and
focus; and; (ii) redeploy all BADC
redundant staff and adjust BADC staff
composition and skill mix as shall be
required to meet BADC staff
requirements under its revised business
orientation and focus;
8 (f)   12                                        - not undertake directly or indirectly the
business of owing & operating pontoon
mounted pumps.
Keys:
Covenant Type:
1.   Accounts/audit                                            8.  Indigenous people
2.   Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries  9.   Monitoring review and reporting
3.   Flow and utilisation of project funds                      10.  Project implementation not covered by 1-9
4.   Counterpart funding                                        11.  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary allocation
5.   Management aspects of the project or executing agency      12.  Sectoral or c-s policy/regulatory institutional action
6.   Environmental covenants                                    13.  Other
7.   Involuntary resettlement
Status:
C     Complied with                                            CD  Compliance after Delay
NC   Not Complied with                                          CP  Complied with Partially
DELT Deleted
29



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title         Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1OD 10.70 Project Monitoring and Evaluation   Requirements of OD10.70 were met but no
arrangements have yet been made for carrying out
the important task of a careful evaluation of the
surface water irrigation component.
2. OP 14.20 Co-financing                   Para. 7 states that "the terms and conditions of co-
financiers' participation must be consistent with
the financing plan for any specific operation."
Although this condition appeared fulfilled at
appraisal, delay in fielding technical assistance
disrupted the project implementation plan.
3. BP 14.20 Co-financing.                  Para. 6(a) states an aim to "endeavour to co-
ordinate the co-financier's and the Bank's project
processing to ensure that funds will be available
when required for all project components."
Comment as above.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                   Planned                Revised              Actual 1/
project cycle
Weeks    US$'000    Weeks    US$'000   Weeks   US$'000
Preparation to            n.a.        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.   226.0    382.8
appraisal
Appraisal                 n.a.        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.     19.7     50.7
Negotiations through      n.a.        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.      6.8      18.1
Board approval
Supervision               n.a.        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.     77.3    113.1
Completion                n.a.        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.     13.0     23.6
TOTAL                    n.a.        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.   342.8    588.3
n.a. = not available to the ICR mission
1/    From Bank records to 20 February 1998.
30



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                   Number               Specialised    Implemen   Develop-
project cycle     Month/        of      Days      staff skills    -tation     ment         Type of
year      persons    in       represented     status    objectives     problems
field
Through
appraisal:                                                         _
Identification    May 1989         3       21    E,Ec,A.
(FAO/CP)                                      _
Preparation       Aug.1989         7       24    E,A,H,Ec,I,C,L.
(FAO/CP)
Appraisal through
Board approval:                           __
Appraisal         Mar.1990         6       23?   Ec,Ec,E,I,W.
Supervision                                                __
I.                Sept.1992       2         7    P,E.                 2           2      Ttechnical
Assistance;
Covenants.
2.               June,1993         3        7     P,E.H.              2           2      Technical
Assistance
Covenants.
3.                May 1994         4       31    P,PS,A,E.            U           S      Technical
(MTR)                                                                  Assistance
covenants.
4.                April 1995Z/     7        7     Ec,H,I,E,PS,En      U           S       Covenants;
Technical
Assistance.
5.                Oct.199531       5        7    A,H,E,E,Ec.          U           S       Covenants;
Technical
Assistance
6.                Sept.19965/      6       21    Ec,E,E,E,En,PS      S4/          S      Co-finance
7.                April,19976/     5        14    E,Ec,Ec,En,PS       S           S      Co-fiance
8.                Feb.1998         1              Ec                  S           S      Co-finance
A = Agronomist; C = Credit Specialist; E = Engineer; Ec = Economist; En = Environmental Specialist;
F = Financial Analyst; H = Hydrogeologist; I. = Institutiions Specialist; L = Legal Specialist; P = Programme Officer;
PS = Private Sector Development Specialist; W = Water Management Specialist.
1/ Engineer provided by CEC
2/ Engineers provided by CEC
3/ Engineers provided by CEC
4/ Satisfactory rating based on restructuring/cancellation further reducing implementation expectations.
5/ Except Ec, all expertise provided by CEC
6/ Specialisations except Ec refer to CEC staff only.
31



ANNEX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.2246-BD)
Aide Memoire (January 1998)
1. Introduction.
I.1       An  FAO/World  Bank  Cooperative  Programme(FAO/CP)  mission  consisting  of
J.H. Weatherhogg (FAO/CP Mission Leader), N.K. Bandyopadhayay (WB Irrigation Engineer), C. Gregorio
(FAO/CP Environmental Specialist) and M.A.S. Mandal (Economist, Consultant) visited Bangladesh from
II to 27 January, 1998, to prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the above project. This
aide memoire is based on discussions with staff of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Delegation of the
European Commission, (CEC) the World Bank, Bangladesh Dhaka Office (BDO), the Project Director and
his staff in the Irrigation Development Support Unit (IDSU) and the Technical Assistance Team (TAT), as
well as with other relevant agencies and institutions including the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation (BADC), the Planning Commission (PC), the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB),
the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE), the Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE), the
Water Resources Planning Office (WARPO) and the Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies (BIDS).
The mission also carried out a programme of field visits to the districts of Bogra, Mymensingh and Barisal
which included discussion with farmers, irrigation equipment manufacturers and dealers, and district staff of
the project, rural banks and the- Department of Agriculture. The mission has also referred to the numerous
reports produced by the TAT, IDA documentation on the project and other relevant studies and reports.
1.2       The aide memoire, in draft, was presented for discussion at a wrap-up meeting, chaired by
Mr. Md. Enayet Hossain, Joint Chief, Ministry of Agriculture, held on 26 January, 1998. This finalised aide
memoire incorporates amendments agreed at the meeting and as reported in the MOA Minutes of the Wrap-
up Meeting, dated 8 February, 1998, and will be attached to the ICR.
1.3.      The mission wishes to thank all the agencies and their staff for their time given in the
discussions and the valuable information and opinions received.
2. Background.
2.1        Project origin. A policy dialogue between Govemment of Bangladesh (GOB) and IDA
developed from the Agricultural Sector Review in 1988, recognised the potential for agricultural
development based on expansion of minor irrigation and the need for policy changes towards greater
deregulation of agriculture and encouragement of private sector participation. These changes in policy were
embodied both in this project as well as in the Shallow Tubewell and Low Lift Pump Project (Cr.2253-BD),
32



the Agricultural Support Services Project (Cr.2233-BD) also financed by IDA, as well as the Foodcrops
Development Programme and the North East Minor Irrigation Project, financed by the Asian Development
Bank (ADB). The Agricultural and Rural Credit Project, which was also intended to support the same policy
changes and was to have been jointly financed by IDA, ADB and USAID, did not eventuate.
2.2       The project objectives were to promote faster growth in the crop sector of agriculture through
increased private sector investment in minor irrigation. This was to be achieved through liberalising
provision of deep (force mode) tube well (DTW) irrigation equipment through removal of subsidies,
equalisation of import duties on equipment imported by public and private entities, and the phasing out of
BADC's role in the provision of DTW. Though national in scope the project would give emphasis to 105
upazillas (sub-districts or thanas) where groundwater depth required DTW use, and a further 50 upazillas for
surface water development. The project aimed, over a seven year implementation period, at increasing
irrigated area by around 265,000 ha, of which 120,000 ha. under new DTW to be covered by an estimated
10,500 DTW units with capacities of from 14 to 56 litres per second; 40,000 ha through rehabilitation of
around 1,800 existing BADC DTW; 75,000 ha through improvements to drains on 150 surface water
schemes to allow installation of low-lift pumps (LLP); 20,000 ha under pontoon mounted pump schemes;
and 1(0,000 ha of irrigation demonstrations. To restructure and improve BADC the project was to provide
technical assistance, funding for a voluntary retirement plan and to support BADC mechanics to establish
their own private businesses. Voluntary retirement was to be financed from local funds generated from the
sale of CEC financed project equipment The project also included a programme of training and information
dissemination and implementation support. Total cost of all the technical assistance to be provided was
estimated at around US$29 million, or more than 20% of total project base costs. In the original project
document, financing of all items except TA, training, vehicles and office equipment, was to be done by IDA
and EC pro-rata basis at the ratio of 35%:65% until EC funds for these items are fully disbursed. At mid-term
review this financing arrangement was revised and it was agreed that IDA will finance all items except TA,
training, vehicles and office equipment which would be financed, as per original agreement by EC.
2.3       The project was restructured in 1994 to accommodate changes in: policy regarding BADC's
role in minor irrigation; demand for DTWs; foreign exchange reserve situation; and correct the flaws in the
original project regarding the documentation requirement for accessing foreign exchange by the private
sector for importing irrigation equipment. In November 1993 GOB, in conformity with its policy for
liberalisation, decided to withdraw BADC from all minor irrigation activities. Also DTW investment by
farmers was below appraisal estimates, due to economic, technical and social factors. The economic factors
were: falling paddy and increasing diesel prices; availability of cheaper suction mode equipment and high
initial cost of DTW at unsubsidised market prices; and lack of institutional credit. The technical factors were:
lack of dependable electricity in many areas and substitution of DTW with cheap suction mode equipment in
areas where feasible. The main social factor wvas the need to have the cooperation of many farmers to use
DTW equipment at anywhere near its theoretically optimum capacity. Furthermore, the foreign exchange
support provided by IDA for import of equipment was not being used, since foreign exchange reserves had
increased and was readily available to importers, without any of the use restrictions stipulated by IDA. As a
result of these factors, the project design was modified following a mid-term review mission in May 1994.
The objective of the project remained the same, but the revised project design gave main emphasis to
popularising modification of shallow (suction-mode) tube wells (STW), by setting the wellhead and pump
lower in the ground. If the sinking was up to 2m these were categorised as deep set or DSSTW, or if the
depth below ground was 2 to 7m as very deep set or VDSSTW. The latter were identified as the main
technology to be promoted by the project. Sinking the wellhead and suction pump in a pit was solution
already known and used by farmers in some areas, but it was decided that this would be a pragmatic and cost
effective response to irrigation in areas with deeper water tables. As set out in the revised GOB Project
Proforma, over a seven year period, the area irrigated from groundwater was to be increased by some
123,000 ha, through the installation of 16,000 new VDSSTW and 700 force mode tubewells (FMTW or
33



DTW) and conversion of a similar number of STW to VDSSTW and rehabilitation of FMTW/DTW.
Surface water irrigation by LLP was to be promoted through establishment of pilot schemes covering 1,200
ha. By establishing replicable and sustainable models it was estimated that total scheme area could be
increased by 40,000 ha. In support of these two components the project, as eventually implemented, also
included Policy and Planning Support, consisting of a Policy Planning Unit covering forecasting,
environmental monitoring, information and data systems, and training and institutional development; and a
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, covering project monitoring, establishment of a management information
system (MIS), and assistance to DAE in carrying out the National Minor Irrigation Census. The revised
project design gave a greater thrust to the development of the private sector network for trade in irrigation
equipment, drilling and installation.
2.4       Covenants. The original Development Credit Agreement (DCA) included more than 30
covenants. Most of these relate to BADC reorientation and restructuring and the remaining ones to pre-
conditions for use of the credit, equalisation of import duties between the private and public sectors,
establishment of a Project Coordination and Monitoring Committee and project management and staffing.
The amended DCA excluded all the covenants related to BADC and pre-conditions regarding documentation
for use of credit.
2.5       Project Organisation. The project was to be managed and implemented by an Irrigation
Development Support Unit (IDSU) attached to MOA, but self contained and with staff recruited only for the
duration of the project. The IDSU was to be headed by a Project Director responsible for, and assisted by, a
Project Management Unit and a Technical Assistance Team (TAT). The IDSU was expected to work closely
with BADC who in turn were expected to establish a Project Implementation Unit under a Chief Engineer at
headquarters with 4 regional headquarters, district and sub-district offices, working closely with IDSU at all
levels. Following the withdrawal of BADC from minor irrigation in late 1994 the IDSU became responsible
for all project implementation and was strengthened by an expanded TAT.
2.6       Project Implementation. Despite signing of the CEC Financing Memorandum in September
1991 and credit effectiveness at end December 1991 there was little activity until the TAT were fielded in
May 1993. The unattractiveness of FMTW/DTW to farmers had already indicated the need for modification
of the project design. Withdrawal of BADC from minor irrigation in October 1994 was also a major change
to the project setting. The considerable modification to the project design following the May 1994 mid-term
joint IDA/CEC review also obliged the project (IDSU) to take over the tasks originally scheduled for BADC
in minor irrigation development, including groundwater monitoring, development of surface water schemes,
provision of advisory services to farmers and the private sector, rehabilitation of selected DTW, and setting
up demonstrations. A second joint IDA/CEC review mission in May 1995 agreed further changes in the
project's direction to provide greater assistance to private sector suppliers; to cut back on surface water
schemes because project performance in the implementation of the component had yet to demonstrate the
sustainability of these schemes. The review mission also advised the TAT to desist from DTW
rehabilitation until these had been transferred to farmers by BADC (see para. 3.3) and to provide
strengthening to the Project Planning and Monitoring Unit (PPMU) within MOA to enable it eventually
undertake IDSU's monitoring and advisory tasks. The latter proposal was not agreed to by IDA. The
September 1995 review mission confirmed the need to strengthen the promotional and advisory activities to
include irrigation equipment suppliers, importers and wholesalers, mechanics, well drillers, credit agencies
and NGOs. A Revised Project Plan was drawn up and agreed at the end of 1995, which brought together the
previous revisions and set out activities, targets and indicators for the remainder of the project period. This
document laid the foundation for amendment of the TAT terms of reference and contract, revision of the
GOB Project Proforma (PP), and current and subsequent Annual Work Plans (AWP).
34



2.7       From 1994 onwards, IDSU was able to improve the tempo of project activities. By end 1997 a
total of 3,476 new VDSSTW had been fielded, 86% of the cumulative target at end 1997 and 137 new
FMTW (48% of target). Rehabilitated FMTW increased by 120, or 48% of target. Despite these
developments IDA disbursements remained very small such that at credit closing total use of the credit is
only SDR 1.33 million (US$1.60 million or Tk 64 million). The total credit cancelled by IDA amounted to
SDR 35.89 million (US$48.15 million), as against original commitments of SDR 38.1 million (US$54.00
million). Total financing by CEC to end December is ECU 16.1 million (US$19.3 million or Tk 773 millioi)
as against original commitments of ECU 65.0 million (US$87.1 million), due to reformulation and reduction
in the project's scope. GOB contribution is Tk 8383 million (US$22 million), 94% of which is accountable to
pay and allowances paid to the PIU of BADC up to end June, 1995. Total financial contribution by farmers
has not yet been estimated, but may be of the order of Tk 200 million (US$5 million). The project will
continue with funding from CEC (up to end June 1999 with a further twelve months for the closing of
accounts), GOB and farmers. The main project activities to be undertaken during this period would be
continued promotion of private sector associations of dealers and manufacturers; market development
support for FMTW and VDSSTW; development of innovative technologies; maintain and transfer market
information systems to the Department of Agric ultural Marketing (DAM); monitoring of experimental wells,
with subsequent assessment of results and formulation of recommendations for appropriate technologies
based on hydrogeological conditions; completion of archiving the project's databases in the form of CD-
ROM and subsequent distribution to selected users; completion of the 8 surface water schemes proposed to
be undertaken in 1997/98; and provision of assistance in the take-over of the National Minor Irrigation
Census (NMIC) by DAE.
3. Mission Findings.
3.1       Project Design. The original project design was ambitious and complex. As indicated in
para 2.2, the project had ambitious targets, six objectives and nine components/sub-components. The design
assumed that 14 l/sec DTW would cover an average area of 6 ha, 28 I/sec units 12 ha and 56 I/sec units 24
ha. These estimates appear to have been based largely on technical assumptions, rather than actual
experience, in which the main constraint is social organisation, not pump/irrigation technical limitations. The
project design also included very large funding of technical assistance - around US$29 million base cost, or
around US$36 million including contingencies and equivalent to over 20% of total project costs. Although
the primary aim of the project was to support GOB in its policy of liberalisation of minor irrigation and it was
assumed that BADC would be an implementing agency in addition to IDSU. BADC's withdrawal from all
minor irrigation activities, which was in the mission's view a correct decision, entirely changed the
implementation arrangement. This coupled with the slow uptake of FMTW/DTW by farmers and other
reasons identified in para 2.3 have resulted in a complete reformulation of the project. Withdrawal of BADC
left IDSU as the sole implementing agency and over the project period the private sector manufactures,
dealers and farmers have become IDSU's main counterpart. This latter situation meant that IDSU, and
particularly the TAT have been actively involved not only in promotion, but also in implementation. The
funding for technical assistance increased marginally by about 4%.
3.2       Project Results. The project's development objective in deregulation of the minor irrigation
sub-sector has been achieved. However, implementation performance has been less than satisfactory until the
last two years. The project's performance in promoting the sinking of VDSSTW and some FMTW (para 2.6)
is commendable. The project's promotional activities have been energetically pursued and the impact on the
private sector manufacturers, dealers and NGOs both for VDSSTW and for minor irrigation in general
appears to have been beneficial, particularly in encouraging the formation of manufacturer and dealer
associations and networks. However despite these successes there was a lack of a clear definition of the
appropriate technology, in regard to tubewell design, construction, and matching of the pump and engine to
one another and to the well. Some appropriate technology was developed for placement of pumpset,
35



construction of pits, drilling methods, mainly as yet general rather than site specific, as well as selection of
strainers. Mission field visits showed that well development by initial deliberate overpumping was generally
not practised to the required level and there were deficiencies in matching of equipment, determination of
tubewell size and strainer length. Tubewells sunk were also not in line with either the projects technical
recommendations, nor with the information provided in the IDSU Thana Information Files (TIF). Farmers
are also proving slow in adopting the pit lining recommendations for VDSSTW and at present only about
15% have been lined.
3.3       DTW rehabilitation proceeded far more slowly than planned due to  delay in transferring
ownership to farmers by BADC. In 1994 agreement had been reached between MOA, IDA and CEC that
the old rental DTW would be sold to farmers for the nominal payment of Tk 1. To date only 486 have been
transferred to farmers out of 1,800. Of those transferred 120 DTW have been rehabilitated and a further 366
relocated/rehabilitated. The surface water irrigation component has been reduced to pilot size, involving
some 19 schemes, of which 15 are being implemented directly by IDSU and 4 by NGOs. Another 8 schemes
are being implemented in the current year with the help of NGOs. For a three year period up to June 1996
about 2000 BADC staff were officially transferred to the project's payroll, but in effect were never involved
in the project's activities. The impact of the project staffs relentless pursuit in improving availability of
credit for minor irrigation through promotion and close liaison with commercial banks seems to have been
marginal due to the reluctance of the banks to lend, based on past poor repayment performance on loans for
minor irrigation, high transaction costs and their insistence on land title in the name of the farmer as security
for the loan. Water monitoring and other environmental aspects are discussed below.
3.4       Bomrower Performance has been very good in undertaking all but one of the policy changes
supported by the project and in withdrawing BADC from minor irrigation. In 1995 Government decided to a
phased reduction of BADC's staff and offered early retirement benefit package. There was a positive
response to the offer but due to lack of funds the offer was withdrawn and program abandoned.16 The
abandonment of the program signals a declining commitment of GOB to downsize BADC. Despite the
covenants in the DCA BADC continues to have some 3,400 rental DTW under its control. Support for the
project by the Project Coordination and Management Committee was lacking throughout the implementation
period.
3.5       IDA Performance was very good in undertaking the pre-appraisal sectoral studies and helping
GOB develop a well thought through policy strategy in close collaboration with other development partners.
Based on the performance of the Second Deep Tubewell Project (Cr. 1287-BD), the SAR recognised the need
to assist farmers in organising themselves to operate and maintain the deep tubewells. However the FMTWs
promoted under the project, proved to be unaffordable for the farrners due to reasons mentioned above. The
restrictions on use of the Credit imposed on the commercial banks and dealers were inappropriate in a project
which supported liberalisation and were a important reason for the poor disbursement in the early years of
the project. IDA correctly cancelled these covenants and restrictions following the May 1994 mid-term
review. When it became clear by late 1993 that the SAR design was inappropriate to the changed conditions,
IDA reformulated the project by reducing its scope and cancelling about 29% of the credit. Subsequently,
based on project implementation performance, IDA continued to cancel portions of the credit. While the
project scope was being adjusted to demand and project performance, the technical flaws referred to above
were not adequately recognised during the mid-term review or at any later stage. This oversight was mainly
because IDA relied largely on technical expertise provided by CEC and the TA team during supervisions,
both of which proved to be inadequate.
16 About 8,200 staff took advantage of the offer but government still owes 20 percent of the total package.
36



3.6       CEC Performance was good in supporting the GOB policy strategy. Faster recruitment of the
international consultants would have got the project off to a better start. As it was it took over 19 months
from the signing of the FM to the fielding of the TAT. Greater CEC flexibility and timeliness in procedures
would have helped IDSU, as also a closer rapport with the project management and the technical review
missions. Delays in the approval of Annual Work Plans (AWP) tended to have a disruptive effect on project
implementation and CEC consultation with GOB over the last two years has proven inadequate. In the
mission's view the arrangement whereby the TAT were under contract to CEC was unfortunate. A better
arrangement would have been for the consultant contracts to have been with GOB, subject to approval of
recruitment and TOR by CEC.
3.7       Development Partner/Borrower Relationship was generally  excellent in providing the
necessary support to embark on its new policy initiative.
3.8       TAT Performance suffered from delayed CEC's approval of annual work plans and budgets;
the rigidity of CEC's bureaucracy and overall uncertainty regarding CEC's decisions regarding the workplan.
In spite of these problems, TAT was able to achieve modest success in project implementation (paras 3.2-
3.3). However, TAT has not been to develop adequate technical parameters for the irrigation equipment and
have therefore been unable to have sufficient impact to date on the technical suitability of the irrigation
equipment being installed by farmers (para 3.2).
3.9       Environmental Aspects. In the SAR, the project was to conduct an environmental base line
survey, assess agro-chemical concentration in soil and water, strengthen BADC's groundwater monitoring -
expanding it nation wide and establishing links with other concerned agencies for sharing of data, establish a
computer data base, rehabilitate village water systems in cases where they were adversely affected by sinking
of DTW, and developing skills in environmental specialities. With revision of the project all of these duties
became the responsibility of IDSU. The project carried out a baseline ecological survey, undertook a limited
programme of water quality monitoring as well as ground water monitoring and predictive modelling. IDSU
was to have sunk 100 automatic water level recorders, but this was probably correctly deleted as
inappropriate by the May 1995 joint IDA/CEC review mission.
3.10      Sustainability of the policy changes supported by the project aimed at liberalisation of minor
irrigation appear good. Private manufacturers and dealers have already developed rapidly and farmers
appreciate the free availability of irrigation equipment. At the mid-term review, the need for institutional
"home(s)" to store and share the important information gathered and technical expertise generated during the
project period was recognised. The mission believes that the most appropriate location for IDSU's
information on water quality and groundwater monitoring would be WARPO/EGIS. Under CEC funding the
project is expected to continue up to June 1999, with an additional subsequent year to June 2000 for the
closing of accounts. It will be important to properly complete work already in progress and undertake an
evaluation of the pilot activities in both the groundwater and surface water schemes to see whether the model
approach developed by the project may be suitalble for replication on a wider scale.
4. Lessons Learned.
4.1       Based on its work so far the mission's provisional list of lessons learned as a result of the
project implementation experience are as follows:
1.  Good sector work prior to appraisal and coordination between development partners can be
very valuable in assisting governments to embark on correct, but politically difficult sector
policies.
II.  For successful implementation projects require a good design which makes the best use of
empirical experience and accommodates farmers' perspectives. If during project
37



implementation major changes occur in the project setting reformulation should be undertaken
may be indicated.
III. Using TA to implement a project is likely to prove costly, alternative institutional arrangements
are required.
IV. Even in a situation where liberalisation is the objective it is important to provide the necessary
technical advice and information to ensure the quality of equipment and its correct installation.
V.  In supporting Government donors consistency in stressing priorities in policy formulation and
monitoring of strategic resources is valuable.
VI. Promotional activities tend to be long-term and benefits are unlikely to prove dramatic over a
normal project period.
VII. A distinction needs to be made between poorly performing projects and bad projects. If the
basic aims and objectives are sound persistent and positive support in implementation,
including careful supervision can improve project performance.
VIII. TA teams should be accountable to both the Government as well as the funding agency.
IX. To ensure adequate supervision, mission members should be carefully selected in order to
match their competence with the requirements of the project in all fields.
5. Follow-up.
5.1        The mission will prepare an ICR report which will be transmitted to IDA by March, 1998.
GOB should prepare their own evaluation of the project implementation. General guidance for the GOB
contribution is presented in Attachment 1. Further elaboration and/or clarification required to assist in
preparation of the contribution, the Dhaka Field Office of the World Bank can be contacted.
38



Attachment 1.
Guidance on Government's Contribution to the ICR.
Government's own final evaluation of the project implementation is an important part of an ICR. It is
attached, unedited, to the ICR. It can be selective in its coverage but should address issues and lessons
learned in project implementation, from the borrower's perspective. Topics covered can be the same as in the
ICR, namely, project design, appraisal, impleimentation and project results. At each stage of the project the
contribution should comment on both IDA and the implementing agencies' performances, with the
observations, where possible, supported by evidence or reasoned argument.
For project design the contributfion could address such questions as the appropriateness of the
project's objectives, the size of the project and scope of the investfnents proposed, aspects of design leading
to easy (or difficult) implementation and the eEffect on government institutions.
For project appraisal comments should concentrate on any significant changes in the
objectives, size and scope of the project and whether these were appropriate.
Project implementation experience should be divided into an assessment of IDA performance
in supporting and supervising the project and the performance of the implementing agencies.
Project results include both an assessment of the direct physical benefits leading to financial
and economic benefits (or disbenefits) arising from the policy changes. Since financial and economic re-
analysis of the project will be undertaken as part of the ICR, it is suggested, if GOB so wishes, that the
contribution could most usefully comment on the effect of the policy changes from the Government's
perspective. Such an analysis would be a most useful contribution to the ICR.
Based on the foregoing sections the contribution should list the main lessons learned from the
implementation experience and arising from thle above analysis.
If the contribution is more than ten pages it should include a summary. The latter is
recommended for all but the shortest contribuitions
39



ANNEX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.2246-BD)
NATIONAL MINOR IRR[GATION CENSUS OF BANGLADESH
1.        The National Minor Irrigation Census (NMIC) has its origin in the Nation-wide Inventory of
Shallow Tubewells and Low-lift Pumps by the CIDA financed Agricultural Sector Team of Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) in 1987. This inventory was conducted through the Directorate of Agricultural
Extension's (DAE) Block Supervisors (BS) whose number stands about 12,000 in the whole country. The
irrigation equipment inventory covered 1986/87 irrigation season as well as a recall survey of STWs and
LLPs for 1985/86 season. The survey was repeated in 1989. AST conducted the Census of Minor
Irrigation Equipment covering the 1988/89 irrigation season. In none of these two censuses DTWs,
traditional irrigation methods, canal or gravity flow irrigation systems were included. Nor any data
collected on area actually irrigated. The 1989 census did however record the existence of Deep-set
Shallow Tubewells. The 1991 Census of Lift Irrigation, the third census of minor irrigation under CIDA-
AST, included for the first time all minor irrigation equipment, including STWs, LLPs, DTWs, manually
operated tubewells, traditional methods, etc. This census also included for the first time information on
area irrigated by the respective technologies.
2.        Recognising the need to generate timely and accurate data relating to the rate and direction of
minor irrigation development, DAE under the Appropriate Technology Information in Agriculture (ATIA)
project, in 1993, conducted the Census of Minor Irrigation for 1992/93 and 1993/94. Although these two
censuses were more comprehensive there were doubts about the accuracy of the data generated,
particularly with respect to the information on the absolute decline in STW area in 1993/94.
3.        With the closure of ATIA project, NMIDP team took over the responsibility for carrying out
the national minor irrigation census from 1994/95 using the BS of DAE and have so far produced census
data for three consecutive years, i.e. 1994/95, 1995/96 and 1996/97. The NMIC gradually improved in its
coverage and quality. The NMICs incorporated considerable refinement of the definitions used for minor
irrigation technologies and also recast the census format so as to record irrigation equipment
disaggregated by horsepower of engines/motors as well as pump capacity. It also counted the equipment
numbers, not the number of boreholes so that more accurate number of pumpsets operating in the fields
are available. The 1996/97 census also included for the first time information on area irrigated in the
Kharif season, especially for transplanted Aman, which has been increasing very rapidly but was not
seriously noted before. NMIDP Irrigated Area Surveys for 1994/95 and 1995/96 using plane table survey
methods revealed an important information that the actual areas irrigated per irrigation unit were higher
than the Block Supervisors' (BS) estimates in the NMIC by 17% for STW, 33% for DTWs and 61% for
LLP. This survey also revealed that BS estimates of wheat and other crop areas were overestimated,
meaning that the Boro areas reported in the NMIC might be underestimated by as much as 30%.
40



4.        One important improvement oif NMIC since 1994/95 has been that the census included
equipment owner's names, villages and mouzas, which are also linked to Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
(BBS) geocodes, i.e. jurisdiction limit (JIL) numbers, Agro-Ecological Regions (AER) and Agro-
Ecological Zones (AEZ) soil association parameters. This linkage of NMIC data with the BBS geocodes
has increased the use value and practical utility of the census data. It is now possible to assess not only
the nature and trends of minor irrigation development overtime but also to relate the minor irrigation
growth with other national socio-economic parameters such as soil types, cropping patterns, household
numbers, geographical area, population density, household expenditure surveys, etc.
5.        The analysis of 1996/97 NMIC data reports a number of very interesting results. It shows
that there has been a continued growth in suction mode irrigation pumps in 1996/97 season (i.e. 9.3% for
all STWs and 4.6% for LLPs) but a 7.1% decline for DTWs. Total operational capacity of mechanical
irrigation equipment is equivalent to about 8.8 million litres/sec, which is capable of irrigating about 6.4 m
ha, meaning by implication that the present total irrigated area of 3.8 m ha in 1996/97 is well below the
potential pump capacities already installed. It is also reported that between 1995/96 and 1996/97 while
STW area increased by 7.7%, DTW area. decreased by 11.7% and LLP area by 1.2%. Overall,
groundwater irrigated area increased by 3.1%/0, while surface water irrigation decreased by 3.8% between
these two years.
6.        The 1996/97 NMIC shows another very important result that the investment or growth in
STW irrigation is very strongly related to prices that the farmers get from the previous Aman paddy.
This relationship has important policy implications such as the private sector (e.g. farmers) will continue
to invest in STWs as long as the paddy prices are attractive to them, compared with the production costs
as well as equipment operation and maintenance costs. It also implies that a reduction of diesel prices
through a reduction of duties and taxes (at the current price of diesel average cost per diesel run
equipment is higher and average area irrigated lower than electrically operated equipment) is likely to
enhance new investment in STWs as well as utilisation of installed pump capacities.
7.        It appears that the annual NM[ICs and the results compiled from these have proved to be
useful to formulate appropriate policy actions to support minor irrigation development in Bangladesh.
Given the frequent changes in the rate of growth of minor irrigation equipment and the areas irrigated year
to year, there is an urgent need of continuing the annual census of minor irrigation development. An
appropriate home for storing NMIC databases and a continuation of annual census of minor irrigation will
be the Directorate of Agricultural Extension (DAE) which has been involved in minor irrigation censuses
since 1987. It has recently established a separate Water Management Unit which together with the
Planning and Evaluation Unit have already made preparations to take over the 1997/98 NMIC with
technical guidance and assistance from the NMIDP. All the district level offices of DAE have been
provided with computers and 88 officers (64 Subject Matter Specialist, 21 senior Agricultural engineers
and 3 senior officials at DAE headquarters) have been given training by NMIDP on basic computer skills
and use of NMIC software developed by NMIDP. In the current year 1998/99, one to three data handling
clerks from each district will be trained by NMIDP. Also, preparations have been made to increase DAE
capability to initiate systems and software to compile NMIC data and quickly produce national reports of
common use within the DAE headquarters. The NMIDP management expects that the 1997/98 census
will be conducted with DAE involvement, while 1998/99 and 1999/2000 annual censuses will be
completely done by DAE with logistics support and technical advisory services from the NMIDP. It is
also felt necessary to continue technical support to NMIC unit of DAE for at least two years beyond 1999
so that computer data management skills and confidence are adequately developed at the DAE district
level offices.
41



ANNEX C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.2246-BD)
REVIEW OF TECHNICAL ISSUES
1.         The project objectives were to promote faster growth in the crop sector of agriculture
through increased private sector investment in minor irrigation.
2.        The project aimed, over a seven year implementation period, at increasing irrigated area by
around 265,000 ha as follows:
(i)   Groundwater Development using New DTW Facilities   120,000 ha
(ii)  Privatisation of existing BADC owned 56L/sec Facilities    40,000 ha
(iii)  Drainage Canal Improvement Schemes                 75,000 ha
(iv)  Pontoon Mounted Pump Schemes                        20,000 ha
(v)   Demonstration Irrigation Schemes                    10,000 ha
3.        It was considered that there is substantial proportion of available groundwater resources in
Bangladesh which is beyond the suction limit of the centrifugal pumps. To ensure irrigation in these
areas, the project envisaged support of new groundwater development using forcemode pumps with a
wide range of discharges and command areas, including but not limited to 14 lit/sec; 28 lit/sec and 56
lit/sec with estimated respective command areas of 6 ha; 12ha and 24 ha. Though 56 lit! sec facility
specifications were expected to follow the designs standardised in the earlier projects, the following
specifications were recommended for 14 lit/sec capacity and 28 lit/sec capacity tubewells. (SAR Annex
3).
4.        14 lit/sec facility: The tubewells were to be constructed by the jet drilling technique. Total
well depths were estimated in the range of 45-50 m at a diameter of 300 mm. The upper well casing
would be of 200 mm dia mild steel set to depths in the range of 18-24m. The lower part of the tubewells
would be of 100 mm dia PVC pipes about 15m of which will be slotted.
5.        28 lit/sec facility: The tubewells were to be constructed by the jet drilling techniques. Total
well depths were estimated in the range of 54-60 m at a diameter of 350 mm. The upper well casing
would be of 250 mm dia mild steel set to depths in the range of 21-27m. The lower part of the tubewells
would be of 125 mm. PVC pipes about 18m of which will be slotted.
6.        It was also envisaged that all the tubewells would be gravel-packed to surface. Initial
development were to be by compressor and final development by turbine pumps. The wells were to be
tested for a minimum of 24 hrs including a step drawndown test; and the pump was to be a vertical shaft
42



turbine unit powered by a diesel engine. The power transfer could be through a gear box or V belt/flat belt
drive.
7.        The mission had the following observations on the technical design recommended in the
SAR. It is not understood why a step draw-down test was recommended for every tubewells, including
those with 14 lit/sec capacity. This kind of test is time consuming and is not required to be carried out for
every tubewell. The findings of the predecessor project - Deep Tubewell II - with regard to the selection
of well capacity, pipe material and pump technology were not considered while preparing the design
specifications under this project. It is mentioned at para 6.2 in the Deep Tubewell- II Final Report,
Supporting Volume 2.2 (April 1992) that "The 0.25 cusec FMTW equipped with a submersible pump and
drilled by manual methods, with all PVC components, is seen to offer significant practical and cost
advantages." These recommendations were not considered in the specifications prescribed for this
project.
8.        The Mid-term Review (MTR) of the project in 1994 and subsequent joint supervision
missions also did not focus on the (a) tubewell design; (b) tubewell construction; and (c) selection of
matching pump sets. At MTR, the main revision was the inclusion of Very Deep Set Shallow Tubewells
(VDSSTW) as one of the irrigation technologies to be promoted under the project. VDSSTWs have
tubewells with centrifugal pumps sunk at depth of 2 to 7 meters into the ground. As a solution to the
lowering of the pumped water table below the centrifugal pumping limit, the technique of sinking the well
head and the suction pump at a depth below ground level was already known and used by farmers in many
areas (1995/96 National Minor Irrigation Census sets the number of Deep Set STW as 19,469). The
project considered that very deep setting of STW below the depth of 2m would be a pragmatic and cost
effective response to irrigation in areas with deeper water tables.
9.        The mission felt that adequate attention was not given to the technical issues associated with
the lowering of well head and pump, developing appropriate technology and then proceeding with the
promotion campaign through installation of denmonstration tubewells and other means.
10.       TA team has done commendable work in developing appropriate technology with regard to
the (a) construction of pits and placement of plumps; (b) drilling methods; and (c) selection of strainers and
documented the results in different technical papers. The team however has not as yet developed
appropriate solutions for matching pump sets and an efficient and long lasting well. This observation has
been made on the basis of the following statements recorded by the TA team in its technical paper
"Technology Development - Mechanical Pumps for Irrigation - June 1996 (page 3 under Testing of
Centrifugal Pumps (Annex 1): "There is no significant mismatch between the engines and the pumps
because, although the rating of the engines as engraved on the nameplates is much higher than the pumps
require, the actual horsepower of the engines (see diesel engine test analysis) is so much lower that it
matches well with the pumps." It is not understood how the TA advised the farmer on the selection of the
pumpset when the capacity as engraved on the engine is different from the actual performance.
11.       The mission observed that the experimental wells constructed under the well development
component were not being properly done by the TAT. It is necessary to construct an efficient and long
lasting well for which proper development is a must in view of the introduction of VDSSTW with lined
pits which does not permit change of tubewell sites at will.
12.       It was also observed that many demonstration tubewells were constructed before finalising
appropriate technology to be promoted. Selection of sites, determination of tubewell size, determination of
strainer lengths and selection of pump sets did not appear to follow any rationale and were not consistent
with the recommendations made in the different technical papers produced by the TA team under the
43



project. A study of the technical data and performances of the experimental wells constructed under the
project revealed that for a discharge of 14 litlsec, screen length varied from 120 ft to 50 ft with well
diameter varying from 3 inches x 1.5 inches to 5 inches x 5 inches and HP ranging from 3 HP to 12 HP.
It is also observed that actual discharge observed in many cases were much less than the designed
discharge. This occurred mainly due to inadequate development and/or carrying out development at a
much later date after drilling.
13.       Some of the recommendations made in the groundwork data sheets prepared for 51 thanas,
such as length and placement of strainers, were not consistent with the recommendations made in the
technical pages produced by the TA team.
44



ANNEX D
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGArION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.2246-BD)
FINANCIAL ANID ECONONIC ANALYSIS
I.        Overall, irrigated agriculture has been greatly benefited by the policy changes towards
market liberalisation, implying that the current liberalised policies concerning private sector involvement
in minor irrigation equipment importation, distribution, siting and operation should be continued. It is in
this setting that the National Minor Irrigation Development Project can be judged in retrospect. The
overall objective of the project was to promote faster agricultural growth through increased investment by
the private sector in minor irrigation equipment. Although the SAR identified the development of mainly
FMTWs (i.e. DTWs), the revised project incorporated provision for VDSSTW as a possible technological
option for promoting irrigation in low water table areas. Until 1996/97, there have been only 3,476
VDSSTWs and 137 FMTWs installed with an additional 49 FMTWs and 52 VDSSTWs developed as
experimental wells by NMIDP (Table 1). These along with 120 DTWs rehabilitated directly by the
project and a further 366 rehabilitated and relocated by the private sector, together with the 14 pilot
surface water schemes, covering 371 ha, result in an estimated irrigation area of around 19,000 ha (Table
2), as against the SAR target of a total of 265,000 ha irrigation coverage at the full development of the
project. While the benefits of the policy changes that took full effect from about 1990/91 and were
supported by the project have had a significant impact, the financing provided under the project to provide
additional incentives to support the policy reforms has had very limited effect up to closing of the IDA
Credit, in terms of increasing irrigated areas.
Financial Analysis
2.        The financial analysis is confined to groundwater development aspects. In the absence of
any final impact evaluation of the pilot activities in canal improvement, in order to allow increased use of
LLP, the data available is inadequate to make any worthwhile analysis. Information available on the
impact of the project's activities in canal improvement is presented in Attachment 1 of this Annex.
3.        For the financial analysis, five different types of groundwater irrigation technologies have
been considered, which cover the whole range of mechanised wells used for irrigation from groundwater
in Bangladesh. These are commonly used Shallow Tubewells (STW) with surface mounted pumps and
engines, Deep Set Shallow Tubewells (DSSTW)with unlined pit up to 2 meter depth, Very Deep Set
Shallow Tubewells (VDSSTW) with lined pit of an average 5 meter depth and Force Mode Tubewells
(FMTW) and rehabilitated deep tubewells (DTW) of 56 I/s capacity. The latter three well types have been
the focus of the project's support and promotional activities. For the sake of comparison, only diesel run
tubewells of 14 I/s discharge capacity are considered for the first four types. In addition, it has been
assumed that each of these technologies irrigates a net command area of 3 hectares. In the case of
rehabilitated DTW, a command area of 12 ha has been assumed, since it is expected that a part of the
45



previous command area has been replaced with STW during the period the DTW was not in operation.
The cropping patterns for 1 hectare land under 'future with project' and 'future without project' situations
were developed and yields estimated considering average soil types and flood regimes on the basis of
existing field surveys and extensive field trip experiences gathered from different locations of the country
(Table 4).
4.        In this analysis, the irrigation scheme covered by each of the technologies is considered as a
whole "farm", which bears all costs and receives all benefits from irrigated crop production. Costs
include investment costs (i.e. engines, pump, pipes and filters and other accessories), operation and
maintenance costs and crop production costs, while the gross benefits include total value of the main
product and by-products. NMIDP estimates of capital costs, Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
expenses and command areas of different well types are summarised in Table 3. The life of STW,
DSSTW, VDSSTW, FMTW and rehabilitated DTW has been considered to be 10 years and that of a
Chinese engine as 5 years, meaning that a new engine has to be replaced in the sixth year of the project.
The salvage value of the engine and other components has been assumed to be negligible. O&M costs
include costs of diesel and mobil, spare parts and repair costs, driver/ lineman salaries, cost of tubewell
sheds, cost of field channel, etc. The crop production costs include costs of all inputs (i.e. hired labour
and animal power, seeds, fertilisers and pesticides), except cost of irrigation which is covered in the
tubewell investment and O&M costs. The average quantities of inputs used for different crop is shown in
Table 5. Financial and economic prices used for the analyses are presented in Table 6. To estimate per
hectare costs and return for the individual crops included in the cropping patterns, crop budgets are
prepared separately for 'future with project' and 'future without project' situations by valuing the inputs
quantities and yield by the financial farm gate prices received at harvest and paid during the crop season
by the growers (Tables 7 and 8). For the financial analysis, only 50% of the total human labour and 30%
of animal labour is considered for calculation, assuming the remainder to be generally supplied by the
growers' family. Net financial values of production per hectare under the without and with project
situations are shown in Table 9.
5.        Based on the above assumptions, the financial rates of return detailed in Tables 10-14 give
the following results:
Financial Rate of Return"
(%)I
STW                        52
DSSTW                      34
VDSSTW                     14
FMTW                       -11
Rehab. DTW                 61
" In comparison, the SAR calculated financial rates of return for DTW of from
25-51% depending on the size and location. For 14 I/sec DTW, the FRR was
calculated at 37%, given an area covered of 6 ha.
6.         The analysis shows that the STW and DSSTW are very profitable. The VDSSTW with lined
pit appears to be only marginally profitable. It also implies that the financial profitability of the VDSSTW
technology and hence its acceptance by the farmers for mainly paddy production is very vulnerable to any
reduction in irrigation command area or to any seasonal fall in paddy prices at the local level. The high
investment of about Tk 18,000 for the construction of lined pit for the VDSSTW deters farmers to invest.
It has been reported that farmers spread the investment cost over several seasons. The FMTW technology
appears to be very discouraging as it gives negative financial rate of return. The unsubsidized cost of
Tk 155,650 for a 14 I/s FMTW makes the technology generally unprofitable to farmers, except in
46



situations where the area irrigated by the well can be increased, or high value non-rice cash crops can be
produced, but this seems likely only when fuirther effective demand for these crops is created both in the
domestic and international markets17 Rehabilitated DTW are highly profitable since the cost of putting
them back into operation is modest in comparison with initial investment cost and area irrigated four times
that of the other pumps.
Farm Incomes
7.         Farm incomes on a per hectare basis are estimated as follows:-
Annual Net Farm Incomes
(Tk/ha)
STW    DSSTW        VDSSTW         FMTW   Rehab. DTW
Without Project             10,550    10,550         10,550       10,550        10,550
With Project"               15,936    14,511         14,110       14,100        17,780
Annual Debt Service (DS)     1,690      1,818         3,030        8,992         1,643
WithProjectafter D.S        14,246    12,693         11,080        5,108        16,137
Annual Net Farm Income          89        87            78           36            91
after DS as % of With Project  2,696   2,143           530        -5442          5,587
before DS
Incremental income over
without project. Increase %     25        20             5           -52           53
" After deduction of well operating costs.
2/ Loan of 70% of initial investment cost, interest rate at 16% per year and repayment period of 5 years for
STW, DSSTW and VDSSTW and 7 years ifor FMTW and rehabilitated DTW
8.         The results show that after allowing for debt servicing incomes from ownership of STW,
DSSTW and rehabilitated DTW and improvements in annual net farm income, are still reasonably
attractive, respectively 35%, 20% and 53% higher than without project. Income from VDSSTW shows a
marginally 5% higher income in the "with project" situation, which appears to explain the reluctance of
most farmers to line their pits. The FMTW results indicate its unprofitability on the assumptions used in
the analysis. In the SAR, the average net fanrm income of the five models prepared before debt service on
the well investment costs, was expected to increase from Tk 8,967 without the project to Tk 22,543 at full
development from Year 3 onwards.
Economic Analysis
9.         This project is not a typical investment project. The project mainly focused on promotion of
selected irrigation technologies to be adopted by farmers. Any analysis therefore requires an assessment
of what might have happened in the absence of the project, which is difficult. The technology which has
been most successfully promoted is the use of VDSSTW. Farmers in a number of areas were already
adopting the DSSTW method of irrigation before the project's promotional activities gathered momentum.
10.        The economic analysis examines' the economic viability of the various types of wells used for
irrigation from groundwater, and estimates economic costs and benefits of the project in groundwater
17 Some aspects of the use of groundwater for production of crops other than paddy are presented in Attachment 2 to this Annex.
47



development, up to December 1997. Surface water schemes have not been included for reasons
mentioned above.
11.       Economic viability of wells. The main assumptions used for the analysis are as follows.
Prices of commodities produced and material inputs used have been adjusted to reflect border parity
prices, based on the World Bank's Commodity Price Forecasts. For the main commodities and materials,
import parity prices have been adopted for paddy, wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane, triple super
phosphate (TSP) and muriate of potash (MP); and export parity prices for valuing jute and urea. The
prices used in the analysis are presented in Table 6. Irrigation equipment prices have been adjusted by a
conversion factor of 0.87 and the price of diesel by factor of 0.63. Human labour and animal power have
been adjusted by a conversion factor 0.9.
12.       On the basis of the above assumptions, the economic rates of return to investment in the five
different groundwater technologies, presented in Tables 10 to 14 give the following results:
Economic Rate of Return
> ~~(%)
STW                                         170
DSSTW                                       152
VDSSTW                                      96
FMTW                                        27
Rehab. DTW                                  156
13.       The analysis shows the very high economic rates of return from all the suction mode wells
and the rehabilitated DTW, and also shows that in economic terms even the FMTW has a satisfactory
performance. In addition to the benefits related to irrigation, the pump engines are also sometimes used
for powering small vehicles, tractors and boats. These benefits have not been included. The SAR does
not present economic rate of return calculations for the various types of DTW included in the project.
14.       Economic analysis of project groundwater development. For the analysis it has been
assumed that project benefits are derived from the 3,476 VDSSTW, 137 FMTW, 120 DTW rehabilitated
by the project and 366 DTW rehabilitated and relocated by the private traders. Net incremental
agricultural benefits from the total estimated irrigated area of around 16,700 hai8 are after deduction of
the cost of all inputs used and operation and maintenance cost of the wells. Investment costs included are
initial investment and re-equipping costs, all paid by the farmers. Project costs of groundwater
development included in the analysis are the cost of technical assistance in the Institutional Development,
Implementation Support and Monitoring components, and the Technology Improvement sub-component,
plus a proportionate share of project overhead costs. A number of expenditures accounted by the Project
Management as project costs have therefore been excluded. Most significant of these is payment of
salaries and allowances to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of BADC. It is the mission's
understanding that these staff never became involved in project activities, and their cost has been taken
more in the nature of a budget transfer, rather than as a true project cost. Other costs excluded are
expenditures under the Irrigation Development component (inclusion of which would partially double
couint investment costs), the Demonstration Schemes component (since demonstration well benefits have
also been excluded), studies on Environmental Protection, Training, Groundwater Exploration, and
Feasibility Studies for LLP Based Minor Irrigation. The project costs attributable to groundwater
18 Assuming 3 ha for each VDSSTW and FMTW and 12ha for each rehabilitated DTW. Incremental production from this
irrigated area is estimated at an additional 49,000 tons of paddy, 3,000 tons of wheat, 1,000 tons of vegetables, 5,000 tons of
potatoes and 1,000 tons of sugarcane.
48



development have been adjusted to late 1997 constant Taka values, by application of the MUV index to
foreign exchange costs, and the Consumer Price index for local costs.
15.        Based on these assumptions, estimates and adjustments the economic analysis is presented in
Table 15 (a) and (b). Based on the assumption that farmers decision to invest in the wells, installed from
the beginning of project activities to Credit closing date have been directly influenced by the project's
promotional technical and advisory activities, shows the project's economic rate of return is 16% (Table
15 (a)). As mentioned above, it is difficult to assess what farmers would have done in "without project"
situation. Table 15 (b) shows that the economic rate of return would fall to 12 percent, if 80 percent of the
wells sunk were due to project interventions iimplying that without the project, farmers' investment would
be one-fifth of what the project has achieved.
16.        In addition to the direct agricultural benefits, the project has a number of unquantifiable
benefits. These include the use of tubewell engines for other purposes, including powering carts, tractors
and boats; assistance to the manufacturing sector in improving their technology and designs; training of
mechanics and other private sector personnel and government staff; studies surveys and data collection on
groundwater quality and status, and environmental aspects; and groundwater exploration. These benefits
have not been quantified. The economic rate of return for the project in the SAR was stated to be 4819.
19 Due to an error in entering the sum of investments in Years 1-7 as an investment cost in Year 8, the calculated economic rate
of return is actually 57.0%.
49



Table 1: Year-wise number of VDSSTW and FMTWs and number of experimental wells,
rehabilitated DTWs and Surface Water Irrigation Systemsl/ in NMEDP Area
Type                   No. of FMTW                                   No. of VDSSTW                               l
I___                  Lined Pit              Unlined Pit                Both
Diese   Elec.  Total  Diesel   Elec.  Total  Diesel  Elec  Total   Diesel  Elec   Total
A. Farmers' Installations
1994-95                            -       -       -        3      -      3       15      3      18       17      4      21
1995-96                           11     21      32        70     16     86      461    108     569     530    125      655
1996-97                           37     68    105       295      69    364    1,973   463   2,436   2,268    532   2,800
Sub-Total                         48      89    137       368     85    453   2,449   574   3,023   2,815   661   3,476
B. Experimental Wells            _1      38      49         -      -       -        -     -        -      37     15      52
C. Rehab. DTWs '                                 120
Rehab.&RelocatedDTW               - _          366
"NMIDP's progress reports indicate 14 pilot canal excavations Schemes (surface water inigation) covering 371 ha irrigated by 35 low-lift pumps
during 1996-97.
21 Rehabilitated with technical advice from the project's technical assistance.
3/ Rehabilitated and relocated by the private contractors
Notes: I. Proportions of lined and unlined pits are based on the proportion actually observed for 1996-97 (87% unlined and 13% lined pits).
2. Proportions of VDSSTW run by diesel or electricity ((81% diesel and 19% electric) are based on MNIDP figures for 1996-97.
For FMTW the proportions are 35% diesel and 65% electric.
Source: (i) NMIDP Final Report on VDSSTW and FMTW installed within Project Area during 1996-97.
(ii) NMIDP Project Completion Work Plan, Dec. 1997.
Table 2: Estimated Area covered by Tubewells and Pumps in NMIDP Areal/
FMTW                                      VDSSTW          Total
Area
Year                 14 L/S           28 L/S           56 L/S             All             14 L/S
(No.)   (ha)    (No.)   (ha)    (No.)   (ha)    (No.)   (ha)    (No.)   (ha)            (ha)
A. Farmers' Installation:
1994-95                       -       -        .                -        -       -        -      21       71         71
1995-96                     22       75       2       16        8     160       32     251      655    2,227      2,478
- 1996-97                     71     241        6      48       28      560     105      849   2,800    9,520      10,369
Sub-Total                     93     316        8      64       36      720     137    1,100    3,476   11,818     12,918
B. Experimental Wells        44      150        5      40        -        -      49      190       52      177       367
C. Rehab. DTWs                 -       -        -        -     120    1,440     120    1,440        -        -      1,440
Relocated/rehab.            |      -          |     -      366   4,392      366   4,392                  -     4,392
DTW
Total                          -     466        -     104       6- 6552                7,122            11,995     19,117
" Average command areas are:
14 US pump - 3.4 ha (Source: NMIDP Report)
28 L/S pump - 8 ha (Assumed)
56 L/S pump - 20 ha (Source: I IMI/BSERT Study on Privatisation of Minor Irrigation, 1995 weighted average for 43 DTWs).
For rehabilitated or relocated and rehabilitated DTW it is assumed that parts of the area originally irrigated would have been taken over by
STW and that where relocated the area covered would be likely to be considerably less than for long established groups. Area per rehabilitated
DTW is therefore estimated at 12 ha.
21 Total area covered by the technologies is thus estimated to be in the order of 19,500 ha (19,117 ha by wells and 371 ha by surface water
schemes). Division of FMTWs by pump capacity (i.e. L/S) is based on the actual proportions reported for 1996-97.
50



Table 3. Capital Cost, O&M Cost an[d Command Area by Different Types of Technology
Technology Type                       Capital Cost                         O&M Cost                     Area
(Tk)                                (Tk)                  Irrigated per
Tubewell
(ha)
A.   STW (Diesel)                   Tubewell                     8,370  Diesel                                        2.69
Engine & Pump               13,700   @ Tk 14/it Mobil , repair   12,258         12,258
and other
Installation                 1,650
Total                       23,720
B.   STW (Electric)                Tubewell                     8,370  Electricity, Repair and others  8,927          6.32
Motor & Pump                15,600
Installation                 1,750
Electricity Connection       3,500
Total                       29,220
C.   DSSTW (Diesel)                 Tubewell                     8,370  Diesel 712 lit.              17,966           3.10
Unlined pit <2m               Engine & Pump               13,700  Mobile and others
Pit                          1,000
Installation                 2,450
Total                       25,520
D.   DSSTW (Electric)               Tubewell                     8,370  Electricity Repair and Others    14,343       4.89
Unlined Pit <2m               Motor & Pump                15,600
Pit                          1,000
Installation                 1,750
Electricity Connection       3,500
Total                       30,220
E.   VDSSTW (14 L/S)
Unlined pit depth average 2.5 m
(i) Diesel                    Tubewell                     8,370  Diesel, mobil & repair &     17,024            3.4
others
Engine & Pump               13,700
Pit Const.                   1,000
Installation                 2,450
Total                       25,520
(ii) Electric                 Tubewell                     8,370  Electricity, repair & others  17,612           3.4
Motor & Pump                15,600
Pit Const.                   1,000
Installation                 1,750
Electricity Connection       3,500
Total                       30,220
F.   VDSSTW (14 L/S)
Lined pit depth average Sm
(i) Diesel                    Tubewell                     8,370  Diesel, mobil, repair & others   17,024        3.4
Engine & Pump               13,700
Pit Const.                  18,000
Installation                 2,450
Total                       42,520
(ii) Electric                 Tubewell                     8,370  Electricity, repair & others  17,612           3.4
Motor & Pump                15,600
Pit. Const.                 18,000
Installation                 1,750
Electricity Connection       3,500
Total                       47,220
G.   FMTW (14 L/S)
(i) Diesel (Turbine pump)                                141,500                                                 3.4
(ii) Electric (submersible pump)                         105,500                                                 3.4
(iii) Electric (turbine pump)                            146,700                                                 3.4
51



Technology Type                          Capital Cost                            O&M Cost                        Area
(Tk)                                   (Tk)                     Irrigated per
Tubewell
l_______________________________     _ .               11(ha)
H.   FMTW (28 LUS)
(i) Diesel                                                   210,000                                                          l
1.    FMTW (56 L/S)
(i) Diesel                                                   311,000
J.    DTW
(i) Diesel                                                   644,930   Diesel 2,525 lit                57,026           14.93
(ii) Electric                                                515,610                                  62,705            24.41
Source: (i) NMIDP Report of the 1994/95 Groundwater Irrigation Survey, May 1996. (Tables 3.6; 3.9-3.11; 9.1)
(ii) NMIDP Price List published in December 1996 (in Bengali).
52



Table 4: Cropping Patterns and Yields
(per hectare)
Crops              Future without project            Future with project
Area           Yield      Area             Yield
(ha)          (ton/ha)                    (ton/ha)
Kharif I
B.Aus LV                     0.25            1.9       0.05              1.9
T.Aus HYV                     0               0        0.18               3
B.Aus/Aman LV                0.02            1.8         0                0
Jute                         0.01            1.6         0                0
Kharif II
B.Aman LV                    0.4             1.6       0.11              1.6
T.aman LV                    0.32             2        0.08              2.5
T.Aman HYV                   0.1              3         0.4              3.2
Rabi I
Wheat                        0.05            2.1        0.1               3
Oilseeds 1/                  0.11           0.75       0.03              1.1
Pulses 2/                    0.14            0.6       0.02               1
Vegetables 3/                 0               0        0.01               8
Potato                       0.01            6.5       0.04              8.7
Rabi II
Boro LV                      0.04             2          0                0
BoroHYV                       0               0         0.7               4
Perennial
Sugarcane                   0.01             35        0.01              40
Total cropped area           1.46                       1.73
Cropping Intensity          146%                       173%
Irrigated Area                0                         1.33
" Mustard and linseed
2/ Lentils and Gram
3/ Brinjal and Cabbages
53



Table 5: Input use per hectare by Crops
A. Future without Project
Seeds     Urea       TSP       MT        Pesticides   Total Labour  Total Animal
Days (pd/ha)
(md/ha)
(kg/ha)   (kg/ha)   (kg/ha)   (kg/ha)    (Tk/ha)
B. Aus LV           100       30         0         0            0            123            40
B.Aus/Aman LV       100       20         0         0            0            140            40
B.Aman LV           100        0         0         0            0            110            40
T. Aman LV          30        60         35        15           0            146            40
Boro LV             35        50         0         0            0            130            28
T.Aman HYV          30        70        40         40         400            155            40
Jute                9         40        25         25           0            200            45
Wheat               50        70        50         30           0            100            40
Pulses              30         0         0          0           0            35             14
Oilseeds            15        90        70         20           0            60             20
Sugarcane          3,500      50        50         30           0           250             30
Potato             502        140       150        78           0            220            48
B. Future with Project
Seeds     Urea      TSP        MP       Pesticides   Total Labour  Total Animal
Days (pd/ha)
(md/ha)
(kg/ha)   (kg/ha)   (kg/ha)   (kg/ha)     (Tk/ha)
B. Aus LV           100       30         0         0           0             123            40
T.Aus HYV           30        150       100       40          200            170            40
B.Aman LV           100        0         0         0           0             110            40
T. Aman LV          30        60        35         15          0             146            40
Boro HYV            35        200       150        50         400           200             40
T.Aman HYV          30        100       60         50         400            160            40
Wheat               140       100       90         40          0             105            40
Pulses              30        50        20         20          0             50             20
Oilseeds            15        120       90         40          0             60             20
Sugarcane          3,500      80        60         30         400           300             30
Vegetables          10        155       127        78        2,000           120            45
54



Table 6: Prices used for the Financial and Economic Analysis
A.          Outputs               Unit          Financial        Economic
(Tk)             (Tk)
Paddy LV                 ton,                 5,775             8,665
Paddy HYV                ton                  5,500             8,665
Wheat                    ton.                 6,230             9,406
Jute                     ton.                 8,700             9,532
Pulses                   ton.                 16,000            13,920
Oilseeds                 ton                  15,000            13,050
Vegetables               ton.                 3,450             3,105
Potato                   ton.                 4,000             3,600
Sugarcane                ton.                 1,190             1,131
By-products:
Paddy                    Th'ha                 908               817
Wheat                    Tklha                 794               715
Jute                     Tktha                1,670             1,503
Pulses/ oilseeds         T'kha                 300               270
B   Inputs
Seeds:
Paddy LV                 Kg                    8.4               10.8
Paddy HYV                Kg                    8.4               10.8
Wheat                    Kg                     12               13.2
Jute                     Kg                     40               40
Pulses                   Kg                     20               18
Oilseeds                 Kg                    20                18
Vegetables               Kg                    150               135
Potato                   Kg                     12               10.8
Sugarcane                Kg                    3.23             2.91
Fertilisers:
Urea                     Kg                    5.06              6.3
TSP                      Kg                    7.8              10.67
MP                       Kg                     9               9.46
Pesticides               Th'ha                 400               400
Labour                   Man-day                50               45
Animnal labour           Pair-day               75              67.5
Diesel                   Litre                  13              8.19
55



BANGLADESH
National Minor Irrigation Development Project
Implementation Completion Report
Table 7: Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Without Project (FWOP)
B. Aus   B. Aus/Aman    Jute    B. Aman   T. Aman   T. Aman   Wheat    Oilseed    Pulses    Potato   Boro HYV    Sugarcane
LV                    LV         LV        HYV
Output:
Main Produce:
Yield(t/ha)              1.9        1.80        1.6       1.6        2.00       3.00      2.10      0.75       0.60      6.50       2.00        35.00
Price/t                 5775       5500        8700      5775       5775       5500      6230       15000     16000    4000        5550         1190
Value                  10973       9900        13920     9240       11550      16500     13083      11250      9600    26000       11100        41650
By-Products:
Value/ha                908         908        1670       908        908        908       794       300        300        0         908           0
Total Gross Value      11881       10808       15590     10148      12458      17408     13877      11550      9900     26000      12008        41650
Inputs:
Seeds(kg/ha)            100         100          9        100        30         30         50        15         30       502        3S          3500
Price/kg                8.4         8.4         40        8.4        8.4        8.4        12        20         20       12         8.4         3.23
Value                   840         840         360       840        252        252       600       300        600      6024        294         11305
Urea(kg/ha)             30          20          40         0         60         70        70         90         0        140        50           50
Price/kg                6.3         6.3         6.3       6.3        6.3        6.3       6.3        6.3       6.3       6.3        6.3          6.3
Value                  187.5        125         250        0         375        438       438       563         0        875        313          313
TSP(kg/ha)               0           0          25         0         35         40        50         70         0        150         0           50
Price/kg                7.8         7.8         7.8       7.8        7.8        7.8       7.8        7.8       7.8       7.8        7.8          7.8
Value                    0           0          195        0         273        312       390       546         0       1170         0           390
MOP(kg/ha)               0           0          25         0          15        40        3D         20         0        78          0           30
Price/kg                 9           9           9         9          9          9         9         9          9         9          9           9
Value                    0           0          225        0         135        360       270       180         0        702         0          270
Chemicals:
Valuelha                 0           0           0         0          0         400        0         0          0         0          0            0
Total Labour(md/ha)     123         140         200       110        146        155       100        60         35       220        130         250
Price/md                 50         50          50        50         50         50        50         50         50       50         50           50
Labour Costs            3075       3500        5000      2750       3650       3875      2500       1500       875      5500       3250         6250
Total Animal Days(ad)   40          40          45        40         40         40        40         20         14       48         28           30
Price/ad                75          75          75        75         75         75        75         75         75       75         75           75
Animal Costs            900         900        1013       900        900        900       900       450        315      1080        630         675
Total Costs            5003        5365        7043      4490       5585       6537      5098      3539       1790     15351       4487        19203
Net Production Value    6878       5443        8548      5658       6873       10872     8780       8012      8110      10649      7522        22448
1/ Assuming 50% hired labour and 30% draft power.



BANGLADESH
National Minor Irrigation Development Project
Implementation Completion Report
Table 8: Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
With Project (FWP)
B. Aus    T Aus    B. Aman   T. Aman   T. Aman    Wheat    Oilseed          Pulses    Vegetables    Potato   Boro HYV   Sugarcane
HYV    LV             LV        HYV
Output:
Main Produce:
Yield(t/ha)                  1.9      3.00        1.6       2.50       3.20       3.00       1.10       1.00         8.00       8.70       4.00        40.00
Price/t                     5775      5500       5775       5775       5500       6230      15000       16000       3450        4000       5500        1190
Value                       10973     16500      9240      14438      17600      18690      16500       16000       27600      34800       22000      47600
By-Products:
Value/ha                     908       980       908        908        908        794        300         300          0           0         908          0
Total Gross Value           11881     17480     10148      15346      18508      19484      16800       16300       27600      34800       22908       47600
Inputs:
SccdsQcg/ha)                 100       30        100         30        30         140         1J         30           10         554        35         3500
Price/kg                     8.4       8.4        8.4       8.4        8.4         12         20         20          150         12         8.4        3.23
Value                        840       252       840        252        252        1680       300         600         1500       6648        294        11305
UreaQcg/ha)                  30        150        0          60        100        100        120         50          155         220        200         80
Price/kg                     6.3       6.3       6.3        6.3        6.3        6.3        6.3         6.3         6.3         6.3        6.3         6.3
Value                       187.5     937.5       0         375        625        625        750         313        968.75      1375       1250         500
TSP(kgfha)                    0        100        0          35         60         90         90         20          127        240         150         60
Price/kg                     7.8       7.8        7.8       7.8        7.8        7.8        7.8         7.8         7.8         7.8        7.8         7.8
Value                         0        780        0         273        468        702        702         156         991        1872       1170         468
MOP(kg/ha)                    0        40         0          15         50         40         40         20           78         150        50          30
Price/kg                      9         9         9          9          9          9          9           9           9           9          9           9
Value                         0        360        0         135        450        360        360         180         702        1350        450         270
Chemicals:
Value/ha                      0        200        0          0         400         0          0           0         2000         0          400         400
Total Labour(md/ha)          123       170       110        146        160        105         60         50          120        220         200         300
Price/md                     50        50         50         50         50         50         50         50           50         50         50          50
Labour Costs                3075      4250       2750       3650       4000       2625       1500       1250        3000        5500       5000        7500
Total Animal Days(ad)        40        40         40         40        40          40         20         20          45          48         40          30
Price/ad                     75        75         75         75         75         75         75         75          75          75         75          75
Animal Costs                 900       900       900        900        900        900        450         450         1013       1080        900         675
Total Costs                 5003      7680      4490       5585       7095       6892       4062        2949       10174       17825       9464       21118
Net Production Value        6878      9801       5658       9761      11413      12592      12738       13352       17426      16975       13444       26482
1/ Assuming 50% hired labour and 30%/o draft power.



BANGLADESH
National Minor Irrigation Development Project
Implementation Completion Report
Table 9: Net Financial Value of Production per Hectare l
FWOP                                    FWP
Area (ha)   Crop NVP  Total NVP       Area (ha)   Crop NVP  Total NVP
.............. Taka '000 .........   .............. Taka '000.
Kharif I
B Aus. LV                   0.25        6.88       1.72            0.05       6.88       0.34
T Aus HYV                   0.00        0.00       0.00            0.18       9.80        1.76
B Aus/Aman LV               0.02        5.44       0.11            0.00       0.00       0.00
Jute                        0.01       8.55        0.09            0.00       0.00       0.00
Kharif 11
B Aman                      0.40        5.66       2.26            0.11       5.66       0.62
T Aman LV                   0.32        6.87       2.20            0.08       9.76       0.78
T Aman HYV                  0.10       10.87       1.09            0.40       11.41      4.57
Rabi I
Wheat                       0.05        8.78       0.44            0.10       12.59       1.26
Oilseeds                    0.11       8.01        0.88            0.03       12.74       0.38
Pulses                      0.14        8.11       1.14            0.02       13.35      0.27
Vegetables                  0.00       0.00        0.00            0.01       17.43      0.17
Potato                      0.01       10.65       0.11            0.04       16.98      0.68
Rabi II
Boro LV                     0.04       7.52        0.30            0.00       0.00       0.00
Boro HYV                    0.00       0.00        0.00            0.70       13.44      9.41
Perenial
Sugarcane                   0.01       22.45       0.22            0.01      26.48       0.26
Total Cropped Area&:NVP/ha    1.46                 10.55           1.73                  20.51
Net Cultivable Area         1.00                                   1.00
Cropping Intensity (%/6)    146%                                   173%
Irrigated (/o)                                      0%                                   133%
1/ Based on cropping pattem in Table I and costs and retums in Tables 4 and 5.
58



BANGLADESH
National Minor Irrigation Development Project
Implementation Completion Report
Table 10(a) :Financial Analysis-Diesel Shallow Tubewell (STW-3 ha)
(Taka)
Net Agric.  Net Agric.   Net Inc.    Balance
Investment  O&M Costs    Total        Benefits    Benefits  Agric. Ben.
Costs                   Costs        FWOP        FWP
Yrl       23720          0         23720         0           0           0        -23720
Yr2                    6861        6861        15825       30765       14940       8080
Yr3                    13721       13721       31650       61530       29880       16159
Yr4                    13721       13721       31650       61530       29880       16159
Yr5                    13721       13721       31650       61530       29880       16159
Yr6        11500       13721      25221        31650       61530       29880       4659
Yr7                    13721       13721       31650       61530       29880       16159
Yr8                    13721       13721       31650       61530       29880       16159
Yr9                    13721       13721       31650       61530       29880       16159
YrlO                   13721        13721      31650       61530       29880        16159
NPV= Tk   43429                                                FRR=    51.8%
Table 10(b) :Economic Analysis.-Diesel Shallow Tubewell (STW-3 ha)
(Taka)
Net Agric.  Net Agric.   Net Inc.    Balance
Investment  O&M Costs    Total        Benefits    Benefits  Agric. Ben.
Costs                   Costs        FWOP        FWP
Yrl       20686          0         20686         0           0           0        -20686
Yr2                    4899        4899        25695       56265       30570       25672
Yr3                    9797        9797        51390      112530       61140       51343
Yr4                    9797        9797        51390      112530       61140       51343
YrS                    9797        9797        51390      112530       61140       51343
Yr6        10005       9797        19802       51390      112530       61140       41338
Yr7                    9797        9797        51390      112530       61140       51343
Yr8                    9797        9797        51390       112530      61140       51343
Yr9                    9797        9797        51390       112530      61140       51343
YrIO                    9797        9797       51390       112530      61140        51343
NPV= Tk   200254                                              ERR=    169.5%
59



BANGLADESH
National Minor Irrigation Development Project
Implementation Completion Report
Table 11(a): Financial Analysis-Diesel Deep Set Shallow Tubewell (DSSTW-3 ha)
(Taka)
Net Agric.  Net Agric.   Net Inc.     Balance
Investment  O&M Costs    Total         Benefits    Benefits  Agric. Ben.
Costs                   Costs         FWOP        FWP
Yrl        25520         0         25520         0            0           0         -25520
Yr2                    8998         8998        15825       30765       14940        5942
Yr3                    17996       17996       31650        61530       29880       11884
Yr4                    17996       17996       31650        61530       29880       11884
Yr5                    17996       17996       31650        61530       29880       11884
Yr6        11500       17996       29496       31650        61530       29880        384
Yr7                    17996       17996       31650        61530       29880       11884
Yr8                    17996        17996       31650       61530       29880        11884
Yr9                    17996        17996       31650       61530       29880        11884
YrlO                    17996       17996       31650       61530        29880       11884
NPV= Tk    23188                                                FRR=    33.7%
Table 1l(b) Economic Analysis-Diesel Deep Set Shallow Tubewell (DSSTW-3 ha)
(Taka)
Net Agric.  Net Agric.   Net Inc.     Balance
Investment  O&M Costs    Total         Benefits    Benefits  Agric. Ben.
Costs                   Costs         FWOP        FWP
Yrl        22202         0         22202          0           0           0         -22202
Yr2                    6389         6389       25695        56265       30570       24182
Yr3                    12777       12777       51390       112530       61140       48363
Yr4                    12777       12777       51390       112530       61140       48363
Yr5                    12777       12777       51390       112530       61140       48363
Yr6        10005       12777       22782       51390       112530       61140       38358
Yr7                    12777       12777       51390       112530       61140       48363
Yr8                    12777        12777       51390       112530      61140       48363
Yr9                    12777        12777       51390       112530      61140       48363
YrlO                    12777       12777       51390       112530       61140       48363
NPV= Tk   185911                                                ERR=    151.5%
60



BANGLADESH
National Minor Irrigation Development Project
Implementation Completion Report
Table 12(a): Financial Analysis-Diesel Very Deep Set Shallow Tubewell (VDSSTW-3 ha)
(Taka)
Net Agric.  Net Agric.   Net Inc.    Balance
Investment  O&M Costs    Total        Benefits    Benefits  Agric. Ben.
Costs                   Costs        FWOP        FWP
Yrl       42520          0         42520         0           0           0         -42520
Yr2                    9600        9600        15825       30765       14940       5340
Yr3                    19200       19200       31650       61530       29880       10680
Yr4                    19200       19200       31650       61530       29880       10680
Yr5                    19200       19200       31650       61530       29880       10680
Yr6        11500       19200       30700       31650       61530       29880       -820
Yr7                    19200       19200       31650       61530       29880       10680
Yr8                    19200       19200       31650       61530       29880       10680
Y79                    19200       19200       31650       61530       29880       10680
YrlO                   19200        19200      31650       61530        29880       10680
NPV= Tk    2761                                                FRR=    13.8%
Table 12(b): Economic Analysis-Diesel Very Deep Shallow Tubewell (VDSSTW-3 ha)
(Taka)
Net Agric.  Net Agric.   Net Inc.    Balance
Investment  O&M Costs    Total        Benefits    Benefits  Agric. Ben.
Costs                   Costs        FWOP        FWP
Yrl       36992          0         36992         0           0           0        -36992
Yr2                    6816        6816        25695       56265       30570       23754
Yr3                    13632       13632       51390      112530       61140       47508
Yr4                    13632       13632       51390      112530       61140       47508
YrS                    13632       13632       51390      112530       61140       47508
Yr6        10005       13632       23637       51390      112530       61140       37503
Yr7                    13632       13632       51390      112530       61140       47508
Yr8                    13632       13632       51390       112530      61140       47508
Yr9                    13632       13632       51390       112530      61140       47508
YrlO                   13632        13632      51390       112530       61140       47508
NPV= Tk   168979                                               ERR=    95.8%
61



BANGLADESH
National Minor Irrigation Development Project
Implementation Completion Report
Table 13(a): Financial Analysis-Diesel Force Mode Tubewell (FMTW-3 ha)
(Taka)
Net Agric.  Net Agric.   Net Inc.    Balance
Investment  O&M Costs    Total         Benefits    Benefits  Agric. Ben.
Costs                   Costs        FWOP        FWP
Yrl       155650         0        155650         0           0           0        -155650
Yr2                    9616        9616        15825       30765       14940       5325
Yr3                    19231       19231       31650       61530       29880       10649
Yr4                    19231       19231       31650       61530       29880       10649
Yr5                    19231       19231       31650       61530       29880       10649
Yr6        11500       19231       30731       31650       61530       29880       -851
Yr7                    19231       19231       31650       61530       29880       10649
Yr8                    19231       19231       31650       61530       29880       10649
Yr9                    19231       19231       31650       61530       29880       10649
YrlO                   19231        19231      31650       61530       29880        10649
NPV= Tk   -98383                                               FRR=    -11.3%
Table 13(b): Economic Analysis-Diesel Force Mode Tubewell (FMTW-3 ha)
(Taka)
Net Agric.  Net Agric.   Net Inc.    Balance
Investment   O&M Costs    Total        Benefits    Benefits  Agric. Ben.
Costs                   Costs        FWOP        FWP
Yrl       135416         0        135416         0           0           0        -135416
Yr2                    6827        6827        25695       56265       30570       23743
Yr3                    13654       13654       51390      112530       61140       47486
Yr4                    13654       13654       51390      112530       61140       47486
Yr5                    13654       13654       51390      112530       61140       47486
Yr6        10005       13654       23659       51390      112530       61140       37481
Yr7                    13654       13654       51390      112530       61140       47486
Yr8                    13654       13654       51390       112530      61140       47486
Yr9                    13654       13654       51390       112530      61140       47486
YrlO                   13654        13654       51390      112530       61140       47486
NPV=Tk    81005                                                ERR=    26.6%
62



BANGLADESH
National M[inor Irrigation Development Project
Implementation Completion Report
Table 14(a): Economic Analysis-Rehabilitated Diesel Deep Tubewell (DTW-12 ha)
(Taka)
Net Agric.  Net Agric.   Net Inc.    Balance
Investment  O&M Costs    Total        Benefits    Benefits  Agric. Ben.
Costs                   Costs        FWOP        FWP
Yrl       113750         0        113750         0           0           0        -113750
Yr2                    16383       16383       63300      123060       59760       43378
Yr3                   32765        32765      126600      246120      119520       86755
Yr4                    32765       32765      126600      246120      119520       86755
Yr5                    32765       32765      126600      246120      119520       86755
Yr6                    32765       32765      126600      246120      119520       86755
Yr7                    32765       32765      126600      246120      119520       86755
Yr8                    32765       32765       126600     246120       119520      86755
Yr9                    32765       32765       126600     246120       119520      86755
YrlO                   32765       32765       126600      246120      119520       86755
NPV= Tk   276582                                              FRR=    60.8%
Table 14(b): Economic Analysis-Rehabilitated Diesel Deep Tubewell (DTW-12 ha)
(Taka)
Net Agric.   Net Inc.    Balance
Investment  O&M Costs    Total        Benefits    Benefits  Agric. Ben.
Costs                  Costs         FWOP        FWP
Yrl       98963          0        98963          0           0           0        -98963
Yr2                    11632       11632      102780      225060      122280      110649
Yr3                   23263       23263       205560      450120      244560      221297
Yr4                   23263       23263       205560      450120      244560      221297
YrS                   23263       23263       205560      450120      244560      221297
Yr6                   23263        23263      205560      450120      244560      221297
Yr7                   23263        23263      205560      450120      244560      221297
Yr8                    23263       23263      205560      450120      244560      221297
Yr9                    23263       23263      205560      450120      244560      221297
YrlO                   23263       23263       205560      450120      244560      221297
NPV= Tk       876223                                          ERR=         155.5%
63



BANGLADESH
National Minor Irrigation Development Project
Implementation Completion Report
Table 15(a): Economic Analysis of Groundwater Development
Assuming Benefits from All Wells Sunk by Farmers.
Project Costs
Investment   O&M Costs  for Groundwate  Total        Net Inc.
Costs 1/       Costs     Development 2  Costs      Agric. Ben.    Balance
............................................................ (TkMillion)............................
1992/93                                 4.74         4.74                      -4.74
1993/94                                181.99       181.99                    -181.99
1994195       0.78         0.00        197.20       197.98        0.00        -197.98
1995/96      47.37         0.14        180.01       227.52        0.64        -226.87
1996/97      147.12        7.18        155.28       309.58       45.52        -264.06
1997198       0.00        37.32        111.93       149.25       214.80        65.55
1998/99       0.00        60.57         0.00        60.57        339.85       279.28
1999/00       0.21        60.57         0.00        60.78        339.85       279.07
2000/01       6.87        60.57         0.00         67.44       339.85       272.40
2001/02      29.06        60.57         0.00         89.63       339.85       250.21
2002/03       0.00        60.57         0.00        60.57        339.85       279.28
2003/04       0.00        60.57         0.00        60.57        339.85       279.28
2004/05       0.00        60.28         0.00        60.28        338.56       278.28
2005/06       0.00        46.50         0.00        46.50        250.09       203.60
NPV= Tk      343.09       million         ERR=       16%
1/ Relating to wells sunk up to end December 1997.
2/ Project costs included in the components for Institutional Development, Implementation Support and Monitoring,
and the sub-component for Technology Improvement.
Table 15(b) : Economic Analysis of Groundwater Development
Assuming Benefits from 80%of Wells Sunk by Farmers.
Project Costs
Investment   O&M Costs  for Groundwate  Total        Net Inc.
Costs 1/       Costs     Development 2  Costs      Agric. Ben.    Balance
............................................................(TkMillion) ........................... 
1992/93                                 4.74         4.74                      -4.74
1993/94                                181.99       181.99                    -181.99
1994/95       0.62         0.00        197.20       197.82        0.00       -197.82
1995/96      37.89         0.11        180.01       218.01        0.51        -217.50
1996/97      117.70        5.74        155.28       278.72       36.41       -242.31
1997/98       0.00        29.86        111.93       141.79       171.84        30.05
1998/99       0.00        48.46         0.00        48.46        271.88       223.42
1999/00       0.17        48.46         0.00        48.62        271.88       223.25
2000/01       5.50        48.46         0.00         53.95       271.88       217.92
2001/02      23.25        48.46         0.00         71.71       271.88       200.17
2002/03       0.00        48.46         0.00        48.46        271.88       223.42
2003/04       0.00        48.46         0.00        48.46        271.88       223.42
2004/05       0.00        48.23         0.00        48.23        270.85       222.62
2005/06       0.00        37.20         0.00         37.20       200.07       162.88
NPV= Tk      174.23       million         ERR=       12%
1/ Assuming no further development after project completion in FY97.
2/ Project costs included in the components for Institutional Development, Implementation Support and Monitoring,
and the sub-component for Technology Improvement.
64



ANNEX D
Attachment 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATrION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.2246-BD)
IMPACT OF PILOT SURFACE WATER SCHEMES OF NMIDP
1.        The pilot surface water schemes (canal excavation schemes) have not been completed as
planned due to lack of demand from farmers and design problems. NMIDP's preliminary report on the
pilot phase of the Surface Water Irrigation Schiemes shows that out of 19 pilot schemes initiated only 14
schemes were actually functioning in the year 1996/97, irrigating a total incremental area of 371 ha, which
accounts for only a half of the area planned. Five, out of the 10 schemes started in 1994/95, the first year
of the project, were considered unsuccessful. Other schemes, including, 3 schemes started in 1995/96 and
6 schemes in 1996/97, are yet to attain their 'full' development. It is reported that the actual area covered
by the khal schemes is about 88 percent short of the targeted area as per the feasibility studies of the
schemes. This means that the benefits achieved from the surface water irrigation schemes are yet very
limited. Moreover, information on pump operation and maintenance costs are either not available or
unreliable. Therefore any assumptions about the development of the canal schemes will be extremely
tenuous to make any useful economic analysis. However, NMIDP's own financial analysis of a selected
number of khal schemes shows some interestingl results as follows:
2.        In the surface water schemes of Barisal, Gopalgonj and Madaripur in the south-west region
there is a high incidence of sharecropping tenancy. About 38 percent of LLP irrigated land was
sharecropped. The schemes with larger proportion of sharecroppers were not found financially viable.
Irrigation water charge in the canal schemes was, on average, about Tk 4,000 per/ha, which is generally
lower than for groundwater irrigation by STWs. Farmer's return over cash cost from an average irrigated
area of only 0.26 ha of owned land and 0.16 ha of sharecropped land were only Tk 4,883 and Tk 1,166,
respectively. With such low returns from HWV Boro paddy production, it is unlikely that the small
landowners as well as sharecroppers would have enough incentive to pay for the canal re-excavation or
mainteniance costs. Financial returns to Block Managers of the canal schemes were substantially high as
they earned about Tk 10,000 a season per scheme from only water selling plus additional income from
their own irrigated land. The financial analyses based on estimated area irrigated showed the canal
schemes were highly remunerative with Benefit Cost Ratios greater than 1 and very high positive NPV.
(IRR could not be calculated since returns were positive in the first year). However, overall it appears
from the actual irrigated area, (which is much less than estimated), that the financial returns are likely to
be positive but far less than estimated based on potential irrigated area.
65



3.         The sustainability of the canal schemes depends largely on farmers' participatory
management and responsibility for re-excavation and annual maintenance. Funding of these costs seems
to be most difficult. The report mentions that there are problems of defining and allocating costs and
realising benefits, some of which accrue to the community and some to individuals depending on their
relative position on the canal network. The mission observed that those who reside and/or own or
cultivate plots far off from the canals are likely to be reluctant to contribute to canal re-excavation costs.
Moreover, the absentee landowners are difficult to contact when needed and their sharecroppers are also
unlikely to have any incentive to pay for canal costs on behalf of their landowners who might change
tenancy contract to someone else in future. Differential requirements for irrigation water by different
farmers, depending on who grows what crop on which land, reflect farmers' effective demand for
irrigation water and hence determine farmers' incentive to pay the cost of canal re-excavation. NGOs
involved in the project for group formation and motivation of farmers do not seem to have any practical
solutions to these complex structural problems.
66



ANNEX D
Attachment 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.2246-BD)
RETURNS TO GROUNDWATER IRRIGATION
FOR NON-RICE CROPS
1.        Although irrigation for non-rice cr'ops is expanding and becoming more popular, yet private
investment in irrigation technologies for growing non-rice crops seems to be very location specific. For
example, a case study of a number of STWs and DTWs in Chandina, Comilla, in 1991/92 showed that
returns to DTW and STW owners from selling water for irrigation to horticultural crops such as potato,
wheat, brinjal, cabbages/cauliflowers and other vegetables was comparatively more profitable than for
HYV Boro rice irrigation. In response to higher returns from non-rice irrigation, two-thirds of command
areas under DTWs and STWs in Chandina were covered by those non-rice crops, with the remainder
covered by rice irrigation (for further details see the paper by Mandal and Miah in Mandal and Dutta (ed.)
Crop Diversification: Findings from a Field Research Programme, UPL, Dhaka, Bangladesh, 1995).
2.        For vegetable irrigation, farmers generally have strong preference for small pumps (e.g. 3-6
hp STWs and LLPs), rather than larger pumps (e.g. DTWs or 8-12 hp STWs). The smaller equipment is
easy to move between boreholes in different locations and allows greater flexibility to control small flow
and apply time- specific irrigation by plots or between raised beds of vegetable rows.
3.        The main reasons for widely spreading non-rice irrigation in Chandina, compared to other
locations are the proximity of the area with the Dhaka city on the one side and the Chittagong city on the
other side through the well developed communication and transport network. There are also many private
cold storage facilities established in Chandina, which further opened market opportunities of growing high
value vegetables in this area. These opportunities for quick disposal and marketing of vegetables also
attracted the International Development Enterprise (IDE) to promote Treadle Pump irrigation for intensive
vegetable cultivation in Comilla area through aL local firm, Krishok Bondhu.
4.        On the contrary, another case stjdy site Shalikha in Madhupur thana of Tangail district
showed that despite a high groundwater table appropriate for STW development as well as light soils very
suitable for vegetable cultivation, absence of good market opportunities for teasle gourd, cucumber, chilli
and potato discouraged farmers to expand their vegetable production beyond a certain limit. Another
example is the unsuccessful attempts to popularise buried pipe irrigation by DTWs for
67



intensive vegetable/fruit cultivation in the upland areas of Shokhipur, Tangail, under the GTZ sponsored
Tangail Agricultural Development Project (TADP) in the late eighties. Lack of market opportunities
limited the cultivation of these crops and reduced economic viability of DTWs, although high economic
rates of returns were projected for the DTWs (an elaborate discussion on this point is given in Palmer-
Jones and Mandal (1988): Co-operatives, capitalists and Clubs: Alternative Theoretical Frameworks for
the management of DTWs, report for the TADP, Dhaka).  So it is concluded that investment in
groundwater technologies for non-rice high value crop irrigation can be very profitable provided the
farmers are favoured by good opportunities to market their products.
68



MAP SECTION



dr :                                                                        BANGLADESH
INDIA                                     NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-                                       X                                      0<j c, _GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT
V  ~~~~  /"rb~~~~~~          in~~A -eo   oath Hi96net Poenoa                        Uip.azi Headquarters
'%\    <                                          r        ~ag                            *    Lie H..    ter_, .,s,
-26?Pl                                                                                   Approximate Limit oF Saline Groudwatert          itno   edqatr          26-
oTazne aedsun   unmet         LD                                                                                              H
22C Cislon                                                                                 Hil T . <  i                      0 '      .  I C.pit.1
2e                                                                                                                                                               24-
23'
-23
-Ime~ ~ ~  ~ 9-rtewter
wr20w wu/melon~ meslao      (   i
22'~ ~~~22oAor 
INDIA            OiMYAO
0    tD   20  3'0   40    0 'MIES                                                                MYANMAR
21           0     20       40    60    80KILOMETERS                                                                       21t
Mo  N.                                                                                V
9r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



