Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot Ngo 8824-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL ?4INOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPIE    PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Asia Rgion
Country Department I
Thi document has a nsticted dItbuftio and may be usd by neipiet ondy In the pomance of
thek offIcl dutis Its contens may not otherw   be discoed wihWou Wold Wank anhriation.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(June 1990)
Bangladesh Taka 1                      TUS$0.0281
US$1                                  Tk 34.9 (Official Exchange Rate)
Tk 35.6 (Secondary Exchange Rate)
VEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (kn)          2           0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                        2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)      X           2,205 pounds (ibs)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         -     Asian Development Bank
ADP         -     Annual Development Program
BADC        -     Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BARC        -     Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BB          -     Bangladesh Bank
BKB         -     Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BRDB        -     Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BSS         -     Bittaheen Samabaya Samity
DAE         -     Department of Agricultural Extension
DTW         -     Deep Tubewell
EEC         -     European Economic Community
ECU         -     European Currency Unit
ERR         -     Econiomic Rate of Return
GOB         -     Government of Bangladesh
HYV         -     High Yielding Variety
IDSU        -     Irrigation Development Support Unit
IGO               Irrigation Group Organizer
KSS         -     Krishi Samabaya Samity (Village Cooperative)
LLP         -     Low Lift Pump
llsec       -     Liter per second
MOA         -     Ministry of Agriculture
MPO         -     Master Planning Organization (tMPO has now been renamed
to *National Water Resources Planning Agency")
MSS         -     Mahila Samabaya Samity
NGO         -     Non-Government Organization
NMIDP       -     National Minor Irrigation Development Project
NWP         -     National Water Plan
O&M         -     Operation and Maintenance
ODA         -     Overseas Development Association
PIU         -     Project Implementation Unit
PVC         -     Polyvinyl Chloride
PVO         -     Private Voluntary Organization
RAKUB       -     Rajshahi Krishi Unnayan Bank
STW         -     Shallow Tubevell
UCCA        -     Upazilla Central Cooperative Association
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Programme
USAID       -     United States Agency for International Development
WUA         -     Water Users Association
Fiscal Year
July 1 - July 30



1O0  OFFIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Aman         -    Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested in
November or December.
Aus          -    Rice planted during March or April and harvested during June
or July.
B.           -    When preceding a crop means broadcast. (S. Amon).
Boro         -    Rice planted in January or February and harvested In May or
June. The term is also used locally for unirrigated rice
which is planted in November or December in the drained cout
flood plains.
District     -    Also called by its local name Zilla, which is an
administrative unit comprising a number of Upazillas, in the
charge of a Deputy Commissioner.
Upazila      -    Administrative unit of local government.
Kharif       -    Summer cropping season (May through November) and comprises
Xharif I (Aus Crop) and Iharif II (Aman Crop).
Monsoon      -    Period of rains starting in June and ending in October.
Rabi         -    Winter cropping season  (November through March).
T.           -   When preceding a crop means transplanted. (T. Aman).
Thidocument ha a restficted distibution and may be sed by rcipints only in th pformae
ofthekhoffiW dutie. Its contents may not otherwise b  acosd without Wodd Bank nuthodrtion.



- 1 -
RATIONAL HIMOR IRRIQ&TION DIVELOPHENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Vase No.
I. SECTOR AID PROJECT BACKGROUND ....................1
A.  The Agricultural Sector  ......................  1
B. Main Agencies Supporting Minor Irrigation Development  . . . . . . . 9
C. Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
II. THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . e .  * * . .  o . * . . . e 6
A. Rationale for IDAlInvolvement  ........*........................... 6
B.  Project Concept, Objectives and Scope  . ....... ......... .  6
C. Project Components   . . . . . . . . . . ... ...... . . . . ....... 7
D. Ststus of Preparation and Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . .  14
E.  Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  a . .  a . . . . .    14
F.  Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
C-. Procurement  . . . . . . . .                                   .   16
B. Disbursement . . . . . .   . .                                       s16
19  Accounts and Audit  . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  19
lII. ORGANIZATIONANDMAAGEHE    .....................   20
A. MinistryofAgriculture   .....................   20
B.  Irrigation Development Support Unit (IDSU) . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
C. Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) . . . . . .  20
D. Other Agencies Cooperating vith IDSU and MBDC  . . . . . . . . . .  21
S.  Forms of Association for Ownership/Management of Equipmet . . . .  23
F. Monitoring and Performance Evaluation  . ...       . .. .....   23
IV.  PRODUCTION, MAETING, FARM INCOME, AND COST RECOVERY  . . . . . . . .  24
A.  Agricultural Production  .....................   24
B. Marketing and Prices . . . . .  9      ....... ..              .    25
C. Farm $ncome and Financial Returns     ......    25
D. Pricing of Equipment av: Cost Recovery   .9.. .          . . . ..  26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Bangladesh in March/April 1990. Mission members were Messrs. So afsi,
C. Schokman, J. Halpern, R. Vick, J. Woods and Me. W. Huq. The report has
been endorsed by Messrs. Chaim Helman, Chief, ASAG and Shinji Asanuma,
Director, AS1. The peer review team comprised Messrs. Shauki Barghouti
(agricultural and on-farm water managemnt aspects), Petros Aklilu (project
design and institutional development aspects), and Richard Reidinger
(farmers' organixations and economic justification).



- IL -
V.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION ANDI RISIS . . . .  . ..  . . . . . . .  . ..   28
A.  8enefits and Beneficiaries .  . .   . . .  .a. . . . . . . *    . . .  28
D. Zconomic Justiica    atonn.................... 28
C.    Risks d   c   .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    28
VI. AGRE3MENS REACED AND RECOM4ENDATION  . . ..............   30
AME
1. Action Program for Policy and Institutional Reforms  . . . . . . . . .  32
2. Eligibility Criteria . . . . . .  . . .  . .  . . . . . . . . .*. .. ..   .   37
3. Groundwater Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
4.  Surface Water Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
5. Demonstration Irrigation Systems . . . . . . . . . . .*    . .. .. . .    49
6. Envirorment Protection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    51
7. Training and Informtion Dissemination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  56
8.  Institutional Development  . . . . . ... . .     . . .. . . . . . .. .   62
9. Project Implementatio Support           ... . ............... e 0 0 a 0 0     * * 0    71
10. Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  81
11.  Project Costs  . . . . * .. . . 0*  . . * . *  * . . .*0 *    * *  *.      82
12. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement . .       ..    . . . . . .    *. .. ..   93
13.  Production and Farm Incomes  . . . . . . . . . .  * #.. .  * *.   *      98
14. Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . * . . . * 9 * * *  * * . . . 108
15.  Selected Documents and Data in the Project File  . . . . . . . . . . . 113
Maps
IBRD 1 22422 -- Groundwater Development
IBRD 1 22641 -- Surface Water Development



- Iii -
BAGLADESE
WATIONAL MINOR UIRGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summuar
Borrowers               People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amounts                 SDR 38.1 million (US$54.0 million equivalent)
Termss                  Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Coftnanciers            The European Economic Comnity (EEC) will provide a
grant of ECU65.0 million (US$88.0 million equivalent)
Proiect Descriition:    The project's primary objective is to promote growth
in agriculture through increased private in-estment in
minor irrigation development. This will be achieved
by: (a) providing wider and more equitable access to
minor irrigation through the introduction of more
affordable and manageable irrigation technologies;
(b) institutionalising policy changes recently
introduced by GOB to liberalize trade and siting of
equipment; {c) upgradinb BADC's capability to support
the private sector through advice, market infomation
and quality enhancemaent d) facilitating Arcess to
deep tubewell (DTV) ownership by opening ownership to
various forms of association besides traditional
cooperatives; and (e) assisting GOB in introducing
and maintaining a nation-wide consistent approach to
minor irrigation development. To that end, the
project provides for irrigation development on some
265,000 ha through financings (a) procurement mid
Installation of new DTWs; (b) rehabilitation of about
1,800 existing DTVs; (c) improvement of drainage
canals; and (d) installation of pontoon mounted pump
schemes. The project also financess (a) demonstration
irrigation systems covering about 10,000 ha; (b)
capacity building technical assistance in such areas
as environment protection, information dissemination,
and private sector support; and (e) technical
assistance to support project implementation.
Benefits and Risks:     The project is expected to result Ins (a) incremental
annual foodgrain production of 817,000 tons valued at
US$135 million; (b) incremental annual employment of
31 million work days; (c) an increase in the average
annual per capita income from US$43 to US$108 for some
314,000 farm families; (d) favorable conditions for
small farmers and landless persons to share in the
benefits from minor irrigation development; und (a) a
cost-effective approach to minor irrigation



- iv -
development and a reduction in the burden on the
public budget through the elimination of subsidies on
DTWs. The main project risk relates to the
possibility that, at the early stage of project
Implementation, private sector participation and
investment, and farmers' demand for market-priced
irrigation equipment wil be less than anticipated due
to limited familiarity with (a) GOB's new policies,
and lb) the project's assistance to the private
sector. This risk will be mszimized through project
provisions aimed at creating favorable conditions for
a market-based supply and demand systems for
irrigation equipm_nt. On the supply side, private
sector participation in marketing, installation and
maintenance of irrigation facilities will be promoted
by the policy and procedural reforms already
introduced by GOB and those included in the project.
The information campaign to be carried out under the
project will help elucidate such policies and
procedures. On the demand side, private investments
will be stimulated by the removal of geographical
restrictions on siting of DTVW, by the complete
freedom given to farmers in selecting technologies
most suitable to their needs, aad by the project's
support services to inform and assist farmers and
suppliers. The project is expected to have an overall
positive environmental imact.
Project Cost:                                 Local       Foreign         Total
----------(US$ million)--------
Irrigation Development                         54.7          51.8         106.5
Demonstration Irrigation Systems                3.4             -           3.4
Capacity Building Technical Assistance
Iovironmental Protection                     1.8           3.1           4.9
Training and Information Dissemination       3.0           2.1           5.1
Institutional Development                    0.5           2.3           2.8
Sub total                                 5.3           7.5          12.8
Project Support Technical Assistance
Implementation Support & Monitoring          0.9          10.0          10.9
Groundwater Exploration and Tecbnology
Improvement                                 0.6           1.7           2.3
Feasibility Study for LLP Based Minor
Irrigation Project                          1.0           1.7           2.7
Sub total                                 2.5          13.4          15.9
Base Cost                                65.9          72.7         138.6
Physical Contitgencies                       1.8           0.6           2.4
Price Contingencies                         17.1          13.0          30.1
Total Project Cost a/                   84.8           86.S         171.1
a/ Including taxes and duties of US$15.7 million.



linancin  Plan                                Local       Foreign          Total
--(US$ million)--------
Goverrnmt and Fagmers                          29.1             -           29.1
IA                                             23.2          30.6          54.0
NBC                                            32.5          S5.5           86.-0
T-tal                                    64.8           86.3         171.1
Estliated Disbursements of IDA Credit
IDA PY       92       93      94       95        96        97       98
nC V-------------(US$ million)-------------------
Annual      5.5 a/  8.5       9.0    10.0       10.5      9.5      1.0
Cumulative  5.5     14.0     23.0      33.0     43.5     53.0     54.0
It Includes authorLzed Special Accounts allocation of US$2.5 million
Economic Rate of Return      482
Have   I=D t 22422 -- Groundwater Development
UDB    22641 -- Surface Water Isevelopment



3ANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRIUGATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
IS SECTOR AND PROJECT IACEGROUND
A, The Airicultural Sector
The Setting
1.1      The agricultural sectcr contributes about oAe half of GDP, employs
about 752 of the labor force and generates about 60S of the country's export
earnings. Agricultural value added incroased at an annual rate of about 3S
over the period Y81-86. Thereafter, the growth rate averaged only about 1.71
due to a slow down in irrigation development, the exceptional floods of 1987
and 1988, and a sharp cutback in development expenditures for the agricultural
sector. Production in the crop subsector continues to be dominated by
foodgrains, which account for about 851 of the cultivated area. ?oodgrain
production increased at an average rate of 2.62 per year during the last
decade (about 0.2Z higher than the increase in population during the same
period). About two thirds of this increase cam from irrigated dry season
crops. Reliable irrigation makes production possible during the dry season
and can also increase land productivity by about 301 during the monsoon
season. Irrigation has been extended over the past 15 years by about 100,000
ha per year. IDA analysis indicates that increasing irrigation in the order
of 250,000 ha per annum vill sustain a growth rate of 4-5S in crop productiot.
1.2     Minor lrrigation will coutinue to be the main source of agrLcultural
growth in the near future. The 1986 draft National Water Plan (NWP) estimated
that the then irrigated area of about 2.3 million ha could almost triple usfing
relatively Inexpensive minor irrigation equipment to exploit readily available
groundwater and surface water resources. About 2.6 million ha amenable to
LrrLgation by groundwater and  .2 million ha aumnable to Irrigation by surface
water remain to be developedY.&   Irrigation using groundwater is being
developed through two principal modess (i) suction mode pumps, known as
shallow tubewells (STN) which can be used effectively In areas wherQ the depth
of the static water level is less than five meters; and (i) force mode pumps,
known as deep tubewells (DV) whict can lift water from greater depth.
Irrigation using surface water ls aeing developed through low lift pumps (LLP)
extracting water principally from natural drainage channels and small streams.
In certain cases, the natural supply of water In these channels can be
augmented through primary pumping from a larger riveristream using pontoon
mounted pumps, or through Improvement In the physical condition of the
drainage channels to allow a greater and more reliable flow for secondary
lifting by LLPs. The cost of these minor irrigatLon technologies has been in
the order of US$250ha for STUs, US$800/ha for DTWV, and US$200Oha for LLPs.
^1   Then all this development has bee  completed, the irrlgated area will
amount to about 6.1 million ha, end account for about 70S of the arable
land (estimated at about nine million ha).



- 2-
Aaricultural Develoument Strategr
1.3      Substantial sector work has been undertaken over the past two years
which has helped to identify and el,ucidate the constraints to more rapid and
broadly based agricultural growth.-' This work has provided a basis for an
intensive dialogue within the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and between GOB
and donor agencies in general and IDA, the Asian development Bank (ADS), the
European Economic Comnunity (EEC), the Overseas Development Association (ODA)
of the United Kingdom, and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID), in particular. It has produced a consensus that
acceleration of agricultural growth In the medium term will require increased
investment in irrigation development, and has led to the fonmulation of an
agricultural sector strategy basel on rapid expansion of minor irrigation.
That consensus has been reflected in the Fourth-Five-Year-Plan (MY91-95) which
Indicates that investments in the agricultural sector over the coming five-
year period are expected to amount to about US$5.5 billion, the equivalent of
272 of total Investments planned fer the economy. This represents a
substantial Improvement in essource allocation to the agricultural sector
relative to about 201 observed 'uring the Third-Five-Year Plan period. To
support this minor irrigation t.>-d strategy, GOB has decided to introduce a
series of policy and institutionas reforms grouped in a comprehensive Action
Program ained at facilitating farmers' access to irrigation equipment and
complementary inputs and at encouraging private sector investment In support
of agriculture (Annex 1). These polie and Institutional reforms will be
phased In over a three-year period. ' 4, IDA and ADD have reached an
agreement on the Action Program in the  3ntext of negotiations of ADD's
Foodcrops Development Program Loan (August 1990).
1.4      IDA will support the Action Program through four investment projects,
each licorporating essential conditionalities specifically related to each
operation and complementing or reinforcing the provisions in the other
projects. The four operations through which ID wi-Ll channel its support to
GOB's strategy and Action Program ares (i) the National Minor Irrigation
Development Project (UMDP) described in this report, which will mainly
support Investments in DTVs, a relatively comples technology requiring strong
technical assistance in the initial years of Introduction into the private
sector; (ii) the Shallow Tubewell and Low Lift Pump Irrigation Project, which
will help sustain private sector investments in simple technologies (STWs.
LLPs as power tillers) which are not finsaced through institutional
creditPJ and do not require public sector support; (iii) the Agricultural
and Rural Credit Project, which will support finaicial sector reforms and
provide institutional credit for a wide range of agricultural investments
1,   GOBIB/C    - Action Plan for Production of 20 Mllion Tons of Foodgrain
by 1990, 1988.
World Bank  - Agricultural Sector Note, October 1987.
World Bank  - Public Expenditures Review, February 1989.
World Bank  - Issues In Agricultural Development, February 1990.
UNDP        - Bangladesh Agricultures Policies and Performance, February
1989.
I, Most (over 90?) of these investments are fianmced through cash, which Is
partially obtained from 'informal' lenders.



-3-
Including a mall share for minor irrigation equipmeat (about 10  based on
past experiencO) and (lv) the Agricultural Support Services Project, which
will help create a capability for effective extension In support of Improved
on-farm water manaSment and intensification of the farming system. The first
project will be cofinanced by the EECs the second will run parallel to the ADS
Foodcrops Development Program Lon and. will be financed by IDA; the third will
be financed jointly by IDA, ADB and USAID; and the fourth project will be
supported by funding from IDA ani- ODA as woll as by lUAID.
IDA's Involvement in Agricultural Development
1.5      IDA lending to Bangladesh has emphasized the agricultural sector,
particilarly, developing water resources, strengthening agricultural rervices,
and developing complementary infrastructure. Conslstent with GOD's
priorities, Increased food production has been the main target of IDA's
lending in agriculture. Ongoing IDA-supported projects Includes Extension
and Research IT (Cr. 1215-BD), Deep Tubewells 1U (Cr. 1287-SD), Rural
Development SI (Cr. 1384-BD), Agricultural Research II (Cr. 1455-BD). SUDB
Small Schemes (Cr. 1467-BD), Flood Control and Drainage III and IV (Cr. 1591
and 1784-BD), Shrimp Culture (Cr. 1651-BD), Small Scale Flood Control,
Drainage and Irrigation II (Cr. 1870-SD), SMDS Systems Rehabilitation
(Cr. 2099-BD), and Third Fisheries (Cr. 2146-BD). Damage repair works on
water control infrastructure following the floods of 1987 and 1988 are being
finarced by IDA under the Flood Rehabilitation II and III projects (Crs. 1B76-
SD and 2048-BD) and under the Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and
Irrigation II Project (Credit 1870-BD). IDA is also assisting GOB In
developiag a basis for policy formulation through sector work and special
studies. In addition, IDA is the Ezecuting Agency for the National Water Plan
Project, financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which
entered Its second phase in 1988. Finally, IDA is helping to foroulate an
action plan for flood control and is chairing a panel of experts to oversee
the implementation of a series of studies which will reco_ead ways to protect
angladesh against dioastrous floods.
S. 4in Agencies Supporting Minor Irrisation Development
1.6      Sanaladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC)  SADC has
been the lead government agency in channeling public sector support to minor
irrigation development. It was established in 1961 as a semi-autonomous
organisation under the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to promote the
introduction of improved technological practices. Until about 1983, BADC had
a virtual monopoly over procurement and distribution of agro-chemicals,
certified seeds and minor irrigation equipment. In recent years,
progressively larger parts of the trade in these comuodities have been taken
over by the private sector. The corporation continues, however, to retain
monopoly control over the supply of DTM equipmeat. The issue of reformLag
SADC to reflect the expanded role of the private sector was brought to the
forefront in the context of the Import Program Credit XIII (Cr. 1655-SD), and
an agreement was reached with 003 to Initiate a comprehensive review of RADC
to provide a basis for preparation of an action plan to reform the agency.
The study was completed in May 1988 and its recommendations have been used In
the design of the BADC restructuring component (para. 2.13).



-
1.7      Bangladesh Rural Develooment Board (8RDU).  BRDB was established In
1982. Its maatlate ls to promote Upazila Central Cooperative Associations
(UCCA) and their associated village-based cooperatives for farmers, women and
the aesetless poor (Krishi Samabaya Sanity - USS, Mabila Samabays Samity -
MSS, and Bittaheen Samabara Samity - 8SS). At present, XSS-type cooperatives
exist in most villages, owning about 802 of the DTWV installed in the country.
1.8      Department of Agricultural Extension (Z )   This Department is
organised as a five tier hierarchy - National Headquarters. Region, District.
Zile and Upa&-la. Support to farmers is provided mainly from the Upasila
extension office. Strengthening of DAt is being planned under the proposed
Agricultural Support Services Project.
1.9      Institutional Credit Agencies.  Institutional lending for
agriculture, which accounts for about lO of agricultural cree-.t, is
coord_zated by the Bangladesh Bank (33). the country's central bank, and
channelled through the Bangladesh Krishi Bank, the Majshahi Rrishi Unnayan
Bank, the national comercial banks, the Bangladesh Samabaya Bank and its
affiliated societies, and the UCCAs with their member societies, XSS., at
village level. As indicated above (para. 1.4), lnformal credit has
traditionally accounted for about 902 of the credit requirements in the
agricultural sector.
1.10     Mon-overnment OrganizatIons (NGOs). A number of NGOs have been
involved in minor irrigation developmnt for disadvantaged groups such as the
landless and women. For example, the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee
(BRAC), Proshika and the Grameen Bank have had sme success in organizing
landless groups for ownership and/or management of tubewell irrigation
facilities. These organizations and other qualified NGOs have developed a
capacity to organize and train beneficiary groups, in general, and resource
poor groups (landless, women), In particular, for ownership and management of
mdnor irrigation facilities.
C. Proiect Backaround
Exoerience under Previous Prolects
1.11     Important lessons have been learnt from previous projects which
supported minor irrigation development. The proposed operation was designed
to emulate and build upon positive lessons from past operations and prevent
negative ones from reoccurring. Some of these lessons are documented in
Project Psrformane Audit Reports for Credits 340-3D, 341-BD, 542-BD, 605-BD,
724-BD and 990-BD, all of which supported irrigation development. Other
lessons are documented in supervision reports for completed and on-going
projects, particularly the on-going Deep Tubewells II Project (Cr. 1287-BD).
Yet other lessons have been learnt in the context of sector vork and policy
based lending operations, particularly Import Program Credits XII and XIII
(Cr.. 1471-BD and 1655-BD) for which a combined Program Performance Audit
Report was recently prepared. The most lportant lessons relate to the need
for (a) improving institutional arrangements for project implementation and
Increasing the role of the private sector In the investment process,
(b) enhancing the role of beneficLarics in the selection and management of
equipment, and (c) Improving project Impl_aentation procedures.



1X12     Regarding institutional arranpements, the Impleentation of past
projects was hindered by the multiplicity of agencies controlling Individually
critical project inputs without an organization vested with adequate authority
to effectively coordinate such inputs. Parmers' access to DTWs, for example,
depended on BADC for procurement and Installation of equipment, BBDS for
organizing groups and certifying their eligibility for credit, the Upazila
Irrigation Committee for site selection, and the banks for sanctioning loans
and transferring the funds to BhDC. Operations have been supply-driven and
dependent on individuals controlling administrative units with often
conflicting objectives and interests. The main lesson learnt is that the
inputs of various public agencies need to be closely coordinated through a
central unit with adequate authority and support. In addition, the role of
public sector agencies should be to assist farmers to make farm-related
decisions rather than make those decisions on their behalf. Furthermore,
public agencies should focus their efforts on areas which cannot be
satisfactorily covered by the private sector, They should support farners and
private dealers by facilitating their access to equipment and services of
their choice.
1.13     With regard to the role of beneficiaries, fanmers have had limited
input in determining the most appropriate force mode pumping equipment. They
have mostly been passive recipients of facilities selected for them by public
agencies. This extensive public sector involvement was fostered by large
subsidies (70X) which were intended to equate the investment cost of DTVs with
.he cheaper STWs, per ha of land irrigated. While the subsidized DTVs were to
be limited to areas unsuitable to STWs, in fact they proliferated throughout
the country at great fiscal and economic cost. The subsidies have favored
high discharge capacity and costly DTWs and thereby limited farmers access to
more affordable and easier-to-manage technologies. They have also discouraged
the development of technologies which are more cost effective and better
adapted to local conditions. Finally, the subsidies prevented private sector
participation in the supply and investment in DTWs, thus creating a de-facto
public sector monopoly. The lesson learnt is that for efficient development
of the minor irrigation subsector, subsidies have to be removed, and equipment
supply must be liberalized and demand driven. Farmers should have the final
say in the composition of the package of equipment components they vant based
on cost considerations, their ability and willingness to organize iu groups,
and their desire to borrow to fi2ance such equipment.
.1'4     In relation te project implementation procedures, past projects
suffered from slow procurement and unnecessary restrictions on the scope of
beneficiary participation. The main lessons learnt from past experience are
thats (i) the supply of equipment to farmers should be competittve;
tii) tender documents for public sector procuremnat should be formulated so as
to provide a range of equipment for farmers to choose froms (iii) public
sector services in the form of technical assistance, market information
dissemination, and quality enhancement capability should be strengthened; and
tiv) access to irrigation equipment should be extended to all forms of
farmers' organizattons as well as to individuals.



II. TEE PROJECT
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.1      There is consensus among GOB ar   ao main donors that the key to
satisfactorv growth in the agricultural sector in the 1990s is sustained
developmer ot minor irrigation at a substantially higher rate than in the
recent p..;. (p-ca. 1.1).  Such a minor irrigation-led strategy is viable
because *. .-e wow cost and high profitability of investments In minor
irrigatiou. _DA has worked '.losely with GOB to formulate and introduce
several poi4cy initiatives aimed at liberalizing the trade, distribution, and
siting of minor irrigation equipment and at encouraging the introduction and
development of cost-effective irrigation technologies. The experience IDA has
built over the years in the context of its continued dialogue with Government
over the agricultural development strategy and the policy and institutional
framework to support that strategy, together with the experience IDA has
acquired through past projects in support of minor irrigation, gives it a
comparative advantage among donors in providing effective support to GOB in
implementing this project. IDA involvement in the preparation of this project
has also been ins*rumental in helping coordinate donors' support for minor
irrigation development following a unified approach within a comnonly agreed
policy and institutional framework.
B. Project Concept, Obiectives and Scope
Proiect Concept
2.2      The project has been designed in response to the needs of farmers for
easy access to a range of DTW facilities, and by the private sector for
improved market conditions and fair trade practices. An important
consideration in project design has been the need for increased private sector
investment in minor irrigation development based on technologies which, though
proven viable, have not been available because of trade restrictions,
excessive regulations and a high level of public subsidy. Another important
design consideration has been the need for broader access to irrigation
facilities by various socio-economic groupss equipment has to be more
affordable and manageable and opportunities need to be provided to
disadvantaged groups (small farmers, women, landless) so that they can share
in the benefits of irrigation through direct participation or through
cooperation with NGOs. A smooth transition over the project period from a
supply-driven, public sector controlled system to a demand-driven competitive
system will require time, first to allow for the institutionalization of the
policy reforms newly introduced and second to allow farmers and suppliers of
inputs and equipment to acquire confidence in the new policy and institutional
framework. The private equipment dealers and drilling contractors, in
particular, will need time to build confidence in GOB's new policies, to gain
experience, and to organize for performing the functions which heretofore were
exclusively in the domain of the public sector. The project period of seven
years has been selected with these considerations in mind.
2.3      To allow for a demand-driven 4istribution system to develop, policies
governing trade and marketing of irrigation equipment need to be liberalized.



- 7 .
This involves: (i) phasing out the large (702) subsidy on the 56 liters per
second (l/sec) DTWs; (Li) equalization of duties on Imported equipment between
public and private entities; (ifi) elimination of standardization requirements
on types and capacities of equipment entering the markets (iv) providing
private sector access to resources on the same terms as public agencies;
tv) public sector pricing of equipmuet which reflects its full cost; and (vi)
eventual phasing out of public sector direct involvement. These concepts are
among the parameters which have guided project design.
Proiect Objectives and Scope
2.4      The project will contribute to achieving the country's primary
objective of promoting faster growth in agriculture through increased private
sector investment in minor irrigation development. This will be realized
through: (i) the introduction of smaller capacity DTWs to meet location-
specific needs and to make irrigation more accessible to small farmers;
(ii) liberalization of trade in DTW equipment; Ciii) adjusting BADC's
institutional capability in line with its chauging role; Civ) extending DTW
ownership to associations other than village-based cooperatives and to private
individuals; (v) provision of technical assistance and training in support of
increased private sector participation in the supply and maintenance of
irrigation equipment; and Cvi) introducing and maintaining a consistent
approach to minor irrigation development regardless of the source of funding.
The project, while countrywide, will give special emphasis to: (i) 105
Upazilas where the DTW technology is the only reliable option for groundwater
development, and (ii) the coastal area where surface water provides the only
option for irrigation development due to the potential for salinity intrusion.
Project benefits will be derived throughs (i) irrigation development using
force mode pumping equipment (DTWs); (ii) irrigation development using
farmers' LLPs; (iii) demonstration irrigation systems; (iv) environment
protection measures to guard against any potential project-related negative
impacts; (v) implementation support mainly in the form of technical assistance
services; and (vi) technical assistance for institutional development.
C. Project Components
Irrigation Development
2.5      The project will support irrigation development on some 265,000 ha,
representing about 15? of the country's planned minor irrigation development
over the project period. This component will finance both groundwater and
surface water development based on farmer demand. Accordingly, the size of
the individual subcomponents discussed below is only indicative, based on
estimated demand, and will be adjusted in line with farmers' actual demand
during project implementation. The necessary flexibility has been included in
the project designt funds are not being allocated by subcomponent, but are
fungible and will be directed so as to mee* actual demand. Eligibility
criteria for access to project funds have been prepared for each subcomponent
and are specified in Annex 2. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
these criteria will be followed in implementing the oroiect. The base cost of
this component is estimated at US$106.5 million. Details on this component
are in Annexes 3 and 4.



-8 -
2.6      Groundwater Development Usin  new DTW Facilities.  The project will
support development of a discharge capacity tentatively estimated at about
280,000 l/sec to serve an area of about 120,000 ha using DTV facilities maJnly
of 14 and 28 Ilsec discharge capacities. DTWs of other capacities for which
there is farmer demand would also be financed. Project facilities will not be
subsidized, and there will be no restriction on the area in which they may be
located except in the coastal zone where watqr quality deterioration may occur
if groundwater is developed for irrigation.41
2.7      Privatization of Existing LADC-Owned 56 I/sec Facilities.  The
Government has decided that BADC should divest itself of 12,000 DTWs that were
constructed for rental to farmer groups. A recent survey has shown that the
pump units of about 2,560 of these facilities require major repair or parts
replacement to put them in working order. Of these, it would be economical to
rehabilitate about 1,800 providing irrigation to about 40,000 ha. BADC will
sell these DTWs to farmers who will arrange for their rehabilitation. The
cost of rehabilitation will be financed under the project. For the remaining
10,200 DTWs, BADC will complete by June 30, 1991 a survey to determine which
ones are beyond repair and should be abandoned and removed from BADC's
inventory. *greement was reached during negotiations that _DC will (i) by
June 30, 1992 write off all DTWs which are determined not suitable for repair,
(ii) by June 30, 1993 sell the other DTWs, and (iii) by December 31, 1993 take
off its books anr remaining DTVs.
2.8      Drainage Canal Improvement Schemes. The works involved will include
deepening and widening of drainage channels and the provision of water control
structures. Farmer demand for this subcomponent has been preliminarily
estimated at a level which would provide secure irrigation to about 75,000 ha.
Development will be limited to schemes located in tidal areas where
sedimentation will be controlled by regulators and maintenance requirements
will, thus, be minimal. Implementation will be the responsibility of BADC.
No development action (including procurement) will be initiated before the
technical and socio-economic feasibility of a proposed scheme has been
established and its environmental Impact determined. Another precondition
would be that farmers/potential LLP owners have clearly indicated a demand for
such a scheme and agreed to: (a) contribute the required land and 30Z of the
labor to help meet its costs, and (b) assume full responsibility for its
operation and maintenance after construction completion (see Annex 2).
2.9      Pontoon Mounted Pump Schemes.  Farmers' demand for this type of
development has been tentatively estimated in the order of 20,000 ha. The
schemes will require pumping units consisting of a pump and its prime mover,
the pontoon, and the pipe work and floats to deliver the water to the
discharge point. Other works to be undertaken in each scheme will include
improvements to the drainage channels into which the primary water supply will
be delivered. For appraisal purposes, a standard 280 l/sec pumping unit has
been assumed. Individual schemes will, however, be tailored to meet the
circumstances in each case, and will include also smaller units where these
As the investment cost of these facilities will be about US$800lha
compared with US$250/ha for STWs, it is unlikely that farmers will
install DTWs where STWs can provide adequate service.



- 9 -
are more cost-effective and/or organizationally more appropriate. Project
consultants (par&. 2.16) will assist in the design of such smaller capacity
units. Development will be demand driven. Private entrepreneurs and groups
of farmers will be encouraged to purchase a suitable pumping unit througL BADC
or private dealers, and manage a scheme as a completely private operatlon.
The number of such schemes will be initially limited to 20. If they prove to
be successful, the project will subsequently support additional schemes. BADC
will not initiate any development action (including procurement) before
farmers' demand for each proposed pontoon pump system and willingness to pay
its full costs are clearly ascertained. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that in no case would BADC become owner or operator of pontoon
mounted PUMpS.
Demonstration Irrigation Systems
2.10     This component supports the integrated demonstration of alternative
pumping technologies and ways to package pumping sets, alternative approaches
to on-farm water distribution and management, and improved farming practices.
The conveyance systems on offer will include buried Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC),
spun concrete pipe, and lined and unlined earth channels. The component is
conceived as a demonstration activity, and will be subsidized by a grant
equivalent to 50X of the cost of materials, with the beneficiaries providing
the labor for installation and the balance of the cost of materials. The
project will provide for 500 demonstration facilities covering about 10,000
ha. Each individual system will be designed to meet the specific requirements
of the participating farmers. Since these demonstrations are closely linked
with the extension activities of DAE, they will be developed by BADC in
coordination with that department. In this manner, the demonstrations will
ensure effective operational linkage with the Extension Service and with the
Agricultural Support Services Project which will be implemented in parallel to
this project. The base cost of this component is estimated at US$3.4 million.
Details on this component are in Annex 5.
Environment Protection
2.11     An independent team coamissioned by ODA has undertaken an
environmental impact assessment for this and the other three agricultural
development projects proposed to be supported by IDA (para. 1.4). Their
report has concluded that the irrigation development components of this
project and of the Shallow Tubevell and Low Lift Pump Irrigation Project would
have an overall positive environmental impact, but that there are also some
negative environmental impacts which could develop from these projects in the
following areas: seasonal aquifer drawdown could impact on other groundwater
uses including drinking water wells; ground and surface water could become
contaminated due to increased use of agro-chemicals; and saline water
intrusion into groundwater aquifers and surface water channels could increase.
The recommendations of this assessment whiLch have been incorporated in project
design are tot (a) establish a monitoring system in order to quickly identify
excessive abstraction of ground or surface water, which may jeopardize the
sustainability of irrigation development; (b) establish a basis for assessing
agro-chemical concentrations in the soil and water in order to identify and
correct potential hazards; (c) rehabilitate d aestic water supply wells
affected by the project; (d) exclude the coastal area from the groundwater
development program to prevent saline intrusion; and (e) include control



structures In channels to limit saline intrusion. More specifically, this
component (base cost US$4.9 million) will supports
(ii)  streyng out t  bai g ltnh   surty to establsh benM C mf rks ag inst
ghuch  to e   soluate the   vlact of surf ce and groundwater
abstractoln on (a) surface water bodies, tb) the oustainabllty ol
fquifer drawdown, and (c) the qualrty of uater for brrie tlon and
its alternative uses, such as d tme atc     Water   eupplys
(iP) assesngent of tgro-chsmical concentratlons lIn thC sonl and water;
(ivi)  strengthening the system edtablushed wn rADC for monitoring
groundwater resources development bys (a) extending its coverage
to the phole of B nglsdesh, and (b) establishing operatmonal links
for sharlaing and anv lysis of water resources data between sa DC and
other concerned agencies, such as the National Wdter Resources
Plaoping Agency and the invironmental Polluteon Control
Depn rtment;
eti) establishing e computer-based groundwater data storage, retrieval
and processing system;
(v) rehabilitating village domestic water supply systems affected by
project supported irrigation systems; and
(vi) developing local skills in envirormental specialties.
The component will be implemented by an environment cell which will be set up
under the project's Irrigation Development Support Unit (IDSU) (para. 3.2).
Details an this component are in Annex 6.
Traininu and Information Dissemination
2.12     Project success will require the provision of adequate technical
support to the private sector and a clear understanding of the project concept
by farmers, private dealers, bankers, NGOs, and government staff. To achieve
this, the project will provide US$5.1 million (base cost) to finance technical
assistance, equipment, vehicles, materials and operating costs for:
(a) an Intensive and continuous information campaign using a range of
communication media, including pamphlets, newspaper advertising,
radio messages, video films, slides and flip charts;
(b) a public relations campaign to clarify the role of public and private
sectors, improve the credibility of public agencies, and explain
their role as supporters of the private sector and a source of
technical assistance and market information;
(c) 'show rooms' and fairs to popularise alternative equipment;
(d) a series of awareness seminars for bankere, drillers, dealers,
Upasila officials, staff from BADC, DAB, BUiZ, and IG00s



- 11 -
(e) a training program for JADC engineers, private mechanLcs, pump
operators, and group organizersladvLsors; and
(f) a series of field days to bring together buyers, suppliers and
financiers of irrigation equipment.
Details on this component are in Annex 7.
InstLtutional Development
2.13     Institutional RestructurLA and Improvement of IAD=. Until the
private sector takes over the supply and of DTWs, BADC will continue its
Involvement in this activity, but on strictly equal terms with the private
sector. It is anticipated that the majority of DTWs will be supplied by the
private sector by the end of the project perlod. BMDC's role will then become
increasingly one of advice and support, emphasizing information dissemlnation,
quality enhancement and technical assistance to the private sector. To
improve and reorient BADC's operations, the project will provide US$1.8
million (base cost) for technical assistance, vehicles and equipment to assist
BADC in:
(a) divesting itself of commercial activities that are better carried out
by the private Lsctor, and developing a capability for supporting the
private sector through technical assistance, information gathering
and dissemination, and quality enhancement; and
(b) developing a market research capabllity that will allow it to
generate information needed by farmers and the private sector at
large, as well as information which BADC itself will need to
ascertain which agricultural products, inputs/practices to which it
should direct support.
2.14     Also, to allow for an orderly shift in the role and functions of BADC
and to ensure that it can carry out its functions effectively, the corporation
needs to modernize its central administrative and program support systems --
financial management, human resources management, and market information
gathering and dissemination. Under the project,
(a) the financial management system will be upgraded to allow for the
generation of quarterly accounts, comparison of actual financLal
performance with targets, tracking the position of receivables and
payables, cost accounting for commercial activities, and the flow of
funds to and from the Ministry of Finance;
(b) a human resources planning, placement and redeployment program will
be introduced to adapt BADC's operating structure to the requirements
of its reoriented functlons. This activity will start with (i) an
inventory of BADC personnel and skills; (ll) a detalled analysis of
the staff and sklll mix required under lts redefined functLons; and
(iii) initiating the staff redeployment process by redeploying all
the mechanics currently employed by BADC into the private sector.
Rdeployment will be facliLtated by motLvating BADC mechanLcs to
start their own prlvate business through training; access to funding
to acquire tools and open their own maintenance facilities; and



- 12 -
through licencing, along with finaelal compensation, for those not
interested in starting private practices. Part of the local funds
generated as a result of the EEC project grant (para. 2.22) will be
used to facilitate redeployment of BADC's mechanics into the private
sector; and
(C) BADC's technical informationi program will be revitalized to provide
farmers, equipment/linput dealers and other interested parties with
current evaluation results on alternative equipment and inputs,
including specifications, performance, maintenance needs and costs.
it would be a condition of TDA disbursement Mainst irriiation development
expenditures incurre-d by BADC wnder the proiect that: (a) BADC's business
orientation and focus had been revised to deemphasize its role in commercial
activities and emphasize its role in Qiuality enhancement, technical assistance
anLd market information: (b) the inventory of RAue personnel and skills, and
the analysis of the staff and skill mix reauired under BADC's redefined
functions, had been completed; and (c) a retirement glan, satisfactory to IDA.
had been adopted for BADC's mechanics servicing irrigation equipment.
Agreement has been reached during negotiations that (a) by June 30. 1993 all
of BADC's irrigation mechanics, except those required for irrigation
demonstration systems, will be redeployed into the private sector, and (b) by
March 31, 1994 the institutional reorientation of BADC, including the
rede.loyment of all redundant staff and the adiustment of the skill mix
required for the restructured BADC, will be completed. Local funds generated
from the sale of EEC finuinced project equipment (para. 2.22) will be used in
part for providing inducements to encourage voluntary retirement.
2.15     Private Sector Supnort Services.  Because the public sector has, so
far, had a monopoly over the import and distribution of DTW equipment, there
is limited knowledge in the private sector about Mi) alternative sources for
supply and procurement practices, (ii) methodology for assessing farmers'
demand, (iii) approaches to establishing distribution and service networks,
and (iv) opportunities for initiating joint ventures with foreign suppliers
for the manufacture or assembly of equipment in Bangladesh. To help fill this
gap, the project will provide US$1.0 million (base cost) to fund a team of
consultants to provide the following:
(a) Procurement Assistance Services: The team will work with private
dealers to advise them on (i) availability of alternative
technologies; (ii) how to assess farmers' demand for alternative
equipment packages; and (iii) alternative sources of supply,
technical specifications, terms of delivery and price structures; and
help facilitate and expedite procurement, shipment and delivery of
equipment.
(b) Joint Venture Promotion: The team will facilitate contact between
foreign suppliers and Bangladesh manufacturers and dealers to
encourage foreign firms to invest in joint ventures or other mutually
collaborative business arrangements. This will be done through
organized tours, seminars, exchange of personnel and promotional
materials.



- 13 -
Details on project components for BADC restructuring and private sector
support are in Annex 8.
Project Implementation Support
2.16     The project will provide US$15.9 million (base cost) to finance
consultancy services, equipment, vehicles, materials and operating cost to
ensure effective project implementation and assist in the further development
of the minor irrigation sector. Details are in Annex 9. Consultants engaged
under this component will:
(a) provide the necessary technical assistance to support the
implementation of the irrigation development component, includings
(i) assistance to farmers in planning and design of irrigation
facilities; (ii) assistance in preparing command-area-specific
operational plans; (iii) formation of water users associations
(WUAs), selection of alternative packages of irrigation equipment,
and identification of alternative sources for equipment financing;
and (iv) assistance to farmers and drillers in construction
supervision and well testing and comnissioning;
(b)  monitor project implementation and evaluate project performance;
(c) study the feasibility of a follow-up program to continue minor
irrigation development based on LLP technology;
,d) carry out hydrological explorations in areas where knowledge of the
aquifer is uncertain or, as yet, not fully defined; and
se) carry out trials of innovative and cost-effective groundwater
technologies, including tubewell construction materials, possible
alternatives to vertical shaft turbine pumps, and alternative
approaches to tubewell rehabilitation.
2.17     In the past, these functions have been performed primarily by BADC
through appointment of regular staff. This has led to unnecessary manpower
build up in BADC since those appointed in the context of successive projects
became part of the permanent structure of this agency. In order to avoid such
build-up in the future and allow BADC to trim down its size and concentrate on
Its primary function, all jobs of a temporary nature will be performed by
local and foreign consultants. BADC project staff will be limited to those
required beyond the project period. Even those staff will be selected through
internal redeployment and training to allow them to work with project
consultants, carry out project-related activities, and assist in further
sector development. Consultant services will be engaged by IDSU (pare. 3.2),
which will be established by the Ministry of Agriculture for the duration of
the project. Consultants required for supporting the Implementation of the
various project act!vities, particularly the irrigation development component,
will be engaged for neriods and in numbers comensurate with the activities'
needs at different times. Also, during the two planned implementation reviews
(par.. 3.13), it will be examined whether some of the technical assistance,
particularly the environment consultants, should be relocated to a different
ministry.



- 14 -
D. Status of Preoaration and Implementation Schedule
2.18     Preparation.  Typical designs have been prepared for the various
tubewell irrigation facilities to be offered to fanmers. As the
hydrogeological conditions are site-specific, however, certain aspects of the
final design of any facility can be specified only after the drilling is
completed at the site or after the well is tested. Moreover, it is neither
desirable nor possible to rigidly program a demand-driven development for the
entire project period. In the case of BADC, annual programs for constructi')n
of tubevell facilities will be established each year for the forthcoming
season reflecting the demand expressed by potential investors. With respect
to surface vater development, 50 schemes for improvement of drainage canals
have been identified, and five have been evaluated to the feasibility level.
In addition, eight pontoon mounted pump schemes have been identified and
evaluated. Guidelines have been prepared for the other project components.
2.19     Implementation Schedule (Annex 10).  The project will be implemented
over seven years. The first year will be spent mainly on start-up activities
including: (i) mobilization of the consultancy services (some of the consultants
will be engaged later, as necessary in line with increasing needs for the
various irrigation development schemes): (ii) procurement of the first batches
of equipment and materials; (iII) conducting an information campaign involving
farmDrs, private dealers and drillers, bankers, NGOs and GOB agencies;
(iv) procurement of vehicles and equipment for the project agencies;
<v) identifying potential investors and assisting in the formation of WUAs;
(vi) identifying additional pontoon mounted pump schemes and drainage canal
improvemaet schemes, and finalizing designs for schemes to be implemented in the
second year of the project; and (vii) awarding contracts for works to be
undertaken in the second project year. Construction vorks are expected to start
In December 1991 and will continue until to the end of the project. Pump
rehabilitation will be impl_emnted following BADC'8 sale of its existing pumps
(para. 2.7). The training program will be finalized during the first project
year and implemented during the remaining six years. The financial management
system and the personnel record and human resources planning system within BADC
will be established during the first two years of the project.
E. Cost Estimates
2.20     The total project cost is estimated at Tk 6,676 million (US$171.1
million), including a foreign exchange component of US$86.3 million or 502 of
the total cost (Annex 11). The cost estimate for new DTWs is based on mid-l9qO
prices. The estimate for DTW rehabilitation is based on a survey of replacement
and repair costs of about 1,800 facilities requiring rehabilitation. Cost
estimates for surface water development are based on detailed engineering
designs prepared for five improved drainage canal schemes and eight pontoon
mounted pump schemes at prices prevailing in mid-1990.
2.21     The project cost includes US$15.7 million in taxes and duties.
Physical contingencies vary between project components and average 2S of the
project base cost. Price contingencies and foreign exchange rates are estimated
on the basis of local and foreign inflation rate as projected by the Bank.



- 15 -
IabJ&AJ4 P"6 Cost Suftt
-----m  I  aiQn..-l--4-50,-l    mliom- 
*i- 2.1t rwd c eold ~ ~ ~~~~folo
n      balm               __           _SI_L  F1.1
A. btvaln Ost,el"mat               WS.1.2   I6.t    P3.9    04.7  51.0  10.e   49
a. Osota*WM  Iurrgoitio _ ts91.9               -     117.0    8.4     -    8.4     0
C.  c apaity    W1 4dl oe T achalnat  A.149
wIlre t Pe'titk.                  65.6    106.7    111.8     1.e   $-I    4.9    as
Tra1slnla   AI
Oi_omlatiE.                      104.1    74.0    17.0      .0 a   .1    8.1   41
iAWtltut levOI-t                                   *        f      H i* 
it. P,actSu&_e. Ttcmie.l #AMItano
z..i...at.u.a .derO Ibnaetoclap  80.2    849.6    in.4      0.9  10.0   10.9   91
& Todmalow         19.6    se.1     7S.7     0.6   1.7    1.3   76
Minor ZrstIrtll P,.j.c0a 1t7                                     LI
Sub TotaO.t                                        *11i.  _S1   l   . 
P - |"l C|_iz              *~~~4.9  10.4    04.6    1.0   0.6    .4       4
P1.9  Cm  -t I:7no..0
Totl llS2t.0   0l440.9   667.9    64.O  06.a  171.1  60
AA       -AM-2.
F. Fincing
2.22 Slhe pro,ject will be flnaced by IDA, EISC, GOB and farmer
beneficiaries.  The IDA credit of SDR 38.1 million (equivalent to about
US54.0 million) will cover about 352 of the total project costs, excluding
taxe  and duties.  The credit wilt  be utilied for financing investment cost
for minor irrigation facilities jointly with ESC, 'hich will provide a gr,-at
of ECUBS million (equivalent to about US$88.0 million) covering about 571 of
the total project costs, excluding taxes and duties. The grant by the EEC will
also be utilised for financing the project's technical assistaice components
for capacity building and implemeutation support. The effectiveness of the
cofiwacina saresmet between GOD and M  will be a condition of effectiveness
for the IDA credit. GOB and farmer beneficiaries will finance the remaining
project cost uf US$29.1 million includiag USS$S.7 million in taxes and duties.
GOB's contribution will be made available ia curformance with the project
lmplementation schedule. GOB approval of the Proiect Proforma will be a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit. Table 2.2 summarizes the
project financing ,'lan by component.
Table 2.2 Fln nc;o Pl*n
-    lWillon)!
E    EEC    oCS F sarn   Total
A. Irrigation D._.lomw                         U2.7   54.5   28.8   a.2   188.?
S. p_.osrtmlon zer).tIon S _s.ms               1.8    1.4    1.0      -     4.8
C. Cspal.t Suildlng Tbnceial Assstance           -   14.2    0.6      -    14.6
0. Project &So*t Technlcal Aslatafi             -   17.0   0.4       -    16.8
Total fimmngn RqIrWe                     54.0   66.0   20.9    .2   M1.



- 16 -
G. Procurement
2.23     Goods:  Procurement of new DTW facilities will be organized through
private dealers and BADC. To allow private dealers to participate on the same
terms as BADC, GOB would ensure that (i) the private sector has the same rate of
taxation (import duties, sales tax, developme.it surcharge) as is now levied on
BADC; (it) proper allowance is made in equipment pricing by the public sectcr
for administrauive overheads, taxes, handling charges and distribution costs to
avoid indirect subsidies; and (iii) private sector participants have eqnAal
access to project funds. Agreement to this effect has been reached during
nesotiations. Farmers will have the final say on the model and the capacity of
the facilities to be supplied. To facilitate farmers' access to warranties,
importers of DTW equipment are required to provide local purchasers with a
warranty on the equipment. Also, where installation is financed under the
project, contractors have to deliver operational irrigation facilities on a
turn-key package basis and the turn-key contract will specify the party
responsible for honoring warranties for the finished facility, including both
equipment and civil works. IDA would review the suitability of different types
of warranties being used to ensure that they are satisfactory. There is concern
that the turn-key warranty requirement uight become a hindrance to the
participation of small well construction contractors, who may be able to supply
DTW facilities at comparably low cost to the farmer. The project would
therefore provide on a pilot basis US$1 million for the financing of new DTW
facilities without warranties. Project consultants (para. 2.12 and 2.16) would
advise farmers on the risks involved, monitor the cost savings to farmers and
the operational effectiveness of these wells, and prepare recoammendations on the
continued need for warranties, for the Government's and rID's review.
2.24     Procurement of new DTWs by BADC will be on the basis of an  ludefinite-
Quantity-Blanket Order Contract" arrangement, by which BADC will invite
quotations from manufacturers through international competitive bidding (ICB),
for complete sets. Under this arrangement, BADC will order periodically
equipment as required based on farmers' demand evidenced by signed contracts.
This arrangement will allow farmers to choose the manufacturer as well as the
discharge capacity of the equipment. BADC will be required to supply
operational wells to farmers, but it will have the option of seeking separate
bids for the equipment and civil works or a combined bid for complete
operational facilities. In case of the former arrangement, the contract between
MADC and the farmer will clearly specify the party responsible for the warranty
on the operational DTW.
2.25     In the case of private daalers/drilling contractors, procurement of new
DTW. will follow established commercial practices with due regard to economy and
efficiency. This will be possible because no discriminatory trade barriers are
expected to exist which might favor specific suppliers, or exclude others from
the Bangladesh market. To that end, agreement has been reached during
nstotiatioii that eaual trade terms will be agolicable to all sunliers from
Bank member countries and those from Switzerland, and Taiwan, China. Also, to
ensure adequate competition for large purchases, any single contract estimated
to cost US$1.0 million or more will be procured following ICB procedures. ICB
procurement, if any, will be subject to prior IDA review. In addition, IDA



supervision missions will conduct an annual ex-post review of an adequate sample
of dealerldriller procurement contracts to review the reasonableness of prices.
Project consultants (para. 2.16) will monitor prices paid by private dealers for
imported equipment, to determine whether they are in line with prices elsewhere.
Dealers who are found to pay excessive pricea will have no further access to
project funds. Alco, to have access to project funds, private dealers/drlling
contractors will have to meet eligibility criteria concerming warranties, sales
records, and information sharing (Annex 2).
2.26     Equipment for the rehabilitation of B&DC's existing DTWs (after they
have been sold to the private sector), and the pumping units for the pontoon
mounted pump systems will be procured by BADC or private dealers. BADC will use
ICB procedures for awarding all contracts for such equipment, whenever the cost
is US$200,000 or more. For smaller contracts, PADC will use local procedures
acceptable to the Bank, including local shopping as uecessary up to an
aggregated total of not more than US$1.5 million. Domestic suppliers competing
under ICB will be granted a preference of 1S2. Private dealers would procure
rehabilitation equipment and pontoon pump sets under the same procedures as will
be applicable for new DTWs (para. 2.25).
2.27     Civil and Mechanical Works:  Civil works will not be attractive for
international bidders as the works are small, labor-intensive, geographically
scattered in areas with difficult access, and spread over a seven-year period.
In the case of their procurement by BADC, contracts will be awarded following
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, satisfactory to IDA. Mechanical
works procured by BADC for the rehabilitation of existing DTWs and for the
fabrication of pontoons and installation of pumping units will similarly follow
LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. In the case of the private sector,
procurement will follow normal commercial practices. The high level of
competition between contractors ensures that procurement would be economical and
efficient.
2.28     Contracts for the procurement of equipment, materials, and pontoon
systems by BADC costing the equivalent of US$200,000 or more will be subject to
IDA's prior review. For all other procuremen.  bid evaluation reports together
with contracts will be furnished to IDA before reimbursement is sought. About
802 of BADC's total procurement financed by IDA is estimated to be subject to
prior IDA review. Contracts for the procurement of equipment by the private
sector are subject to prior IDA review if they are for US$1 million or more.
The methods of procurement for all project components are summarized in Table
2.3.
2.29     Technical Assistance and Trainin:  The project's technical assistance
and training components including required vehicles, equipment and operating
costs will be financed by EEC. Accordingly, consultant services, vehicles,
equipment, materials, etc. will be procured for these components, and training
carried out under terms and conditions satisfactory to these donors. Because of
the design of this project around the demand generated by farmers, it will be
essential to keep both the timing and the volume of technical assistance
flexible. This will prevent an oversupply in the Initial years in the case that
project investments develop at a pace slower than planned, and undersupply in
later years.  Agreement was re.ched during negotiations that consultants will be
engaged by IDSU (para. 3.2) wit. qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satiefactory to IDA.



- 18 -
Iabl. .&I Wow dPouest g/
0.66 mUll..)
A. rervigi. 1,/                t.9      8.5      .4b/J              "7.
(10.0)   (1.4)   (98.9)               (84.0)
C. Clvi  Wor. ./                -       18.  *   8           -       47.8
(8-.)  (19.0)               (17.9)
C. N   Ices mudm Wooti ./       -        1.7     4.8                  8.7
(0.?)   (1.),                (9. 9)
0. cpcat orlt kl4i00 Tecimale Molou""c j/ -     14.0                 14.8
I.  PrJet support Tedtaigat Agloejetaw          is's- 8.             18.8
P. Adsiitrtin                   -        -                  4.8       4.6
0. Land Aoqu1eitimn
"rer ofl rmtbraa AINWsb M%  iewlfwjw Nw_;:P ct  W I tliD  *ell Sn 141jQol b*ro
1%fer .15t preeur_. t andLC fer ;;lLtl  (78    (88.?               (84.0)
nv                    uIiII          a   It ot el  er  I  fer  t  ion (eUAl tnd  US.9 *I Ion (EEC).
Procuremon of b of ical Nwistan"  rv is   rd _tobe.. Pt mtel mto mr_al-.     me procelle.
U. Disbursement
2.30    Disbursements of the IDA credit and the EEC grant will cover:
(a) 852 of expenditures on civil and mechanical works for (i) the
construction and rehabilitation of DTW facilities, (ii) the
Installation of pontoon mounted systems, (iii) the demonstration of
alternative irrigation systems, and (iv) the improvement of drainage
channels (except for labor contributed by the beneficiaries); and
(b)  1002 (if Imported) and 852 (if locally purchased) of the expenditures
on procurement of well components for new and rehabilitated DTWs, of
pontoon mounted systems, and of PVC and concrete pipes and alfalfa
valves for demonstration irrigation systems.
IDA and EEC disbursement against these expenditures would be pro rata at the
ratio of 352 t 652 until the EEC funds for these components have been fully
disbursed. IDA would subsequently continue disbursement on its own. EEC will
also disburse 1002 of the cost of consultant services, training, equipment and
materials for the project's two technical assistance components. Disbursement
applications for EEC funds will be submitted directly to EEC.
2.31    Full documentation will be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications, except for small civil and mechanical works contracts,
individually costing less than the equivalent of US$200,000. For the latter,
withdrawal applications will be supported by statements of expenditure, with
Jocumentation to be retained by BADC and Bangladesh Bank (BB) (para. 2.33), and
to be made available for review by IDA representatives on request. All
documentation sent to IDA in support of withdrawal applications, including
statements of expeAditure, is to be certified by the Project Director (para 3.2)
and the consultant team leader.
2.32    The disbursement schedule (Annex 12) reflects the anticipated sequence
of activities in implementation. It has been based on the assumption that
replenishment of Special Accounts against dLsbursements for works done in one
quarter would be made within the next two quarters. The disbursement profile



- 19 -
for projects In support of water resources development has been nine years,
including two years for operations and maintenance (O&M). As the private sector
will be responsible for O&W under the project, the implementation period has
been adjusted to seven years.
2.33     Most project works will be carried out In small packages through the
private and public sector. About 702 of project proceeds is expected to flow
through commercial banks. In order to allow these banks to make timely
payments, GOB will open and thereafter maintain a Special Account in U.S.
dollars. The account will be used for the payment of letters of credit opened
by cammercial banks for both BADC and the private sector to procure equipment
and civil and mechanical works for the installation of new DTVs and pontoon pump
systems. and the rehabilitation of existing DTWe. The account will be
administered by BB and used on a first-come first-serve basis. To facilitate
implementation of drainage canal improvement schemes and demonstration
irrigation systems, for which BADC is responsible, GOB will oesn and thereafter
maintain a second Special Account in U.S. dollars with BS for these project
components. The two accounts will be administered on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, and will be used only for IDA's shuare of project financIng.
The first Spe-ial Account will be replenished on the basis of payments made
under letteri. of credit approved by BB (para. 3.8); the second one will be
replenished on the basis of monthly actual expenditures Incurred by BADC under
the two aforementioLed project components. The authorized allocation for the
two Special Accounts will be a total of US$2.5 million equivalent (US$1.8
million and US$700,000 for the first and the second Special Account,
respectively), which represents an estimated average four months of IDA-financed
expendltures. In addition, to make joint financing with EEC feasible, GOB will
open with BS two parallel accounts for E$C's share of financing and will
administer these accounts along the same lines.
I. Accounts and Audit
2.34     BB and BADC will establish and maintain separate project accounts.
Records will be maintained to identify the project's physical progress and
financial transactions. Individually identifiable accounts will *tIs be kept
for (a) a1 expenditures for which credit vithdrawals are made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, and (b) the flow of funds from the two Special
Accounts. Project accounts including the Special Accounts and the statements of
expenditures will be audited annual:y by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Audited accounts, together with auditors' comments will be sent to IDA within
six months of the close of a financial year. At present, the accounts of BB and
BADC are audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Bangladesh. This
arrangement, which is satisfactory to IDA, will apply to this project. In
addition, BADCO's financial controls will be upgraded to allow for transparency
in the flow of funds and for institutional accountability. Thus, a basis will
be created for BADC to follow closely and account for all funds flowing into the
agency and those generated through lts coamercial activities. To imp.:ove
transparency and enhance BADC's accountability and fiscal responsibility, GOB
will require BADC to remit to the Ministry of finance promptly all proceeds
realised from the sale of irrigation equipment. As a corollary to that
requirement, RADC will be provided the full amount required for project
implementation through quarterly releases of the Annual Development Program
(ADP). Agreement on this has been reached during negotiations.



- 20 -
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
3.1      HOA will have overall responsibility for project implementation.  To
assist MOA, a Project Coordination and Monitoring Committee will be set up
under the chairmanship of the Secretary, Agriculture. The Committee will
include representatives from BB, the credit institutions, private equipment
suppliers and contractors, BADC and farmers, and the head of the Irrigation
Development Support Unit (IDSU) (pars. 3.2). The Coummitee will (i) ensure
the timely availability of funds, (ii) examine implementation problems and
ensure that they are appropriately resolved, (iii) ensaire equal treatment of
private and public sector participants, (iv) ensure the adequacy of annual
implementation programs and of project studies, and (v) monitor project
progress and performance. The Committee will be provided with required
reports including quarterly progress reports. It will meet as necessary, but
at least once every quarter.  Agreement has been reached during negotiations
that the Committee and IDSU (para. 3.2) will be established with membership
and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
B. Irri8ation Development Support Unit (IDSU)
3.2      IDSU will be set up in MOA under a Project Director reporting
directly to the Secretary, Agriculture. The Director will be assisted by a
team of consultants and support staff. IDSU will have separate cells for the
different project support and capacity building activities, including an
environment cell. Its responsibilities will includes (a) preparation of
anrual work plans for its own operations, and review and consolidation of the
plans of the other project agencies; (b) implementation and engagement of
consultants for the various project components; (c) coordination of project
activities between agencies; (d) approval of surface water schemes and
demonstration irrigation systems proposed by ADC; (e) monitoring of project
progress and the performance of irrigation facilities (para. 3.13); (f)
identification of constraints on the private sector; and (g) preparation and
consolidation of progress reports for the Committee's consideration. In its
day-to-day operations, IDSU will work closely with BADC, which in turn will be
able to draw extensively on the expertise of IDSU's technical assistance team,
while at the same time providing crucial support to IDSU's activities. Other
agencies with which the Unit will cooperate include the Bangladesh Rural
Development Board, the Department of Agricultural Extension, the credit
institutions, and NGO0. IDSU will be self-contained and operate )nly for the
project period without adding permanent staff positions to MOA. Appointment
of a oualified Pro1ect Director will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
C.  Bangdesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC)
3.3      Central and Regional Headquarters.  BADC vill compete on equal terms
with the private sector for the supply and installation of DTWs and pontoon
mounted pumps, and rehabilitation of existing DTWs. It will also (a)
privatise its existing 56 llsec DTW facilities, tb) identify and implement the
drainage canal improvement schemes, (C) design and implement demoustration
irrigation systems, (d) divest itself of commercial activities and redeploy



- 21 v
its staff, and (e) improve its institutional capabilities and reorient its
role in the minor irrigation sector. To carry out these responsibilities,
BADC will establish at its headquarters a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
headed by a Chief Engineer reporting to the Member-Director for Irrigation and
the Project Director. PIU vill work in close collaboration with IDSU, and (a)
review and consolidate annual budget requests and work programs from regional
offices; (b) coordinate BADC's project activities with the work program of
project consultants5 (c) review proposals for surface water irrigation schemes
and demonstration irrigation systems prepared by the regional offices, and
obtain IDSU approval for them; (d) oversee procurement of project vehicles,
equipment and materials provided for BADC; (e) monitor progress of work
carried out by BADC, and expenditures; (f) monitor the performance of the
irrigation facilities provided by BADC; (g) monitor the redeployment process;
and (h) prepare progress reports and other reports as required.
3.4      Regional headquarters, located in Dhaka, Sylhet, Rajshahi and
Barisal, will be headed by Additional Chief Engineers who will work in close
collaboration with IDSU consultants stationed in the same locations. The
Additional Chief Engineers will organize and supervise BADC's project
activities within geographically defined areas and support IDSU in organizing
and implementing its regional activities. Regional offices will (a) prepare
annual budget requests and work programs; (b) prepare specifications for
equipment and materials; (c) review and sanction work contracts; (d) monitor
progress of work and expenditures; (e) monitor and evaluate the performance of
the irrigation facilities provided by BADC; (f) coordinate with the other
offices of BADC at district and divisional levels; (g) prepare proposals for
surface water schemes, and for the demonstration of alternative irrigation
systems; and (h) monitor the flow and quality of support services to farmers.
Appointment of the Chief Engineer and the Additional Chief Engineers will be a
condition of IDA disbursement against BADC's proiect expenditures.
3.5       Field Offices.  District offices will be headed by Executive
Engineers in charge of overseeing the work in their jurisdiction. They will
be supported by staff for financial control, contracting services, quality
control, and monitoring. Upazila offices will work closely with IDSU
consultants to become the focal point for technical assistance to farmers,
equipment dealers and contractors. They will employ teams comprising an
Assistant Engineer and two Sub-Assistant Engineers which will ensure that with
the planned cooperation from BRDB, DAE, NGOs and consultants, farmers and
private dealersicontractors are provided the required technical assistance,
market information, and quality information and enhancement services.
D. Other Agencies Cooperating with IDSU and BADC
3.6      Bangladesh Rural Development Boardt BRDB will collaborate with IDSU
and other agencies in the information dissemination campaign. It will
continue to have direct responsibility for organizing KSS cooperatives and
providing their training requirements. In addition, if allowed under its
charter, BRDB will assist in organizing and training command area based WUAs.
3.7      Department of Agricultural Extension (DEA):  The DAE will provide
agricultural extension services, covering all aspects of agricultural
production including on-farm water management. The Agricultural Support
Services Project (to be implemented in parallel to this project) will



- 22 -
strengthen DAB to enable it to effectively meet project requirements. To meet
immediate project needs, however* DAR will cooperate wlth BADC In organizing
and lmplementing the Demonstration Irrigation Systems component.
3.8      Bangladesh Bank (BB):  BB will administer the two Special Accounts
which vill be established by the Government to facilitate the flow of funds
under the project (para. 2.33). One Special Account will be for project
components implemented exclusively by BADC, the other will be for both the
private sector and MDC for the importation of equipment and the procurement
of civil and mechanical works required for new DTUs, the rehabilitation of
wells, and pontoon pump systems. Participating banks will be able to draw
funds under the latter facility against letters of credit. Withdrawal will be
either in foreign exchange if the letter of credit is in favor of a foreign
supplier; or in taka (Tk) in the case of a domestic letter of credit payable
to a local contractor for civil and mechanical works. The facility will cover
the full amount of international letters of credit, and 852 of domestic
letters of credit. At the time BB makes a payment under an international
letter of credit, the participating bank will deposit the taka equivalent in a
designated account with BB. When the payment is for a domestic letter of
credit, the participating bank will repay BB the amount advanced within 180
days and pay interest at a rate determined in accordance with a methodology
agreed with GOB and BB under the IDA assisted Agricultural and Rural Credit
Project (to be implemented in parallel to this project). It would be a
condition of credit effectiveness that GOB and BB had entered into an
agreement on the administration of this facility, satisfactory to IDA.
3.9      Participating Banks:  Participating banks will enter into agreements
with BB under which they will open letters of credit for dealerslcontractors
who meet the eligibility criteria for using project funds (Annex 2). They
will alf provide credit to farmers for the purchase of irrigation facilities
and for seasonal inputs as part of their normal credit programs under policies
and regulations which are now being reformed under the IDA assisted Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2152-BD). The banks involved ir agricultural
lending have a dense countrywide network of branch offices from which eligible
borrowers can obtain loans. A primary objective of the proposed Agricultural
and Rural Credit Project is to strengthen the capacity of branch offices to
cater to the credit needs of a broader section of the farming population.
3.10     Non-Government Organizations (NGOs): IDSU will make use of the
services of interested NGOs to assist with organizing and training WUAs.
Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee, Proshika and the Grameen Bank have
acquired some experience, having successfully organized disadvantaged groups
to own andlor manage tubewell irrigation facilities. NGOs will have the
option of operating as sub-contractors to the project management to assist in
training and organizing farmers. They will also have access to project
facilities to continue their own programs targeted at disadvantaged groups.
3.11     To implement the Environment Protection component, IDSU will require
close coordination with the Environmental Pollution Control Development in the
Ministry of Environment and Forestry, and the Department of Public Health
Engineering in the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives. The Department of Public Health Engineering will rehabilitate
of domestic water supply systems affected by the project. They will also
Implement domestic water supply development programs funded by counterpart
funds generated as a result of Imports financed by the EEC project grant.



- 23 -
. Porms of Association for Ownership/lMgAsement of Equ$iment
3.12     Ownership and management of irrigation facilities vill be open to any
group or individual capable of investing in such facilities. Recognizing that
most farmrs individually have limited access to land and financial resources,
the project will support the formation of WUAs to facilitate participation by
small farmers. Farmers have the option to organize themselves into formal
groups under the Cooperative Societies Ordinnce of 1984. This requires,
hovwever, adherence to a number of restrictive operating and financial
principles, and compliance with administrative requirements which are not
always suitable to the effective operation and management of minor irrigation
equipment. A preferable alternative in many cases would be the establishment
of a UA under the Societies Registration Act of 1860, which promotes single-
purpose independent associations. There is, however, uncertainty whether the
Act in its present form provides for societies focusing on agricultural
development. A8reement has been reached durin8 negotiations tetat GOB will
take all necessary steps by December 31. 1991 to ensure that farmer groups
will be able to acquire le8al personality with avpropriate powers and
functions.  Farmers will also have the option of organizing into informal
groups for pooling their resources to acquire irrigation facilities.  They can
also invest in their own individual facility to supply water to their own land
andlor to neighboring farmers' land.  To further encourage investment in minor
irrigation development and promote broader access to its benefits, and
recognizing that increased investment in irrigation irrespective of source
will benefit the poor and disadvantaged by increasing water supply and
reducing its price, the project will allow Investment in irrigation equipment
by private entrepreneurs, and by resource-poor and disadvantaged groups
organized under the sponsorship of NGOs or the Grameen Bank. To facilitate
group formation, the project provides for 100 Irrigation Group Organizers
(IGOs) recruited locally as consultants, or through NGOs. Their role will be
to assist farmers in all tasks related to financing and management of group-
owned irrigation facilities. To motivate IGOs, their remuneration will
consist of a basic salary and a performance-related payment. IDSU will work
out the relative importance of thesa two elements and payment modalities.
F. Monitoring and Performance Evaluation
3.13     A Monitoring and Performance Evaluation Unit will be established in
IDSU under the direction of the Project Director. Monitoring activities will
center on: (a) conformance with eligibility criteria, procurement and
disbursement procedures, and availability of support services; (b) performance
of installed irrigation equipment; and (c) characteristics of the marketing
system (prices, marketing margins, geographical coverage of private and public
distribution of project-funded equipment). Evaluation activities will focus
ons (i) agro-economic performance of equipment; (ii) effectiveness of
training programs; (iii) effectiveness of information dissemination programs;
(iv) utilization of improved BADC financial and personnel management systems;
and (v) performance of water user groups. Quarterly monitoring reports and
evaluation reports will be submitted to the Project Coordination and
Monitoring Committee, IDA and EEC. In addition, there will be two combined
GOBIIDAIZEC implementation reviews at the end of the second and fourth project
year to assess progress and remaining constraints in increased private sector
participation in the supply and maintenance of minor irrigation equipment.
Upon project completion, GOB/IDA/UEC will prepare a Project Completion Report.



- 24 -
nV. PRODUCTION. MA3UTIWG, FARM INCOME. AND COST RECOVERY
A. #Aricultural Production
4.1      The principal changes In cropping patterns, yields, and input use
likely to occur with the introduction of irrigation are discussed below and
detailed in Annex 13. The future cropping patterns and yields are based on
data contained in field reports, evaluation studies and sector reports. This
was augmented by analysis of data from representative agro-ecological zones
undertaken during project identification and preparation, and verified during
project appraisal.
Cropping Patterns
4.2      The major factor governing cropping systems in Bangladesh is the
water regime, particularly the depth and duration of flooding. Following the
classification in the National Water Plan (NWP), the country is divided in
four agro-ecological zoness
Land Type               Flood Depth        Percentage of Cultivated Area
High Land (HL)          Flood free                    35
Medium High Land (MEL)  0.0 - 0.9 m                   35
Medium Low Land (MLL)   0.9 - 1.8 m                   20
Low Land (LL)           1.8 m +                       10
A fifth agro-ecological zone has been added to account for lighter, more
permeable soils in the highland areas. These five zones have been aggregated
into a composite model reflecting their prevalence in the project area.
4.3      The main effect of irrigation on the cropping pattern will be to add
a dry season High Yielding Variety (IY) crop (Boro) to the present cropping
pattern in which transplanted Amen rice (T. Aman) dominates. Boro will be
cultivated mainly as a replacement to broadcast Aus (B. Aus) and on lands
which currently remain fallow during the dry season. Moreover, judging from
past development, the project will lead to an increase in the area under wheat
where climatic conditions and soils are suitable. This may be partly at the
expense of oilseeds, pulses and B. Aus. Finally, the availability of
supplementary irrigation during the early and late monsoon will enable farmers
to use HYVs mainly for T. Aus and T. Aman.
4.4      The provision of irrigation will increase average cropping intensity
over the year from 135 to 165X. It should be noted that the area projected
to be under Boro, wheat and other crops under the *with project' situation may
change depending on relative market prices for various products, the costs of
irrigation, the pace of technology development for non-foodgrain crops, and
the pace of development of markets for products other than rice.
Crop Yields
4.5      In the absence of irrigation ('future without project"), yields for
most crops are likely to remain low due to the unreliable rainfall which makes
it risky for farmers to invest in inputs. In the 'future with project'



- 25 -
situation, the yields are estimated to increase from 1-1.6 to 2.7-3.75 toniha
for paddy, 1.4 to 2.8 ton/ha for wheat, 0.6 to 0.75 ton/ha for pulses, 0.8 to
1.0 ton/ha for oilseeds, and 35 to 55 ton/ha for sugarcane (Annex 13). These
yields reflect average rather than optimal irrigated agricultural practices
with respect to land preparation, use of fertilizer, quality of seed used,
weed and pest control, cultivation and planting tecbniques, and timeliness of
harvesting and threshing.
Production
4.6      Annual production of foodgrains and sugarcane in the project area is
expected to increase substantially while jute, ollseed and pulse output will
decrease, reflecting shifts in the cropping pattern in areas brought under
irrigation, and current yields and market conditions (Table 4.1). Estimated
incremental production is summarized below and detailed in Annex 13.
Table 4.1: Estimated Annual Incremental Cro Production
(ton)
Without         With                  Perecnt
Crop         Project         Project      Increment  Change
Paddy           880,967        1,148,782      75,776    194%
Wheat            8,212           04,289        61,027   1,90OX
Jute            48,M91           12,20S       -81,865    -723
oileeds         20,070           15,82        -10,758    -413
Pulse            17,620          10,098        -,927    -89N
Sugarcane       244,108         408,769       169,080    a6n
B. Marketing and Prices
4.7      The traditional marketing system in the project area is large and
well developed. Many growers dispose of a portion of their crops inmediately
upon harvest and buy foodgrains later in the season to meet their consumption
needs. It is estimated that only 20-25Z of production actually enters
commercial markets, 902 of which is handled by private traders. In a market
of this size with foodgrain demand increasing at about 32 per year, and given
the prevailing food deficit in the country, the increased production is
unlikely to present any marketing difficulties. The well-established
marketing system should comfortably handle the incremental marketable surplus
without downward pressure on prices.
C. Farm Income and Financial Returns
4.8      As shown in Table 4.2 below, the provision of irrigation facilities
will enable a substantial increase in farm incomes, varying from 137Z to 1852
(Annex 13). This increase will come primarily from shifts in cropping
patterns and from a moderate increase in cropping intensities. For tho
national composite model (which reflects the likely percentage share of each
agro-ecological model in the project area), the average annual farm income per
hectare is expected to increase from Tk 8,967 at present to about Tk 22,543 at
full development (achieved by the third year of operation of an irrigation
facility). The cropping intensity at full development of 1652 (compared with
1352 at present) will require the average family to devote more time to the



26 -
family farm and less to off-farm activLties. The average net income per work
day of famLly farm labor will increase from the present Tk. 76 to Tk. 111.
Per capit fama income will rise from Tk. 1,495 to Tk. 3,757.
Table .O SWg oAE  Se. 
RSW v~~mwruuw mm 1             RRI Wml JE  U
I  I 111.  M.::  twl iv   W.tV 68tSEL  5.I two.:: m1.::1 u..v   N.V   tATWSL
96 8 6.()IL M Mi. L   U. CoNTE   "ML (ML 96N  *L  ML   U. CWoS1TE
-ete  Area  (ha)    1.00  1 .00     1.00  1.00  1.00  1.00  1.00  1.00   1.00  1.00  1.00
11- net    t_0
1.80    1.48  1.60    1.06    0.04  I.8  .0  1.04  1.??    1.15  1.00  1.6
(9)  I=  140  im  i106  041  15    3101111   10t1  1771    I=6  101  6
Greow value of pareduot.   1A8  18148  166116 11909  OM6  14427   86466 40278  SO68  2560  12860  311
Cost of production  am1  $876  6G4  4041  OM0  am6   1151  156  11782  7065  GM8106
Not value of p,oduaeten  0444  9864OC 1006  7666  604 697 4100 SW6"  =167  16M7  1611094
Pereentee. eh-nge    --  -cW        -   -    -         86  1ow    7  18n
Av.rultaiI els.       6   e             6     6 6    4      6    6   6    6    6
PaullIy lab.r       129  131  1421  61   6   U1            34   16  1I"   14   06s
Net value of produotien
-per crd hecare    72p4  6486  680  7119  6464  6OM  14  18707  490 14708  16117  18704
-w fals              78  71   71  08  so   76         10  114  1la  115  114  III
*per faet Ii enbe  17  1861  186  Il  101*  140    408  4460  697  am6  266  8am
Finuol Rates of Return
Wfere FinancilOn   ..       -   -   -       -       481  m    8   1x 271  s6 861
Aftar Fnl cmi-                                             a b o v * 70p*rc*nt
74 Nbdel pro based an cropping pattern. diectetd In pare 4.2.
4.9      Rates of return realized with minor irrigation technologies are
detailed in Annex 13. The financial rates of return (Table 4.2), ranging from
251 to 521  before financing, are based on the unsubsidized price of the
highest cost DTW (56 l/sec) and include full OhM costs.  The financial returns
are consistently high across all technologies supported by the project (14 1/s
DTV - 372, 28 1/s DTW - 481, Rehabilitation of 56 1/s DTW - 771, Pontoon Pumps
- 372, and Drainage Improvement - 77Z). These returns confirm that project
investments will be attractive to farmers. Participating families are
expected to achieve sustainable food security and higher incomes. Net returns
for all the models show a change from a breakeven situation under largely
subsistence conditions to one of profitable and more commercially oriented
farming operations. Participating farmers will, thus, achieve a higher level
of food security and higher incomes.
D. Pricing of EpuiPment and Cost Recovery
Past Pricing Policies
4.10     There has been a wide variation in the degree of capital subsldy
across minor irrigation technologies. Subsidies have favored public sector
supported Lavestments in the relatively more complex and expensive irrigation
technologies (56 1I  DTWs and pontoon-mounted pumps).  While the intention of
such subsidies has been to support agr.cultural production and incomes, thls
practice has had negative consequences for use efficiency, accessibility, the
rate of expansion of irrigated area, and the government budget.
PricLna Policy under the Proiect
4.11     The project will support the reorLentation of pricLng policy from one
that relies on a system of taxes, subsidies, and re'tatory restrictions to
oue that relies on the market to guide farmers in the selectlon of irrigatLon
equipment, and on the private sector in the supply and maintenance of such



- 27 -
equipment. To mplement this policy, subsidies vill be phased out and
differential tax treatment, trade restrictions and access to foreign ezchange
between the public and private sector will be eliminated. To that end.
subsidies on all new DTW equipment and on pontoon-mounted pumps will be
el4minated from the onset of the project. For BMDC's existing stock of DTV
equipment (about 4,000 units of 56 Iisec capacity) the current subsidy of 702
will be phased out as follows: it will be reduced to 452 by June 30, 1991s to
30S by March 31, 1992; to 151 by December 31, 1992; and completely eliminated
by December 31, 1993. Aareement on this has been reached during negotiations.
Also, Government has issued an order that BADC may not procure new DTV
equipment until it has sold the present stock.
4.12     In addition to market-based pricing of irrigation facilities, the
project will support changes in the regulatory environment to allow the
private and public sectors to operate on equal terms. Specific measures
include:
(a) equalizing duty and tax rates paid by the public and private sectors.
(The import duty on DTW components is presently 152 and 501 for
public and private sector imports, respectively.) It would be a
condition of credit effectiveness that Government (i) set the import
duty on DTW equipment and spare parts for both sectors at about 15Z,
and (ii) issue an order informing customs officials and equipment
dealers of the uniform duty and tax rates;
(b) inclusion of the full cost of labor and materials, duties, taxes,
handling charges, distribution costs and administrative overheads
into prices charged by BADC for irrigation equipment and workss
Agreement has been reached during negotiations that BADC will follow
this practice; and
(c) allowing access to project funds by the public and private sector on
a first-come-first-serve basis.
Cost Recovery
4.13     The above pricing policy would ensure full cost recovery for the
construction of new and the rehabilitation of existing DTWs, and for the
installation of pontoon-mounted pump systems. For the project's drainage
canal improvement schemes, beneficiaries would contribute land and 301 of the
labor cost required for reexcavation works. The remaining costs would be
financed by a GOB subsidy. Such a subsidy would be justified as the
improvements in drainage and flood control would be beneficial to the entire
population in the concerned locations, including the landless, and not only to
the farmers who will use irrigation water from the reescavated canals. For
demonstration irrigation systems, beneficiaries would contribute all unskilled
labor and 50S of the cost of materials. GOB would provide a subsidy covering
the remaining expenditures, due to the experimental and promotional nature of
these systems.



- 28 -
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.1      The project will directly benefit about 314.000 families.  It will
result in increased foodgrain production in the order of 817,000 tons per year
and in increased farm employment in the order of 31 million work days per
year. The value of the incremental production will be about US$135 milllon
per year, with the value added annually to the local economy of about US$52
million.
Distribution of Benefits and Poverty Alleviation
5.2      The project will result in a reduction in the incidence of poverty.
Present per capita farm income in the area expected to benefit from irrigation
is estimated at about US$43 per year. The project is expected to raise this
to about US$108 at full development. Average net cash income for smallholder
families is likely to increase from about $71 to about $460 per year. The
project has been explicitly designed to create conditions for groups of small
holders and even landless laborers to pool resources to purchase and operate
irrigation facilities. Horeover, the expanded pace and density of minor
irrigation development supported by policy and institutional reforms under the
project will contribute to the development of more competitive water marke-s.
This will provide opportunities for a greater number of poor farmers who
cannot afford the capital costs of DTWs to gain access to modern agricultural
technologies via the purchase of irrigation water from owners of irrigation
equipment. The effect of the project on incomes of the landless is difficult
to quantify but is expected to be positive, particularly as the demand for
farm labor will increase significantly.
B. Economic Justification
5.3      The economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a whole
and for individual irrigation technologies. The overall economic rate of
return (ERR) for the project is estimated at 482. The net present value of
incremental benefits is estimated at about US$150 million. The methodology
and main assumptions underlying the economic analysis are contained in Annex
14.
5.4      Several tests were performed to evaluate the sensitivity of project
economic viability to the assumptions made in the analysis. Switching values
were calculated at discount rates of 122 and 152 (122 being the estimated
pportunity cost of capital). As shown in Table 5.2, relatively large changes
in the main assumptions will be required to reduce the project's rate of
return to less than 121. Returns are more sensitive to changes in production
value than to changes in costs, underscoring the importance of support
services (agricultural research and extension, water management) and that of
prices. A delay in receipt of benefits after investments are completed leads
to a reduction in the ERR to 312 for one year delay, 222 for 2 years and 131
for 3 years. Even for a combination of possible adverse circumstances, the



- 29 -
project maintains an ERR well above the opportunity cost of capital. thus
providing a reasonable cushion against possible project risks.
Table 5.2t Sensitivity Analysis
Switching values to bring ERR to:            12S             151
n------------------------------------------_--_------------  -----
Production value                            -25?            -23S
Investment costs                            220S            211X
O.M. costs                                  2161            123Z
Production costs                             672             61X
Total costs                                  34Z             30S
C. Risks
5.5     The main risks are those inherent in the transition from a public
sector dominated, supply-driven marketing and distribution system to one that
is demand driven and private sector led. These risks derive from changes in
incentives and roles that such a transition implies. On the supply side, the
principal risk concerns the extent of private sector participation and
Investment in marketing and installing irrigation facilities. The policy and
procedural reforms contained in the project with respect to phasing out public
subsidies, equalization of trade and tax treatment, and access to project
funds between the public and private sector are meant to provide the necessary
stimulus.
5.6      On the demand side, the principal risk concerns farmerse' capacity and
millingness to pay for the range of minor irrigation technologies offered
under the project. The strategy of allowing farmers unconstrained access to
irrigation (removing geographically based quotas) and freedom of choiea in
selecting capacities, components, and brands of equipment, together with
market pricing of equipment, will promote increased investment in the most
cost effective technological alternatives. The analysis done at appraisal
indlcates that financial returns to investment in minor irrigation are
substantial (301-502) and that farmers in a wide range of circumstances have
the capacity to pay for such investments. The project also contains specific
measures to enhance demand for and utilization of irrigation equipment through
improved organization of smallholder and landless farmers into water user
groups, demonstration of highly cost-effective command area based irrigation
systems, and active market and technical information dissemination campaigns.



- 30 -
VI. AGRBEHMTS REACHED AND RECOnEEHDAToI
6.1      During negotiations agreemeat has been reached thats
(a) to have access to project funds, banks, dealers and contractors will
have to meet the eligibility criteria specified In Annex 2 (para.
2.3);
(b) MADC wills (1) by June 30, 1992 write off all DTVs which are
determined not suitable for repair; (i) by June 30, 1993 se1l the
remaining wells; and (iii) by December 31, 1993 take all DMs off its
books (para. 2.7);
Cc) In no case will BADC become owner or operator of pontoon-mounted
pumps (para. 2.9);
Cd) MADC,s irrigation mechanics, except those required for irrigation
dmonstratl'on systems, will be redeployed Into the private sector by
June 30, 1993 (para. 2.14);
Ce) the institutional reorientation of BADC, including redeploymet of
all redundant staff and adjustment of the skill mix required for the
restructured BADC, will be completed by March 31, 1994 (para. 2.14);
(f) the private sector is accorded the same rate of taxation as the
public sectors the public sector includes all costs when pricing
equipment; and private and public sectors have equal access to
project funds (para. 2.23);
(g) equal terms of trade will be applicable to all suppliers from IDA
member countries. 9witerland aAd Taiwan, China (para. 2.25);
th) consultants will be engaged with qualifications and terms of
refereoce satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.29);
CL) BADC will remlt promptly all proceeds from irrigation equipment sales
to the Ministry of Finnce, and will be alloested the full share of
the ADP and the revenue budgets requLred to carry out its project
responsebilities (para. 2.34);
(j) the Project Coordination and Monitoring Committee and IDS  will be
established with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA (para. 3.1);
(k) all necessary steps will be taken by December 31, 1991 to enable
farmer groups to acquire legal personality with appropriate powera
and functions (para. 3.12);
(1) new DTVs and pontoon-maountd pumps will not be subsidised, and
subsidies on ADC' existing stock of DMW equipment will be phased
out In line with the followfing schedule: the current subsidy of 701
will be reduced to 451 by June 30, 1991; to 301 by March 31, 1992; to



- 31 -
152 by December 31, 1992; and to zero by December 31. 1993 (para.
4.11); and
(a) the price charged by MDC for irrigation equipment wil reflect ite
full costs including import duties, taxes, handling charges,
distribution cost, and admnistrative overheads (para. 4.12).
6.2     Credit effectivenees will be conditional upons
(a) effectiveness of the EMC financing agreement (para. 2.22);
(b) GO8's approval of the Project Proforma (par&. 2.22);
(c) appoitment by NOA of a qualified Project Director (para. 3.2);
(d) entering Into an agreemnt between G00 and BB, satisfactory to IDA,
on the administration of the facility available to the private sector
and NDC to finance the procurement and Installation of DTWs and
pontoon pumps (para. 3.8); and
(e) Government ti) setting the Import duty oan DTW components and spare
parts at about 15? for both the public and the private sector, and
(Li) issuing an order informing customs officials and equipment
dealers of the uniform duty and tax rates (para. 4.12).
6.3      Disbursement against irrigation development expenditures incurred by
BADC will be conditional upons
(a) revision of MDC's business orientition and focus to deemphasise its
role in comercial activities (para. 2.14);
(b) preparation of IADC's personnel and skills inventory, and saalysis of
the future skill mix requirements (para. 2.14);
(c) adoption of a retirement plan, satisfactory to IDA, for SADC's
mechanics servicing Irrigation equipment (para. 2.14); and
(d)  appointment by MDC of PTU's Chief Engineer nd of Additional Chief
Engineers (para. 3.4).
6.4      Vith the above conditions and assurances, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit to the People's Republic of Sangladesh of SDR 38.1
miUion (US$54.0 amllon equivalent) on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of
40 years.



TITL mMgS                                          Igm-A 11
In= ~ ~       ~ ~ ~                  F   rtvo rX =   Wle
Liboraliso and deregulate    Sefore early 19R, impar  of stage               Limlt cuto" duties payable on           Deig  ndw Introduce ae
the s1py  syst  for *1r  Irrigatlio   epipmet and p_oe tiUllersn vea         Imported engion  of up to 20 hp ad      tariff stucture for msnor
irrigat on eqigat aN         eulbeot to SON cusom duty for oee-             poe ti loreto the lowst ban  (0-         irripatlen  qipnt_ and
_S  tillers u a w          of  stadardisd eipment, Im rtdiny                     W In    am  tari"ff structre        pooer tI loef consistent
ace_leats pe to tw    the private eocter. St rz e                    ttodu ,Oed.a                                    with  voromeInt'
Waglutunal I_or.             I        mrt IaSly by t    c emcroeconmc frameot sod
=10"C"tao a preetial 1t stinodus.                                                           e     ' roquirewt
This poll  rtricted toe ch                                                              for InespesIV* mimnor
bias  St laor of som e1mpeo                                                             IrAgation  tulpmet.
standavdixsi eqiplmen. T      i wi.tatc  of
custom duties on importe egi es suitablo       Modify eutom  dutise payable on all
for the oarties of ST11 sa LLP so sell an    casses of Imported irrgtilon
On pJe tillers, _se suspendedloWlowing tw    eqipmen, componento theref sM
i1 floods, reting along with                      r por   o                    scr
factors In a to  lorere  ti l tmst In          p   the        m       or rive  the
m   Nd UP  aN  a 4W0               same eu _Isi, a tpb
Investmenta pos  till Iw  1to    .             se
bor early lo9 the linistry of                  Aolihb standardtlon
A rieuture =elUed a llst of stanardise          eIremente.eo,
Mianr irrIgatao  _Ipmn aprO'd for us
Io agriculture. Tl aPolIcy reIstbsloe  the
rag  of   mierw Irrigtios  quipmet *val Iablea
to fat er. It Wm .speadd in January Mg
by Ulniotry of Ariclteure ordr.
Under the Oreundester Manaeomet OrIdines
MI be 4Oroundvater Uegmslatie
)of SW Is ns-ewutae
rrigatien *ras u  restricted by licensing
rapiro_ets f ir a elll and epeieg
rule4loc       d on istalled capacity
croiftea, stpposdly to presen encraclimeat
into esisting tubosl I com *ad aeas.
*    To e cowined by  inisteril order or Cabet Apprval.                                                                                          uw
es   To be conitiSoed unde Mabloesel lrior Irrtltios beolopmet Project
as   To he cobdltion   under Shel low Tbemol I and Low Lift Pump Irrigalon Projec
_oos To he conditioned u-der Agricultoratl _pport Service Projoct



_It SSUESIO      StU$TAO           l Eo   To BE TAIO IN MSE    TT                           m 
The aplication o' this policy won             In nonrtfco lrrlgation areas,          In surface irrigation ar"a,
as edd in early 1989. Undue surfac            abolish retrictioss on siting of  il1   carry outa suy  tot asses
leriation ache., OM  prohibits tfamr.        vel Is (STW and DTW) .                  options for deelopment of
from Inetalling SmW In the croand ores                                               grod  nd surfate irelrgtion
wbich prevents them from having access to                                            Within existing BaS srfrce
wate during the dry soon when the                                                     rrigation schma; the.
surtoe         do not provide adqat                                                  propare proposals for the
Water.                                                                               effective utilizetion of
oxiting surfaeo irrilgtion
sce_  and for cmplemntry
lnvestment In gro _u r
development, and Implemnt ln
cunultation with IDA sed
ADS.
01M  are cvrrnly oubsidized by T0P which     Ell-ilate subsldy on all 2 cusec 0W    FPurtber reduce subildy on all
enrag_ their uee In areas where chaper    procure  from mo  on; redue suibody        existing stock of 2 cosc i1
teholog  cold he _ed.                         on existing stock from ?O to 45X.3*    e to S0..
Restrict  iting of subsidized 2 cuac,
DlW to  ros not sultable for mT1 an
Ui  In accordance with Nationa latar
Plan guidelne.
HNih levels of  KC staocks of STI, LI. and    BAKDC to dIspos of 18,000 8TW an LLP U BAC to di       of the
01W diosora    privte sector fro entering    (8,000 m  ot of current sta  of         rmaltngS  sm      t ocks eN
busl_ns.                                      11,000 uNite an 5,000 UL. out of       spare parta throuh direct
current eto*k of 10,000 ualts)         sales to farmers or *action
throub direct subs to farers or        to private d    rear, and not
public ations to privte dealeo,        to acqlure ay nw on.
nd not to acquti  aN  nW one.e.s
OC  to retrain from furthr             BADC to pror. and impleent
procu_emast of 2 u   011 *mtt I        an actlon plan to dispos of
carrs etock It disposeA of throug      al In stl led 01W curretly
direct ales or action to prlvt          w      s seling te  which
dealeral SAIC to b_      further       ar opeonl or c 
procuement on famr choice.             repaired;end taing tOse
notsuiabe- for reel off
Its books.ee
Dvelepmetof_mimer Irrigation through 0W       Breedst bas of formetiloe of watr
technology ia. bees roetrictod by exceseivo    wer group by allowing estabIlsh mn
rella_s on the village1based cooperative    of counted area besd water uemr
system which doe. not permit m_eshlp of  esdsoeltinas Mnder the Socletlis
all farmers In the coemand eros.             Rogietration Act of 1560...
a    To be cofrmed by Minlstrial Order or I lMe Approval.
so   To be coditloned unde Ntlonal Mllnor trriglion Develom   Preojet
coo  To he coiltloned under Shallow Tu_lsl I end Low Lift Pop Irriptgaon Prolct
os. To bh conditioned undr Aricultural Support Sevlce Project



NowS la a1 TARI IN                                   sDIEi    N IN
BAKC ba maiteld a d"oInant role la the         Allow the private gocer to
wpply of zhor         o  eqipt                 prticipat.n the ioportation of
pgritr  dr Omto thd  pr_1a imot ofpubl icd *Inort                       )on
tam  accrdedm te  Om. lio h1                   re e t  disribto n out
eomstenld the dmv  omnt 1th  private                 ti    a ful mre pree
mete.                                          through th. priae  and public
Iprove fakrmw asscee to    Reside."a ceotittin  as ---------r bud            educe unit aubsidims em TSP and WI     Abel 1gb rmining subsidles
chemical ftilane NW         an the budgt tWh  proesento   unit              by 80 using Import perity prlmas o      on TSP en  UP, a*d m*|eia
ceee as a memo of           subsidies   imoted TS  (rU9 an   P                rate ta..; review th  ex-factory      unsubsidised picme
roeI slaf the tull growt    (U1) sold by UKC   dce the           ye for    pric of ares and adju It It              thereafter on a11 cdeleal
d ofi          t in  th  privatemter to import.                      aeessry, to eupert perity                fort I lzers.se
datributioa or *rgr        to  able
KCIC to *l drtly     both the
privat ad publi o etors em eqa
terme.
Fetil     lmpero are rostitod for th           Reov reatrictioas om lwoa of
privat meter eve thu          s                frti Ilsw  (TS, UP and ure)...
teer          dret     p      sector
lifting ofureaft   fatoories be resulted       to cae of Pmt IC 1ectot imports
in itproved fertilisor avilability at          allow private sector to lift TSP. lp
l1ser prim.                                    and urea direetly free the ports
(shipe).
With ovwr 9S of marketing of urea,              Mc to coocentro on pertorming
repstiag 2/ of all fortilizer me, ae           only an Iltrvontioe rolo to
hnled b th  private sector.SADC'"              fertlilsr  erZketing by mintolning a
seeworo  IP and P be  became l         Ily     buffer stock an sIng fertller
_euds.            UP mtmbting 1ee also         availabilty in oares s   ikely to t
shifted subsetoikal y fra the PP and  P        aerved by the private soetor.
diretly to the smps.
PrIvatie LAKe fertiliter                OiOme of em additioel So
dietribstiem  facilitions close 2 of    POP an  ratleallz  me of
the a exieting IPI aWn prlvatize 20      remaIn   10 POP costest
of the S0 azxitilg SADC-operatd PNP.   with MDCe lutorevt ion pole
la fetilier Irkoting.
'*   lliTo be _eoI_rMe by UjaiwSric  Uor or  Mausk pproval. 
as   To be coditioned  der  atioa   Illaor Irrilgaloe  Oonvologest ProJect
see   To be ooditiemed wader Shallow Tubeel I sad Low iUft Pup Iripgtion Project
*.eo  To be c itiomed wader Agricutteral upport servime Projct



-ommm,                                                               111111M    TO 1 Tt  NliOE a=  lM.                lou  TAIUM ON
Low lent of private sector etlivty to                                             Restrict SAC's mrketing of
seed retel Ing has limte  farmr accs                                              seeds to wholaIng to prive"
to seeds.                                                                         dGeal., NW .tr.t Isplem_tatieo
of actio pla to modify UK'.
roli the seed  sectPor coverwi
prielog, seesting, produwctlo
and mltipllcatioa ead mart
Lt-ited imprt f br r and oundio    All1 pae   co  to    ort se
seeds by the publIs sctri ed act of      tn genetc       rial (sjet o plnt
privat sector acces to locally           heslt  reurmn),dhav
poc  breedr and f          o  seed has  to brefo               o        from
eoselrim    the avalablilty of ibprove    locl pubil  seroe  (DDC/reeeeh
genetic mtrall to fara.                  in).
1mprve f  Od    ,          Procurmn priels are primarily                                                      Esttblish prodce floor price
__namt to etebillee         detemined on a cat plus basic. la                                                 for oains tzak   Isto
priaw  atho  -   hieIce, the Intended -upport has been                                                -twt  id
pries on th  ometic                                                                                           account  ad)  jrocoenendsBilJ ti
market aroud oeppst sl          aal  ot local -*,    pites                                                    of onooigo IwwIstuY I a
c_te.                     tfal    upto US below the prreent                                                 coltatioa with ISA, AD sa
crieso  rae td   to 1skof                                                         MUD; procue quantities of
_  Wla c~~~~~~~~#lXy.                                        *~~~~~~oodontle oftr *VW* "
llit oocmryto support
folr prices annee fl oo
Priam prior to the plealtn
seaso_s for rice and whett.
Vh antiharding law snd gr ai balding    RemIo oblstcles to privat setot
le have bee suspended, bt not            toodgrate sorage, Including
abel   d. Credit for sore purs           reetrictios. on creit for stora
is restited.                             urpos aN  ati-hoarding aNd grain
hoiding reulatios.ee
The emphasits on Imports s, _ma of       All overment ecomelal foodgrain          Folmett as ection pln takilg
nring food security bas centraned        lpors 1beyond _ u al mrkt                into accout the reesentloa
theDev__raen'o ability to procure        reuireme         ) ( n  relad ood aid  of the IhI study and, In
domesically.                             to be clrd    t        d Policy am       oenutetion  ith I, ADs aNW
Monitoring CemittOe; undertale          USAID litiate Implementation In
ceemreli I foodgran mpors wder open  order tot rotlonlis fodgrnai
interatofl t       Inr g.0s             steodak  made for feood se iy
aN  operatlonl prposes prn-
doesic floodgaipoueetm
a priority bei an  imot an a
o    TO 11 co "nem   by Uinssriua  or  or Wabnt Approval.                                       '
as   To be  nties d  und National mineor trrintion Development PreeoJt
se   To be cenditiosed une Shalloaw tubeei 1so Low Lift Pmp trrige.io  Project
es"  To be co1dltese  unde Agr_,ultsral Suort Servic  Project



1mmw                               _ _TI       SOWmoAm            _1m=      IIS   TAM_i a             i  wan In 1        I    El To
ovr_e  _~"I  of foodgreia 1mot   Reov fedrlas fro  th  lit of
I_eds tWe traumaeon of oorld  ar        trtite  Imort.
pelacdut  o aowad                  out
I     tbe e.floo   through
*~~~Rm e_*ltloa.
The eeries bah of foodtnia oxports                                                 Rem ov n oa euporta of
rnvam  NW lacestive for th  privat                                                f oo4t      n o         poscitoa
_e terte dsvlop exor markets.                                 otbblty rice aIos ibly
tbr  Comt.
Itbmalle Institutional    A 1W  sWY of DC ONrried out io  1P                                                  Flzlse  etteo  plae for rtom
*reek for sl*1              "eCeeuwd that UK  be  eioated  an                                                  ef SMCs role In keeing with
irriteoled                  free cernarldl ftactiosa tewrd                                                     Its prlsrv tfucion e an
agrieiturl dsei.gsmt. dselcpmmatai activities.                                                          14tioto SCOUt aw
develolpment sd initiat Its
Iuplemsstatos.
As FAG tmtdy ceaded I a                   Initite re----lgatios ot Wt In I IS.   Stresthen FrP  to tmprove food
_smemdd that the Directorate GeOler    with    e        ion  o FAO st,dy to       policy ed fodgralo procureaet
of Food (NP) he restructured to be        imrov  Its managantt en fia_aciel        activitls.
Itt directorst  represented at thre      offtileocy.
Ilovea (badqurtee, ro?ions adW
district.) to doeeetral Ise mesibteiag
NW casro1 t of*steek  m      tm
im1pro plsasia, mitorwig sad control
at a11 oi erwtio   leveI.
Avoitd d     to             Peeeible overraft of eqilfr with                                                   Prepar e  plan to ealish a
esviremmst by               advse effeet on ease groduate                                                      esotorwids mitering spates for
sIIc"tural deelegies    use. Potential for eo_- leai to                                                        the esIn_lmsa  Impost of
p _eym.                      _otmisst drinking  trad                                                           ai*cetural development
tisherie.                                                                          pT0r11mlsa d  in  Insltation
wIthIaAd    ;  gee on a
tl_tab-1 to 1mplo     the plan.
[Mtrix/April 25, lEul
*    To be oooifm     p Hilteial Or r or last Approval.
so   To be Conditioned wadr National Mloor Irrigatieo  hevolops_t Proj]et
se   To be oedtied under Slow Tuble_l I sad Low Lift PFp liriotlee Project
s_   To be ceeditioee  ma   Agricultural  Support Servic  Project



= 37 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria
1.       Groundwater development will not be permitted in the coastal area
where a risk exists for saline intrusion.
2.       Rehabilitation of existing public wells will be undertaken only after
the wells have been sold to farmers or other private investors.
3.       Village vater wells becoming inoperable due to a decline in the water
level resulting from the installation of project DTWs, will be rehabilitated
when they are at a distance of (a) 10m or less from a 14 l/sec DTV, (b) 200m
or less from a 28 1/sec DTW, or (c) 400m or less from a 56 l/sec DTW.
4.       Drainage canal improvement schemes will not be initiated without
prior commitment by beneficiaries to contribute the required land and 302 of
the labor.  Also, these schemes will be limited to areas, where:  (i) they
will not be detrimental to downstream water users, and (it) STWs are not %
viable alternative. Each scheme will be based on a study establishing its
economic and financial viability and its sustainability in relation to the
resource base and the environment.
5.       Pontoon mounted pump schemes will be initially limited to 20.  This
limit will be removed if they proof to be successful. All schemes will
require feasibility studies establishing their financial and economic
viability, and their sustainability in relation to the resource base and the
environment.   The initial schemes will be limited to coastal areas
especially the districts of Barguna, Patuakhali, Jhalakati, Perojpur, Barisal,
Bagerhat and Khulna.
6.       To be eligible for access to project funds, private equipment
importers will have to give a written commitment to their participating bank
(see also paras. 8 and 9) that they wills
(a) import project equipment with due regard to economy and efficiency on
the basis of reasonable prices, and provide evidence of the
procurement procedures followed;
(b) sell the equipment only to contractors and farmers who make use of it
for irrigation purposes;
(c) provide purchasers of the equipment with a warranty for at least two
irrigation seasons;
(d) keep sales records identifying the purchasers of the equipment; and
(e) permit the inspection of such records by the participating bank, the
Monitoring and Performance Evaluation Unit (MPEU), and IDA.
7.       Drillers and other contractors who wish to use project funds for the
constructionlinstallation of project irrigation facilities are also required
to provide a written commitment to their participating bank, that they wills



3 SS -                              MMh  2
Page 2 of 2
(a) supply such facilities on a turn-key basisl
(b) provide farmers with a full warranty for at least two irrigation
seasons;
(c) keep adequate sales records which identify the purchasers; and
(d)  permit the inspection of such records by the participating bank, MPEU
and IDA.
8.       The importerlcontractor provides the written commitment to his
participating bank (PB) when requesting the opening of a letter of credit.
The PB forwards the commitment to Bangladesh Bank (BB) at the tine it applies
for project funds. NPEU will carry out spot checks to verify that
Importersicontractors comply with their comitment. In case of non-
compliance, they would be barred from applying for further use of project
funds. (As there is some concern that the above warranty requirement might be
a hindrance to the participation of small contractors, the project would
provide on a pilot basis US$1 million for small contractors who sell without
warranties. If found successful this pilot scheme would be enlarged.)
9.       To partlcipate in the project, a PB will be required to enter into a
participation agreement with BB under which it will
(a) provide the following documents to BB when applying for project
fundss
(i)  all standard documents requlred by BB for opening letters of
credit;
(ii)  copies of shipping and other documents furnished by the
dealerlcontractor in accordance with the PB's requirements;
(iii) a copy of the dealericontractor commitment (paras. 7 and 8);
(b) when payment is made to a foreign supplier under an International
letter of credit, pay 8B in taka the equivalent of the foreign
exchange used from project funds;
(c) when payment is made to a local contractor under a domestic letter of
credit, repay BB within 180 days and pay interest to BB at a rate
agreed under the Agrlcultural and Rural Credit Project (to be
mplemented in parallel with this project).lV; and
(d) be disqualified from the use of project funds if found in non-
compliance with the participation agreement.
1/     Under the Agricultural and Rural Credit Project it has been agreed that
38 would charge participating banks interest at A rate equivalent to
the sum of (i) the weighted average cost of deposits in the banking
sector, and Cii) the administrative cost of mobilising such deposits.



- 39 -                             ANNEX 3
Page I of 6
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Groundwater Develoument
A. The Context
1.       Net groundwater abstractions by existing irrigation facilities are
evaluated periodically (usually bi-annually) by upazilas to provide updated
estimates of the aquifer recharge available for new irrigation development.
To date, only about 30S of the available recharge for irrigation has been
developed when assessed at the country level, but the levels of development
vary widely between upazilas.
2.       Band-drilled shallow tubewell designed for a discharge of about 14
1/sec and equipped with a centrifugal pump offer a low cost, motor powered
pumping solution in areas where this technology can be applied. There has
been a very rapid expansion of development of this type of facility as a
private sector initiative in recent years. These facilities are particularly
appropriate for individual or small group owner-hip, and the market in this
equipment is now competitive and offers a high degree of freedom to farmers'
choice. The availability of groundwater within suction depth and access to
aquifers at relatively shallow depth is not, however, evenly distributed.
There are extensive areas of the country where a substantial proportion of the
available groundwater resource can be developed only by use of tubewells
equipped with vertical shaft turbine pumps. To date, such facilities have
been restricted to equipment with discharges of about 56 l/sec and the
equivalent cost of such a facility (expressed in terms of discharge or
potential area served) is much higher than that of a tubewell equipped with a
14 1lsec centrifugal pump unit. As sales of the facilities equipped with
vertical shaft turbine pumps has been supported by a high subsidy, a high
degree of control of this type of development has remained with the public
sector. Moreover, price distortions resulting from public sector control have
prevented participation of the private sector in the direct supply of the
equipment to farmers.
B. Groundwater Development Under the Pro1ect
3.       Groundwater development which involves the use of verticial shaft
turbine pump units, is necessary in some parts of the country if r.he
Government's policy of rapid groundwater development is to be implemented
throughout the alluvial basin. As the private sector has no experienee in
this technology, this type of development will require some government
intervention for some years to come while simultaneously developing the proper
conditions for full private sector participation.
4.       The project will support new groundwater development using tubewells
equipped with vertical shaft turbine pump units. However, as a departure from
the present practice of standardization on 56 1/sec facilities, the farmers
will be offered the opportunity to purchase facilities with a wide range of



- 40 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
discharges and command areas, Including but mat limited to the followings  14
l/sec, 28 llsec and 56 llsec with estimated respective command areas of 6 ha,
12 ha and 24 ha. In practice, the command areas will vary considerably. The
lower total costs of the lower discharge facilities makes them more affordable
to small groups of farmers, and the smller command areas associated with
these facilities should reduce organizational and management problems.
5.       About 12,000 tubewell facilities designed to discharge 56 l/sec and
equipped with vertical shaft turbine pumps remain in public ownership by BADC
for rental to farmer groups. These facilities constitAte a constant drain on
the public purse as rent recovery has been poor. Govwrament has now decided
that they should be sold to the private sector. Many of the facilities.
however, have been in operation for more than 10 years and some of the pump
units require major repairs. Some of these facilities are unsuitatile for sale
to farmers groups. Others can be rehabilitated. The project will finance
rehabilitation where the concerned farmer group, a private entrepreneur or a
Private Voluntary Organization (PVO) purchase the facilities.
6.       Since the development will be demand driven, it is not possible to
specify the actual numbers of ea h type of facility that will be constructed
or rehabilitated under the projcct. This will reflect farmers choice. For
the purpose of costing the pro! ,ct, however, certain assumptions have been
made about the numbers of eacL type of facility which are likely to be
purchased, but it is stressed that numbers and types of equipment eventually
financed under the project will reflect actual demand by farmers.
7.       New Tubewell Facilitiess  The project aims to develop a groundwater
pumping capacity tentatively estimated at 280,000 llsec to serve an irrigated
area of about 120,000 ha. Special support for the development will be
directed into the Northeast Region, where hydrogeological condit ons dictate
design discharges of 28 lsec or 14 Iisec in some circumstances'. Reflecting
this situation, it has been assumed that 20S of the planned total water
resource development will be by 14 l/sec facilities, 502 by 28 lsec
facilities and 30Z by 56 l/sec facilities. In terms of numbers of units of
each type, this converts to about 4,000 units of 14 l/sec capacity serving a
total of about 24,000 ha, 5,000 units of 28 Itsec capacity serving a total of
60,000 ha, and 1,500 units of 56 1/sec capacity serving a total of 36,000 ha.
8.       Rehabilitation of PumM Units on Existing Tubewell Facilities:  In
1988189, WDC surveyed the tubewell facilities it then owned to estimate the
repair requirements of the pump units. Out of a total of about 12,000
facilities, the pump units on 2,562 facilities then required major
replacements or repair as summarized below together wita estimated costs. It
is estimated that for up to 1,800 pump units it would be economical to have
them rehabilitated under the project after they have been sold by BADC.
Exploration in the greater Sylhet area indicates that the thickness of
the aquifer is often inadequate to support well discharges of 56 1/sec
though 28 l/sec and 14 l/sec wells can be constructed; aquifer
occurrence In the Moulavi Bazaar generally restricts well discharges to
about 14 I/sec.



-41 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
Category of
ReplacementlRepair                   No. of Unats   Unit Cost        Total Cost
(7)            (Tk M4)
A. Component replacements
1.  Engine                           943          100,000            94.30
2.  Pump                             178           70.000            12.46
3.  Gear head                        167           20,000             3.34
4.  Engine and pump                  133          170,000            22.61
5.  Engine and gear head             286          120,000            30.72
6.  Pump and gear head                 1           90,000             0.09
7.  Complete pump unit               137          190.000            26.03
B. Repairs to pua, gear head
or engine                            747           20,000            14.49
Totals                        2,562                           204.49
Average cost of rebabilitation - Tk 79,800
Detailed Features of New Tubewell Facilities
9.       The 14 lLsec Facility:  The tubevell will be constructed by the jet
drilling technique for which the equipment is fairly easy to mobilize in
sites with difficult access. The technique involves mainly manual labor, the
only motor powered part of the equipment being the pump for cLrculating water
during the drilling operation. Typical well designs for pumping water levels
in the range of 12-18 m indLcate total well depths in the range of 45-50 m.
The wells will be drilled from surface to total depth at a dlameter of 300 mm.
The upper well casing will be of mild steel and 200 m diameter set to depths
in the range of 18-24 m. The productLon string will be of PVC and of 100 mm
diameter, and in a typical well, 15 m will be slotted and 12 m will be blank
pipe. The tubular materials will be installed as a single string. the well
will be gravel packed to surface. Inltial development will be by a compressor
and final development by a turbine pump. The wells wlll be tested for a
minimum of 24 hours and the test wlll include a step drawdown test so that the
pump unit can be properly speclfied. The pump will be a vertical shaft
turbine unit powered by a diesel engine and will be equipped for V belt or
flat belt drive. The surface works will include a pllath for mountLig the
engine and a discharge box at the well head. Provision of the pump house and
the earth channel distribution system will be the responsibility of the
purchasers.
10.      The 28 l/sec Facilitys  The tubewell will be constructed by the jet
drilling technique. Typical well designs for pumping water levels in the
range of 15-21 m indlcate total well depths in the range of 54-60 a. The
wells will be drllled from land surface to total depth at 350 mm diameter.
The upper well casLig will be of mlld steel and 250 mm diameter set to depths
in the range of 21-27 a. The production string will be of PVC and of 125 mm
diameter, and In a typical well, 18 m will be slotted and 15 m will be blank



.42-                               ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
pipe. The tubular materials vill be installed as a single string. The wells
will be gravel packed to surface. Initial development will be by a compressor
and final development by a turbine pump. The wells will be pump tested for a
minimum of 24 hours including a step drawdown test. The pump wvil be a
vertical shaft turbine unit powered by a diesel engine, and power transfer may
be through either a gear box or V belt/flat belt drive. The surface works
will include a plinth for mounting the engine and a discharge box at the well
head. Provision of a pump house and construction of the earth channel
distribution system wll be the responsibility of the purchasers.
11.      The 56 llsec Facility.  The tubewells normally wvil be constructed by
rotary drilling rigs and the reverse rotary technique is usually the most
appropriate. However, jet drilling may be employed where conditions are
favorable and access by heavy machines is difficult. Typical vell designs for
pumping water levels in the range of 18-24 m indicate total well depths in the
range of 84-90 m. The wells will be drilled from land surface to total depth
at a diameter of 500 mm. The upper well casing will be of mild steel of 350
am diameter set to depths in the range of 24-30 m. The production string may
be either of stainless steel wire wrapped screen and galvanized iron pipe or
of glass reinforced plastic (G6P) screen and blank pipe or PVC screen and
blank pipe. It wvil be of 200 mm diameter and will typically consist of 36 m
of screen and 24 m of blank pipeV . The tubular materials will be inserted as
a single string and shrouded by a gravel pack to surface. The wells will be
initially developed by a compressor with final development by a turbine pump.
They will be pump tested for a minimum of 24 hours including a step-drawdown
test. The pump will be a vertical shaft turbine unit powered by a diesel
engine through a gear box drive. The surface works will include a plinth for
mounting the engine and a discharge box at the well head. The purchasers will
be responsible for provision of the pump house and construction of the earth
channel distribution system.
Establishins of Priority for Selection of Areas for Groundwater Development
12.      The policy of GOB is to expand groundwater development for minor
irrigation as quickly as possible using the least cost technology appropriate
to any area. As noted in para. 2, there are extensive areas of the country
where a large proportion of the available groundwater resource can be
developed only by use of tubewell facilities equipped with deep set turbine
pumps. But the costs of such facilities are much higher than that of a
tubevell equipped with centrifugal pumps when expressed in terms of equivalent
discharge. Therefore, it is rational that special support for development of
the more expensive facilities should be directed into areas where centrifugal
pumps generally cannot be used or where end of dry season water level declines
induced by increased abstractions make the water supply provided by
centrifugal pumps progressively more insecure.
2/   If wire wrapped screen is used, it may be possible to reduce the length
of screen to about 24 m and the gravel pack may 'io omitted In some
circumstances, thus reducing the cost of wvlls constructed with this
typ of material.



in43                               ANN=X 3
Page 5 of 6
13.      Areas for DeveloDment by 14-llsec and 28 l/sec Etuinment.  These
facilities will be sold to investors at full cost. It is anticipated that
they will be used by investors in areas where the use of deep set turbine
pumps is generally necessary and who prefer to share water on a small conmmda
area, or by Investors in areas where centrifugal pumps are generally used but
the end of dry season water supply is becoming insecure due to water level
decline. The facilities will, therefore be offered to investors throughout
the country where aquifer conditions are suitable and water quality is not a
constraintV. It is expected that the price differential between facilities
designed for deep set turbine pumps and those designed for centrifugal pumps
will ensure that investors make a rational choice. In addition, technical and
organizational support for development of the 14 Ilsec and 28 l/sec facilities
will be provided mostly in the 105 upasilas where force mode pumping is the
only option to develop a large proportion of the resource. (A list of these
upasilas is in the Project File.)
14.      Areas for Development of 56 lsec Facilities.  The sale of BADC's
existing stock of equipment for this facility (about 4,000 units), will
continue to be subsidized (see para. 4.10 of the report's main test). DTWs
procured by BADC in the future will, however, be sold without subsidy.
Government has issued an order requiring BADC to sell its existing stock
before acquiring any additional 56 l/sec DTW equipment. It is anticipated
that, as long as a subsidy is applicable, development using this type of
facility will be restricted by GOB to designated areas where it is believed
that use of vertical shaft turbine pumps is necessary for exploiting a large
proportion of the available groundwater resource. When the facilities are
sold at full price, there will be no restriction on the area in which these
can be installed other than the suitability of the aquifer and water quality.
15.      The Master Planning Organization (MPO; now named National Water
Resources Planning Agency) has made estimates of the proportion of the
available resource that could be developed using the various types of
abstraction technology in combination for all upazilas. The results of these
analyses are presented in consolidated form by planning region belows
11     The important area which is excluded because of water quality
limitations is the coastal zone.



-44-                                ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
Retions
Country
NW    NE    SW    SC    SE   APPa/ Totals
*  --*---------------eeCM--------e    -
Total available recharge             9480  9615  1538  1801  1980  1335   25749
Amount of recharge available
by abstraction mode
1.  Manual pumping                   95    96    15    18    20    12       256
2.  Centrifugal pumps              8200  4950   787  1071  1880  1109   17997
3.  Vertical shaft turbine pumps  1185  4569   736   712    80   214    7496
Totals                         9480  9615  1538  1801  1980  1335   25749
Z by centrifugal pumps                 86    51    51    59    95    83        70
S by vertical turbine pumps            13    48    48    40      4    16       29
al APP - active flood plain
16.      The above estimates indicate that, on a country wide basis, about 702
of the available resource could be developed using centrifugal pumps, 29Z
would require the use of vertical shaft turbine pumps, and the remaining 1S
could be developed by manual pumping. The requirement for vertical shaft
turbine pumping, however, varies considerably between region, ranging from 13?
of the available resource in the Northwest Region to 48? in both the Northeast
and Southwest Regions. Moreover, a number of upaxilas require the
installation of vertical shaft turbine pumps for development of considerably
more than 502 of the resource.
17.      Data are available from MPO giving the following information by
Upa:ilass {i) total available recharge; (ii) possible use of the available
recharge by centrifugal pumping; and (iii) net abstraction for irrigation
(after adjustment for return flows) in April 1989 as a percentage of available
recharge. The follcwing criteria have been applied for the selection of
upazilas for special support of development of groundwater under the project
using vertical shaft turbine pumping equipments (i) the potential for
development by tubewells equipped with centrifugal pumps should be less than
502 of the total available resource; and (ii) present development by all
technologies should be less than 50 of the total available resource.
Application of the above criteria revealed that they would apply to 85
upazilas of which 16 are in the Northwest Region, 59 in the Northeast Region,
siz in the Southwest/South-Central Region and four in the Southeast Region.
In addition, there are 20 upazilas which do not conform fully to the above
criteria, but where water levels are now beginning to constrain development of
groundwater and a shift to force mode pumping is becoming necessary. Of these
upazilas, five are within Northwest Region, 12 in the Northeast Region and
three in the Southeast Region (Map IBRD 22422).
18.      IPO estimates indicate that the undeveloped available groundwater in
the selected upazilas is about 5.0 BCM which could irrigate more than
600,000 ha of boro rice. Though part of this water could be developed using
centrifugal pumps, it is evident that available water resource would not be a
constraint of the proposed project development, particularly as the selection
criteria are biased towards the need for vertical shaft turbine pumping and
the present low intensity of development.



- 45 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJTECT
Surface Water Develooment
A. Development Potential
1.       The most comprehensive assessment of surf ce water resources is
provided In the National Water Plan (NOP) of 19861'. The NlP defines some 177
catchments which cover all of Bangladesh except the floodplains of the Ganges,
Brabmaputra and lower Meghus. Modelling techniques have been used to generate
montbly stream flows for 166 of these catcbments at 50X and 802 dependable
levels. Estimates of abstraction by all users have been prepared for each of
the modelled subcatcbments. In determining the water resources available for
development, the February outflow frcm each catchment at 50Z dependability has
been taken as an Indicator of the available flow. The assessment (details are
In the Project Files) indicates the availability of significant surplus flows
which could be utilized for irrigation, particularly in the tidally influenced
freshwater areas In the South Central and South Western Regions of the
country. Part of the surplus flows in the other regions are already committed
to ongoing or proposed projects such as Teesta and Dharla Barrages, Gumti
Titas Irrigation Project and the proposed development under the South East
Region Water Resources Development Project. Based on this assessment and the
eligibility criteria in Annex 2, the South Central and South West Regions have
been selected as priority areas for surface water development under this
project pending further investigations in the context of the feasibility study
for the proposed LLP Based Irrigation Project.
2.       The tidally influenced rivers and streams in the South Central Region
and the eastern part of the South West Region carry a major part of the flows.
The February flow in these rivers and streams is estimated at about 2,600
cu.m\sec out of a total of 6,400 cu.m\sec flowing from the catchments of the
Ganges, Brahmaputra and Megbna rivers into the Bay of Bengal. The lower
reaches of this intricate network are saline during the dry season. The
salinised reaches, however, do not extend as far as the tidal limit. The
mazismm Inland salinity penetration during the dry season is in the Rhulna-
Satkhira area in the South West Region and Bagerhat-Bhola area in the South
Central Region. Based on the present development in the tidally influenced
freshwater area, the surplus water in the network, and a containment of the
salinity boundary at its present level, it is estimated that surface water
irrigation could be extended to cover an incremental area of about 360,000 ha
in a part of the country with no potential for groundwater based irrigation.
S.       The project is tentatively expected to support irrigation development
to serve about 100,000 ha out of the estimated potential of 360,000 ha. Two
modes of development will be included In the project; (a) drainage canal
improvement schemes to provide more secure water supplies to farmer owned
LLPs, and (b) pnotoon mounted oump schemes to provide primary supplies to
1/ Technical Report No. 27 of the NW.



-46-                               ANX 4
Page 2 of 4
drainage networks for secondary pumping by fanmer owned LLPs or to provide
direct supplies under gravity, where feasible. The schemes identified for
implementation are listed in the Project Files.
B. Drainage Canal Improvements
4.       Ob1ectives.  In addition to reducing drainage congestion during the
monsoon season and allowing speedy evacuation of flood water at the end of
that season, the proposed improveents will provide  a primary source of water
supply during the rabi and boro seasons for use by farmer owned LLPs.
S.       Proposed Works.  Based on identification and preliminary feasibility
reports, it is tentatively estimated that somR 150 schemes serving an area of
about 75,000 ha can be  implemented under the project.  Works will include: (a)
excavation for widening and regrading existing drainage canals; and (b)
regulating structures with gated control facilities.
6.       Cost Zstimate.  The total estimated cost of project drainage
Improvements is based on the cost of a representative scheme for which a
limited feasibility study and engineering documents have been prepared. A
summary description and costs of the scheme are given below.
Representative Scheme.      Drainage Improvements to Machuakhali Mhal.  The
khal is located in Coshairhat Upazila in
Shariatpur District of the Southwest Region.
Pre-Proiect Condition.      The gross area of the scheme is about 1,200 ha of
which some 850 ha are cultivable. Of a total khal
length of 16 km, .'out 8 km have been excavated
and serve a boro cultivation of 400 ha. Water
supply to the khal is from the tidally influenced
Arial Khan river which is in the basin of the
leer Meghna river. The remaining 8 km are silted
up resulting in drainage congestlon during the
monsoon season and inadequate dry season flow.
The khal has no control structure at its outfall
to the Arial Khan river. The absence of
structures to pond water and prevent siltation
precludes optimum use of the tidal conditions.
7.       Proposed Improvements in the Representative Scheme.  The project will
provide for the re-excavation of the remaining 8 km of the kha;. Irrigation
water will be available for about 450 ha (limited to a width of 400 a on both
banks). The area will be served by about 25 LLPs. The detailed feasibility
study to be prepared during implementation will confirm its viability and
environmental sustainability as a precondition for taking up the scheme. It
will also identify and prepare proposals for lmprovements to the secondary and
tertiary khals within the main khal's command area.



- 47 -                             ANNE  4
Page 3 of 4
Cost of the te-resentative Scheme
Item                         Quantity    Unit      Rate      Amount
Land Acquisition 1/                        1.6      Ha    120,000     192,000
Re-excavation of Drainage
Canal (8 km)21                        148,000      H3          16   2,427,000
Controlled Regulator                         1    Nos    400,000      400,0 4c
Total Base Cost                                                     3,019,0GO
Base cost per ha - Tk 6,708 (US$197)
1/ Beneficiaries will provide land free of cost.
2I Beneficiaries wvil contribute In cash or labor 301 of re-excavation costs.
Beneficiaries' total contribution will be about 352 of the scheme's capital
cost. Ia addition, farmers will pay the full cost of LLPs and of O&W.
S.       Selection and Implementation of Schemes.  Schemes will conform to the
selection criteria described in Annex 2. They will be based on feasibility
studies which demonstrate their financial and economic viability and their
environmental sustainability, and which will be followed up by detailed
engineering plan. The schemes will be implemented under contracts awarded
following LCB procedures. Maintenance of completed schemes will consist
mainly of desilting of tho Intake canals to the controlled regulator. In
tidally affected areas, a substantial part of the silt deposited in khals is
tidal deposits. By siting the controlled regulator at its outfall to the main
river, desilting of the intake canal will be minimized and it will be possible
for bene"fciaries to undertake these works at their own cost.  Beneficiaries'
agreement to this will be a condition for including a scheme in the project.
C. Primary Irriaaticr Sunplies by Pontoon Mounted Pumas
9.       Obiectives. The project will provide pontoon mounted pumps to supply
water to farmer owned LLP8, or as direct supply under gravity, where feasible.
10.      Develonment Area. The service area of a system will be in the range
of 100 to 200 ha which, with a capacity duty of 2.8 l/seclha, Implies pumping
capacities in the range of 280-560 l/sec.2&  The facilities will be located
primarily in the coastal zone where tidal freshwater is associated with saline
groundwater and could eventually serve an area tentatively estimsted at about
20,000 ha. However, initially only 20 schemes will be constructed, and
furtner ertensions will be delayed until a perfethance assessment of these
schemes has been completed.
1I.      Pr_oect Works.  The pumping capacity on a standard pontoon will be
provided by a 280 llsec centrifugal unit powered by direct shaft drive from a
diesel engine. It will be possible to link two or more standard units for
21   The higher water duty reflects the difficulty of managing large numbers
of farmers In the command, the probable avoidance of night pumping, and
the soclal condition in the Delta area with large numbers of tenant
farmers.



- 48 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
areas where higher than 280 llsec discharge is required. Capacities of the
power units will be in the range of 40-60 BP. The pontoons will be of sheet
steel fabrication and will be designed to include sealed buoyancy chambers.
Pipe work and floats for delivery of the water to the comnand area will be
provided. In addition to the pontoon mounted pump, the works will include:
(a) excavation for improving the capacity of the natural drainage (khal)
network into which the primary water supply will be delivered,
(b) a control structure at the head of the drainage network adjacent to
the pontoon mounted pump unit;
(c) earthwork checks along the network as necessary; and
(d) feeder canals from the pumping units needed to supply the drainage
network as necessary.
12.      Cost Estimate.  Out of the 200 schemes proposed for eventual
development, eight have been prepared at limited feasibility level (see
Project File). The cost estimates detailed below are representative for the
various schemes.
Description of a RePresentative Scheme
Area comanded                                    100 ha
Discharge of pumps (one standard unit)           280 l/sec
Cost Item                       Quantity  Unit    Rate        Amount
(Tk.'000)   (Tk.'000)
Procurement of Pumps and Engines          1       No.     500          500
Fabrication of Pontoon Inclusive
of Supply of Materials                 1      No.      700          700
Installation of Pump and Provision
Associated Pipe Works                  1       No.     500          500
Drainage Network Improvement
(incl. Check Structures
and Regulator)                                 sum                 300
Total Base Cost                                                     2,000
Cost per ha - tk 20,000 ($588)
13.e           ion pi Ipementation of Schemes.  In line with the selction
criterta descr  ed In Anne-   2, each schme taken up for implementation will be
subjected to a feasibility study on which its financial and economic viability
and is environmental sustainability will be confirmed. This will be followed
up by detailed engineering for improvements to the drainage network. BADC and
private contractors, assisted by project consultants, will be responsible for
implementation. Project consultants will review the identification reports
for the Initial 8 schemes, to be implemented by BADC and update and amend them
as required. They will also assist in identifying further schemes, preparing
feasibility studies, and In supervising their implementation. Procurement of
equipment antd mater'l by BADC, as well as the construction of permanent works
such as control structures at the outfall where the system is located and
Improvements to the drainage canals will not be undertaken until
beneficLaries' willingness to pay the scheme's full cost has been established.



-49 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
IANGLADRBN
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Demonstration Irrigation Systems
1.       Participation.  Farmero will be selected for participation under this
component on the basis of the following criterias
(a) farmers should be willing to follow the advice of BADC's technical
assistance team and to allow their fields to be used to demonstrate
to other farmers the use of alternative irrigation technologies and
Improved production practices;
(b) farmers selected should include those willing to use a variety of
technological options for water abstraction (DTWs and LLPs of
different brands and different discharge capacities), and a variety
of on-farm water distribution systems (buried pipes, lired channels,
and either type in combination with unlined channels);
Cc) farmers should be willing to follow the advise of the Department of
Agricultural Extension and BADC's consultant team with regard to the
cropping pattern and the cultural practices in order to optimize the
use of irrigation facilities: and
id) farmers should be able to acquire their own facility for water
abstraction (DTW, LLP) independently of this component. Their
participation in the demonstration program should be motivated by
their desire to optimize their command area, and to mprove their on-
farm water management and cropping practices.
2.       To that end, improved water distribution systems using buried pipe of
a selection of materials (PVC, spun concrete) and brick or precast concrete
lined channels will be on offer to farmers' groups that want to expand the
command area or improve the conveyance efficiency of the water delivery system
under a tubewell facility or an LLP. As the project component is conceived as
a demonstration activity and until its general acceptability as a private
investment is proven, the capital costs will initially be subsidized.
leneficiaries who wish to install a distribution system will be required to
provide the unskilled labor for installation and to pay 5O0 of the materials
costs, the balance of the costs of materials and installation being'*overed by
the subsidy.
3.       It is planned to install 500 demonstration facilities under the
project under the terms outlined above. Each Individual system will be
designed to meet the specific requirements of the participating farmer. The
imposition of standardized distribution layouts on potential investors will be
avoided. Technical support for design and implementation of schemes will be
available from the project management. If the demonstration schemes generate
a more general interest in the farming community, the program will be expanded



- SO-                              ANE  S
Page 2 of 2
with schemes on offer at full market price. Reallocation of projec. funds for
that purpose can be considered at the mid-term review.
5.        Buried Pipe System.  Pilot developments in Bangladesh have shown
that buried pipe distribution systems installed on minor irrigation facilities
permit a significant expansion of the command area and/or a more efficient
distribution of the water as compared to the conventional earth channel
systems or lined channels. Buried pipe systems are preferable to lined
channels because they do not take up land, they are not susceptible to flood
damage, and the systems can be laid out without reference to topographic
variations except that a pipe outlet must have gravity command of its
designated service area within which the water delivery is through open
channels.
6.       Various pipe materials have been tested, including PVC pipe and spun
concrete castings. PVC pipe has the advantages that it is light and easy to
transport without breakages, quality control of the material can be assured, a
properly laid system is essentially leak-proof, and the internal smoothness of
the pipe permits the use of smaller pipe diameters for a given flow rate as
compared to many other pipe materials (plastic and cement). Disadvantages of
PVC pipe are that the resin must be imported and the cost of the pipe is
relatively high compared to some alternatives. Spun concrete pipe is cheaper
than PVC and is easy to produce with simple equipment near the project site.
Quality control, however, presents problems; good aggregate is often not
available; breakages during moving the material can be significant; and
jointing to provide a water tight system is difficult.
7.       Lined Channel System. Most of the lined channel systems have been
constructed of brick in earth embankment. Half hexagon profiles have been
used, but this is an unnecessary refinement - rectangular sections have
essentially the same efficiency with the small discharges involved and are
more robust. Half-round precast concrete sections set in embankment have also
been used. The main problems are associated with achieving a properly
consolidated earth embankment on which to locate the lined section,
susceptibility of the embankment to damge due to flooding, and farmers
encroaching into the embankment for cultivation.
8.       Essentially all the buried pipe and lined channel conveyance systems
that have been constructed have been designed to achieve about 2 ha outlet
cohuandwadrea. This approach is ur$erstandable for design of a system for
public operation and for funding from the public purse. The approach,
however, may not be desirable or affordable for private investors. A system
based as a 4 ha outlet command areas may be more appropriate to meet the
specific objectives of a private Investment in improving a vater distribution
system.
9.       The demonstration schemes provlde the opportunity for a logical link
between the project and the extension activities of DAB. Therefore, the
schemes will be used jointly by BADC and 'E in cooperation with farmer groups
for demonstration of alternative irrigation equipment, on-farm water
mAnagement practices and improved production practices.



-51 -                              ANNEX 6
Page i of S
IAHGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENS PROJECT
Environment Protection
1.       An environmental impact assessment undertaken by Independent team
commissioned by ODA has concluded that the irrigation development components
of this project and of the IDA-assisted Shallow Tubewell and Low Lift Pump
1roject will have overall a positive environmental impact, but that there
could also be some negative environmental effects.
2.       Significant positive environmental impacts Include:
(a) Increased agricultural production. This will enhance the quality of
life through increased income and increased food availability;
(b) Reliable domestic food supnlX. Provision of water for irrigation
will remove elements of uncertainty associated with crop production
In a climate dominated by uneven distribution of annual rainfall;
(c) Provision of water for domestic use. Most of the rural population
depends on groundwater for domestic use. particularly in areas where
surface water bodies are liable to dry up. Groundwater also
constitutes a supply of potable water during floods which often
contaminate static water bodies. Irrigation wells could be used to
supply domestic water which would generally be of bigh quality;
(d)  Irritation in the coastal xones.  In coastal areas there groundwater
abstraction can lead to salinization of the aquifer, abstraction of
fresh tidal aters by pontoon mounted pumps is planned as a means of
intensifying agriculture through irrigation;
(e) Increased irrigation efficiency throush improved distribution
systems. Reduced percolation losses from buried pipe and lined
channel distribution systems, will permit a reduction in pumping and
costs or alternatively an increase in irrigated cosmand area; and
(f) Enhanced employment omportunities. Agricultural intensification will
'I       4     result in increased labof demaAd both for crop cultivation and   I
harvesting, and also in agricultural processing and marketing.
3.       Increased use of the available recharge to facilitate irrigated
agriculture will eventually lead to lowering of water levels at the end of the
dry season. Vieved In a year-round context, this phenomenon is beneficial
since it creates a reservoir to store rain and flood waters during the monsoon
season. In a seasonal contest, however, lowering of the water table could
have temporary negative impacts. These could includes
(a) Effects oan STWs. In some areas, lowering of the groundwater table
during the dry season makes some existing STWs less effective. Two
mitigatory measures are possibles (i) conversion to a deoepset STW,
and (1i) replacement of the TW by a force mode pumping facility;



52 -                             ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
(b) Effect on domestic suopul sestems. Villagelcommunity supplies of
groundwater from hand tubewells may be Interrupted towards the end of
the dry season, due to water level decline. To mitigate this, the
project will replace affected wells with more efficient HTWs;
tc) Drawdown of static water bodies. Theoretically, water table drawdown
could result in temporary drainage from static water bodies towards
the end of the dry season. If severe, this can have adverse effects
on fish stocks, wetland habitats and water supplies for the rural
population for irrigation and/or domestic uses. This phenomena has,
however, not yet been observed in Bangladesh; and
(d)  Groundwater salinization.  Eligibility criteria preclude this from
occurring as a result of the project.
4.       Surface Water Abstraction.  It is difficult to predict the effect of
surface water abstraction since the proportion of baseflow abstracted will
vary. Potentially, adverse effects on navigation and fish stocks could occur.
Any impact will be evaluated in the context of the feasibility study for each
of the project's surface water schemes. Dredging could mitigate the impact on
navigation, while adverse effects on fish stocks could be mitigated by
regulating abstraction if problems arise. This is not expected to be needed
under this project because no funding for any scheme will be provided unless
proven sustainable (see Annex 2). Negative impacts which could result from
the implementation of the parallel Shallow Tubewell and Low Lift Pump
Irrigation Project will also be monitored as part of the general monitoring
system for ground and surface water abstraction set up under this project.
5.       Intensive ARrlcultural Methods.  The provision of groundwater will
allow dry season irrigated cropping, mostly of boro rice, which may lead tos
(a) Increased use of agro-chemicals with ootential for groundwater
contamination. Irrigated agriculture results in increased use of
pesticides and fertilizer which could percolate through the soil and
affect groundwater. There is presently no information on agro-
chemical concentrations in the soil profile and/or groundwater in
Bangladesh. The current pollution status cannot, therefore, be
assessed. To redress this soil, ground and surface water samples
will be analyzed under the project for fertilizer and pesticide
residues. Pesticide consumption in Bangladesh is low in comparison
with neighboring countries such as India wbere unacceptable pesticide
concentrations have not yet been reported. Nitrate contamintzion of
groundwater used for domestic purposes has health implications.
Groundwater quality monitoring under the project should allow
mitigation before levels become unacceptable; and
(b)  Reduced graslng.  Temporal and spatial reduction in the amount of
fallow land will reduce the pasture area. This is exacerbated by the
fact that boro rice has less residual straw available for grazing.
6.       Health Aspects.  As the temporal and spatial distribution of standing
water increases as a result of irrigatlon, vector populations may increase.
This may result In an increased lncidence of water associated diseases such as
malarLa, encephalitis, cholera and dysenteric diseases. The project will



- 53 -                              AENNX 6
Page 3 of 5
finance a small study in irrigated and non-irrigated areas to determine
whether this is a cause for concern.
Actions to Mitigate Potential Negative Impacts on the Environment
7.       While it is uncertain whether any of the potential negative impacts
will develop, the project vill closely monitor developments in the ebove areas
to identify problems quickly if they materialize and help take action to
correct them in time. An area where a negative impact is expected from the
project concerns domestic water supplies which may be reduced in proximity of
deep tubewell facilities (para. 3). The project provides for corrective action
in that case in the form of rehabilitationlreplacement of affected wells. The
project's environment activities will be carried out by a special unit (para.
14).
8.       Groundwater Resource Development and Water Quality Monitoring.
Privatization of groundwater development based on the force mode pumping
technology and removal of controls on where such facilities may be located
(except for the coastal zone where there is a risk of water quality
deterioration) are important policy goals of the project. Nevertheless, It is
necessary that GOB maintains an adequate level of monitoring of groundwater
resources development for the following reasons:
(a)  with progressively increasing levels of development, groundwater
abstraction may eventually approach the safe yield of the aquifer
system, and then require controls, such as a ban on new wells in
affected areas, to avoid adverse effects of over-development;
(b)  with progressively increasing groundwater abstraction in areas where
the suction mode of pumping is presently applicable, water level
declines may occur to the point where a shift to force mode pumping
will be necessary to fully develop the exploitable groundwater, and
private investors will require foreknowledge of the occurrence of
this phenomenon to facilitate decision making;
(c)  Government will require information on the impact of groundwater
development for irrigation, on groundwater-based domestic water
supplies, particularly in villages, so that plans can be made to
alleviate any adverse affects on such supplies; and
(d) existing models for planning water resources development will require
move accurate information on the changes imposed on the groundwater
system'by devefopment of the resource so that the modd* can be
refined to enable more accurate forecasts of the impact of foreseen
developments on the aquifer and on dry season surface water flows.
The most important parameters to be monitored are groundwater levels, the
effects of groundwater abstraction including the interaction between wells,
and water quality. Baseline studies would be carried out including one to
determine the conservation value of wildlife in selected surface water bodies.
9.       A network of 20 Automatic Water Level Recorders (AWLR) has been
established under the Deep Tubewells It (DTW 1I) project. This provides an
important and continuous source of information on groundwater level
fluctuations. The network will be expanded by installing (a) 15 additional



-54-                              ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
AVLRs during 1990-92 under DTW IS, and (b) 100 more under the proposed
project. This vill permit countrywide collectLon of rellable water level data
which will be used to cross-check the results of manual measurements made by
BADC and BDB on observation well networks established for this purpose. The
data from the A!LRs will be passed on to the National Water Resources Planning
Agency and the Environmental Pollution Control Department. Research on the
use of solid state recorders which allow direct transfer of digital data to a
computer database will be undertaken as part of this monitoring program.
10.      At present, there is no data on fertilizer or pesticide levels in
groundwater. Some research on this may [e carried out in 1991-92 as part of
DTW I1, and an investigation will be Initiated under the proposed project tos
(a) compile data on the history of fertilizer and pesticide application
in Bangladesh and the main types lnvolveds
(b) conduct a baseline survey to identify any present levels of pollution
by fertilizer and pesticides in groundwaterl
(c) depending on the results from (b), conduct detailed investigations
including sampling at various depths and the unsaturated zone to
predict future pollution levels and the time scale of problems; and
(d) prepare reports on the investigations to assist GOB in formulation of
appropriate pollution control policies.
1i.      Bangladesh has presently no laboratory facilities able to provide
quantitative analysis of pesticides and fertilizer, though the capability to
detect the presence of certain types may be available. The latter may provide
the basis for initial screening, but quantitative analyses will have to be
conducted abroad. ADB plans to finance in 1992 a fully equipped laboratory
which would provide the means to do the analysis in Bangladesh.
12.      Data Processing and Evaluation.  The monitoring program covers
processing and evaluation of all data from the resource development monitoring
and groundwater pollution surveys. A comprehensive, computer based, data base
will be established under the project. Data will be collected, processed and
evaluated to guide project management and to provide a central source of
information to be shared with the National Water Planning Agency, the
Environmental Pollution Control Department and other GOB agencies.
13.      Rehabilitation of Affected Domestic Water Supplies.  To mitigate any
negative impaft of project wells on village water supply,tgyjems, the project
will replace suction mode hand pumps by force mode pumps and/or reconstruct
affected wells to enable pumping from greater depth. The project finances the
rehabilitation of domestic water supply systems which meet the criteria in
Annex 2. In addition, EEC will seek GOB agreement to use some of the local
funds generated from the sale of EEC financed project equipment, for the
rehabilitation/improvement of village water supply systems nationwide.
Organization
14.      An environment cell will be established In the Irrigation Development
Support Unit (ID$u) in Dhaka to carry out the above activities and produce the
requlred outputs. It will be headed by a senior consultant reporting to the



-55 -                               ANNE  6
Page 5 of 5
Project Dlrector through the consultunt team lesder. Members of the unit wlll
work for varying periods out of IDSU's regional offices. as required. The
unlt will coordinate its activLties closely with those of GOB's other water
resources related research and resource monitoring organizatLons, including
the National Water Resources Planning Agency and the Environmental Pollution
Control Department.
Duration of Consultancy Services and ComposLtion of Team
15.      Consultancy services will be needed for five years.  It is estimated
that the work will require consultancy inputs in the order of 180 and 120
person-months of internationally and locally recruited specialists,
respectively. The unit's head will be a specialist in groundwater development
with adequate managerial experience, who will be assisted by a groundwater
cheamstry specialist and an environmentalist for a total period of 3 years and
short term specialists (48 plm) in rural sociology, mechanical engineering and
hydrogeology. Locally recruited senior professionals (120 plm) in the fields
of rural sociology and systems analysis will be located in the Dhaka office
while the mld-level professionals (270 plm) responsible for monitoring and
data collectlon, will be in IDSU's four regional offices. The head of the
unit will ensure that specialists recruited internationally transfer their
skills to those hired locally. Details on required consultancy services,
vehicles and equipment are in the Project Files.
ReportinR
16.      The consultants will submit an inception report, quarterly progress
reports, an lnterim report after three years and the final report at the end
of five years.
Qualification and ExRerience of Consultant Staff
17.      The profile of key staff is given belowt
(a) Groundwater Development SpecialLst and Groundwmter Chemistry
Specialist. Both candidates should possess a degree in civil
engineering with a minimum of S years experience in groundwater
engineering, part of which should be in a developing country. For
the post the chemistry specialist, a graduate chemist with a civil
engineering degree will be preferable;
(b) Environmentalist. The candidate should possess a post-graduate
degree in envi$onmentaJ or natural sciencelecology/bLology and a
minimum of 5 years experience in environmental studies on
groundwater development. A civil engineering degree in groundwater
development will be a plus, as will be demonstrated ability to
design and implement a program for investigating problems of
fertilizer, pesticides and other pollutants being leached into
groundwater systems; and
(c) Rural Sociologist. The candldate should possess a degree in
socLology with proven experience (at least flve years) In the study
of rural societies and communlties in developing countries.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
BMNGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training and Information Dissemination
A. Training
Aim of the Training Program
1.       The training component of the project aims to upgrade the relevant
services provided by the concerned Gcovernment agencies and the private sector
involved in minor irrigation development to enable them to effectively support
implementation of the project.  It also aims to provide the necessary training
to the beneficiaries of the project to enable them to properly manage the
irrigation facilities which they will procure.
Training Needs Assessment and Training Plan
2.       A comprehensive training needs assessment has yet to be undertaken.
The training courses proposed and the number of participants indicated in this
Annex are therefore tentative. The first task of the training consultants
will be to conduct such an assessment. This will include an evaluation of the
effectiveness of ongoing training carried out by concerned GOB agencies and
NGOS, the number of trained personnel that ongoing training activities can
produce, and the number of trained personnel required. The detailed training
plan of the project will then be dravn up to fill the gaps. The trainee
groups identified includes pump operators, mechanics leaving BADC, new
mechanics, BADC engineers, irrigation group organizers (IGO), and water user
groups. In addition, BADC professional staff will be trained abroad and
locally in improving groundwater technology for introducing low cost wells.
The training consultants will prepare a detailed proposal which will include
the provision of laboratory facilities, and course materials for local
training and the overseas institutions qualified to provide advanced training.
Training Staff
3.       Persons responsible for teaching will take "Training of Trainers'
courses. It is anticipated that the training staff will be provided as
follows for the various categories of traineess
Nos of
Trainees                   Trainers                            Trainers
Pump operators            Selected BADC mechanics                 40
Mechanics                 Selected BADC workshop engineers        10
BADC engineers            Consultants and BADC engineers           6
IGO                       Consultants and NGOs                     5
Water User Associations   Irrigation Group Organizers            100



.57-                                ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
Training Methodologt
4.       All training will be based on hands-on active participation by
trainees. Practical training methods incorporating skills tests and a large
component of field work will be used. Training will be preceded by a skills
or knowledge test so that trainees can be grouped accordingly to ability and
the course content or the emphasis can be modified to suit the trainees'
skills and knowledge. At the end of the training, trainee performance will be
tested and both the courses and the trainers evaluated.
Description of Training Courses
5.       Pump Operator TraininK.  Training of about 10,000 pump operators will
form a significant part of the farmer level training component. It will be
conducted at Upazila level using operational pump sets for demonstration. The
training will last five days with not more than 10 trainees per course. The
course content will includes (i) duties of the operator; (ii) general working
of the diesel engine, drive mechanism and turbine pump; (iii) start up and
shut down procedures; (iv) regular servicing and planned maintenance;
(v) importance of clean air, fuel, lubricants and coolants; (vi) safety
measures; (vii) seasonal shut down procedures; (viii) recognition of
malfunctions and correction procedures; and (ix) record keeping.
6.       For training of trainers for pump operators, 40 experienced mechanics
from existing BADC staff will be selected to undergo a two weeks training
course at the Dhaka workshop and at tubewell sites in two courses. The
courses will have the following content: (i) basic course content for pump
operator training and its organization and planning; (ii) teaching methods,
use of teaching materials, demonstration techniques and organization of
practical work; (iii) motivation of trainees; and (iv) skill training methods.
7.       Mechanics Training.  BADC has some 6,000 mechanics, some of whom are
inadequately trained pump operators. The Corporation plans to retireiredeploy
its mechanics. Many of those may wish to enter the private sector to practice
their trade, but require training. In addition to BADC staff, training
candidates may be selected from among interested school graduates residing in
the 105 Upazilas receiving special development support under the project.
They would have received a minimum education to at least Class 8 and two years
of vocational training. About 500 mechanics will be trained. The candidates
will be offered three month training courses which will be held at five of
BADC's existing workshops. The courses would be held throughout the project
with classes of 20 pupils. The course curriculum will include: Mi) use of
todls and workshop equipment; (ii) engine andepump uquipment repairs Der 'a
selection of makes; (iii) pumping equipment installation and maintenance; (iv)
pumping equipment fault finding; (v) an introduction to other farm machinery;
(vi) ordering of spare parts; and Cvii) book-keeping for small businesses.
8.       For training the trainers, ten suitable engineers will be selected
from BADC's existing staff, who will undergo a two weeks course with the
following contents (i) mechanics training course content and organization;
(ii) teaching and demonstration methods and organization of practical work;



_-SB-                               ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 6
(iii) use of teaching materials3 (iv) book keeping and small business
organizationt (v) motivation of traineess and (vi) skill testing methods.
9.       Training of 9ADC Technical Staff to Imorove Command Area Develoiment.
About 300 MDC technical staff at the regional, district and Upazila levels
will be trained.  The main emphasis of this training will be on camsund area
development engineering. It is intended primarily to support the project
components on irrigation demonstration systems and pontoon mounted pumps. The
courses will have a duration of one month. They will be held in Dhaka,
Sylhet, Rajshahi and Barisal, and have the following contentt (i) topographic
survey for irrigation distribution system layout; (i) layout and design of
irrigation systems using buried pipe materials, various types of lined and
earth channelst (iii) cost estimating for works; (iv) supervision of
construction; and (v) irrigation management planning. The training will be
provided by project consultants and experienced engineering staff of BADC.
10.      Training of BADC Staff in Improvint the Technology of Groundwater
Development. Senior professionals and midlevel technical staff of BADC will
be trained in developing new techniques for low cost force pumping modes.
Training will also include field testing in these modes, low cost well
construction materials and technical guidance to the private sector to set up
manufacturing facilities in the country. Training will be in the form of
local lectures, overseas fellowships and laboratory work.
I1.      Irrigation Group Organizers (100) Training. About 100 160s will be
employed as part of the consultants' staff. Candidates will hold at least a
diploma qualification. They will receive two month courses with 20 pupils per
course at BADC's Madhupur training center. Training will be conducted by the
project training consultants (alternatively, it could be contracted out by the
project consultants to NGOs which demonstrate the capability to conduct such
training). The course content will includes Mi) the role of the IG0s;
(ii) communication methods; (iii) the organization of water user group and
group dynamics; (iv) day-to-day minor irrigation system management procedures;
(v) basic financial control and accounting systems; (vi) knowledge of the
performance characteristics of the various types of minor irrigation equipment
available, and their prices and sources; (vii) sourcez of assistance or advice
for irrigation system design and agricultural extension services; and (viii)
sources of funding for irrigation equipment and terms of credit.
12.      Water Users Association (WUA) Training.  Potential groups for
operating minor irrigation equipment will be identified by the IGOs who impart
trLining and information during regular visits to the groups (averaging one
day per month) until the group has procured a facility, and later, as
necessary, until the group is fu!ly established.  The 1009 will train gro% 
members or arrange training by other Upazila officers ins (i) types of
equipment available and their prices, and alternative ways of packaging
equipment components; Cii) how to obtain system design assistance, credit and
agricultural advice; Ciii) group organization and decision making; (iv) pump
operation and repair services; and (v) book keeping and financial management.



- S9 ^ ~~~ANI= 7
Page 4 of 6
B. Information Dissemination
The Program
13.      General.  To Implement planned project activities, an information
dissemination campaign will be undertaken in areas targeted for development
under the project. All project agencies will participate in the campaign
which will be organized by the training consultants with BADC project staff.
14.      Field Days and Fairs. During the first two project years, a series
of field days fairs will be organized in selected locations to inform farmers
about the project and to bring farmers together with equipment suppliers and
bankers to help them work out arrangements for participating in the project.
1S.      Awareness Seminars for Concerned 6overnment Agencies.  During the
first six months of the project, a series of seminars will be held to inform
the staffs of BADC, BRDB, DAE, credit institutions, and NGOs of the proposed
development programs under the project. The seminars will last one day. They
will be well publicized over the radio, television, in the newspapers and
through other local means of communications. They will provide the
organizations' staff with infonmation which will encourage their active
support for the project and facilitate farmers' participation in the project.
16.      Awareness Seminars for the Commercial Sector.  Well publicized
seminars will be organized during the first half year of the project to inform
pump suppliers, service stores and well drilling companies of the project.
17.      Awareness Seminars for NG0s. NGOs will be encouraged to participate
in the proJect to the  ximum extent possible.  They could be involved in the
formation of water user groups and in training activities, and might also
become equipment owners or managers. Well publicized seminars will be held at
the beginning of the project to inform NGOs of the project concept and to
exchange views on how they might participate.
18.      Materials for the Awareness Campalin. Communications materials will
be required for the awareness campaign to convey information on the proposed
program, the various investment options available, likely beneficiaries and
benefits, and sources of advice and assistance. The materials will include
pamphlets, information sheets, flip charts, video films and slides, prepared
tapes for television and radio broadcasts, and newspaper articles.
19.      Scope of Consultancy Services.  The consultants will plan the
training sad information disseminaopa  preraV h  sed on detaile;         
investigations saiing tot
(a) examine the training and information needs specific to the project;
(b) esxmine the on-going or planned training programs (which could serve
the project) of other Government agencies and the NGOOs;



.60                                A       NNEX7
Page 5 of 6
te) on the basis of (a) and (b) above, assess the training and
information dissemination to be provided by the project;
ld) develop a plan for undertaking training and lnformation dissemination
using project staff and consultants, or arrange for it to be
undertaken by another agency against reimbursement of costsl
Ce) devise and implement a system for compiling staff training records;
and
(f) devise procedures for selecting staff for training.
20.      The consultants, assisted by BADC project staff, will undertake the
following activities for project implementation and information disseminations
(a) prepare and implement an awareness campaign, including seminars, and
a campaign for information dissemination;
(b) prepare course plans based on trainee job descriptions;
(c) prepare teaching materials for training coursess
(d) develop pre-testing methods for training courses, and training and
information materials;
(e) undertake training of trainer courses as necessary;
(f) initiate the training courses in all categories;
Cg) set up skills testing for the training categories; and
(h) set up a system to evaluate the training and information
dissemination arrangements in all categories.
Organization of Consultancy Services
21.      The consultant team will be headed by a training and management
specialist who will report to the Project Director through the consultant team
leader, and be provided with a counterpart from BADC.
Duration of Consultancy and Composition of Team
* 0 *-        .OZ          -    4   &.                           -E   &   s
22.      Consultancy services will be required for a period of five years
commenci.ng in the first project year. It is tentatively estimated that the
work will require consultancy inputs of 120 and 180 person-mcaths of
internationally and locally recruited specialists, respectively.  In addition,
there will be 6,000 and 240 person-months of group organizers and their
supervisors, respectively. The head of the team will be a specialist in
training and management, and will be supported by experts in engineering with
extensive knowledge in training methods and information dissemination.



-61 -                               ANNDEX 7
Page 6 of 6
Details on the team, and on vehicle and equipment requirements are in the
Project File.
keportin     
23.    The consultants will submit reports on the followingt
(a) training needs assessment, at the end of the third month:
(b) field organization set up, indicative courses and teaching
materials, at the end of the fifth month 't the consultancy;
(c) monthly progress report, semi-annual and final reports which should
include an evaluation of the training program. The latter should be
submitted two uanths before completion of the training program; and
(d) course and learning materials, and information materials, as
required.
Qualifications and Exerience of Consultant Staff
24.   The profile of the key consultants is given below:
(a) Read of Training Team/Tvaining and Management Specialist. An
agriculturelirrigation extension background in developing countries
will be required for this position. The candidate should have a
minimum of ten years experience, including the management of a
consultancy team implementing a training program.  The candidate
should also have a strong knowledge of training and information
dissemination methodologies and broad experience in their use;
(b) Design and Planning Engineer. The candidate should possess a degree
In civil engineering with a minimum of seven years experience, a
part of which should be in a developing country. The candidate
should be a specialist in the design and planning of minor
irrigation schemes and be able to plan and implement Ci) a training
program for the engineering staff of BADC and associated private and
public sector organizations, and Cii) an information program; and
(c) Mechanical Engineer. The candidate should possess a degree in
mechanical engineering with a minimum of ten years experience,
including experience in a developing country. The candidate will
have the capability to prepare course and information materials,
conduct courses for professional staff and trainers, and supervise
and evaluate the training of operational and maintenance personnel.



- 62 -                             AN=  8
page 1 Of 9
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOa  IRRIGATION DZVELOPMT PROJECT
*    --* *    Knstitut*onal-Devel4Dment- -
A. Restructuring of BADC
1.       The Role of BADC. A 1988 study of the Role of BADC1- concluded that
the Corporation's activities should be reoriented too ti) facilitating
tsehnological change through the introduction and promotion of new
agricultural inputslprastices and supporting their supply through the private
sector; and (ii) serving and protecting the public interest and supporting
private sector participation in the development process. To that end. BADC
will have to inter alia:
(a) discontinue its involvement In activities which can be undertaken by
the private sector, and concentrate on supporting the private sector
through technical assistance, information gathering and
dissemination, and quality enhancement; and
(b) develop a market research capability that will allow it to generate
information needed by farmers and the private sector at large, as
well as information which BADC itself will need to ascertain vhich
products. inputslpractices and technologies to promote.
2.       A Framework for !.astructurinA. An institutional restructuring of
Mc requires a firm commitment by GOB to implement an action plan to redirect
MDC's role Lu a manner thats Mi) reflects the country's development needs and
the recognition of the important role of the private sector; (ii) is cognitive
of the human dimension of the proposed adjustment process; (iii) is based on a
realistic timetable for changel sad (iv) addresses the needs of the
institution as a hole. The main elements of such a plan are:
(a) confirmation by Government of the tasks to be performed by BADC;
(b) strengthening the central administrative and program support
functions: this requires a sound financial and inventory management
system; an inventory of skills available in the Corporation, a plan
for adapting the manpower and skill mix to BADC's redefined
functions; and
(c) a timetable and procedures for transfer to the private sector of
functions for which BADC has no comparative advantage.
/l    A study of the Role of BADC In Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Ministry of Agrlculture, May 1988.



- 63 -                              ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 9
3.       Redefined Role for BADC.  A thorough analysis will be conducted under
the project to determine the future functions of BADC. Tasks suitable for
BADC's involvement at the current stage in the country's development could
Inctude'i -(i) i4entifying'an4-VOpUlariving alternative formulas for blending
esgro-rh44ca1e. to address spec.XlJ$z9O. prob%lems such as micro-nutrient
deficiency; (ii) identifying new inputs/practices such as bio-fertilizers and
seeds for homestead production; (iii) assembling technical and market
Information on tilling and irrigation equipment, new inputslpractices--such as
alternative technical options for minor irrigation development--and
disseminating this information to farmers, dealers, NGOs, etc.; (iv) providing
technical assistance and training to support private sector investment in
agriculture; (v) monitoring the availability of supplies, pricing and after
sales services--such as for blended fertilizer, seeds, irrigation equipment,
repair services, spare parts, etc.--and disseminating the information to GOB
agencies, private sector and NGOs; (vi) managing a limited buffer stock of
strategic agro-chemicals and other strategic inputs to meet emergency needs,
to serve programs aimed at disadvantaged groups, and for use in areas not yet
served by the private sector; and (vii) identifying, testing and popularizing
agricultural production activities with high potential for employment and
income generation.
Central Administration and Program Support Facilities
4.       Financial Kanagement System.  BADC requires a proper inventory
control and accounting system. Financial operations are presently fragmented,
and the reporting channels and control systems are cumbersome and complex with
the result that aggregated data are inaccurate. The central accounting system
includes no inventory control on the value of stocks, no accounting of fixed
assets, and no up-to-date records of advances and receivables. BAMDC has no
professionally qualified Chartered/Cost Accountant, and the financial
accounting, inventory records are yet to be computerized. The 1988 study
concluded that, "because of these and other problems, it is currently not
possible for BADC managers at any level in the Corporation to make decisions
based upon relevant and accurate financial information.' The study contains a
detailed plan for modernizing BADC's financial management system.
S.       With the required down sizing of MADC and the phasing out of its
commercial operations, it is imperative that the financial management system
be consolidated and the procedures streamlined. Computers must be introduced
for accounts, budgets, inventory, MIS, and other financial management uses.
Data should be entered Into the computers at the 26 Regional Controller of
Avnounts (RCA) offices and provided on disk to the four Joint Controller of
AccG;nts (JCA) offices and Headquarters.  Closing the JGA offices should be
explored. Standardized procedures must be put into place. The remaining
staff must be trained to operate the ,omputerized financial management systems
and to prepare reports useful for BADC managers at all levels and for GOB.
6.       The project will provide technical assistance sad equipment to
Introduce computerized inventory and accounting systems at headquarters and at
the RCA offices. It is estimated that this activity can be completed within
18 months. The key activities during this period will includes (i) designing
the systems; (ii) procurement and installation of the computers and software;



- 64 -                             ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 9
(III) training BADC staff to operate the systems; and (iv' bringing the
systems into full operation. The work will be carried out under a subcontract
with a local firm and will be supervised by the consultant team leader.
. , .--                                 ..   -.-..    -.  .    ,-,.-  ,  
7.       The equipment requirements includes (a) 50 computer systems--30 being
-3868T 6r -eqjivalent chip wlth 70mbbhard drives for the ICA offices aZd- 20
being full 386 chip or equivalent with 100mb hard drives for the JCA offices
and Headquarters; (b) 50 dot matrix printers; and (c) computer supplies
including floppy disks, paper, disk cases and mailing packages, computer and
printer covers, ecc. The exact specifications will be finalized by the
subcontractor for the installation of the computer equipment in consultation
with the project management unit and MADC management.
8.       In-country training will be organised by the subcontractor for staff
operating the financial management system (estimated 8 courses) and for
computer operation and maintenance (estimated S courses for the financial,
personnel, marketing and communications staff).
9.       iknpower Planning. Placement and Redeuloiment Program.  A
prerequisite to Initiating this program is the decision by GOB on the future
functions and role of BADC. The 1988 study estimated that BADC had about
20,750 staff distributed in the following vings. 41 Administration; 1,030
Finance; 110 Planning; 3,500 Field (seeds); 12,700 Irrigation; and 3,000
Supply (fertilizer). Over 901 of the staff are in the field. Staff in the
subordinate grades account for about 952 of the total.
10.      BADC does not presently have accurate or complete centralized
personnel records. Payroll and personnel records are decentralized and the
reporting channels are complex. Based upon the personnel data and other
analyses, a proposal for reorganizing the Fertilizer Wing and reforms in the
program services has been presented to BADC. The proposal greatly reduces the
commercial operations of the Wing and recommends new programs fort dealer
development and training; market research; quality control; program monitoring
and evaluation; and technology transfer. The new organization for the
Fertilizer Wing calls for 1,074 staff, a reduction of about 5SO from current
staffing levels. ISAID is prepared, with GOB concurrence, to support the down
siaing of the Fertilizer Wing and to assist in the reorlentation of the
program. This activity can serve as a model for a similar reorientation and
down sizing of the Irrigation Wing and the entire Corporation, which will be
supported by the project.
11.      It has been established that the private sector is now in a position
to take over from ADC the maintenance of irrigation equipment. The presence
In BADC of over 6,000 mechanices is, therefore, no longer justified. To ensure
an orderly transition, these mechanics will be encouraged to establish their
own private practices over a three-year period. Redeployment into the private
sector will be over the first two years. Volunteer mechanics will be provided
with training on request (technical, management, acce uting etc.) with funds
to acquire the necessary tools to become operational ka grant equivalent to
$250 will be given to each mechanic at the completion of training), and with
the same package of severance pay as that given to staff leaving the



-65 -                               ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 9
Pertilizer Wing. The cost of this redeployment will be met through the local
funds generated under the EEC grant.
-12.      Once GOB has decided on the long-term role of WDC, the following
steps should be Iiitiited vVth theii' ibAtSnia- of -pr@ oe osultant-a r  -
.          ...  *                .    .                         - lb
(a) Establish an Office of Manpower Planning and Placement -- Person,I
redeployment will to be a major sensitive task. A senior staff member
should be appointed to direct this program which should be supervised
directly by the MADC Chairman. The office headed by this senior
staff will be responsible fort (i) conducting the personneliskills
inventory; (ii) establishing a manpower plan; (iii) overseeing
training (done by BADC or contracted out) for existing staff; (iv)
operating a job placement and counselling service for relocating BADC
staff to new positions in the Corporation and with outside agencies;
(v) overseeing training of BMDC staff for these new positions; and
(vi) producing and disseminating periodic newsletters for BDC staff
informing them of personnel procedures and rights, training
opportunities, and jobs available within and outside the Corporations
(b) Inventory of PersonnellSkills -- An inventory of BAMDC personnel and
skills is required. This inventory should include data on age,
location, schooling, past and present jobs, special training or
skills, training needs, and career Interests. This information
should be entered into a computerized data base which eventually will
become a personnel record system for BADC. This system will provide
a basis for deciding oan appropriate staff and skill mix within BADC
to meet its requirements in light of its redefined functions. The
computerized program used for the inventory must have rhe capability
of being expanded into a full scale personnel record system. This
task has already been successfully Initiated in the Fertilizer Wing
with support from USAID. The full scale personnel record system
should become operational within two years;
tc) Grou2inx Existing Personnel in a Mbanpwer Plan -- Based upon the GOB
decisions on the future role of BADC and the personnellskills
inventory, an initial manpower plan needs to be developed which
groups all BADC positions into the following categoriess
(i) Core PositLons -- These are positions which will remain in the
Corporation for at least the next 5-10 years:
(ii) Project/Temporary Positions -- These are positions directly
linked to projects, and funded by them thr6ugh the development
budget. The staff In these positions could be paid a bonus
salary, tave equal benefits as the core staff, and termination
incentives at time of severance. However, once project funding
is no longer available, the position li terminated; and
(LLL) TransLtionlTerminated Positions -- These are positions which
will be abolished during the next 1-3 years. The staff in these



-66-                               ANNZ 8
Page 5 of 9
positions will be offered training, job placement and
counselling services, and appropriate Incentives (such as
equipment, interest free loans, moving allowances, etc.) to
reduce hardship caused by losing their jobs.
(d)  Establishing a Job Placement and Counselling Service -- Because of
the stCle of, rEdaplbyment required, bvery effott should be Luast  t
ease the transition. A temporary unit should be established within
the Office of Manpower Planning and Placement to aggressively locate
available jobs and assist BADC staff in securing them. This unit
should constantly be in contact with public and private agencies to
identify available jobs, track up-coming projects which may need
staff, and other activities with job openings. Various types of
services should be made available to help staff to successfully
secure positions including assistance on preparing resumes, transport
to job interviews, letters of reconmmedation, special training, etc.;
Ce)  Training for Increasing Productivity and for Redeployment -- Training
will be a key tool for implementing BADC's reorientation. Based on
the Initial manpower grouping plan, a series of training activities
should be designed to help in the reshaping of AMDC and in improving
productivity of the staff who remain in core and project positions.
As necessary, training should be contracted outside of BAMDC; and
(f) RedePloyment Incentives -- Staff members losing their job will have
opportunities to draw upon services to help in the transition period
by receiving assistance In locating a new job, training for new
positions in the private sector, and benefit from various kncentives-
-termination allowances, use of or a gift of equipment for che new
position (such as repair equipment), paying for the moving of staff
member and family to a new location, use of BADC facilities for an
agreed upon time period, interest free loans, etc.
13.      The techaLcal assistance required for the manpower planning,
placement and redeployment program will include (i) 16 person-months of an
internationally recruited Personnel Management Specialist who will help
organize and conduct the personnel inventory, oversee the entry of the data
into the computer system, and design the overall personnel record system, and
(i1) 6 pm of an international recruited Manpower Planning and Personnel
Placement Specialist to help design and implement the redeployment program.
These two specialists, supported by 6 pm of local consultants time, are needed
for helping with the personnel/skills inventory exercise and to design the
initial manpower plan. In addition, it is estimated that 12 pm of local
consultancy will be used to develop the computer programs, train staff to
enter the data, produce reports, and up-date the computer program.
14.      The personoel management system will require three computer systems-
-386 chip or equiv*1ent with monitors, 100mb hand drives, 3.5 floppy drives,
printers and supplies, and two vehicles for conducting the personnel/skills
inventory and for the briefings of field personnel on redeployment.



67-                               AMIBI 8
Page 6 of 9
15.      As the personnel management system becomes operational and the
manpower planning and redeployment programs are designed, technical assistance
will be needed for the training component. An internationally recruited
Trailing/Ruman Reeources Development Specialist, for 12 months, will be
.resonos_ible for drwi,ng,uqp.the trai   _masterplans for the* s,taf who will
remain in BDC and for those who are being terminated. This consulta at will
-also lo*k at the Long term in-house tra8inig ueods of BANC, and identify  -.
outside organisations that can conduct training for BADC on a contract basis.
Audio-visual equipment will be provided for the IADC Training Institute and
for use at headquarters for training and briefing presentations.
16.      Market Information and Promotion Prosram.  For once again focusing on
promoting new inputs/practices for the agricultural sector, BADC must develop
a market information gathe:ing, synthesis and dissemination capability. The
purpose of this marketing information program is to guide 8ADC in what new
inputs/practices to promote to farmers and other interested groups, and to
inform the private sector on the comuercial feasibility of the products. It
Is a key program for helping the Corporation to remain dynamic and relevant.
17.      The ADC market information and promotion program will aim tot
(a) gather information on farmers needs for inputs/practices, and monitor
new technologies as they become available;
(b) assess the acceptability of specific inputs, and the potential for
adapting new technologies to local conditions;
(c) monitor the availability of the inputs, prices, after sales services
by private dealers, PVOs, and public agencies, and identify gaps; and
(d)  periodically report the findings of this informatic- gathering and
synthesis work to the private sector, PVOs, and COB agenciea.
18.      Consultants for this component will assist In: (i) establishing a
central market research unit and training staffs (il) designing the
information gathering methods for aew inputslpractices coming from the
research estsblisbment or available In the overseas and local markets5
(1ii) establishing the field Information gathering program for determining
farmers' needs and desires; (iv) establishing the field information program
for monitoring the availability of inputs, prices and after sales services of
local dealers; and (v) designing and implementing an information dissemination
program (through meetings/seminars and information packages/newsletters). To
assist BMDC In building the necessary capability, the project will provide for
12 months an nternationally recrulted Market Research Specialist with wide
experience In market research and product promotion. This specialist will be
supported by 12 person-months of local consultants time.
19.      The market information and promotion unit will need office equipment
Including 2 computer systems for data analysis and word processing. Funds
will be needed for information gathering actLvities, meetingslseminars and
information dLssemination. Two vehicles will be used for data collection.



-68                                 ANNEK 8
Page 7 of 9
20.      Associated with the market information and promotion program is an
information dissemination function--to get the information to the private
sector, N100, GOB agencies, farmers and other interested groups. Some years
ago BADC had a successful technical information program which ceased, however,
es . aaMD  itself. got increasvingly.nvolved -in cummercial.actIvities.    -.
*    21.  '  Tecinical assistance is'requtred to rest'act this'service and to'
design the commnication support program and determine in-house staffing
needs; (ii) determine the availability of personnel for the unit within BAMDC;
(iii) plan the staff training activities; liv) finalize the equipment
specifications and supplies needed for the unit; and tv) establish operating
communication support programs for the market information and promotion
program, training activities, and in-house communications needs. It is
expected that the technical assistance will be completed in two years. An
internationally recruited specialist in communication strategies and planning
will be needed initially for one year followed by three one month return
visits during the second year. 24 pm of local consultants will be needed for
designing and producing specific communications support materials.
22.      A range of communications equipment will be needed including: (a)
three computers for desktop publishing and graphics capabilities with two
laser printers and one 24 pin dot matrix printer; (b) one small plate maker
and offset duplicator; (c) photo copy machine; (d) two 35 mm cameras with a
basic set of lens and other accessories; (e) two VCR record/playback units
with large monitors; (f) two slide projectors; (g) one 16 mm movie projector;
(h) one vehicle; and (i) office equipment and storage cabinets. A vehicle is
needed for the communications staff to gather information and test materials.
23.      To assist with BADC's re-orientation, technical assistance will be
needed for three years. The task will require consultant services of 81 and
18 person-months of internationally and locally recruited specialists,
respectively. A specialist in organization and management reporting to the
consultant team leader will head the team. Details on required consultant
services, vehicles, equipment etc., are in the Project File.
Reporting
24.   The consultant will submlt an ilception report, a progress report every
six months and a final report summarizing the achievements and proposing a
detailed plan for completing the reorientation process.
Qualifications and Experience of Consultants' Staff
25.    The profiles of the senior professionals are given belowt
(a) Read of Team/Management Specialist. The candidate should possess
a post graduate degree in management and organization with at
least 15 years experience in designing and implementing management
and personnel systems. The candidate should be fully familiar
with modern human resources development practices and other



-69.                                 UNI-X 8
Page 6 of 9
administrative and program support system, and have broad
experience in the management of a multi-disciplinary team;
(b) Personnel Manazement Specialist. The candidate should have
similar qualifications as the associate team leader and the
capability to design and oversee the development of a modern
personnel record system;
(c) Manpower Planning Specialist. The candidate should possess a
degree in organization and management with at least ten years
experience, including experience in a developing country where the
public sector plays a major role In the development process;
(d) Market Research and Promotion Specialist. The candidate should
possess a degree in marketing or a related field and have at least
seven years experience in market research and promotion;
Ce) Communications Specialist. The candidate should possess a degree
in communications and broad experience in developing promotion
strategies, planning methods and media selection. A minimum of
seven years experience in these fields will be required;
(f) Human Resources Development Specialist. The candidate should have
a post graduate degree in an allied science with specialization in
human resources development and training. The candidate should
have held a responsible position in an organization which has
implemented redeployment and associated training programs.
B. Private Sector SuMPort Services
26.      The procurement and distribution of DTW components has so far been
the monopoly of the public sector. A limited number of local manufacturers
are presently manufacturing pumps, assembling engines with imported components
and fabricating well casings with imported steel. The production of PVC pipes
is limited due to high production costs and marketing constraints.   But even
these limited supplies are available to farmers only through BADC. The
project aims at getting the private sector involved directly with farmers.
However, the private sector has only limited knowledge of (i) alternative
sources of supply, (ii) procurement practices, Ciii) methodology for assessing
farmer preferences, (iv) approaches to establishing d&atribution and service
networks, and (v) opportunities for joint ventures with foreign firms.
27.      In addition to the need for increasing the manufacturing facilities
for DTW pumps and engines, there is scope for increasing the manufacture of
well components such as casings and screens, and of PVC pipes. To help fill
the existing knowledge gap, the project will provide consultant services to
facilitate contact between foreign suppliers and local entrepreneurs and to
encourage foreign firms to invest in joint ventures or make other arrangements
with these entrepreneurs. This will be done through organized tours, seminars.
exchange of promotional material and assistance in procurement matters.



70-                                 AM=  8
Page 9 of 9
OrLanisation of Consultancy Servicas
28.      The consultants will be located in Dhaka and work closely with the
team responsible for infomation dissemination. The head of the consultants
will report to the Project Director through the consultant team leader.
|DBuration of Cosultanc_Services and Compositionof..T
29.      Consultancy services will be required for a period of three years
comencing in the first project year.  Consultant needs are estimated at 60
and 72 person-months of internationally and locally recruited specialists,
respectively. The team will be headed by a mechanical engineer who will be
supported by professional staff specialized in management and business. Mid-
level local staff will assist in assessment surveys. Details on required
consultant services, vehicles, equipment, etc. are in the Project File.
Reporting
30.      An inception report detailing the present status of the private
sector and the methodology proposed for achieving the objectives of the
services shall be submitted within two months of coamencement. Progress will
be reported quarterly to the Project Director and the consultants team leader.
Qualifications and Experience of Consultants
31.      The profile of the consultant staff is given belows
(a) Mechanical Engineer. The candidate shall possess a degree in
mechanicallindustrial engineering and have at least 10 years
experience in manufacturing of industrial goods, procurement, export
and import. the candidate should also have experience in establishing
small scale industries particularly in developing countries;
(b)  ManatementlMarketing Specialist.   The candidate should possess a
degree in marketing or a related field in business administration and
have at least 10 years experience in market research and promotion
particularly on small scale industries in developing countries;
(c) Mechanical/Production Engineer. The candidate shall possess a degree
in mechanical engineering and have at least 5 years experience in
industrial production preferably in the private sector; and
(d) Procurement Specialist. The candidate for this post shall possess a
degree in engineering with a minimum of 10 years in procurement.



- 71-                              ANNEX 9
Page I of 10
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prolect Implementation Support
...    _.....                                        ...  -  -   ..  .  .............................. 
1.       The project provides for consultancy services to support
Implementation of the project. These services are required for:
(a) assistance to BADC in implementation of the groundwater, surface
water and demonstration irrigation systems;
(b) preparation and implementation of a system for monitoring and
performance evaluation for the project;
(c) preparation and implementation of an exploration program of
groundwater development in the Sylbet area;
(d) preparation and implementation of a program for technology
improvement in groundwater development; and
(e) a feasibility study for a Low Lift Pump Based Irrigation Project.
A. ScoPe of Consultancy Services
2.       Groundwatert Responsibilities of the consultants will include:
(a) review of the geology and hydrogeology data of project areas using as
a base the National Water Plan of 1986 as updated with recent data
from the National Plan Project-Phase II and the DTW II project;
(b)  rssistance to BADC/BRDBIDAE in organizing and implementing an
information dissemination campaign for project farmers, dealers.
drilling contractors, bankers, and officials;
Cc) assistance to farmers in selecting among alternative packages of
tubewell components and in seeking funding for irrigation equipment;
(d) assistance to BADC and private suppliers in conducting surveys for
determining farmers' choice in respect of well components;
(e) providing advisory services to purchasers of pump units on criteria
for siting of wells and for planning cosuand areas;
(f) assistance to BADC In the preparation of tender documents for
procurement of well comWonents and civil works and the preparation of
guidelines for equipment technical specifications, sinking, and
testing of wells for use by farmers and drilling contractors;



-72-                                ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 10
(a) assistance to BMDC, farmers and drillers In supervising the sinking,
installation, and testing of wells and developing BADC's capability
for quality control during well construction and comissioning; and
(h)  assistance and advise to farmers on O&1 of the commissioned .lwl; -
''  i.   Surface Wate:rt  The c'oneultants will:
(a) assist MDC in finalizing the siting of the initial 50 schemes for
drainage improvements and 8 schemes for pontoon mounted systems;
(b) screen additional schemes for drainage canal improvement and pontoon
vounted systems, and assist in the preparation of feasibility
studies; and in ensuring the participatory role of beneficiaries in
finalizing these studiest
(c) assist in preparing specifications for topographical sun eys of the
schemes and in overseeing their implementation;
(d) assist in preparing detailed designs and tender documents;
(e) assist in construction supervision and advise on the facilities' O&M;
(f) assist the private sector and BADC in (i) the preparation of tender
documents for procurement of pump units and fabrication of pontoons
and (ii) quality control during fabrication and installation;
(g) help organize beneficiaries for effective use the facilities; and
(h) assist in organizing the operation and management of the pontoon
mounted systems by the private sector.
4.       Demonstration Irrigation Systems:  Consultants will assist BADC in:
(a) selection of schemes;
(b)  preparation of a topographical survey to plan the layout of the -ater
distribution network and the size and location of turnouts/risers;
(c) selection, planning and design of the distribution system (buried
pipes or surface lined or unlined systems);
(d) preparation of a plan of operation, including a cropping pattern;
(e)  impleMentation of construction and O&M activitiest and
(f) use of the schemes for demonstration purposes.
5.       Imolementation Monitoring and Performance Evaluation:  Implementation
monitoring will cover all project activities up to the point when irrigation
facilities supplied under the project become operational. Performance
evaluation will cover all aspects relating to the performance of irrigation
facilities. It will also cover aspects relating to the effectiveness of the
services provided In support of increased private sector participation.



-73 -                               ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 10
6.       The  implementation monitoring system will concentrate on the flow of
funds, farmers' demand for irrigation facilities, BADC's and the private
sector's supply practices, and project support services (group formation,
tratiing gMad bhfoziation dsisemeinatlon, technical assistance).  MonitoriAg
w11 be.a .continuous process aimed at identifying conetraints to offootiva
project implementation and devising solutions to remove such constraints.
7.       Perfonmance evaluation under the project will concentrate on:
(a) the mechanical performance of equipment;
(b) the efficiency of the irrigation system as reflected by the area
irrigated, the cropping pattern, and crop yields;
(c) performance of WUAs and other farmer groups, the uniformity in
members' access to water and adoption of improved practices;
Cd) performance of support services provided by BADC, BRDB and DAB as
reflected by the level of demand for DTWs, any failure of new DTWs,
the size of the actual command area compared to the design command
area, the rate of group formation, private sector sales, etc; and
(e) performance of after sales services as indicated by the availability
of spare parts, length of time between breakdown and repair, and the
relative cost of repair for various types of facilities.
8.       Exploratory Program for Groundwater Development:  Further exploratory
work is required in some areas of greater Sylhet to properly define the
hydrogeological situation in the area and to provide accurate information to
farmerlinvestors on the type of tubewell facility and its design discharge
which is appropriate in a given area. A program of 40 exploration wells
drilled to an average depth of 100 m is foreseen, and the exploration sites
will be distributed in the following ttpazilass
Sunamganj District        Syihet District      Moulvi Bazar District
Sulla  *                   Companiganj             Baralekha
Diraa  *                   Jointapur               Kulawra
Jamalganj *                Penchuganj              Rajnagar
Dharmpasha                 Habipani District       Moulvi Bazar
Dwara Bazar                Ajmeriganj *            Srimongal
Bishambarpur
Tahirpur
Madhyanagar *
* Low priority areas with extensive surface water availability and
difficult access.
9.       The wells will be drilled by the manual direct circulation method
(jet drilling) and the bores will be geophysically logged. Some bores which
encounter fine sand will be completed with geotextile wrapped screen to test
the appropriateness of use of this material as an alternative to gravel
packing. Successful wells will be offered for sale to farmers without the
pump unit or converted to a vlllage water supply well (eites will be chosen



- 74- A-NA                                9
Page 4 of 10
with these options in mind). Drilling and well testing will be closely
supervised by the consultants.
10,.  _.&Asrvey. -p yvll. pe"rformance, of DTW facilities conducted under the
Deep Tubewells II (DTW U1) project In 1989 showed evidence of yield reduction
in some S0O of the wells over a period of five years. The reasons for the
reduction remain uncertain, but may be associated with clo ing of well screen
and gravel packs by iron deposits. Rehabilitation of such tubewells to reach
their original performance may be possible. Project consultants will:
(a) conduct a survey of existing tubewells to assess the extent of the
problem and to map the distribution of problem sites;
(b) attempt to identify the reasons for yield reduction, by withdrawal of
well components or by the use of down-the-hole logging methods;
(c) identify and test a range of possible options for chemical treatment
and/or physical redevelopment; and
(d) assess the physical and cost effectiveness of the rehabilitation
methods and, if appropriate, provide information on the technology to
concerned tubewell owners through the project information service.
II.      ImDrovina Groundwater Abstraction Technology:  Under a program
initiated under the DTW II project, 10 prototype tubewells equipped with
propeller pumps with capacities in the range of 14-28 l/sec are planned for
installation and testing under field conditions. The design of these pumps
makes them suitablt for installation in well casing diameters in the range of
100-150 ma. Therefore, they can be used in low cost wells. The trial program
will be continued under the proposed project with a view to popularizing this
technology, if proven successful, and other types of pumping equipment which
may be identified. The project provides for the installation of experimental
units with the agreement of cooperating farmer groups. All types of
potentially useful equipment will be eligible for testing/adapting to local
conditions. Whenever a new technology is proven successful, consultants will
promote it through publicity, and demonstration and technical advice to
farmers, drilling contractors and pump manufactures and dealers.
12.      Recent market investigations indicate that the use of PVC for
tubewell casing and screen has considerable potential in Bangladesh and could
substantially reduce well construction costs. Indeed, the material is already
widely used for construction of shallow tubewells by the private sector. It
is intended to extend its application to wells designed for force mode
pumping. PVC pipe is manufactured in Bangladesh and screens can be made by
hand slotting this material. However, molded screens of PVC to various
designs are available for import and are probably more effective than hand-
slotted pipe. GOotextile well screens using a PVC pipe-base wrapped with
layers of man-made fibre mesh allow very fine grained sand aquifers to be
screened without using a gravel pack. Screens of this type would be suitable
for conditions in the greater Sylhet area and elsewhere on the alluvial plain
of Bangladesh. The project will test a range of PVC  tpes and screens under
field conditions in Bangladesh with a view to encourage their use by farmers,
Introduce the materials to drilling contractors, and encourage lxcal PVC pipe
mAnufacturers to start fabricating molded and geotextile wrapped screens of



-75                                 ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 10
appropriate designs. About 50 wells wlll be constructed under this program on
land of cooperating farmer groups for demonstration purposes.
13.      Feasibility Study for Low Lift Pump Based Irriatation ProJects  The
area proposed for the study is in the tidally influenced freshwater basins of
the lower Meghna river, the shoot canals taking off from the Padma river, and
the Madhumati-Nabaganga river basins. The area is located in the districts of
faridpur, Nadaripur, Sharistpur, Barisal, Perojpur, Jhalakati, Barguna and
Pathuakhali in the South Central Region and in the districts of Jessore.
Varail and Ehulna in the South West Region. It is ideally suited for
providing primary supplies for dry season cultivation in (a) areas wlthout
flood control infrastructures through Improvements to drainage canals by re-
excavation and the provision of controlled regulators at the outfall of parent
rivers and streamst and (b) completed flood control projects such as polders
in Satla Bagda, Coastal Embankment Project and the Chenchuri Beel, Madbumati-
Nabaganga and Kholabasbkuli Polders.
14.      The consultants are tentatively expected to produce feasibility
reports and detailed designs and cost estimates for about 200 schemes covering
an area of some 100,000 ha., and less detailed feasibility reports for a
further 320 schemes covering about 160,000 ha. They wills
(a) review all pertinent available data and identify data requiring
collection and updating;
(b)  review the surface water resources detailed in the NWP Report (1986)
as updated, and assess the potential in the 5 regions of the country
and particularly in the study area;
gc) review the available st_dies on salinity levels, the extent and
quality of data available, data gaps, cost of filling such gaps;
(d) study the exploitation of the surface water resources of the country
over the last two decades through all modes of development and make
an assessment of the salinity boundary condition; assess the impact
of further development on the boundary conditions;
(e) review completed projects operating under similar river basin
conditions as the proposed study area to determine the extent of
siltation, beneficiaries' willingness to operate and maintain a
scheme at their own cost and to undertake construction of field
distribution networks beyond the primary supply point;
(f) prepare a priority list of schemes based on beneficiaries' interest,
equity considerations, and development potential;
(g) assess the balance groundwater potential in each scheme and establish
the rat'onale for development of surface water;
(h) undertake the necessary assessment of dry season flow and salinity
condition, topographic surveys, hydrological measurements, agrc-
economic and socio-economic surveys of each scheme;



-76-                                ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 10
(i)  prepare scheme lay-outs, engineering designs and feasibility level
drawings of relevant scheme components including cost estimates,
operation and maintenance schedules;
(j) prepare feasibility reports of schemes for which agreements with
beneficipries have been reached, Including detail designs, cost
estimates, construction plans and O&M schedules; and
(k) prepare main reports at the end of the first study year and one month
before the end of the study. These reports shall include an
executive suumary with a list of schemes including a map indicating
their location, a brief on each scheme with a data sheet, based on an
analysis of a sample .f1. ten schemes' agricultural production
(cropping patterns, crsp yields, and production), marketing and
prices, farm income and financial returns including a summary of farm
budgets, benefits, economic justification and risks, distribution of
benefits and poverty alleviation. The report shall also include
organization and management aspects, an implementation schedule and a
brief on operation and maintenance which would generally be
applicable to all schemes. The second report will be similar
focusing on the schemes studied during the second study year.
B.  Oraanization of Consul.ancZ Services
15.      The project support consultancy services will be provided by a
consortium in the form of a joint venture between foreign and local firms.
While parts of the work may be sub-contracted to other consultancy firms, the
lead consultants will have final responsibility for proper provision of the
services under an overall contract.
16.      The project support consultant staff will be distributed in offices
at four centers - Dhaka, Sylhet, Rajihahi and Barisal. Key staff of the
consultants will be posted at each of the centers. The consultant team leader
having overall responsibility for the program will report to the Project
Director and will be located in Dhaka. The team leader wiil provide direction
and necessary logistical support to associate team leaders located in Dhaka,
Sylhet, Rajshahi and Barisal. The composition of the consultant staff will
reflect the work load and the types of works to be implemented from each
office. In this respect, the Dhaka, Sylhet and Raj3hahi offices will have
responsibility for both groundwater and surface water development, while the
Barisal office's main work will be concerned with surface water development.
Specialized engineering inputs for assistance with preparation of tender
documents for materials and equipment, with bid evaluation, and with
establishment of a monitoring and performance evaluation system will be
provided by the Dhaka office. Preparation of tender documents and bid
evaluations for civil works contracts will be prepared with consultants'
assistance in the regional offices.
17.      Consultancy services for the feasibility study of the LLP Based
Irrigation Project will be procured separately for a period of two years. The
team will be headed by a professional experienced in the field of water
resources engineering, who will work in close coordination in with the
consultant team leader.



- 77 -                              AMEX 9
Page 7 of 10
C. Duration of Consultancy Services and Composition of the Team
18.      Consultancy services are expected to be required for a period of, (a)
seven years for the implementation of groundwater, surface water,
demonstration irrigation systems and monitoring and performance evaluation,
(b) three years for the exploratory program and improving technology in
groundwater development, and for two years for the feasibility study. It is
estimated that project implementation will require consultancy inputs of about
699 and 105 person-months of internationally and locally recruited
specialists, respectively. The feasibility study vill require consultancy
services in the order of ill and 348 plm of internationally and locally
recruited specialists, respectively. Engagement of consultants will be
tailored to the project needs at different stages.
19.      The project support consultant team wuill be headed by a team leader
with proven managerial capabiiity and experience in water resources
development. It will include specialists in the following areas of expertise:
planning and design, hydrogeology, mechanical engineering, marketing,
agronomy, economics, rural sociology, and system analysis. The team will be
supported by locally recruited mid-'.evel construction engineers, agronomists,
technical assistants, work supervisors, surveyors, draughtsmen, etc., and by
administrative, financial and operational staff.
20.      The feasibility study team will include interna ionally recruited
senior professionals in the areas of engineering, sociology, environment,
agronomy and economics who will be supported by locally recruited mid-level
planning and design engineers, surveyors, draughtemn, enumerators, and by
administrative and operational staff. Consultant services are estimated to be
required for 111 and 348 person-months of internationally and locally
recruited team members, respectively.
21.      Because of the demand-sided nature of the project, both the volume of
consultant services and their timing must be flexible, in order to prevent
oversupply in early years if farmers' demand is slow to develop, or
undersupply in later years. Details on the consultancy needs and on vehicles,
equipment and supplies required for the project support team and for the study
teem are in the Project File.
D. Reporting
22.      The consultant team leader will keep the Project Director informed on
project Implementation progress, monitoring and performance evaluation, and
the results of the exploration program and groundwater technology development.
Problems in achieving project objectives, particularly for wall sLnking and
comuissioning shall be included in the progress report. In particular, the
consultant will submits
(a) an inception report - three months after the start of the consultancy
- which will include the organizational setup, work plan for all
activities, tecbnical specifications for well components, the results
of the initial market survey on the capacity of the private sector to
undertake procurement and sinking of wells, results from the



-78w                               AEM=  9
Page 8 of 10
screening of surface water development schemes and an estimate of
schemes that could be undertaken in the first project year, and
quality enhancement responsibilities of consultant staff. This
report shall also include, (a) the approach and methodology proposed
for monitoring and performance evaluation, (b) the exploratory
program for the Sylhet area with locations and details for the first
year's activities, and (d) the program for testing alternative modes
for DTM development and well construction materials;
(b) monthly briefs, detailed semi-annual reports, and annual work
programs;
(c) formats for the information dissemination campaign and for group
formation and management;
(C) at the end of each project year, a report on performance evaluation
and the program for the next year. The reports at the end of the
third and fifth years shall include a detailed analysis of the
performance during the completed period along with a detailed
findings and recommendations for implementation during the remaining
project periods; and
Ce) reports in draft form three months before the end of the third year
for actLvities conducted on the exploratory program and technology
Improvement. Any useful and practical modes of development and well
materials resulting from these activities shall be documented and
presented at an early date to enable a decision on their introduction
during the project period. The final report shall be, submitted
within one month of receipt of comments on the draft report.
23.      For the feasibility study, the consultants will submlt an inception
report, a mid-term progress report and a feasibility study report in a format
which provides the basLi for project appraisal by IDA.
E. Qualifications and Experience of Consultant Staff
24.      The profile for tie senior professionals are described belowt
(a) Consultant Team LeaderlleasibilLty Study Head. The candidate for
consultant team leader should possess a civil engineering degree with
over fifteen years experience In water resource development for
irritation using both surface and groundwater, and should have held a
position as leader of a multidisciplinary team for a minimum period
of five years. A significant part of the candidate's experience
should be in developing countries. The candidate for the study shall
be a specitlist In assessmen of surface water resources and planning
of irrigation projects in areas vith complex hydrological conditions;
(b) Water Resources Develonet Inineers - Groundwater.  The candidates
should poesses a degree in civil engineering with a minimum of seven
years experience in groundwater development. At least three years of
experience should be in a developing country;



- 79 -                              AME  9
Page 9 of 10
(c) Water Resources Development Englineer - Surface Water. The candidate
should possess a degree in civil engineering with at least seven
years experience in the planning, design, construction and O0M of
-surface water development. At least three years of the experience
should be in countries with monsoon climate similar to Bangladesh;
td) Mechanical Engineer. The candidate should possess a degree in
mechanical engineering with at least ten years experience in pumping
equipment powered by diesel engines including vertical shaft turbine
and centrifugal pumps;
(e) Groundwater Development Specialist (4ploration). The candidate
should possess a civil engineering degree with at least seven years
experience of which 3 years should be in the development and
supervision of exploration programs, and data analysis;
(f)  Groundwater Development Specialist (Monitoring and Evaluation).  The
candidate should be a graduate chemist or a groundwater engineer with
a degree in civil engineering with at least seven years experience in
groundwater system monitoring and evaluation part of which should
have been in a developing country;
(g)  Marketing Specialist.  The candidate should possess a degree in
marketing and have at least seven years experience in market research
and promotion. The candidate should be capable of establishing a
program to gather and analyze market information and disseminate it
to the private sector and other interested groups;
Ch)  Institution Specialist.  An agricultureIirrigation extension
background including institutional credit and cooperative activities
will be required for this position. The candidate should have a
minmum of 10 years experience with a major part in projects with
development activities as stated above;
li) Communications Specialist. The candidate should possess a degree in
communications and broad experience in developing promotion
strategies, planning methods and media selection. A minimum of seven
years experience In these fields will be required;
(j)  Sconomist.  The candidate shall possess at least a masters degree in
economics or agricultural economics, and have broad experience in
collection, computation, analysis and evaluation of soci-economic
data. The candidate should have experience as a lead member in the
preparation of feasibility reportst
(k)  Agronomist.  The candidate chall possess a degree in agriculture with
broad experience in irrigated agriculture, and have proven experience
in planning water management programs under conditions similar to
Bangladesh's. In addition, the candidate should have had experience
as a lead member in the preparation of feasibility reports:
(1) Rural Sociologist. The candidate shall possess a degree in tho field
of sociology with proven experience at least for a period of five



-     80-                           ANNEX 9
Page 10 of 10
years in the study of the society and communities such as those in
Bmagladesh, including the role of the rural poor and women;
tm) Hydrologist.  The candidate shall possess a postgraduate degree in
civil engineering and be specialized in hydrology. The candidate
should be proficient in computation and analysis of hydrological data
and the preparation of data banks and retrieval. In addition, the
candidate should be able to plan and execute a program of salinity
investigations and analysis of the data collected. A minimum of 10
years experience is required of which a major part should be in
countries with similar conditions as Bangladesh;
(n)  Rydrogeologist.  The candidate shall possess a postgraduate degree in
civil engineering with specialization in hydrogeology. A minimum of
10 years experience in groundwater resource assessment and
groundwater modelling and operation is required;
(o)  Environmntalist.  The candidate should possess at least a master's
degree in environmental or natural sciencelecology/biology and a
minlimum of 5 years experience in environmental studies as an
Individual consultant or as a staff of a consulting firm/university
specialized in conducting environmental studies; and
(p) Senior Construction Engineer. The candidate shall possess a degree
In civil engineeting with at least 15 years experience in planning,
design, construction and operatlon of which over 10 years should be
in construction. The candidate should be able to follow up on the
contribution of beneficiaries agreed upon during the planning phase,
and with the assistance of the sociolog'st ensure that beneficiaries
are involved during the construction an maintenance phases.



BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MNOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROjECT
Impgmenton Sohedut
I U   Pu   MA   PM     'I   P    I   18 I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
suga  m .     ._.            .    .
"'_;Zi# 1                                         .._           7
. U~dPIiSUgIi            L....o. ... I..J. ... ....J
-~~                1s: : coookdWdWVinm400
.th
a~~~I wsm~              Ehm_   _   _   _   _pai
ffi ~ ~ ~ 0 du             p.sfsbhhiuspuuau
P*_ud _
_ dU_                    |u 



I;
tsmm #itt num  t         miusmam um      tssu           a m  u _mm   mm  a
. n .                    *...nn n.n. ...nn  .n.n    Sn          ffl* @0 tSS- **n  fl|****S  ** SS* f
osisurs tics scour, iamb ttw. m's sues.   513cm *ciii' .w'ssa e s  isa     SW'V stui  *                                                                                                                      -
.....  l.. ...,.m... S..... n , _ .   ...  ..... ,*, .. , ... ..  ...... ...n.... S.. ..... t    ... .... . .. .
caus   nes  sM's I Mime ouraist .sucu's.6 4-1         14usts  sa   ewes iwure muaem'1em'.                                                                                                       -m    -    s
:s" eatt-         s  0 m'a  tme ems cu..               m -        O ,4 sW's :1w cam's *1I                                                                                     P "la *U    u a, I '    '    '  m'
*5fl          ce l" e O *    0t 0508  sis   cIN    cm's"           t on  Itt oP   r   045    lulm    4006   M. ma           4    ms  Gal   W   ma                                       t m u   mmm_
su           6001'  cutlt        SIMI                cursI *'M             ue  cria       0    lme's                         eucW t   -  m    m a wt      .     4a                        u       mu    VON
~~'e    cm'ma.  semis ems-u~~~~60,  ste'.u  cum11 in..   sim-is-  4W' =ats 0-c cs'  MI'eacueua    out               '          'sm'    t'   a m                                        U m sn
*  ::M           53859 WONi'   AU5    val'  Sale         100's        *liis  SW's cut's c1m'  cm's1          Ul       l   am     i    a1   GM   I1   11   ..Mu                                "Wus m  WL
cm'sw  Wiw,r   ;W 7'5 cur-s iwi7 c's                   ws         em"*'       s       's m's 7   r ims   4              *10  tStt On      W M's                Jt so                           3s
cut" 5 *WS  *41gle 41016   our's e'4m'scur-ci           4 samiu  U "It  cus       01, e1's  1U. t                                                                                        m        7  M- Ma 1   ON   O 
Usc   cGa's :ia's  "ur'S  vur's  Va's c' NP         sm's  Our, Ou'          '  cm's  cuW    Cu's        usc    ma's  ma   mlma   ma1  ml  C's                   a    mmm          m    lUmmmm
:4     crs 4     ':s  ciwivi  ems's  ties'  M .   eMl  cu' cur'            rs     u   cr's cur' *        M      Ms   ma t         ma    a    " _ 1m            sn    e            uim  mts
s' gos  Is $e          S m   0  It'ut    m'         *,M     sm'  our'  ou    c's o's   r.                        .      .    .    .    .    .    .    .            
"M'  cue'    toS'  cIn'  cme 's            gm      it.   em"'  sm'   Sug'  O"s'  ses'   aou  cur   u       s onc m          em 01    W '   c11    as    .e us    ncim                       m ut       a
Sti...... fiStas ...n.n ------ ..  __... _.......... ...... .  ......... . ..... ..... _ e..... ........_ n          _ .   .. _ e _... .............
mm           tPa                                          t
uctgss   -  5ji  s



. . . .. . ..... . .   .......e....u                                                                                mu ,  memu    m. 
I 000,116l l ep    solm I41614* 4811111 *=II  i-  m1110110 m=116                                                                          Ia m     urn#VWm$m10          SOW amm        P
'41111111 -  voull    'M   4ftu   "Co    WImum   m -                              m  - a           ma am , mamm               un
*ms*fl            *flUU -w@ flfS*f nlflSS--z~zz- *fltflfl.tf * 8** Sflm* *flfl   fl  *fl*
......    .     . ...n          ... . ...... ;       .i  .....*.....  i.......   . ....... ....m  . _.. .I . .
*     % mu*gww owl  sari  cm    ci    usmi  SIW               u.'   6.145    4.61  Imi                  8  em                                                             *    .6a    -amman."_
femes                                                                                                                                                                      a 6   -                             31q.g
6mm            sIWul $0,1 0I       i tw   s im'r1 .      cO w Ouse    .me.   m'                  e  *" ie  .   au m1 *8                  s    s  i,s  . '9  msMmIK o M
,,,,,,,.       ,,,3,,, ,,,ia,.,,, ,,,m ,, t, cm.,, am. ,-   cm-r        erni  ,m,, mm. m ..e. -   3R   .'                             *m  .m    mu  .6    we    -          :         _       _       i     m     a,.-
9.64  *    *U6  V"eluns ts slm In                         em *s  *elm em  em f                 wee  w *e.win      e       m            1w MI me m   w                                                  M MM
104            CIW       e $ 9*8cm     $01   Ce         OMNI           463   eV*1  6V1*   I14   14 9             4X      M6'S         SUm   40   46m1  in   .6            u                                 no "a
SW             Vol 08 87 "PI   tt  "*I                   -7W low%              - :Vm7V    tX   _% 61014 9                            _1 -w,  I8 _U  I    on'  Ons IM  s                                  isu
less  $16.1  SUWN  63e'  Cm.                     6016 -w         emw $"    r s ,m  8 .m e  ew   t .  *       Ie   5"          53   54   IL   666 _ 6        *      am                   Uin     UNmi'
.Om             6405   ois  6US* 4  1                     Uwl n         *u.   mews  Smi  It"   t.me                  I .   a              a   *'a 'U  a  1 *    -m  S                                . __    lw.
0'51    .        55  *_.  553'. Sal IW 11L *                             a "   * _   *L . " Ill'. O'. -1  .1 61  .a             -    a     a    u      .    a    *.    mm                         m s us  mu
........  .......  ..                                    .........9.m.....m. .  ....   . . . ..  ......... .........   . .                                                                                 
gal. .w    emOn's.fees   ulS  cm's                            so m'  m    tl,m e,M's  emOS  cm0,            S.       mi  ml so's  u          Me's IN    m             a0    M usom      a   W5U
--.; e        ol  mi            MS  m    u                a
s n'      Po6   In' .IN   i                    Wm 1'  see,  sul    VW6' dm1 ills1s S,Ri  *440l                                         ml* u   i'   N     .6  C l  on  e*                       a    ma     mu
631     eC'S     M 04* .10  INV'  ai'   *Vl             sm',,  4066614m   @61401  It'  ou14  S   64033 a Itm                                    u c        vem                              u        ums
s's.    cm    ma.   em    t~~~us, a   I el       s411  cmu   emOnmew                          w                   on    fe   on   g       fee                                                        mumu1
*106    Om      .64    .64    530  M1  on            e I e       wl a. m .6     0 .6   0    feem   .1mem st   .6  .                        .      e.    .6   .6   .      e
PM  la                e       c        s U5ooe            a itiit.6us    Ws           u                                             'ji"Ow   M o   m INM   g  aIn o
. ....   ... . .........                                   .     . . ... ..s....m..
em 1e113m
IV    m   eemu 0  W         mmaIummu wo I m11



-  in        U    P    m
mm a ~~~~~~~am~~~~   a a emma. O"                               NoWeov
^ "l__                                              ,.e, bsems,_ __ _ _  ne 
a" m      m o   m   m e me -          ago     on   m m         mn so   m on    e ft"   m me   m    so   me  Me   NWs
a 
a.lS mmmtema                               e                                            *  a.  a.  ma.  m*    e  me mo:          * J.l  %.L* &M    me IMeA14 m
J.                    me~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mu 1                  U3             stm:  m.o lamw  Lou:    a.m   file SmW  Am,  lameatpledim
as                               a                                            SL.  6         am 3 3i. im  m       . s i .   .U. am     Lim.   a ImXa
,a.mt bma a|4,                               am am||4  am_sZ,**,                                             s amtX am  ne am.m. m. ameLI  am. tea. a. _*v$   * ^Lma,  a
-:                           s        s    s    ec _e  t:       me  me am   ,-l _ e. am._ ti: , _. ama ama  ,..  _. a.#a............................. am.  S ,L:  a.  _e .. US   Wl..k
~~~"                          L ~~~~~~~a a.ta,.m a                 sa a,
.  :*   s               S      z      ~: a: t:l: ' tin: tL S   .t:    &U  ,'_a am! t   to.a  a._        e tin   aSt.-
am~ ; mm a                                                 *meam. am. am. .a.m.a                                       e *"  a. Em . t  am. sAme ameam   m_a
~~~   ~~""t"0  ..  t.>  ^  &  t ^& ^ . t.* t.t ... * t.t * __ ^ .......... .. ' __.^.F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~milL     4mi.0e.t   A0w N  ..  ".!  .t  '  ._.-.'   _^--W O^!S IMM 
SOL     a                               me        a   a .4. a. . a. a   .*A W.mu          A.11  Uam. Ama4  m.Lw          m       L ,am, ma,, Oka   am$ , am'      maom
-mm                                *      a                                              ,maZ,V me* lamme    *  .e  a    *e tea,m.m  a *ee    * na..  mau tma,  ma t   a  * *_   em
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w  at N" " X                                 IO t                              : Wt#S
~~~'m.mmmmmea                             .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,0 Ms4  3M aamm      It.,    41  ..  aIn~,. .06I   OL4    0~ ~ .~an   ain  la, 
I m         mem    e                      $Uin a m   am. ame CLOW.    *man *  IL           m  a.aa a ma    * mam
mm  ma~~~~~Wo  cm                                                                                                    LW  1O0RWMOOM                     KL
amamam06                              C me              a   a. A                       me  me  maM  in.ma a.mMa.a L ain  I'm$                                     in
am me. m          me                 *. ~~~~~~~~~.  t              am. tin, am, a.m, am.          .me       a    ain: am. same eaMron.    * am. tas Lm: tw's IL   .........
mapamme mm m~~~m mm.L. am,; elt  m   a.am.                                                                    am         aa  .meo eta, amai a"M, I       a.m.
Pam                                                                                           IL"I"~~~~~eema  .e  a,    ep.2, ame &O a m, a'm, am
a urn   loam  mm  mmLM
ammaemm                                la  la  LI, 'LI e 1      ILL a,   m  Me m. em," amaKL   LIt "ILna amaLI                                         "I ----   .....    e  mm   tiel  aML
aminmem    ma   *   ,   a  a.  as  a,   .  as ama   * ama am, a.m.a tins ..me              ama       -...m  tE            ama    * am,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLS"  am#IL"w
ma a  m   mm a                                                *am. am. am. as.. am,    .lase.C   . a    am. ama.. a  I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IF . a       M  a -----'L  s.*V$  mamaee  f$
UK asmam auam    an   m  m .a,  ie                                    as mm    m.am  m .a. mn
_   __  .............................................................................   a.....   *.......  ...*.....   *........   ***.__***   *.*__._  .****.*.________.....4e*    *........   *.......__._...*..   e........   *.......   *_.,...._.
* mam.aasr   mmin a  e mi  am           m     mm
a _-M._ *          m
am~~ m' -    mi   mm     e   e  m   m.me,am.  atamt    ma



tbb4k *i    " tbt 1
t .........e... . .....                 ........        .     .....         .     . ...        ....t........................................ . ...  . ......................... ..... t..   ... n  .ttt...e
..    .. . ... . m            .. .. ....  ....* . .                                                                        U.S 3.               .4.......   ..  . .   . . .... .. .. ... u.
"am                     _           toz                                                               Sao  $0.                                                 O.k   Mt  ,*                          ,                             "L
MtmI t    IIIJt.1i"i i                                                           s .      .        9            ts               e ;   tns  em..  a..              -                                      -                                    am-
,,,,_,_,.,, _.....................-  . tt .\  si   ''t'    ,t - 
IS        t o    no   s  iU                                      1     A.     W .% 011   tsK mis                            h        .                   LT.  t*1 )3*w 3 5  .  -  5416                       L    &VIlk4l    ' K5 * .L   m             -
tloimto h illis13 mu                                            326   326   3      323 S.  5SO                   6          .150 120    V        We6.    U.16.              4.6IL0            i.L.       .43.31,. W A. a WS 
s-em..u ei            muslusisamiA                                                                                            *.6100     CSILS  4.6311  %.1*LS              *  3136.           S.W1 .6  46.44)  9.36.1  3.331,   *               2S136
i; W           ;W                     . --. ............a        .... W-%    .  W.                              So &I *    S.W....................                     .     ......            .             .... S....... &%.    S.S.. . ...... ... l."L  . . . . &     1.0.t. .1.. .  joef  ,I.......................----.... 
&       Uet 1    Miotm i                             a           tKSit  iSS 3 A                                                 0.          t        19        o$&SI1                            at-          .4.$$* &k" l                        .
amaS   3133              i iU                               6. ill-IM   M 3.  gt6 M   M-  to                                      416     1     111.S 13.6            -solkwo           -3XI5 3I        6.53.211AJ,37.4                 -3.L1
amusE. gemS             .  61   311  116  316    -              125      24.63            1311    t6~~~~~~~~~~~!!.i  ..  1.....1 ....   ....           . ......1....... 4.0    .......  6......  ...        e16.
&  ,MMii ., ,,                                       so           .             .4.5.1. .18.                             "233, Mt                    3.6                   . M.M.*   4Ln  W3L6    1413    1641I    WA                    .    . 
tt              .t...... t....................         .......    ....  .  ..... ........  ...    ........ ......ete.. _ ..... ........
1140ol                                                                                                                     66.c $  ; 611  31236.6 L 3,215,11.2316         .    .  35I    63SL4W33O.I031l3.
....  .. . . t ........ e... ... et....e.fe    eee. ..tee..et...et.   ttteCe  t .lt..
... ..................................................................... ...-..-..
M ma imm aff a la imut  a  umm "MM                         m as m"    u uma.2omi   n=it tium  tt                                     o s. AusiWm Mt 33 16ma3"At a 5512 02SW
.---------     ----------------------    ............ ..  ......                                                  .........         .       -      ........62
_ma. tm _ 
O '
PA
Wi



Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a -mo       sown mm sammusin m  s m la" so us  c  I V
......... ' 3. ............. ....  .   b
 a  .su s_ * w ww-u   ugsii  wus X se ws sm *  s-nrnsaiae' . "svwim swm s-me
..In'"  -  _          __ _       ....... ._.. 545   _ .... .......... n....... ..   ..4f_ .nbnbn    _.  _ ._  ...... ......_
*  ssw *ft sm-m *inus i. mt 'Wi.  s-mm- ViW VW tow s-;wm:           in's  .me  _ W _8  Om W ,c,:  am a-   m
*tM c  * emi , rmi t*   e tsw s    w * ov a- o,*   w s                                         m-e  *  I *  -  m   1
*  p15    *  sisie  s-sim sips  simil sus *ie-  *_lt *  ow'ses' * s  lis s'ti ow's mim ts t t   t' tt         is    *  I,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a .mg I
"Moes     em' SWe' M:   e-m  as -s *  -insSW_u---- $ see s  s- __'s    We s --t SW   s"MsWs---um so    in
mie.   ais  gus  s   m  n'.  -sw*    w'  o'ssis-ms  -gne   p e's*   msem   se-    m    * mu  vsme swmamimi
Ulaso AMM I GM-we-



.   .  .  _._ .......  __._........ .             .........   .........       ............         ....................................... ~._ .......   _.  ... _..
0
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onoooimm I_mswa*$   *wn;;wibwen;w;Z;
;ioswn                                                                                                           so swunasm      I ma.   w sam amin; ma *      a     m; samm _
'~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~UUN iems* *u i-83 Nw mac sw   *                         umaai mau   aa  aUsalsa  SSsmasmU  mm  s ismUmai *a ii *i ia@"                                                                               -s3 -   _,_
~~~~~~~~~~~~...... . . ..... .  _ ......____.... . . _. .. .......... ........ .. . ................. I...... ...................................... . ....... . ...... . ...... .............
S * le lS  *----- ..  -- - - -----*  ..  0   *fl.n              .... .. ........ ......  _   -----
F.     sin am gu-atla, 0=ums  9s1-io11 liars. roe,1 IIS ' Simst   esswaslo   11 sem ,i,s      1 555W 0 swi    sw,im I WV I-sam is                                                                                            am
........ ........._ ..._......  __   ..   . ......... ..................  .......  .e..... ......... ....... I........ ........ ....
fift"  *la,  gin'  010' ousi  o                     $441'  .o  Vmu  fi'  CO1  I'Mll 410o o'' f l St                               .        .    .    .    .    .    .    .    "t
si'mm   esu   i msiuaa #1141               *10,10 aims' c-a  WW"-o                                                                                                   $""us-wau  -m-oss-s-m   smamriss  a glim    ""a."
|zM _w **w18 vs *a  *s  *  *  * *w * * - - - - - - ..                                                                                  - ..- -_ _
a.m..            ..   --.         5    5- .. .... 5.5 .,. .... . 5   5gi . ....-......... ........ ........ ................................
-ssma            .    .z  suesas" s+WlimW                      55s~  -,                         *imUCiSw si - .              5 " j z. 5    . 5* 5* 45 .                          _"
,.se    .ia-  s.u    ,,,ms ,,,m   s-ma  *s wi  .                         . a.e c-em-  ,a-  s-m- o e  rw                           .         . . . s              .s_,
amaw  sims  ovust  cu4aisavs sag                         is         sami   V-ism    -asse m  s11111            faleml,s u
am aUm
_ .
_._~~~~~~~~~~~~#IM ... a                             "''... .. ........ ......__.a. _.__.....I'. ......._._ ......_._. ......_  ___ ..._
sum-rn ses-u  s-ms a-mrs sums  s u. -as -s -    siusi s-em  simm sass                  101,1    ow         M ON4   0                                  s      mm semis em . ems-msam as -
_-.ssaewin  simm    mu _-mm  a-ease. aims    casisueemeUs'me-eM               smwoma                '               a         s 4Ua  aI              a   suasaaumm =emamama
*16    W"       I'D     gla-    si-s                                                                    .        .        .        .        .     s  ca                sms        ms _     i
fiflfifi..nf  fifm ..fl....n.. M    flflfl* .........   .fl. ....fl  *ff*fl*fl.*fl 9CC.t*..fl. *.........* ...  f....* .**f..
PM      u                    sae      acm     ame   Oc   nhas_ _ac          sac     VA      ne     no      gm    ac" a"O  Oa.   c   mscsi   msc                nM
em. V"
oml 553 55055
IBM 4 - 0         s ONe mWmm emem mm .    $"mma                            '0,1
a    ws   minssu- m m



;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 3. ... . ...  . ..                              .     .........      .       ..
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .    ......    ....... .
.       .tew  .    .    .    .rWu    .w .l}   Wim   mume Wiim .mu. n s um   m v mm    am su, *
8 *8a  i*14 swi          * lme *VW'#*61g     t *Vo l.    8151 814t1  *1'$ 44*1t 8W's*  4'111 6W1 "M."
433 ........                                                                  .... *                                                                                            __ . ...... . . .......  *........ . *. .........  ..     .* ...
8168.... .. ...                  .            8...    . _                        . _  _  _    .         .__
86'18                *:I' :vwv Nn's  :                                           I 816816*84*1  ;164-  :8 :16M W M Mtog8*a                                                              WmW5.     6w :  :m
81618 86 8*84. *18. 1*81*81                            81811111686118                                  88s 4*   * *  46* 86  e83   *  4*    * 846***6    U1
8    6*8388468                   1161118 *U1688161w*l%                   116184*_ *441618188.             -66         6865    04   4                   66* tn                                *    U     3
... _ _ _ _ _ __~~~~~~~~~~.    ..... .                   ..  .. .   _....__.... ..... ...... ......__
U,gw" NO. 1"} V   TtWs 'M   a                            1  :V  : vXts-*"  M    'W   u  :                                                                                                     1111 u "* ^ 
,.,,,,  IV*    el  .VI   $S    ,,, , *             OM,  *VW    $14    $        *W    $,                 .       .    .    .    .    .    .    .                                               SI....II.. II. 
$140    610111 s1|}  av    *W   eVIS *S1               VM    WW    el           0*    *l    Ova-           .       .    .    ..  .    .    .    .                                     W  V     _ _ _ wM UM 
|_ " " W ~~M                   W     gm     an  0        "      Wi      W  U "A      W S w   Um  "I    "W  gm  as U    *WtsSu  O             
~~__*'4*_
9861  8161  8161  8*81- ------   --6 ---- --                                                      OM1*618....816    86.uaui......a  844*8
638    38 68    16 81        *881  *AO"  Wm                    44% 416    4       1                                                                                       6861*6
am    Mms"  u      10810 "mm
886*
56.84688             es



.                    m........................m.......  .   .. . 
mm *m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ m
an.an                                                    .        . . . ... . _-.
E                                            __ _._        _ ..     ..    .................. _.._....._  ._  *t    * . *  *  * *  .             *      *
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M     Mo  Mo  M---# |                                               l ;  M ;  . 2    .  _
ffS-5_-a  m     ,-   
a ommmmONS
ma--     *_.^ !.' -!. miim   main.                          m                                         .... !~._.                            me. _.:_:. !._.._ '.'.m!e .
a.|  mm        .mm      ommmn   mZ mama  maqiwm                                                               u*    *                           e *a a" *^           a         *        U
 mmmm am         mmu
__       m  m                                             _                                         . . am.  .ma a..   ... .   . amF   m. a. *ma    . * .    a _    .. ..
OWmaaNammas ma..OL LSLM                                                                                                                    A*    dl$tas         &msM
mm~   mamma                                                  m-|-lll@|*|| -   *a  *e  m*                                      '           ' .   ma  *.  me A  at. 'a           *         g Xt
cam  mm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.AL''.1MLUIL                                             I=   M       oa,m                  446L                   n L..
amamamam.  ma                               *        me    C           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fla4oa eaf  .   .   mALma.  me  ma WLO  S
mmm                                                 *      a..  me  ma  ma  mae    .          ama   ma.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SL   I  a  ma.aua  kma  -m;  U00
Om* m'uXlm                                                         m                                 a tmf
mmmainmmammm m_ma.                                         a,    *   *" *tZ **   *             3 a. *a.a ~m* Li        m.                   m.a      a .   am. amLI  4a  ft       . _  _ t     S
WIL M ms    m.......  a. .                                                                      *.a  * a. t am. a.    *m.                 -me .....a..m.........m.
t ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     c at        a   C__ "  a_l  a         . .  a. ma *. a.    a...   .   .m _ m  am ,m .m    m.    .   .   AmKS
mamminsam ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~.. m_... 2                   _. ,,._., a        .... _m  m    _   __~ _a ma      __am   _e   _
_ _ _ . _ _ . _ . _ _ _ _ _ . . _ _ .~~~~~~~_                                                                                                 _   
-~~iG_a,,m                       mmc                                   ----- -- -- -- --- m  -- a.    m.a.  ma m.                          a. aaaa             . -m  _m
a,    a   5 5   5 .    m    mamemasi.am   a. aa  maam..fi 
mii   mmac a   a           m   maa            a     .  .aeaaa.a~ame                . .  m   aaaaa.iaaaam.                     . .   m
in in m          ..                       .ma   m                  e    a   a.m   m   aa maam   a~.  maamaeaa   m
__am a mm..m                                                                                                       aa,ae    ~mam    m                   .    am.m            a    c.       m



aua *  a     , ma. a       m sa,us   ma .... ..... . ..a.... ........ ..........
.llt~~~~~so 160:              b:LIL    bet.leIe    -     eIIMS
w_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
_.~* ___ * fl*~** S***S nS*sol...flt.W .... ..... ...s .t . ...n...
2a  6w                                                           I          I *                  :                                                                                                        4w  _ :t t  
SI ,,,  am                                -to    .  a
1UaimmaMs=g                                                            asa*  "                                  gg t ~                             em,SU    Lm.40. WOOLt 43W                         4Mm
mmma.ssat4    a S                                                                  .i  .           I.   .      Mil  Bl. OK:iu                                 Ilt  ll@at.MU
a*jt n",_  *.;^; *-                    -- *-- -                        .- ). ;     ,           ,_MI   Le
eta  -  at~~~~* *  It  gt                                         a3<           enaXt.*  LU
mainmuinmam.m                                  1J1      s  B  B   .            .  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   Mt  t.BN    3* L4 *        IM6     a.m   tat,js                               SAAB
m       m e,                                                } * ,*   t           .   .  ., '   ~                    *  t .        '          .* 4. &lsem   t.4                      '      '.  *   t.
maim          mimuom                                                 soams
Cml.       _ _ mme K **t                                                                                                                         * BB    it  t.*   **   -ee  -.*.t *    . m:
Mum.t.mmain                    SIB         S                   *   B   3        .  aLe                             *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  SOL*                          * b
Dwas                                                                   . _                    *  *              .                                 . _*  ... ;                                        * .__
........ ...... mm.                                                                                                       i..-.
:asmmainumuu ''. '  -   1*                                                           . a  ne #e    me *~ X  UbL                                                         me M.                             IL
be~l~ susa  mm  mauls                                                                                               am: sm: g.. . _..._.. ... .. . .                ....
emebeusUm    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             * ~~~~~~~                  4~~3  be   US    UL$ ft                          . 6bee    me$  oatO &Mt                                  a
AM          "     ~        :on                         :                          :     :  :  :    : :                
&MCAs  m                                                                        a m m   - m mm m mu m ..                 .   "14                               ine   tea.  oan:                           .      iL:B               B
rnemam            _~.                                                            a,*iijFo                                                                     .iiiiii .    a  no..  M.  e                ' I       iiii.
*|ld - *-----;i *-. .............*  bee..me;     i;;,.;. at._.  ,iis.iei                                                                                                               i -*  - m#
e    um mma a inin M                                                                                                                                                                                            ua
v_4aw  nmm  mm Owm am                                                                                               .....      ... ...a ..... ......  . .   .  . .... .._  ...... _._.,  ....... , __,.
maOLOmms.UI  i. Ie.. K e          .   .   t.SLM*   calO I&Me AN&*          .
WUSS mm.  mm... emmamuam                                                 *         us.       .                           .  us.    me                                      *    me~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........  ...
i";                   .......    ......... ...................... .................... . .. ....t..... .............. . .... .............. ...........



I    C 
.4
.    .  .  _             ..         .       ............. . ... .................. ............................. . .. ................ ... ............................................ ............... .............. . ........ .. .   ..
eec...... c.e.o.. flee.... e.....,*  ......e Cu. ......                      ....         .
.e.o.c.e..  .n.. e....      e.... _...    .....                                       ..   _ ...  _. ..  _  ,
s-mm subuilmila mWelmU7 Ve/In utU 4 MCU SimibIlloi SiESIS 54W CIIO JW OS   0$W                                                                                                                             sam m a  sn t
embalm.. -in~ -                                        S l o"tW  +  -  -  e's                                                                  mamma       nnm 5     I  _p$-"
em's.           .     .      Cut   Sib    555's.                             .      em   .iW 1.W                                                                                                  $001001010
t11                              *1 ,                   m                    ,w  , m                         Om* -                          '                                                          aimitoainu
cuss  .    't   i*                ..    *-u    S          t  *                           *t   ' m   e    ssttt lm ....                                ma
ems        -     .      - ~~~~~~~~~~~#set   l's  CS  .     -      .c, es                                Il.a                                At
.15,  .       .Ww    ._l * .w     .             a im's cr   u e      *-^                        else's Cois aN   No.UU: '                                                                             wtmm
atN    -                                 s      -S Cso                    .       .      .     cm   oma1   94W  .                                   i                                                    u
......                     .      ..      . _e                .   _         *     .      .................................................................
tun   sWBs e11s  si1s $-us  tutu  S-gIM  sa . 11'                t                                                                                                                           los  m" s    l    il   -m * o aw -U. I
155)  cm   sm- tei's Clbs   -''t' CiSi  **taR    Ca's  Out,  S ,,,,,,, Clot's  ,ib   .IW   #16cW                                                     m                                                     s
4                                                                                                                                                                                                        t "     @ t"9 me -t it *'"tXta" "' ^ "%.4'"% +0b08 etx oWw e"$ _ 9 " " " * * " " " "ww t. ........... ..s s
'    *in5t ButiS J"   et "T   '                4-95   - s CltS               VN *1411*1 it eUc4 #1111 c- St's o.. c.ss's  se        .        .. w .     
(55    7 CR1   S_W   ;ci4 IU             t         *ii tue le                  * U CI  l    eII*  C'xs  vem   ci.m _                                                                                            *WFnW_al
_; ..........
1mW  .m    m   ISu   cat' Caes tw~It              04   e'   *-nc   cm's c4W'  hn  c'e   cm    *   ma  *  p                     ;       *  tIs  *.          n           ISauUUCtmSSUUfl
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.__ I..          ..........  .  _._ I.....   _._._......   ...... ~ .......  .......  ........_.  .  ......   W .- __
a  wo      olu                                                                         Ws                                                          en~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~imte   amessmml'
liv  I4111  a        :W.I  :'s .A   %"Ol :#''s s41.M'              ' ::1 ;-.o i-..    ::' ca     em    VW  eIs :M.w00 I    .a W0                       i                  eO     m =IOMMsMo    m
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11. _nW) onwo w=#                                                  Slo mw M""me  I-
tea's. tsp. s-scm's Isic.ims. cuts ga's  cud 0411                                                                                                   mmsctsctSe'   otsec  tceuN U          i  if  all omn   usm    M ata" Wmsflusmm OMasmm
In- ut       Mut    41to CMII cu'   Mlt'  cm'    VPS   SIW.P COW   cee   msSbse'    'C'sSb                    * OlC                             I     /                             c0SsWbuW
IoU e   WS .  tics's 6 SIO   C-IS'&  Sib'  54.C-  ISt  5015   .4    #Vw 51   " 5555Cm   em. *icc1c amu'  us           so It  W   W   It  a  Ct   I.csaWuas                    'so1Ul5 M11103   4100  ossSOtmV U IN 
;lOU  sm11's cm0's tooluumISol         ssulm'ss,sI   e55o  @40,'4  CotS) *4mi  CIS)l elS's $Vo  tll $00,           5 Oa        N   S   COf   aa      a I It                        MN .SasvIuSsoiabm    auctss I- 1115At
CWU  sib's sin's 115's ulm's em-s cu~~~~~~~~~~ens   V cmi                                                                .  ems0 4400sa    whw,-.p    eis's c-us' c11's eon's  u1s      a    58  Ia  Il  0    au  SM/5  c m   ,,." ma  'wo  n   1111 Iowaa
tins  94111614  I agv  .0011, VNV   vuv   vov   VOV   'eav   )WV   Vol     a   a   a   a  a    iusImi"t s$ W" gumulm                        3 ma   ovum VW  "au s
UOW amum i
. - . - . ...-..sq.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .....
gm  We    W  40    9"    gm     SAO                                                                                    we~~aUmWUUN  WIUR1mmur-I
gmua



NIbito..mma ena mm nwm*   .oum On"o  aunmo
__ ... _ to._. ........  _... .5*. _fit  _*    ._*  *fl55*fl .**Ot*tS *ett..t* *pfl*** *S*t*O _t*fS f t..      . 5..... . ...................... ....... _     .... ..   _
0*41100 ~~~~~~~~~~~IS  NI intUOtNI                                                 0,03~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0 ..0~   ,6.. ,...    ..  ....  ......    ,00                     .. . ... .   . ......... .    ..
stumps sts.su                                       U       4010   5                .   .   41 *              IOi*   00**   flg*            -            .           310       tOil    Nit   4*0.. .                                  301
0*1*40*  moo  ino.ittogu                                               -il   -00.0   - *                                                   .      .       .      .   310       140.-1--*3    4*                    .       . ..a .  _  .   a!   It? :
10                                                         s~~~~~~~~N 10it  taB  &M*000.                                 4.M       LS"013) title  001            .                        t1
_                      _L=                                  to  t   e                                                                     - * In,    W  fO          J. e    s*o    3 .O IL                 -      - .-
20*43*  ma-uuamrnas sUP               *~~~~~~~~It  a.   4   0           . . 0              as      3. 92,  110.0   010.0             .       .         I.$&:    SW$ .0        110    MI                                 Ls" a 
gISCIITum= fiNIMIS em         o                   a0Ita    0   s                         .   SO         41030 3ft        0.0w   M                                . 2SW         13.0L    Ni,   441.0-                              -. int10
eoo.1010001     40100*N  INS                        Ia.'    es  a   a   to  ao  4*   a   NI             to    l4.    "Ole   N.   3*   91.0,  owe   meo $6ma    3A    8*8  *.IWf.LS.2  10.01 1LO- .4t12ot   0 .ioeS
aim      a   to   o   to   a   "   to   -0           a.    a.~'..   ..    '..     . . . ...  ::.!._      .. i   '..   e    "it         e.   ma! ..... :.._  :   .. :  3.4..  0.. '
msm uoinoum unooa                                                                                *                           .     1I                   #,;W;    .   -      0       . I      0ae a W . *M   .    -        -     
041    anitm            i                                                                                   30.0    00awe.0..  .0ot                                                    IN t2 0 emil & . ' o l                      0 WO :
a morn mw                                                   n  t                                                M    ft  Il0                                                             0.                                           at
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w    f.M                                                  A. M.  t*0,                         DW,  a         0tF LM$,    SU#                 *                 *n
310!                             ,    !         ....   . .'.  ... ! ..  . !.  . . '.4.  .... !.   . .. .. . . .  ,   .. ......0... .....0......    . .......
aMw    N6eo m         a 03410         a             NIts0.S                                                             *     4.0.   .N.   a0%5b01*    00.0 C                                                                     .    3
a.a m m       s a os.00e0si.0                                                                                    6..1..0Is'.41.0  0S-               .                    "LS*0*    LO1IA  0.10       . L                    -4.
0*    va                  IMHSo to    a    .                                 .0*N.    .    .    .a            a,12M.  0,4.004I0s. .*                                            :000.    00000              ..03.
0.    _o        _10
tsmvam    $-IMootm  aws- s 140                           a    .     .      .   40        100  0.*040.     0 .3     *0 M                   .           LONS4    awl*         Me2.  0".01      .              .       - 0 I
ianwimsoLs                                                                                                                                             Om   ~    ~     $*~000a
1461603* oINIwtUtSUId0                       -       IB      o               -               e e       eo 40   Ni.e -                           '                     ni    -00                 -               ae.               -   *  -- a
6111 MU.    am-*1    IlI              W          1 ,     3,, 01  00         . IS          31.1      30    *0. .: 30.;    se;           .       .                   ..o     4I.,   nio       M;.433
inUU0Ut      uS                                     so0 tt  & S -   -330. -o                                              *  .O0t..0 -000                                               "       O t0t1
_tNIOUhuUU$                                         NI    4.,  1      6 4.,  0.4    .   ~. 08    10133        40.0    00.0 0.0             .   . .         .         300.0 4;!.1...                        ...  .   . . ..
inmNIteabwOU3R  NI    4.0  0.1   14.0  0.4    .        00    00.331     010    00.0    40.0                                    300.0    40,0    003    0*0          .      .       .      .~~~~~~..... .....    .... .  ....
0*4.00.) moomp  mUll                                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                      ~      ~~~~~.0*   0...... ......  ...  . . ......... .0*     0.04 ..0...*  . . .3,
y0*40ttt It* -                                                                                               0.0*0  0.03O  Z*   Ia S. W                            **t   3,0e.               IL110.4 St I  .AL  2  , I               0IS4
tStOEtE""tt;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . .                                                .  .  .  .  .,.   t v "  ......  .      .z ^.....t .......    .......    .  .  ..
.. .. . ..  t. tt.*.. ......... ...SS..                                                  ttfitt. .. . .5... . ...... 5. ...  . . . t . .....
1*4                              n-.03..0 0.0""*0! 04,000. 4.31  0.03.  0.03.0 3,0.03.21.4..  .. 04003.0 00114.*,t,*1 0,120.4 2.0*   4.135   .0*  o"e t,m^.^
~.r.. *_   _  3__... ..._.4_..___..  _...0..~ ..~. ...   ...



-94 'UMU  11
PaeS 13 of 13
{il ~*    **@**3j      it3n   3s4s!3i 
3I s         '''';'U''i                              4 , ,  it,'3': '  !
.    ,,,,,,.......     .  3.3......','; 
1:g     *                                      *:"'3   ''''',  ''.3'3s'1
. .  .........   .........          ......... 
,3j I         S#0 *#|        15f| ,                ii2$X33tX
lIft           s                                   Ht I
,Jif                                 * ,,,,,t 'i''si
-iEs ~~~~*X**+X4t[ji   
U iig            d4.d' 4|g#dJt $#t##tIEEittS 
i,' .      S  .....        .......         . .8....   -.-
i..  ......    ............
......      t       E       * .......   ...,,,,,li
li          *****..... .......         ..     .     **
:tS         ~ ~ '        g8 *     td'''' iz: 
: 8 *                     . ....... ..* -...  Ofi.   T
. ..... .*                as        35*1 
a  !
ii|| Ii *              .           .              I    



- 95 -
ANflX 12
BANGLADBSU
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJBCT
Istimated Schedule of Disbursements IL
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year         Semester          Disbursements      Disbursements
--____-- U$s million ---------
1991                 II                  -                   -
1992                  I                2.5                 2.5
II                3.0                5.5
1993                  I                4.0                 9.5
11                4.5               14.0
1994                  I                4.5                18.5
II                4.5               23.0
1995                  I                5.0                28.0
II                5.0               33.0
1996                  I                5.0                38.0
II                5.5               43.5
1997                  I                5.0                48.5
II                4.5               53.0
1998                  I                1.0                54.0
T1 The credit is expected to be declared effective in August 1991 when
IDA would release the allocation to the two special accounts. The
project is anticipated to be completed by June 1997 and the credit
closed by December 1997.



-96-                              Annex 13
Page I of 12
BANGLADESH
N&TION&L MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMNS PROJECT
Production and Parm Incomes
A. Genersl
1.       The agricultural impact of the project on agricultural production and
farm incomes has been examined across agro-ecological zones, defined in terms
of depth and duration of flooding, which together with soil permeability and
moisture holding capacity, are the principal determinants of cropping
patterns. The analysis has been based on representative farm models,
investment models and project level aggregates. For each model, assumptions
regarding intensity of input use, yields and cropping patterns have been
estimated, based on average management practices prevailing in Bangladesh.
B. Cropping Patterns
2.       Present cropping patterns in the project area are dominated by
various types of rice which are grown in combination with non-rice crops
(Table 1). Where flooding is deep, a single crop of B. Aman (floating rice)
is grown. If the land is not deeply flooded, B. Aus is grown as an upland
crop In combination vith rabi crops such as pulses, oilseeds, jute and wheat.
Depending on land type, soil characteristics and water availability, rice
cropping may be single, double or even triple either as a mono crop or in
combination with rabi crops. With irrigation, cropping patterns will shift
both among different rice varieties and between rice and other crops (mainly
jute and rabi crops). The principal shift envisioned will be the introduction
of HYV Boro rice. On the high land, B. Aus and jute are likely to be
partially replaced by HYV Aus. In areas little vulnerable to floods, farmers
will tend to shift from local T. Man to high input crops like HYV Aman, as
they will be able to provide supplementary irrigation in case of drought. In
the lowlands which are subject to deep and early flooding the extent of
adoption of MM Boro will be limited because of possible flood damage.
Lowland without flood protection and drainage improvement is likely to remain
under B. Aman followed by fallow or a rabi crop.
C. Crop Yields and Production
3.       Estimates of present/future without and future with irrigation crop
yields and production under va ious agro-ecologlcal condLtions are summarized
below and detailed in Table 2l. Present and future yields are based on
actual averages rather than those attained with liproved management practices.
It is assumed that project yields will be attained in the third year of
11 High value rabi crops such as potatoes, tobacco and spices as well as
perennials such as bananas and oranges have not been included in the
'future with project" cropping patterns as they constitute a minuscule
portion of hectarage.



- 97-                              Amnne  13
Page 2 of 12
irrigation with a slight additional Increase over the life of the equipment
for Bar, wheat and T. Aman.
Yield                       Production
(toniha)                        (ton)
Future       Future         Future        Puture
without       with          without        with
Project      Project        Proiect       Proiect
Boro a/                2.5           3.75         22,000       547,000
B.Aus (local)          1.0             -          57.000
'A.Aus (HYV)             -           2.8               -       182,000
B.Aman (local)         1.6           1.6         171,000        38,000
T.Aman (local)         1.6           1.6         140,000        17,000
T.Aman(EYV)              -           3.0               -       362,000
Wheat a/               1.4           2.8           3,200        64,000
Oilseeds              0.85           1.1          26,000        15,000
Pulses                0.60           0.75         18,000        11,000
Jute                   1.9           2.0          44,000        12,000
Perennialsls.cane    38.0           55.0         244,000       404,000
Total Paddy                                      390,000     1,146,000
Incremental Paddy                757,000
a/ without project: local variety; with projects NW.
4.       Based on the above estimates, and allowing for 10  seediwaste and a
conversion rate of 65? from paddy to rice, he current annual f odgrain output
in the project area is estimated at 231,350 tons, or 366 grams per capita per
day. This is considerably lower than the estimated average consumption of 440
grams or FAO's recaomended minimum level of 545 grams, and Implies a foodgrain
deficit of 118,000 tons. With the project, total production is expected to
increase to over 734,000 tons of foodgrains or 917 grams per personlday,
assuming a population growth rate of 2.42 p.a. This would result in net
surplus of over 297,000 tons of foodgrain over lAO's recomended minimum.
D. Farm Incomes
5.       Fanm Models.  Models have been prepared for a one hectare farm in
each of the five agro-ecological zones. A composite model has been prepared
based on weighted average costs and returns across all five zones. Investment
models are based on (a) average command areas associated with various minor
irrigation technologies, and (b) the cropping pattern of the composite model.
6.       Pries.  Financial prices of all inputs and outputs are based on maid
1990 farmgate prices (see Annex 14, Table 2). All cash flows are in constant
1990 taka. For farm labor and draft power, costs have been estimated as a
weightqd average of the peak and off season rates prevail-nag in the project
area.2/ Seed has been costed at estimated market prices.3/
2/   Financial wage rates vary from Tk 18 per day in lean months to Tk 35 per
day during peak months. These wage rates are weighted by the duration
of different seasons, averaging Tk 25 per day.



-9                                Annes 13
Page 3 of 12
7.      Input Use.  Crop budgets detailing input use and costs of production
per hectare are shown in Tables 3-5. Hired labor is assumed to be limited to
252 of total requirements, as this reflects common practice, and because of
limited supply during peak harvest periods. Manure is not included in costs,
as its use as fertilizer is limited and declining. Crop specific irrigation
costs are based on esatimated water requirements and related pumping charges.
8.      Farm Budgets.  Farm budgets assume a tbree-year-build-up with output,
revenues and production costs growing from 602 to 852 to 1002 (Table 5). They
indicate that project irrigation facilities will enable an increase in farm
Incomes, varying from 1322 to 1792. This increase will come from shifts in
cropping pattern, more intensive cultural practices, and moderately higher
cropping intensities. For the national composite model, estimated average
annual farm income per hectare increases from Tk 8,967 at present to Tk 22,543
at full development. The increase in cropping intansity from 1352 now to 1652
at full development will require the average family to devote more of its
collective effort to the farm and less to off-farm activities. The average
net iacome per work-day of f-mily farm labor will increase from the present
Tk. 76 to Tk. 111. Per capita income will rise from Tk. 1,495 to Tk. 3,757.
9.      Investment Models. Internal financial rates of return (FRRs) and
switching values, summarized below, are based on the full cost of the various
minor irrigation technologies. For the 56 1/s DTW, an FRR has been calculated
for each agro-ecological zone. For the other DTWs, the MeRs are based on the
composite model which reflects the prevalence of each agro-ecological zone in
the project area. Cash flows for each model are in Table 6.
RMwr" 0. ttoer Irpi lot
s.~.g z   ""*I n    NOW III   "III lv  gbll v    I V
Ns               ~~~     ~~~46  5us  so5     2       255     86
Iaer.mtl Imsm (75/9) 11    14.710    1,012  18.69  9.878   04864S    t1814
)itns Vlue (    I/ 1
nRwi-                                                    -1U     -021
Cs.-                          65492              805     295      445
R51    Post-.      I_r ge
o l e d  57/      4775              8t1[  S W u  7
U1 t*1 _cow (%) Al    a1 75               8        2.417   6.141
6.1,s o Vol vo ( ) s-
m".                                       S
Coe"7                          4         76      445      To
.AtQ Vo1=fl  de_WOm   r a borere fl05415.
VUsIs .eq.lt fsrs an,S
The high FpRs, and income Increases ranging from 252 to 772, and 8,400 Tk/ha
to 18,100 Tklha respectively, confirm that irrigation is critical for raising
farm incomes, and also reflect the high productivity of the proposed technical
packages and thelr immediate effect on crop yields. It has been assumed that
development would take place over three years before reaching full development
and that farmers would adopt the expected level of inputs within this period.
Thereafter, the farm families would not only become self-sustaining in grain
production, but would also earn increasing incomes from their farm activities.
Net returns for all models show a dramatic increase reflecting the change from
largely subsistence farming to a more comuercially-oriented operation.
31  Seed has been costed at 252 above farmgate value for each crop,
reflecting costs of storage, transport, handling and waste.



MATIOSUL MMNO  MRLM ITIN bEILOUD   PROJEC
aW   1/                     FM          rt        yrt2        JrS      ye4       rg      yr       Yu'7      yre       ys0      yrO
Eatly kbrIt
B. An  LV                  57         6750      5u492       40422    36142   24160    12605       480        6          0        0
T. Am WV                       0          0      4404       12494    24100   370       5MS1    0270   64102        "167    0567
.101022043                           22048      2126"      1070C    166      136       10111     7t0      07        0424      0424
U-tals                   001      90      ?2            7 6       ?M 7701   7521    735      7M3    n11           s6      n15
B. A" LV                  1067 1O0 647    101211            9096    759        900    4207  29 721   24714         240       247
T. Am   LV                 67522      67522     0231        7232    59019   4296    27663   102          11040     10468    10468
T. Amen WV                     0          0      015       28001    4406      062      0375    11103   116666      MM60    12060
sub-totes              104300    19460    106          1076   1t77   13s6    10312   157025  155240   U1404    164
Rabi
SoLf                        963O      0Om3       n1o0        706      0104    4144      2106       737  ~47             0        0
loro WV                        0          0      9m         2794    53071    4365  11           1"022    30        1452     1462
WIest                       230        230?      215         1967     1454      972       1        173      35          0        0     O
Seat - NW                      0          0      151         476      84U    1327      17622    21222   22599      22148    220
011_is                     30607      30677     294         2740    24476   20964    1706        1517    14178     10M       13928
Palo                       2966       20366     26          26404    2377    20620    16         1       14490      14204    14264
Sb-ttel                 72134     72811U4    919        90000   11304  1446    100U1        1870    I1624    191   10901
S1Mme                      6424      G2         040        S0        0M      05        7137     7273               7342      7342
Suib-teotl               0424      0424       648         59       03    06          7137     727t    323        7342      73
to      roppe  arm        3532      s3513m    856511        OO0    13197   697901   41331    424708  4290         480550   480559
Not cultiveted am         262200    202200    262200       262200   202200  262200   262200   202200   22200          202200    12200
Crwpin  le      t           15         185       187         1405     140      15IM     156"      1021    10        101       104X



- 100 -
ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 12
BUNGLADESH
1I&TIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1(b)s Change in Cropped Area
PRESENT         FUTURE WITH           CHANGE
Crop 11                   FWO             PROJECT
Early kharif
B. Aus LV                  57369                 0            -57369
T. Aus HYV                     0            65157              65157
Jute                       22943              6424            -16519
sub-totals             80312             71581              -8731
Mharif
B. Amn LV                 106847            23467             -83380
T. Aman LV                 87522            10488             -77034
T. Aman HYV                    0           120691             120691
sub-totals             194369           154646             -39723
abiS
Boro LV                     9833                 0             -9833
Soro NW                        0           145862             145862
Wheat                       2307                 0             -2307
Wheat - IYV                    0            22943              22943
Ollseeds                   30677            13923             -16755
Pulses                     29366            14264             -15103
Sub-totals              72184           196991             124807
Perennial
Sugarcate                   6424             7342                918
Sub-totais               6424             7342                918
Total cropped area        p53288           430559              77270
Net cultivated area       262200           2Z2200
Cropping intensity          1352              1642



DANGLAOESH
NATIONAL ltNOR XRRIGATION DEVELPMENT PROJECT
Teblo 2: CrOp Yilods and Produotion br Aoro.cologicaI Zono
Hitghland I5tht Soi Is)     Highland            )Medium Highlras
witthou PvJ!0c    With Proiet  WIthu ko t          with Pmroj   Without Proeot    Wit'h Prolf
Yioid rrodc[fin  Ti-ld Productn Tiold Producto  Y1*ld  ro0dUCtl%  Yield rroductn  Yided ProdwOn
Padd
S. Aue-L       1.00    668      1.00       0   1.00   18766    1.00         0    1.00   86706    1.00         0
T. AuN         0.00       0    2.60  10s862   0.00         0    2.60   2689f,   0.00         0    2.60   618
T. Amen-L      1.60   47720    1.60        0   1.60   86706    1.60         0    1.60   61i       1.60       0
T. uanm-H      0.00       0    8.00   98606   0.00         0    a.00    WITS76    0.00       0    8.00  178962
S. Ama,        1.00       0    1.60        0   1.60        0    1.60        0    1.60   66074    1.60    7842
aore-N         2.20       0    8.76        0   2.20        0    8.75  .11845    2.20   10096    3.76  2289
Wheat-H        0.00       0    2.60   19272   1.40    8212    2.86   19272    0.00           0    2.90   25688
Othwr Crepe
Jut            1.90   1807?    1.60    61O0   1.60    l477    1.90    2161   1.90   174J8 1.60    86
Ol sed        0.68    5650    1.10    8766   0.8    9751    1.10    5047    0.65    7600    1.10    8088
Pulse          0.60    4180    0.75    1m      0.60    4180    0.75    2561    0.60    60?    0.75    41J0                  
S. caew       86.00   6712   56.00  201694  86.00   67192   66.00  201694    86.00   69745   66.00           0
Medium Lowlands                    Lowlands                       Pro3jct Aea
(20t)                             (10o)                          (1001)
withlout Prlc     tih  roloctWthutgilt*            WXbPoc    Without Prooct    Wt  eXe
~% re~                           A  w          wih roec                          With m1ea
Yll  PouznYold  Yroductn Yield Products viold rroductn viold Productn..       11 . .....PrcdiKb
8. A0s-L       1.00       0    1.00        0   1.00        0    1.00       0    1.00   578M       1.00       0
T. Au*-N       0.00       0    2.60       0   0.00        0    2.60        0    0.00        0    2.90  166489
T. Paso-L      1.-0    4196    1.60   1681m  1.60         0    1.0g        0    1.60  140016    1.60   161
T. AmI-       0.00        0    8.00        0   0.00       0    8.00        0    0.00        0    8.00   6S20
S. A           1.60   71816    1.60   16761   1.00   8852    1.60   1825    1.60  170964    1.60   8754
9ore-H         2.20    576     8.75  147468   2.20    6766    8.75   08611    2.20   21982    8.75  5468
wat-H          0.00       0    2.60        0   0.00       0    2.60        0    1.40    8212    2.60   64289
Other CrOp
Jo"            1.90       0    1.60       0   1.90        0    1.60        0    1.60   486        1.90   12206
OlI seed      0.65    2229    1.10    266    0.96        446    1.10      5E?    0.96   2070    1.10   152sm
Pulse         0.60    2517    0.76    1967   0.60        286    0.76      296    0.60   I?0    0.75   10 
S. ONO        86.00       0   66.00        0 8.00         0   55.00        0   68.00  244106   5$.00  40176
TOta  ra cultoa   amre a 262,200 eoree



SANOLA65S
MnTISAL MINOR IRRIATtON EVaEUPDT  PROJECT
Tale 8: Individual Cm Budgets at Pinamcll INrket) Price - Faturs without Projet 1,
Qt pop hectare)                                          (TA1)
Crop                      Yield    Volve  Value  Gro..   Seed   Ferti  Poet  Labour aD ft   Othr  ToaI   1et
of     of   Reurn           1ii*r  aldes           Aneal  goete   Co*t  Return
Prod.    o                                                     #
B.Ass LV                       1.00    044    1200  711m 5      77        0      0   a2m5    100    2          55 
T.. LV                         1.00     NU    1020  11854    221    548          0   s5       low       1      62   4724
T.A_w NVV                      0.00       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0        0     0
Rem NW                         2.20   12971   1320  1420        787 m            0   85    10          296    66   a0
_at  WV                        1.40      66    420   66    1106    150           0   2000   1          25      50   17
j_te                           1.90   12780   3420  16150        01    850       0   5000   20         878    762       S 62
Otll$ed                        0.86   10251       0  10251    2"        100      0   1250   130        147    801   71"0
Palma                          0.60    4024       0   4024    Sf6        0       0   1250   1850    146    8072   1762
Soareane                      86.00   820         0  82604    600    850         0      0    106       407    68C7 24069
Individual Cr. Budgets at Flasocal M&e) Price - FuMt with ProJect
wt per hectar) Vf
Cro                       Yield    Value  Value  Gross   Sed   Ferti  Peati Labour Prtt   Other  Total  Net
of     of   Reurn             IiZer  cld..          Animal  costa   Coo   Reborn
Prod.  bypro .v                                                         Y
B.AuA LV                       1.00    566   1200   7096    787    126           0   8250   l100    2#8        Gm0   666
T.As HNW                       2.60 0  650    1660  10160    221   1060    160   4200   2160           809   61170 1019
LAa._  LV                      1.60    9484   1020  l11S4    787    1O           0   2750   1600    278    $740  S618
T.Asan LV                      1.60    9484   1020  11854         0      0       0       0       0       0       0 11J56
T.A_a NHW                      8.00   17668   1600  10466    22        600    150   4425   1600    870    776  11722
nore HNW                       8.75   22110   2250  24860    221  1is4    150   5000   1600    442    Om7  1504
9krat NT                       2.60    18182    640  1M2    1082   1814          0   2625   1600    880    710n   6on
Jue                            1.90   12780   8420  16180        61    440       0   5000   2025        87    74  6226
Ol_sed                        1.10   15266       0  18266    244    450        75   1675   1850    200    4194  0072
Pul.e                          0.75    606O       0   6060    826       66       0   1600   1650    1t2   8406  6252
Upre.n                        55.00   47190       0  4n710    60   1710    226   7500   2700    649   16624 88566
1/At full  NOW.'1011 labor end draft coeted at mrket price.
Costs of lrriton Included In for bd    tabl 4.
L1 (local warietles) continu  to be culti v    udr  ralnted pratices.



SMLAO
NATIONAL MINOR IRMTRDV AnI POECT
Table 4s Farm Models - Cost of 1rji'ltlon
CRO  WATEI RElJIRlMENT (I8/Na)                       tRRGATN  COST (aks/Na) 
MO1DL I MODEL It MODEL 1ZIMODEL IV MODEL V       MODEL I MODEL II MOEL IZIMODEL IV MODEL V
CROP                    IL      IML (N)      MHL    MLL       LL          IL(S)   ML(a)        IN      ALL       U.
T.Aus ffY                   59        W       5296                            1631     1463     14         05
T.AM" nI                    4902    4466      26        0       0             1878     124       74        0       0
so" WY                     127t?    16OOS    9289   681    4200               8574     3249    260      1778    1170
mst HYV                     2476    2263    254         0       0             694      S81      724        0       0
Ot lI_ee                     146     146       146     146     146             41        41       41      41      41
Sqpren                      228     2288     2288       0       0             625      625       o2n       0       0
Tota  olume pJmp" 224400 8ll/100 hours. Cost of lrlgatlon per a  * 50.28 Including cost of op"ator, otl, fuel
eVd lob .11I ftc.
Fare Models - Cost of CroD Proutlon
withot projoet                                            with proJect
MODEL I MODEL II kMOE I1IMODEL IV MOEL V         MODEL I MODEL XI MODEL WIJUDEL IV MODEL V
A. D   aC CROPCOST       IL(S)  HL(")   ML          ULL    U.              ML(S)   HL I)   ML         ALL     U
Cereal Crops                          ... o... Yak  ............ ....     ....Ta.........a...... TM..# ...
.A.LV                        tUa    1181      15O6      0       0               0        0        0        0       0
T.Ave IV                      0        0        0       0       0            8m        926        6       0       0
S.AmLV                        0        0     1570   2"6   2791                  0        0      170       0       0
T.*mae LV                   2461      06     188      191       0               0        0        0       0       0
T.Aw _ W                      0        0        0       0       0            2778     2S60    260       9lS   1J66
Soro l                        0        0       169    189    87                 0     80        805    8818   a83
_Ihmet                        0      190        0       0       0               o       20      480       0       0
Sub,-tetal              8046    8230    4602   8845   81SU                7200    7602    752    4629    4610
Dihr crops
Juw                         612      612      408       0       0             w6       l14       76       0       0
BUssed.                    8u       5u8    n2        106      48             194      2bv       78    129       89
Pulo"                        820     820      267     1        48             to6      169      I27    106       82
_UPI"                       289      289      96        0                     688      588       74       0       0
Sub-totals              144    ino         980    276       s             1154     1120      854    286       n
TDrAL:                     4541    4940      6688   8628   8254              6444    9721      788    4964    4680                  '0
0. IIVACT COST
Interest on Lowo            591      31i      858    282    208               640       58      5t    811 as  si                     fi
11scelleoous D /            48       526      S9W    8Su      846             B96      928       89      510 41 4 9r
ITWAL COST:                5815    57m1      640    4241    8808             O888    10207    923O     598    5478                 ot
IV  Austw  that 26b of th  total form labour rCuire s C Is hired.
I Short-ter  credit for 80S of total coste forO *onth. at 1O6 p.s.
yAt 10 of total caw  csa*  o   luding lIm I1 Uret.



BAGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPNT  PtOJECT
Tabl- S: Annual Budget for Form Model. (1)
F1JURE WIlHOUT PROJECT MODELS                        FUTURE WITH PROJECT MIOELS A
MODEL I MOEL IMoEL IJIMODEL IV MOL  V NATIONAL           MODEL I MODEL ZIMODEL IXIMODE  ITV MODL NATIONAL
IIL (S) ML (H)   iL       ML       LL    COWOSMTE        H 1  (S) HL (IIH)    L    ILL             COKSOITE
Dr               .... ..  T In ......... o.. o.......Take . ......  ...                  ........... ... Take .   .
aroe, value of productIon     14769   15146    10620    11929   6984   14427            86464   40278    8659O  25408    22860  88226
lOTALS                     14760   1514    16826    11920   0964   14427            86465   40278    85669  25408    22800 88a22
OWTFLW
Produwtlo coat                 5816    561      640      4241   S860     6460            9868   10207     6280   G6m8      5470   NU88
Cot of Irristlon 3J               0       a        0        0       0       0           2029   8866       2662    1882      76   2230
TOTALS                      5815    a761     640      4241    8606    5460          12811   18C70    11762    7025      0248  10668
NET FARM INCOME                9444    9864    10066     7666    6076    8967           24168   26697    28677   16876    11b? 22548
INCUk6 TAL  FARM INCOME          -       -                 -       -       -           14709   17834   13879   1OB06      10041  18626
PERCENTAOE CWANOE                    -                     -       -                         X- 158 6       1871 1865    1i65    1s5s
REIImN Pot FAMILY EMOiR
Av.ra9 neo. of' mlly *m.  r.    6         6                 6 6     6       6               a       6        6       6        6      6
N.Y. of Prductlon/p.r.on       1574    1601      "iW     1261    1018    1496            4026   4450      8079    8a0      2666   $757
Il.W. of Ifcr.Prodon/per-                             -                                  2462    26        296    1        1674   2262
VALUE OF OMME COvION  /  600    600             600      600   6S00   6500              6O5    a600    O5         600      S600    00
TOTAL CASH DM=   /                     2184     8566     1188   -424    2467            1765    20197    17877  11676      061   1604
A t fula-do_l;.
21 8rce  Table                                                                                                                                4 
% Composite of 17.U.6L(), 17.0X HLtH) 8$S M1H  20X IM., and 101. LL
At standard cenemkption  ll. (161 &g cereasi  15 kg o 1looe, 4 kg pulse). Sources Sureo. of Stati.ti.., 1966.                               0
Figures are Indicative etImatls only, level of covAmpt_lon vart..  tb Income and farmers eel I at  arves an  purchased  during lo an
_.es1e.



imm-
IOAT1IAL MIE  IROTtON OEVELW    PROJECT
Table 0*(e6 IIluetretlve Ft antial CashF Pke for irrigtioe Techneioiggh
WTKUNT YEAR I       2       a       4       5       6        7       a       9      .l             12-20
PROJECT .. k . .............
Gross ,.l.w of pr Poduction  45049  545049  4740  677019  7044 744 797484  -7484  79744 7434  7M744  M484   7974J4
inv.tsat1j                            01000         0       0       0      0       0        0       0       0       0  20000         0
Cr op       i on et 3         126180  12616   15S8   2179U4  25688 250808  256308  263 6210808  266308  2638  2568              26U38
applit,ln   A                      0       0    10      l       180    18600 1S00   15600   186    15O        1850    1850       1350
TtOTL  '1116  736136  I678   231484 208  260W   260608                          0603  2608  2698    0         490    261608
Net Ibenefit Dfor. FiRnaning
MTOAL                 21018 -301T  311124  443    52540 67540 527W    527540  527540 527540  527540  207640  5W0
DICREIENTAL                  410000    92211  2274n   806627  80627  500627        30 8027  86    30627   7662?   8062
FIRR t         6s         W IP     125 a Take  1,190,061
Sbitching V.low to bring FIMR to 15 :       Revenu         -28J    Cost       s0o
29 1/ Lo
aroe  velu. of production     17224  172524  230280  330"00  30671   306717  590717  306717  3#77  806717  80071? 7 98677  306717
Investaet 1                           220000       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0102000         0
Cfop prodactIon eo             6306   63066    76016  106067  126107  126107  126107  128107  128107  126107  126107  126107   12819?
Irrigation 0 A U V                0       0    10600   10600  10500  10500  10600  10500  10600  10500  100 0   10              10SlO
TOTAL                  63066  283066    67416  119407  136607 180607 136607  186607  186607  13607t  18660? 240b    186897
Noet BenfIt Beore Ftnaning
TOTAL                 109467 -110644   161612  210442  260020 20     0020 26002 0  260020   0020 260020 160020   16020 26000W0
INCREOTAL                   -220000   4236  106   160664  150664 16064 160504  150564   6054  160664   45564  150654
FPDR a        45         WPV  U12S = Taks    060,887
Sbitching Vein. to bring FPIR to 12X :      Revenue        -255    Cost       575
14 lI laV
tros velu. of production       s6262  86262   119B15  109455  199856  109668  109856  199B65  199658  100856  199856   190866  100556
invest""                              150000       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0    60000       0
Ctr    o        cost V/        31534   314 1    S09  654    64090  04090   84006   640         04008   04006   640064006  64006
aoXgUlo   0 j ^ 10          0    550    5600 S500   5500   5600   5500   6600   5500S  6500    5500   5W0
IrrigaTIOn 0 & U 3/    8146"  161534   481090   504  60S5    6O0       006W  405       6  6 00 6  69OW          14905    9606
Net Beneft BEb*ore Financng
TOTAL                   4728  -05272   76?36  09471  12970  129760  129700  29760   126760 129M70  129610   40700  129760
INCREMENTAL                 -150000   20026   54743   76062  71062  75082 76032   76082  76082   76082   -4066   7S062
FPM1          s 875      WV 0 125 a Take    279,524
Switching Value to bring FINR to IN  t      Re enue         -21#   Co t       465
Throe yer bel Id-up of yleld, beterege, and production coete (600,065,1001)
ectiudm  replecamwt of pump unit to r     11.
I Includes full coet of matrial impteU Nd Irrigation pumpng co te.
2vi Inolt_e * iK  01 Frve not tnel   Io, prodwlor cos eal0ae. 
Rates of return after financing  bov 801t for all tochnoloo , ua          go-go   t      at 10 p.*. or 10 r



NAnONAL MDNOR IIZTION DEVEL        T PROJECT
Table 6M s: Illuatratly Financial Cash Fi,s for Irrigation Ltehnt2oo1ie1
WTTY VW1              2        a       4        5       6        7        6       9      10      it     12-20
lb- S!  6 111         D      PROJECT   . ...................................                                    .....
Gross value iofprodution    841049   848049   478460  6771    9744 79744   M9744    944  7484 744  79744  797484   797784
!sstmsntk                              250000        0        0       0       0        0        0       0       0       0 280000          0
C oprod o  cost !J           126186     6186   158886   217984  25698  256        298   25898  26           2598  269    2598   2
aerl>tlo   O  ^ 11  0         0      1850    18600   1100   1800    18500    10    100    1SO     18500   1             
Irr ptis   &          126186   876186   1678    281484  2699  2M98   269898   26698  26698  26"698  M6    4998   219
Net Benefit Before Financi ng
TAL                  216918    -1067    811124  446864  527M0   27540   270        52750  $27540   2740 52640  2950   56740
INCElMWTAL             -      2    0   92211 Mll  227471  S062   827   806627   8062  380627  80627  SO2    7902627  8627
FMa           773          V   12oX      Take  1,511,490
Switcting Valbe to bring FI to 121:          Revenue        -295    Cost       78a
Iri   Vois I uo 4   p tion   26740    2675406   8987166  6848468 64260 66426  865280 6426 0664520 664506641260 64260  64520
InvestUntO 4400000                                   0        0       0       0        0        0       0       0       01659000          0
Farmer 5Iln21ts                        400000        0        0       0       0        0        0       0       0       0  400000         0
Crop production ocoat         so    1051180   12196  1616119 2186610 218610  2186610 21         02186"10 2186010 21810 21610  213"10
Irrigtion 0 & M gi              0          0    267000  2670C0  287000 267000  2670C0   267000 287000 267000 287000 267000   25700    o
TOTAL              1061180    6961180  1648966  2068119 2408610 2408610  2408610  2408610 2408610 2408610 2408510 440261   2408610    0'
Ne Beast itBfore elnancing
TOTAL              1824276  -2975726  2485202  85870 4241070 4241670 4241670 4241670 4241670 4241670 4241670 2242670 4241670
INCRMBAL             -       -4600000    618927  1741095 2417895 2417896  24178   2417896 2417816 2417895 241780  4180   241789
FM      *    371          Nt' VO 12X     Take 9,146,416
Switching Volue to bring FIII to 121:       R               -221    Coat      44
Dra-lo_m           A    roV*............   .           ..... *.................            ........(tk 000) ..    .     ....*.
Grow VsI       prod;ilon      7109       7169      0807    18291   16618   16618    16618    16618   16618 1661   16618   161         1618
Inv be tm    t/                  0       8081        0        0       0       0        0        0       0       0       0     250         0
F omrs Invoest_oe               0        1000        0        0       0       0        0        0       0       0       0    1000         0
Crop prod lon c2                         262      26       4278   5U42   5842    542    5842    5842    5842   5842    582              542
irrigation O& & M g              0         0       570       570     570    570      570      570     570    57o    570       570       570
TOTAL                 2620      6659      8241    4648    512   15912    5912    6912    5912   59n2   5912   71TM            59s2
at  'enf  Before Flnancing
TOTAL                461          58O      5066    6447   10702   10702       0      10702   10702   1      10702    94O2    10702
DIOlEMENTAL           -        -4001       506    8667    6141   6141    6141    6141    6141   6141   6141    491            6141
F133 u        77       NPV 6 123 =   Tke ('000)  80,880
Switching VaI  to bring fIM S to 121t        Rbvenue        -261   Cost        721
Thee pea biillup of yields, bearag aNd prodection Ccos  (60OX 651, 10001).
i  Inclds rplacemnt of pimp unit In year it.                                                                                                'w
$ Cosot of UP. for Secondary lifting.
Includes full cost of materiel It           rigetion pumping cowt.
toclude flaud Oil chrge. not Includer in lrod ion cost stinate. 
Rates of return aftew ticing *above 10  for *al technologies, assuing 60-905 financing at o161 p.n. over 10 year.



NTnAL MDEU DIRR,TION DEVELPMnT PROJECT
Table Oc):  Illustrativo FineIal CA  Flom    CornCm         Ae Oitibtilon Syetms
Un"urorwd ePVC Ptp              WIThOUT 11E4R 1       2        8        4         5           a       7         0        9        10     11     12-20
PtioJCT ..... TS.
are"  Volvo of pedetieeo        U 581622   58122   664526    706    7944   797484   797484   797484   797484   797484   797434   707434  797434
invetaget                                201700          0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0       0
Crop produtcteon ot_            170919   170929    218001 39 D28502?      P 25 8  23U89    256893  25689    23398   256893   256398   2563958 256698
Trc   tem gIN                    750      7500        Om5      625      Om9      625      Om5      625      0620      9620     $650     625     625
Pute* COeNOIF  le                  CC0    t6o0           0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0
Total                  176429  408729      221911   24827? n 564643   24048   2448   284648   2448   264648  264643   2641643 26438
Net UsSolit  afrt . Fiantiag
Total                   353194   127694     442617   4870C4   58t27M    582790   532790   582 7m    582790   5290 5D982790  582790  582790
Incremruta                 -    -225600      69428   184510    797   179597   179597   179697   179697   179597   179597   179597  179697
F1M1          d 6                     lVe1   a Tke   3768,651
S tbtcIg Values to brims FMR9 to 121 t           Reven" -ue8    cost 4uS
gm" Ptz
es ye   Of prodwtloo /         5822        62      66452    780      7M7484   707484   79748847974        79744   79744   744   797484   M484
1     _#ootwAot                         loQ              0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0    77600        0
croe prtoF cesW g               1709"   170929      216111   285027   2569    25689    26893a   256tas    256398   256898   26689    256898  268898
Iro-ut =8   ym                    r600     rwo imOm            g   9000 o        9000      so 9000           so 9000  9000 O        90    009o   9000
Favmrc' Coetwlloa                    0    49000          0        0                           0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Tota                    176429    8429    2226    244027   265898   268          206589    26589    265898   298   26u59    842698  28658
1-   tit tbtre Fl_tmrg
Total                            150" 1OQ94    441667   49694   581040   682040    82040  U520   582040  582040   582040  45450  524
imer esmal                -     -208000      888   186    17647   179847   178847   179847   176647   178M47   178847   201847  179847
flRR          s 5              NPV o 12  la Take  669628
Switching Valuee to bring FMiR to 123 s          Revenu          -161    Coot       423
cro    TIM 7 ot prodwctionee   s5122   681622        645c28   78091   797484   79484        4     797484   797484   797484   797484   797484  ?07484
1     _ve.tat                            1"60            0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0   166000        0
Crop productlon soo             1799    170929      218661   235027  25689t1  2506    266898   266898   256898   26S898   256898   256898  268s9
Irialo                             50      7500      1829
0     o000          0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0       0
Total                   176429   424429     22691   285027   2569    28          26898   26t   26U98   256898  25o698   422898  256308
Net eefit idor. fiant
Totl                    8194   10714        487597  49594   51040   541040   541040   541040   541040   641040   54100   $86040  64104
Io_rmmmoal                -     -24600       S89    14276    167847  186747   176M47   197947   19747   167647  19764?    21647  18787
FMER          53                NWVGUS a  Take 6581,4681
Switching Valoe to bring fIER to 123: sIevene                    -16     Coa        s8x
eu _lig pC_sent C and area of *r    1 b 58 leb iguted by 560 I/ DIV, sod 24 he with e_lnad area dletributio  systm&.
IWlues I all coat omateial Iaputo eIs   irrigatIon peepng coot.
Iseldes flned Ol costa nt llud   to po           o  c     (ee r toe, repairf eNW   zaItemo). 
Rolude une ll ed labor prlod by fmer in ae_notrutien ot distrlbion eye",.                                                                              1
'-



-108 -                             ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.       The economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a
whole. The overall economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 482. The
net present value of incremental benefits (NPV) is estimated at about US$150
million. Economic returns to individual technologies have not been calculated
as financial analyses have been prepared for each technology at full cost,
without subsidies (Annex 13). The project is estimated to provide irrigation
water to over 260,000 hectares, and 314,000 families as follows:
Equipment                   Command Area         Farm Familles
Type               Units             Served (ha)              Served
56 lIs DTW            1,500               36,000                43,000
28 lls DTW            5,000               60,000                72,000
14 Ils DTW            4,000               24,400                29,000
Rehab. 56 l/s DTW      1,800              43,200                52,000
Cosmand Area Dev.        S00              10,000                 4,800
Floating Pumps           100              20,000                24,000
Drainage Improv.         150              75.000                90,000
Total              13,100              268,600               314,800
Production
2.       At xall development, the project is expected to increase foodgrain
production in the order of 817,000 tons, equivalent to an increase of about
2002 over the current level of production in the project area. The value of
the incremental production at farmgate prices in 1990 constant Taka will be
about Tk 4,700 million (US$135 million). Value added to the local economy
will be about Tk 1,800 million (US$52 million) per year at full development.
Employment
3.     Incremental employment resulting from the project will be mainly in
(a) construction activities; (b) operation and maintenance of the project
facilities; and (c) intensification of agricultural activities. It is
estimated that on-farm employment opportunities will increase by about 31
million person days per annum at full development. This is due largely to
increases in farm labor requirements from about 150 person daysiha to 270
person dayslha at full development, an increase of over 852. This increase
will result from adoption of transplanted HYV Aman, increase in the area of
HYV Boro and wheat, increase in the cropping intensity, more intensive on-
farm management, and higher labor requirements for harvesting. The increase
in labor demand will be reflected in the eduction of the present high level
of unemployment and under-employment of rdmily labor, particularly on small
farms. Agricultural laborers and small farmers will also benefit from
increased labor demand by larger farmers and from non-farm employment



- 109 -                            ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 5
opportunities generated by the project due to increased demand for marketing,
transportation and processing services.
4.       The methodology and main assumptions underlying the analysis are:
(a) Agricultural Development. Only incremental crop production benefits
have been included in the analysis. Indirect production and
consumption effects (g4owth linkages) have been ignored due to
scarcity of reliable data. Key variables which affect benefits are
crop yields, cropping patterns and input use rates. Estimates of
these parameters are given in chapter IV of the main text and Annex
13. A build-up period of three years has been assumed from the
installation of equipment to full development except for small scale
technologies (28 lie and 14 les DTWs) for which a two-year build up
has been assumed. These build-up rates are realistic given the
conservative estimates for yields and cropping Intensities at full
development. Coupled with a seven-year implementation period, full
development within the project area will be reached in year 9.
(b) Prices. All values are expressed in constant 1990 prices. The
economic farmgate prices of traded agricultural outputs and inputs
were derived from the World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts of January
1990. Prices used in the analysis are projected average prices for
1995199. Adjustments have been made where necessarv for quality,
freight, insurance, handling, processing, and inland transport. For
other goods, domestic financial prices were converted to economic
prices using a standard conversion factor (SC?) of 0.8. Farm labor
has been priced so as to account for seasonal variability in demand,
the weighted average wage likewise being adjusted by the SCF of 0.75.
The official exchange rate of US$1 to Taka 34.22 has been used to
convert prices expressed in US dollars to local currency values.
Financial and economic prices are summarised in Tables 1 and 2.
(c) Project Execution. Procurement is expected to commence in FY91 and
installation in FY92. The project is projected to be completed in
FY98. The period of analysis used in calculating the ERR is 20
years. No residual values for project equipment have been included
in project benefits as their discounted value is insignificant.
(d) Investment. All costs associated with installation and operation of
irrigation equipment have been included: equipment costs,
consultancy services for project supervision, staff costs for
assisting Water User Associations, training, and procurement of
project vehicles. Of these costs, transfer payments and price
contingencies have been excluded. Local costs have been adjusted by
the SC? of 0.8. Investment costs not financed under the project, yet
necessary for generating project benefits have also been included
(e.g. replacement of pump units, farmer purchase and operation of
LLPs, canal construction, etc.). Economic project costs and benefits
are detailed in Table 3.
(ce) Operation and Maintenance. Incremental costs of O&M have been
estimated separately for each technology. Taxes and duties have been
excluded. Local costs have been adjusted by the SCF of o.8.



- 110 -                                  AN1X 14
Page 3 of 5
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MDNOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T bl- 1 Derivation of Economic Prices of Internotlonall, Traded Coeditle
Rice/           Soya Sugar-
A.AT IMPORT PARITY                    paddy  Whet    I/   cane          TSP    DAP       MP
..................       ... /tone    ......... U .S
Projoeted 1995/2000 value FOB soureyl  248   10    261    812          189    260    104
Qustity factor                         0.60   0.90   1.00   0.65   1.00    1.00    1.00
Adjusted FOB value                      194    185    261    2N6   19    260    104
Froight/ineurance f/ V8                          70      so      70       o      oa a
Valuo CIF entry port                    282    205    827    88t    25          826     170
.V. ......en portTkt T k/on  ...... ...... ...
Value CIF entry port US/TK=I/94.22     7941   7020  11202  11407   6781   11152  $510
Part due*/handlitg etc. I/             1120   1120   1120   1120   1120   1120   1120
Portdues/harndln poe/tcr.    i          819    819    819    819    819    819    819
Handl ing/transport/atorage 1/                   1      $o      fo      ft       1 
Valuo ex-store/market                  9860   649  12641  12900  10170  12592   7255
Processing Cost e/                      8         0       0    500        0       0       0
Processing ratio                       0.65      -       -    0.10       --      -       -
Transport/handitng !/                    96      90      9B      96      96      so      96
Faragaet price                         62    OM88    12546   121   10266  12666   7851
S. AT EXPORT PARITY                            Jute            Urea
.... US U/tonne ....
Value FOB *Xit port                             Soo             195
.... Tak/tonoeo ....
Value FOB exit port US/TK=1  84.22            1027             6T0
Port dues/handling etc. 1/                     1120            1120
Hand iIng/transport/storage 1/                  819             819
Va lue ox-toro/orket                           OM86            5281
Processing rtito                                0.6.
Transport/handinIng  9/                                           96
froegate price                                 6976            6827
i Source of projections Worlid Sank Com_odity PricProj ctions, January, 1990.
At 1906 projeetions In 1965 constant dollare and Inflated to 1990 valus by
the increas In Manufacturing Unit Values (MUV) as Index of Internotional
Inflation of 1.4489.
Pries bease:
-ricel Thai, millied, SX broken, FOB Bangkok.
_ wheat; Canadian No. 1 Western  Redprlng, Thundr Bay.
- ju'; White D, Banglaeh, FOB Chana.
- soy aben; US, Ctf Rottaram
- urea; FOB ChittaegongassumIn that by 1991 Bangladesh wtil havbooe a net exporter
of urea.
- sugar; FOB Caribbean port.
- T; FOB US Gulf.
- DA; FOB Vancouver.
- P; FOB US Gulf.
So"be-n nd mustard seed are _assmd to be of equal value.
Between Chitong/Chaln ond ource or destination.
Average of Take 1,400 convrt  to border values by an SCF of 0.60.
U Average of 800 kt 0k 1.88/t/kt convert   o border value  by 8CF 0.80.
; Avrage of 15 km 6 Tk  /t/k  convere  to border values by SC 0.60.
Z/ As por_entaga of 'volue ox-store',  duted by SCf of 0.60.



- 111 .                           ANNEX 14
Page 4 of S
NAONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Prices Used in Finsacial and Economic Evaluation 1/
UNIT     FINACI               ECONOMC
Traded    Non-traded 41
A. OUTPUTS
P ddy _/          Tonne         5896        5827
Paddy 31          Tonne         5360
Wheat 21          Tonne         5896        8363
Wheat 31          Tonne         4690
Jute              Tonne         6700        6975
Oilseed           Tonne        12060       12545
Pulse             Tonne         8040                     6432
Sugarcane         Tonne          858        1281
By-products
Paddy straw       Tonne          600                      480
Wbeat straw       Tonne          300                       240
Jute sticks       Tonne          900                       720
'. INPUTS
Seed/planting material
Paddy, LV         X8            7.37        7.28
naddy, HW         Kg            7.96        7.87
Wheat, HYV        Xg            7.37       10.45
Jute              Kg            9.05        8.72
Oilseed           Kg           16.28       15.68
Pulse             Kg           10.85                     8.68
Sugarcane         Kg            0.16                     0.13
Fertilizer
_______-__
Urea              Kg            4.90        5.33
TSP               Kg            5.20       10.27
DAP               Kg            5.00       12.69
MP                Kg            4.40        7.35
Pesticides S/     Kg/lit         300         390
Draught animals   Pr-day       45.00                    36.00
Labour            Person-day  25.00                     20.00
1/ In constant 1990 prices. Currency unit - taka.
21 Government procurement prices for 1989-90.
3I Project area average free-market prices for 1989-90.
4/ Financial prices converted to economic values by SCF - 0.8.
5S Weighted average price of Diazinon, Furadan, Dimecron, and Malathion.
Financial prices converted to economic values by conversion factor of 1.3.
Source; MPO.



NATIONAL MOM  RATI"nON OEVWJIT PROJi
Table S: Prolect Economic AndY)I
PY: 1     2      S      4      5       6       7       0       9      10      11  12-20
FY: 1    92    98       4    95       s       97      U       99   2000        1   2-10
.........................T..a million  ......... ............................
swm
0Ga  Volvo oft Incr. prod.          0   40    949  1784  2675   86S5    4210   4474   452   4t42   4U42   4542
cosr
Poect inv.t.   I                  191   53    526   789                      218    $741       0       0       0    228
w _ of Pu p l n1te 2/        0      0      0     0      0       0       0       0       0       0     224    224
Iacremontal producaton coats        O   24    40S    as  1019   1i8    1571   1666    im0   1i60   lJ90   is00
Farmrsa lve..tmont 8J               0     U      so    107   150   1is?    1          22      22      s9      54      69
0.8 M. 4/                           0    44   107   210   821    422    507    528            84    634    534   S8
Totals                        1i1    M22  1104  17*8  2266   2062   2462    552   2246   226    2502   2m
NET INCREMENTAL OEEFIT           -1I9   -414  -156    -59   409        01   174   -1479   2299   2279   2040   18)2
E3nt:  46 NPV 0       121: Tak   221  million.;   hPV 0        151: Take    8J99   tillon
11NSITIVTTY                       12S           151
Soltehing t lol. to bring EDRR to -t--
- production  oalu.                      -2            -28
- l"w* ontco t                        220           211
-  .1.A R. cea                          21            129
-prodwefton coe                          a             aT^
-totl co  .                               84            80
Delay tn recipt ot bnw Its  fte Investmente completed
Eawfits and iccrinotol crop production coats loggod by:
- I o  s EgmR  a       11      NPV a1US  a   4150 millons    NPV Yto  M             2719  mI lion
- 2 y ers EVM      22V         NPV 0 12S  =    2494 millonm    NWYO aS  a          1874 mlillon
-  3 ruares:  RR      18s      NPV  12X         269 M millions    NP 0   X a        -290   lillon
/ To*al projert 'ost. low 'inbit.tbol Development, RI, and Foasib I ity Stuly for Future LU    _
Irribtlon Developmmnt', les pric cotlingeosle and tax", with local co t  t bSCFt90
V For DTlo eod Pont.on Mounted Pump and c_m-nt dlitributton qsstems.
iJ  Iml    pgrhae  coat and elm ftr ULP  (nert. Irrigtloon coepenut), nd construction and
mAisteac of trm  lvel distribution syskemc.
gi Il.d. fuel, lubricants, *pers, m*namnt, et.
'I.
'A



_ 113 -
ANNEX 15
BANGLADESH
NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Proiect File
Bangladesh - National Minor Irrigation Project - Report No.156189 (P-BGD72,
23 November 1989)
Bangladesh - Draft Feasibility Reports for Drainage Improvement and
Pontoon Mounted Schemes
Bangladesh - NMIDP, Cost Tab: Parameters and detailed tables
Bangladesh - 1989 Census of Minor Irrigation Equipment, April 1989
Bangladesh - A Market Study of Diesel Irrigation Engines, October 1989
Bangladesh - Environmental Assessment of the NMIDP, October 1990
Ban&ladesh - Dockyard and Engineering Works Ltd.
Cost Estimates for Pontoon Mounted Pumps
List of 105 Upazilas Where Force Mode Pumping is Required for Developing
Ground Water Resources
Tables on Consultant Requirements, and Vehicles, Equipment etc. Needed for the
Consultant Services



BANGLADESH
INDIA                                            NATIONALMINOR IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMEW PROJECT
GROUNDWATER DEMOPMENT
Amm .6 HidW Potmtici                                    Upa.ilo Headq,Iarten
fw Fan Mods P-"nq                                    Zito HeaclquvIets
.26-                                                                                                   Appro.1mate Limit of Saline Groundwater                                             26-
0     Diyision Hwdq.
Ch%r        T,.d, lintited                      fl    National Capitol
-M  R.Wo      KZ. 1                                                         Potmtiol                                  up..ilo Oo.ndchm
Zila 8&jndaries
DMsiott BoundorFes
P. kb.
2
25'                                                                                                        7
IbA-                                     so.
AT,
T
NW;
20                                                                                            C-W                                                                                          24'1
I   N   D   I  A
5-    Dh k
14-
-K,                                               .4-
c-.)
4.A- T4
A
P
INDIA
Approimote limit of                                                     W.-P,
Saline groundwater
FTA?
Approximate Iiit of
saline 6rroundwater
INDIA
0    10    2p    3    4p    50 MMES                                                                             MYANMAR
21-           0       O     46      6      0 KIIOMETERS                                                                                    21
SRI LAN"
IL



91-   BANGLADESH                        1.
INDIA                                              NATIONAL MINOR IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SURFACE WATER DEVELOPMENT
A-  -ith G-d Ff-h.l fol                                Upo.il. H.odouwf-
Zilo H"dq-ws
i 26'                                                                                                    d-t4A  Po-t-,m",it.d Sys,c-                                                        26,
Dwision Headquo,ters
Notioi,ol Capital
Upo.ilo bou-dwies
Zilo 8.urid-ies
App,w-ote Li-t           Wol.,                         D,mio,. 6-dwoes
5.6,y t 2,000 i- MHOS)
imemation.1 Bo,,dwies
25'
25
Ad'v
24'
1   N   D   I  A
INDIA
A
Appox,mote lim f
2,000 mcm-NIH05                                                     L-,;r
It*
'J                                    A)
444-                             Approximate limit of- - - -
ZOOO micro-MHOS
1>                                                                                        V21
J,
c'o
0    ip    2p    30    40    50 tALES                                                                            MYANMM
SSU LAN"                                      210    0       0         KILOMETERS                                                                                     21
90,                                     91,
IL



