Page  1
January 5, 1995
Mr. Lutfullahil Majid
Secretary
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar, Block 8, Room 3
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Dear Mr. Majid: 
National Minor Irrigation Development Project  (Cr. 2246-BD) Amendment 
of the Development Credit Agreement 
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated June 17, 1991 between the 
People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the International Devel6pment 
Association (the Association) for the National Minor Irrigation Development Project as 
amended by the associated letters of December 23, 1991 and March 17, 1993. We also 
refer to discussions during the recent supervision mission on the need to restructure 
the project in light of changed circumstances and Government policy decisions, and to 
cancel a portion of the credit amount in line with revised estimate of project costs.
Based on these factors, the Association proposes to further amend the 
Development Credit Agreement as set out below:
A.
Section 1.02 of the DeveloT)ment Credit Agreement
(i)
The words "complying with the eligibility criteria set forth in 
schedule 5 to this agreement and" are deleted from paras (c) and 
(f);
(ii)
The current para (d) is deleted and is replaced by l(d) "VDSSTW" 
means Very Deep Set Shallow Tubewells, i.e. a suction pump set in 
a lined pit of a depth greater than 2 meters";
(iii)
In para (e) after "tubewell" is inserted "requiring a force mode 
pump";
(iv)
The current Para (g) is deleted and is replaced by "(g) "IDSU" 
means the Irrigation Development Support Unit in the Barrower'a 
Ministry of Agriculture", established pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(v)
Para (k) is deleted; and
(vi)
In para (1), the "A" is deleted, and paras (m) and (n) are 
deleted.
B.
Article II of the Development Credit Agreement
(i)
In Section 2. 02 (b) , the words " in dollars are replaced by in
convertible taka", "Bangladesh Bank" is replaced by "a commercial 
bank", and at the end of the first sentence, after the word 
"Association" is inserted ', including appropriate protection 
against set off, seizure or attachment."; and
(ii)
Section 2.02(c)  is deleted.
C.
Article III of the Development Credit Agreement
(i)
In Section 3.02, the words "and BAI)C" are deleted;
(ii)   Section 3.03 is deleted;
(iii)
In Section 3.04(a), the words and cause Bangladesh Bank to 
exercise its rights under each participation Agreement" are 
deleted; and
Page  2
(iv)
Section 3.04(b) is deleted.
D.
Article IV of the Development Credit Agreement
In Section 4.01(b) (i), the word "Accounts" is replaced by "Account"
E.
Article V of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 5.01 is replaced by:
"The Borrower (a) shall not undertake nor permit any public sector 
entity to undertake (i) rental of DTW, VDSSTW or pontoon mounted pumps or, 
(ii) sale or rehabilitation on a subsidized basis of DTW, VDSSTW or pontoon 
mounted pumps; and (b) shall not provide more favorable tax treatment, 
regulatory treatment, or access to foreign exchange to any public sector 
sellers of DTW, VDSSTW or pontoon mounted pumps than are available to private 
sector 
firms in this field".
F.
Article VI of the Development Credit Agreement
Sections 6.01(a) and 6.02(a) are deleted.
G.
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement
(i)
The table set out in paragraph 1 of said Schedule 1 is replaced by 
the following table:
Amount of the credit
                     Allocated (Expressed      % of Expenditures 
Category
        in SDR Equivalent)        
to be financed
1. Civil and mechanical 
works, equipment and 
materials under 
Parts A(i), A(ii), 
and A(iv) of the 
Project                     16,220,000           85%
2. Civil works under 
Parts A(iii) and B 
of the Project               2,330,000           85%
3. Materials for Part 3
of the Project
       750,000
 50% 
4. Unallocated
     3,800,000
Sub-Total
    23,100,000
Cancelled
    15,000,000
Original Total
    38,100,000
(ii)
Paragraph 3 is deleted.
H.
Schedule 2 to the Development credit Agreement
(i)
The introductory phrase of Part A is replaced by "Irrigation 
development, meeting the criteria set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, of about 165,000 ha through:";
(ii)
Part A(i) is replaced by "New DTWA and VDSSTWs by Private Sector: 
The acquisition and installation by private sector Dealers and 
Contractors of DTWE and VDSSTWE with capacities meeting farmers' 
demand";
(iii)
For Part A(iii) , "BADC" is replaced by "IDSUI.
(iv)
For Part A (iv) , the words "and EPDC", are deleted from both the 
title and the text;
Page  3
(v)
For part S, "BADC" is replaced by "IDSU"and "about 500" and "about 
10,000 ha" are replaced by "up to 200" and "up to 1,000 ha" 
respectively;
(vi)
For Part C(iii), the words ..of the system established by BADC' 
are replaced by "the existing systems"; "rural"; 
(vii)
For Part C(v), the word "village" is replaced by
     (viii)
For Part D(i), everything after the word "mechanics" is replaced 
by "and staff undertaking the promotional work on information 
dissemination.";
(ix)
Part D(iii) is replaced by "Restructuring of BADC": Assistance to 
BADC to divest itself of commercial activities, and thereafter, 
assistance to IDSU to take over BADC's noncommercial minor 
irrigation functions, to strengthen these as appropriate, and to 
develop Proposals for their permanent location"; and
(x)
Part D(iv) is replaced by "Support to the Private Sector: 
Assistance to the private sector participants in the project in 
programs of technology development, information dissemination, and 
facilitation of improved interactions among farmers, irrigation 
equipment and service suppliers, and the banking system."
I.
Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement
(i)
In Part C, parse 1 and 3, "BADC", is replaced by "IDSU"; and
(ii)
At the end of Part C, para 1, the following is inserted: 
"Earthworks for re-excavation under surface water schemes may be 
procured by contracting directly with labor contracting societies 
using standard unit rates acceptable to the Association".
J.
Schedule 4 of the Development Agreement
(i)
Para 5 is replaced by "The Borrower shall undertake an annual 
census of DTWE, VDSSTWA, and pontoon mounted pumps, using methods 
and procedures satisfactory to the Association";
(ii)
Paras 6 and 7(d) and (e) are deleted; and
(iii)
In para 8, sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) are deleted, and 
in (e) the words "by March 31, 1994", are deleted.
K.
Schedule 5 of the Development Credit Agreement
All changes introduced by the Amending letter of March 17, 1993 are hereby 
repealed and the original schedule is modified as follows:
(i)
The title is changed to "Eligibility Criteria"; 
(ii)
Parts A, 6, and C are deleted;
(iii)
The title "Part D: General" is deleted;
(iv)
The introduction to the former Part D, para 1 is replaced by:  "To 
be eligible for financing under the Project, DTWE, VDSSTWE, 
Pontoon Mounted Pumps, and Drainage Improvements shall meet the 
following criteria:";
(v)
In the former subparagraph Dl(b), the words "and the 
rehabilitation plan conforms with the recommendations of the 
consultants referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement." are 
inserted after "private investors";
(vi)
In the former subparagraph Dl(c), "Village" is replaced by 
"Rural"; and
(vii)
A new paragraph 2 is added:
"2.     Farmer groups will be selected for participation under Part B of 
Page  4
this Project on the basis of the following criteria:
(a)
farmers should have acquired their own facility for water 
abstraction (tubewells or low lift pumps) independently of this component;
(b)
farmers must agree to provide the unskilled labor for installation 
by IDSU of any capital works required to facilitate demonstration of improved 
water management practices and to pay 50% of the materials costs; and
(c)
farmers should be willing to follow the advice of IDSU's technical 
assistance team and to allow their fields to be used to demonstrate to other 
farmers the use of alternative irrigation technologies and improved production 
practices."
L.
Schedules 6 and 7 of the Develonment Credit Agreement
(i)
The current Schedule 6 is deleted;
(ii)
The current Schedule 7 becomes Schedule 6 and is retitled "Special 
Account for Parts A(iii) and 3 of the Project";
(iii)
In para l(a), the words "Categories 3 and 4" are replaced by 
"Categories 2 and 3"; and
(iv)
In para l(c), the words "an amount equivalent to $700,000" are 
replaced by "convertible taka 16,000,000".
In addition, it is hereby agreed that, by January 31, 1995, the Borrower shall 
amend its existing agreement with Bangladesh Bank referred to in Section 3.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement, to reflect the modifications in the Project described 
above, including the elimination of BADC from participation in Part A of the Project 
and the elimination of the Participation Agreements.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the 
enclosed form of confirmation and returning it to us. Subject to your confirmation as 
indicated above, this amendment will be effective as of the date of this letter. 
Sincerely yours,
Sadiq Ahmed
Acting Director, Country Department 1
South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
G. M. Mandal
Authorized Representative
Date:  April 29, 1995
