Page  1
March 17, 1993
The Secretary
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic
 of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Dear Sir:
               Re:    BANGLADESH: Credit No. 2246-BD
                      (National Minor Irrigation Development Project)
                      Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated June 17, 1991 between the 
People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the International Development 
Association (the Association) for the National Minor Irrigation Development Project.  
We also refer to discussions between us and the Ministry of Agriculture on possible 
amendments to the Development Credit Agreement to streamline procedures for Project 
implementation.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association has agreed to amend the 
Development Credit Agreement as follows in accordance with our discussions:
1.
Section 3.03 (b) is hereby repealed.
 
2.
Section 3.03 (c) shall be amended to read as follows:
 
"(c)  The Borrower shall ensure that Bangladesh Bank shall cause each 
Participating Bank providing financial assistance to BADC to enter into an 
agreement with BADC with terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association".
3. 
Section 3.04 (b) shall be amended to read as follows:
 
"(b)  Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower 
shall monitor (i) compliance with Participation Agreements and the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.03 (c) and (ii) the use of the equipment sold to 
farmers under the Project to ensure that such equipment is used to meet the 
objectives of the Project".
4.
Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement shall be amended as specified in 
the Annex to this letter.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the 
enclosed form of confirmation and returning it to us.  Subject to your confirmation as 
indicated below, this amendment will become effective on the date of your 
confirmation.
Yours sincerely,
By /s/ Ann O. Hamilton
Director
Country Department I
South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Page  2
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date:
ANNEX
SCHEDULE 5
Selection and Eligibility Criteria:
Participation Agreements
1.
(a)
When applying to Bangladesh Bank for financing under the Project in 
respect of international letters of credit for eligible expenditures incurred or to be 
incurred by Dealers or Contractors, each Participating Bank shall sign a Participation 
Agreement with the Bangladesh Bank, 
acting on behalf of the Borrower, on terms and conditions which shall include the 
following:
(i)
all standard documents required by Bangladesh Bank for opening 
letters of 
credit; and
 
(ii)
copies of all documents furnished to the Participating Bank by the 
concerned 
Dealer or Contractor in accordance with the standard 
requirements of such 
Participating Bank, including shipping 
documents.
(b)
The Participating Banks shall be required to pay the Bangladesh Bank the 
Taka equivalent of foreign exchange at the time the foreign exchange is paid by 
Bangladesh Bank to the foreign supplier.  For purposes of this paragraph, the Taka 
equivalent of any foreign currency shall be computed on the basis of the Taka price at 
which the currency in question is sold in Dhaka at the date and time of day of the 
remittance by the Participating Banks to the foreign supplier of the foreign exchange 
payments.
(c)
When applying to the Bangladesh Bank for financing under the Project in 
respect of domestic letters of credit for eligible expenditures incurred or to be 
incurred by Dealers or Contractors, the Participating Banks shall be required to repay 
the Bangladesh Bank the same amount in Taka as shall have been advanced by the said 
Banks to a Contractor.  Repayment by the  Participating Banks shall include interest 
and be due within 180 days from the date of the advance by the Participating Banks to 
the Contractor.  Interest shall be computed on the basis of: (i) the weighted average 
cost of deposits in the banking sector; and (ii) the administrative cost of mobilizing 
such deposits.
(d)
All funds received by the Bangladesh Bank (principal, interest and other 
charges) from the Participating Banks pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of Part A of 
this Schedule shall be promptly deposited into the Borrower's Consolidated Fund.
(e)
Participating Banks shall be disqualified from the use of the proceeds of 
the Credit if found in non-compliance with their respective Participation Agreement by 
the MPEU or by the Association.
(f)
Dealers shall be disqualified from applying for further letters of credit 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit if found to be in breach of any 
provision contained herein.
(g)
Contractors shall be disqualified from applying for further letters of 
credit to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit if found to be in breach of 
any of the provisions contained herein.
2.
Participation Agreements shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
(a)
Groundwater development shall not be allowed in coastal areas where there 
is a risk of saline intrusion.
(b)
Rehabilitation of existing DTWs shall proceed only after the wells shall 
Page  3
have been sold to farmers or other private investors.
(c)
Village water supply wells which can be shown to have become inoperable 
due to water level decline after installation of Project supported irrigation 
facilities shall be made operable when they are located at a distance of:
(i)
100 metres (m) or less from a 14 liters (1)/sec DTW; or
 
(ii)
200 m or less from a 28 1/sec DTW; or
 
(iii)
400 m or less from a 56 1/sec DTW.
 
(d)
(i)
Drainage canal improvement schemes shall not be initiated without 
the prior 
commitment of concerned farmers or their representatives: 
(A) to contribute 
required land and 30%  of the labor required for 
improvement works; and (B) to 
assume full responsibility for the 
operation and maintenance of such schemes 
after completion of 
construction.
(ii)
Drainage canal improvement schemes shall be limited to areas 
where: (A) they 
shall not be detrimental to existing downstream water 
users; and (B) shallow 
tubewells shall not constitute a viable 
irrigation alternative.  Each such 
scheme shall only be 
undertaken on the basis of a study establishing its 
economic and 
financial viability and its sustainability in relation to the 
resource base and the environment.
(e)
Pontoon mounted pump schemes shall be initially limited to twenty and 
their number shall be increased only after the Association is satisfied that the 
initial schemes have been successful.  Feasibility studies shall be undertaken in 
respect of each such scheme, establishing its economic and financial viability and 
sustainability in relation to the resource base and the environment.  The initial 
schemes shall be limited to coastal areas, in particular the districts of Barguna, 
Patuakhali, Jhalakati, Perojpur, Barisal, Bagerhat and Khulna.
