Document of
The World Bank
FOR omcuL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4114-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRE SIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 42.7 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
June 17, 1985
*
This dobsmaut ns a resrcted dlstbuto and way be used by reipients oly in the perfonmce of
their officil dus  s colutes myV not odhwzse be dilosed witbout World Bank  thclutioo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 30, 1985)
US$1.00        =   Rs 12.44
Rs 1.00        =   US$0.80
Rs 1 million       US$80,386
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 = Rs 11.00, which represents the average exchange
rate at the time of appraisal.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CCDA     -   Creater Cochin Development Area
GOI      -   Government of India
GOK      -   Government of Kerala
IDWSSD   -   International Drinking Water Supply and
Sanitation Decade Program
KWWA     -   Kerala Water and Wastewater Authority
lpcd     -   liters per capita per day
PHED     -   Public Health Engineering Department, Kerala
ROR      -   Rate of Return
TAG      -   Technology Advisory Group
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
WHO      -   World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:           The Kerala Water and Wastewater Authority (KWA) and
participating. local bodies.
Amount:                  SDR 42.7 million (US$41 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending Terms:         India to Kerala:  As part of Central assistance for
State Development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
Kerala to KWA, Quilon Municipal Corporation and
Participating Local Bodies: About US$19 million,
over 25 years including five years of grace, at 8.75Z
interest per annum and about US$22 million as a
grant. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the Government of India.
Project Description:    The construction of treatment, transmission, and
distribution facilities to provide a design supply of
approximately 180 million liters per day (mld) of
safe piped water to the Kottayam, Greater Cochin
Development Area (GCDA) and Quilon rural Panchayats
and the rural areas of Puthencruz, Adoor, Chithara,
and Vilappil; the improvement and extension of
facilities to augment the design supply of water by
about 35 mld to the Quilon Municipal Corporation
area, and the provision of low-cost sanitation to 10
medium-sized towns and selected rural areas. In
addition to the consultant work undertaken as part of
project preparation, the project would provide funds
for technical support for the implementation of
accrual accounting and financial management systems
for KWWA and the project entities.  Finally, the
project would also assist in improving the opera-
tional capability of KWA through the provision of
central services including training, leak detection
units and meter repair faciLities.
The technical risks involved in this project are no
greater than can normally be expected in operations
of this type. Since KWWA is a newly established
ThLs document has a restrictd distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duti Its contents may not otherwise be discdsed withouL World Bank authorization.



-ii-
institution, there is a risk that it may not function
smoothly. Fortunately, KWWA's staff (previously
PErD's) have had considerable experience in hAndling
projects of similar scope and there is provision for
the strengthening of KWHA to cope with project
requirements. The achievement of financial objec-
tives has been a major concern in most water supply
projects. To minimize this risk under the project,
realistic targets have been set and improved finan-
cial and accounting systems are being implemented to
ensure better financial management by KDWA. With the
consultant assistance envisaged above and adequate
monitoring, completion of the project within the
plAnned implementation period seems feasible.
(uss millions)
Estimated Costs                                Local    Foreign      Total
Rural Water Supply                             28.98       11.79     40.77
Urban Water Supply                               2.68       3.13      5.81
Urban Low-Cost Sanitation                        2.96       0.19      3.15
Rural Low-Cost Sanitation                        2.60       0.16      2.76
Loan Fund for House Connections                  1.39         -       1.39
Training                                         0.62       0.09      0.71
Consultancy Services                            0.14          -       0.14
Land Acquisition                                 0.85         -       0.85
Central Services                                0.52        1.52      2.04
Taxes and Duties                                 2.81                 2.81
Engineering                                     8.24         _        8.24
51.79      16.88     68.67
Physical Contingencies                          2.76        0.93      3.69
Price Contingencies                             8.45        4.34     12.79
TOTAL PROJECT COST                             63.00       22.15     85.15
Project Cost Net of
Taxes and Duties                             60.19       22.15     82.34



-lli-
(US$ Millions)
Financing Plan:                                 Local    Foreign      Total
IDA                                             18.85       22.15     41.00
GOK Loans/Grants                                44.15 /a      -       44.15
TOTAL                                        63.00       22.15     85.15
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit
(USs Millions)
IDA FY           FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91        FY92
Annual            2.6      8.1    il.4    10.8      6.3      1.7      0.1
Cumulative        2.6    10.7    22.1    32.9    39.2    40.9        41.0
Rate of Return:   About 8Z.
Appraisal Report: No. 5397-IN, dated June 10, 1985.
/a Includes US$2.81 million of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recomnendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to India for SDR42.7 million (US$41.0 million equivalent) on stand-
*        ard IDA terms to help finance a water supply and sanitation project in the
State of Kerala. The proceeds of the credit would be channeled to the
Government of Kerala (GOK) in accordance with the Government of India's stand-
*        ard terms and arrangements for the financing of State development projects.
GOK would relend about US$19 million of the Credit to the Kerala Water and
Wastewater Authority (KWWA) for 25 years, including five years of grace, at
8-3/4% interest per annum and make available the balance of the credit (about
US$22 million) as a capital grant. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "India:  Structural Change and Development
Perspectives" (5593-IN, dated April 24, 1985), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 1, 1985. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those who own little or
no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has
been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.3% per annum). As a
result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in CDF (at
factor cost) from 52% in 1950/51 to about 332 in 1981/82, while the share of
industry rose from 20% to around 26%. But industrialization has not been rapid
enough to absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging
about 3.6% per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there nas been steady progress, with per capita income
rising by about 1.4Z per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production.  Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the NationaL Social Forestry Project (No.P-4094-IN),
dated May 22, 1985.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings rate more than doubled from
10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.7Z in 1983/84, while the gross domestic
investment rate rose from 12.5Z of GDP to 24.8% in 1983/84. Foreign savings
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a major
portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20Z was reached during the
early 1960s. Currently, foreign savings account for about 8% of investment.
External assistance has been low both as a percentage of CDP and in per capita
terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and averaging below 1Z for the past five
years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3X of GDP, and
presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3Z. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during
the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Covernment introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume
of India's exports grew on average about 7.3Z per annum for the 1970s as a
whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle
East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and
more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgraii output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value--added
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
5.32, 3.3% and 8.1%, respectively, during the 1975176 to 1978/79 period. In
1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent
years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply
shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a dec'ine in GDP, and
the opening up of a relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pres-
sures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These
setbacks coincided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid
down a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, remov-
ing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an overall
growth of the economy of 5.2% per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the
second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83),
GDP growth averaged almost 5X per annum, while between the two recovery years
(from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum -- substantially higher than
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. Continued rapid economic growth has
resulted from a development strategy which includes higher investment Levels
and liberalized policies on imports, industrial licensing, prices, and commer-
cial borrowing. These policies, by easing constraints on the supply of
infrastructure and basic commodities, were a determining factor in the improved
performance of the economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement
in performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 and
1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate



-3-
of wholesale prices declined from over 182 in 1980/81 to only 2.6Z in 1982/83,
but rose to over 9% in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect of the 1982/83 drought
on food prices. Further improvements in the policy environment will be
required to maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment
without putting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving infla-
tionary expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not been steady, mainly because
of the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production during the period.
In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered from the 1979
drought, with real GDP growing by 7.6% and 5.3Z, respectively. While
industrial output expanded by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was
particularly robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise
by more than 15% and 5.5%, respectively. The supply of power, coal, and rail
transport, already improved in 1980/81, was further expanded in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10, 9.6% and 12.5%, respectively. This over-
all improvement in the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought
in mid-1982 which reduced agricultural production by 4Z, brought down the GDP
growth rate to 1.8%, and put further strains on the already difficult balance
of payments and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of
various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and
distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the
otherwise very distressing effects of the poor monsoon. The economy recovered
in 1983/84, led by a robust agricultural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7%
with agricultural production growth in the 9Z-10Z range and industrial growth
of 4.52. The major factors contributing to the good economic performance
during 1983/84 were the excellent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural
policies and programs, and satisfactory performance of the coal and transport
sectors. The power sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher
growth, especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigation.
Overall foodgrain production rose by lOX-12% over the previous year, reaching
a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the previous
peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for weather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend of 2.6% per annum-sufficient
to maintain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic
demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain
imports to maintain consumer supplies or adeq"ate buffer stocks could arise
from time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks and programs
to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983/84,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of
the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of
1980-82. Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7% due to low reservoir
water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the commissioning
of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization in thermal plants.
As a resuLt, power generation was about 11.5% below requirements and con-
stituted a major bottleneck ill the economy. Key industries which were adver-
sely affected by power constraints included steel, fertilizers, cement, and
coal. To improve performance in the power sector, the Government recently



-4-
increased incentives for higher labor and management productivity in thermal
plants. Railway freight traffic, measured in toa-kms, grew by only 0.5% in
1983/84, reflecting sluggish demand. Coal production increased by about 6.5%
in 1983/84 reaching 139 million tons. When combined with stocks already avail-
able this level of production was sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand
growth. Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more sharply had
the pace of industrial growth and demand been more rapid. It is therefore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investment in these key
sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement programs to
enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross invest-
ment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the late
1970s to an average equivalent to 2.1% of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.6Z of GDP in the last four years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a substan-
tial increase in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If India is to
meintain investment at about 25Z of GDP, a major effort will be required to
raise additional domestic resources particularly in the public sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public nector enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity,
more efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1Z-2.3Z of
GDP to 1.5Z-1.8Z, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively
larger current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued
to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a
more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net
invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated
(reflecting slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of
interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Faced with severe
infrastructural constraints and a deterioration in its balance of payments,
India initiated an adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth
rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.2% while adjusting the country's
external balance to the adverse price developments in the world markets. The
main elements of this strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are
export promotion, import substitution where economically justifiable, implemen-
tation of a coherent energy policy designed to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and continued movement toward
a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to inputs
for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology and
capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction
in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in
1983/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization.
Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum products,



-5-
metals and fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "other"
imports. These "other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capi-
tal goods which historically have been in chronic short supply and which are of
critical importance to capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modern-
ization and expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was
the lower net import bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in
1980/81 to US$3.4 billion in 1983/84 in response to a successful oil develop-
ment program that reduced import needs and allowed crude oil exports, which
totalled about US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changes in the
balance of payments are to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the
balance of payments will continue to be under strain for the next several
years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to require high levels of
imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need external
capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given
the low pe- capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate,
and the structural adjustment process. Faced with a growing need for external
capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance,
India decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and commercial banks to substantial levels.
In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew SDR 3.9
billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, India bor-
rowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84,
India contractec' commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and
suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has
been used for specific development projects in the public and private sector
(mostly for petroleum exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and
shipping). India's favorable debt service position and the nature of its
borrowings, for p-:oject-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments
support, enabled it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads.
This larger commercial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement
with the IMF bas stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen
to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure - irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports - is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India also has
a wide range of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-
endowed with human resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource
base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores,
but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.



-6-
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development,
export prX.motion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable
and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance
has been encouraging, with aggregate real investment projected to be about 302
higher than in the period 1975-80--a creditable performance indeed. The Sixth
Plan expenditure targets, however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobi-
lization by the public sector will fall short of the financing requirements of
planned public investment. Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be
about 7% below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment
being 5% to 10X higher and public investment about 20X lower in rea'L terms than
actually projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the perfor-
mance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of the State
Governments. The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about
80X to 90Z of the original Plan allocation in real terms, while the States'
will probably achieve only about 50% of their targets, due principally to
shortfalls in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power,
transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of real invest-
ment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth PLan expenditure targets will not be met, India's capi-
tal formation rates have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7% of GDP in
1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future
income growth, but returns to investment have so far been relatively low. Much
of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a large
and growing proportion of investment has been needed to buila up basic
infrastructure services which have inherently high capital-output ratios.
However, there is scope to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements
in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail in our recent economic reports,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better plan-
ning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utiliza-
tion throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic
capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and
cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned capacity in
accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital for
sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has
been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well
ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for
exploration and development were raised by successive price increases for
domestic crude and products. While the gap between domestic consumption of
petroleum and production rcnains large, India's dependence on oil imports
dropped from 632 of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41X in 1983/84 and is
expected to decrease to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in domestic
petroleum prices have helped encourage conservation and slow demand growth.



-7-
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
This will require the continuation of the current development strategy which
assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improve-
ment of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by
adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively
large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commer-
cial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments conse-
quences of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing
India with the capacity to adjust flexibly vill be adequate flows of conces-
sional assistance since India is still a very poor country with a large rural
sector and enormous investment requirements for human development and basic
infrastructure. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrow-
ing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of
course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives
rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. Nevertheless,
with a more open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the
growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both
foreign and domestic savings, India is demonstrating that it can sustain a rate
of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6Z per
annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per
annum, a 5.0X growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of
per capita income of 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make a
significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there
was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2Z per
annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The
population growth rate failed to decline in the past lecade due to a reduction
in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy, reflecting
larger availability of food and health services. While this is a welcome
development, it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the
need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health and family planning
programs in a broad rang,; of activities and services. These efforts are given
high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of
protected couples in the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80
level of about 23Z to over 35Z by 1984/85. The Government is reviewing its
population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to
retain the emphasis on the implementation of family planning, health, education
and literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Significant reductions in poverty
will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic growth, particularly in
agriculture, combined with effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that
production-oriented programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of
economic growth, and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least
able to participate in the general growth of the economy, can be mutually



-8-
reinforcing rather than substituting for each other. Major poverty programs
operating on a nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program
(NIP), the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural
Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and NREP are targeted programs aimed at
increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the transfer of
productive assets or direct employment. The NIP, aims at broadening the provi-
sion of social infrastructure and basic bEzvices which enhance the numan capi-
tal of the poor and improve living standards. These programs represent a
vitally important commitment of the Government to address the needs of the
poorest. The scale of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent
difficulties in implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need
for continued efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 84 loans and 174 development
credits to India totalling US$6,818 million and US$12,934 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,465 million has been
repaid, and US$5,909 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1985. Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1985
totalled US$787 million, representing a decrease of about 27 percent over the
same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of March 31, 1985.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 32 commitments in India totalling US$265
million, of which a total of US$145 million has been repaid, sold, terminated
or cancelled. Of the balance of US120 million, US$113 million represents loans
and US$7 million equity. A su-mmAry statement of IFC disbursements as of March
31, 1985, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan and in the approach being
taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh PLan. First, high priority will
continue to be given to GOI 's agricultural program. While India has made



-9-
significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be sus-
tained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to contribute
to poverty alleviation and empLoyment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to
support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural
extension and credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promoting greater
efficiency and faster development of the industrial sector, increased assis-
tance will be provided for industrial development. Third, the review of per-
formance under the Sixth Plan confirms the high priority that should continue
to be given to the expansion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure
capacity and to the development of India's indigenous hydrocarhnr resources.
Accordingly the Bank Group will continue to support the development of the
energy, transport and telecoununications sectors to alleviate critical
shortages which constrain output in both agricultural and industrial sectors.
Fourth, support of urban development and other COI basic social services
programs for the poor will also continue in light of the growth in population
which, despite successes in lowering birth and death rates, still increases by
about 16 million each year.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India
continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset
the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the
relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the first four
years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in
India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports
relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the
domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion
in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank Lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2% in 19E4/85.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989190, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not
adversely affect India's creditworthiness.



-10-
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33% and 37%, respectively, in 1983/84.
In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was US$9.6 billion or 36% (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). As
of March 31, 1985 outstanding loans and credits to India held by the Bank
totalled US$18,288 million, of which US$5,909 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$12,379 million.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
29.     Although the Central Government provides financial support to the water
supply and sewerage sector in India, State Governments have primary respon-
sibility for the development of this sector. They execute their respon-
sibilities through various implementing departments and agencies which, in
turns may delegate part or all of their duties to local authorities. In a
number of cases, municipal authorities or other local agencies have been given
responsibility for pLanning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of
water supply and sewerage services within their jurisdictions.
30.     Due to competing resource demands from other sectors, as well as the
lack of management and planning skills, and shortages of key materials and
equipment, only about 1-2% of total public expenditures was invested in the
sector prior to 1975. Investments in urban water supply and sewerage during
India's Fifth Five Year Plan (1974/7B) averaged Rs 1,100 million per annum, or
about 1.5% of the total Plan investment; the corresponding figure for the rural
areas was Rs 750 million, or about 1.0% of total Plan investments. Although
these investments represented a significant commitment to development of the
sector, they were still quite inadequate to achieve a substantial improvement
in overall service lev4ls. In 1980, it was estimated 1/ that about 287 million
people, or about 42Z of India's population of 683 million, had access to
reasonably safe drinking water and that only some 43 million people (6Z of the
population) were provided with sanitary services. These levels were among the
lowest for all developing countries.
31.     The Government of India (GOI) has recognized the importance of raising
present service levels and is seeking to achieve the targets set for the
International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade (IDWSSD) 2/ by making
substantially increased funding available to the sector. In the Sixth Plan
(1980-85), 4% of the total Plan investments (Rs 975,000 million) has been
allocated to the sector. The rural sector receives an average of Rs 4,300
1/ World Health Organization, South East Asia Regional Organization (SEARO)
Regional Health Papers No. 1, Decade Commencement Report, 1983.
2/ The COI Decade goals are: Urban and Rural Water Supply, 100Z coverage;
Urban Waste Disposal, 80% coverage; Rural Sanitation, 25Z coverage.



-11-
million per year, about 2.2% of Plan investments. The corresponding figure for
the urban water supply and sanitation sector is Rs 3,500 million, or about 1.8X
of Plan investments. These figures represent approximately six times and three
times, respectively, the investments made in the individual sectors under the
previous Plan, and reflect the importance that GOI attaches to the Decade
program. The increased emphasis on the rural sector is particularly evident.
The proportional allocation to the sector under the Seventh Plan (1985/90) is
expected to be higher than that of the Sixth Plan.
32.     While these investment levels represent a substantial increase in
proposed sector expenditures, it is unlikely that the Decade goals would be
fully realized by 1990. A WHO Study 1/has concluded that there would still be
a substantial shortfaLl in funds and a lack of sufficiently qualified manpower.
An equally important factor affecting the achievement of targeted goals is the
efficient operation and maintenance of existing systems. The latter has always
presented a serious challenge, and institutional strengthening and intensive
training of personnel at all levels in the sector would be needed to achieve
required standards.
Kerala
33.     The State of Kerala is located on a narrow stretch of land along
India's southwest coast. Its area of 38,864 sq km is divided among coastal
plains, midlands and highland regions. The estimated population of Kerala in
1981 was 25.5 million (a density of 650 people per sq km), of which about 17%
lived in urban areas. The State's economy is dominated by agriculture which
accounts for about 44Z of its net domestic product. The principal crops grown
in Kerala are tapioca, rice, rubber, and cashew. Nearly 25,000 sq km, or
two-thirds of Kerala's land area is farmed, and of this, approximately 7,000 sq
km are irrigated. The average annual per capita income in the mid 1970's was
approximately 10% below the all-India average of Rs 988.
34.     Unlike many other states in India, Kerala has adequate water resources.
Forty-one rivers flow down from the ghats on the State's eastern border. These
yield an average of 64,300 million cubic meters (Mm3) of water annually, of
which about 57% is presently utilized. During periods of low flows, these
rivers are subject to tida'1 and saline intrusions, which make them unsuitable
for either irrigation or domestic consumption in the coastal areas. In most
areas of the coastal region, groundwater yields are low and unreliable, and the
quality is poor. In the rocky inland zone, the potential for groundwater
development is also limited.
35.     Substantial progress has been made in improving urban water supply
since 1974, and at present about 76% of the urban population receives piped
sup-ly. Although the provision of water to rural areas has also increased
considerably, the proportion of the rural population receiving safe piped
supply is still only about 31%. The remainder of the population (both urban
and rural) depend on wells or streams. The average per capita supply of piped
water in towns with populations of 35,000 or more is currently about 135 liters
per day (lpcd). In medium-sized towns (20,000 to 35,000 population), the
corresponding figure is about 90 lpcd; and in small towns and rural areas,
about 25 lpcd.



-12-
36.     Urban sanitation has improved with the steady increase in the number
of septic tanks (serving about 40% of the population) and latrines (serving
about 53%), with the result that very few people are now without some type of
permanent disposal facility. Waterborne sewerage systems have been provided in
only two cities, Trivandrum and Cochin, serving about 26Z and 2% of their
respective populations and a sewerage tax is collected from users of the
system. The provision of rural sanitation is much less satisfactory. About
37% of the population use pit latrines and, apart from some waterseal latrines,
the remainder of the population has no sanitary facilities at all.
Sectoral Organization
37.     Up to  March 1984, the planning, design and construction of all water
supply and sewerage works in Kerala were the responsibility of the Public
Health Engineering Department (PEED). PHED was responsible for the operation
and maintenance of all schemes, with the exception of ten municipalities which
own and operate their own distribution systems, set tariffs, and collect
revenues. PHED however operated the production facilities for these
municipalities and was reimbursed by them for the cost of this service. In
other towns where assets are owned by the individual local authorities, PHED
acted as agent and collected directly from connected consumers and billed the
local bodies for the full cost of production and distribution of water and for
standpost usage. As PHED's operations were subsidized through the State
Ministry's budget on a regular basis, it had little incentive to minimize its
operational costs or to set up effective accounting and cost control systems.
38.     In March 1984, GOK passed an Ordinance transforming PHED from a govern-
ment department into a semi-autonomous authority - the Kerala Water and
Wastewater Authority (KWWA). The Ordinance gives the new Authority respon-
sibility for planning, design, implementation, operation, maintenance, and
financial control of Kerala's water supply and sewerage systems. With a Board
of senior GOK officials, KWWA enjoys autonomy in the sector with the power to
initiate tariff revisions and to deal directly with local bodies. KWWA is also
responsible for implementation of the State's Seventh Plan for the sector and
would own all new water supply schemes to be constructed. The ten
municipalities which currently operate their own distribution systems and the
towns which currently own their own assets would continue to do so for the time
being. KWWA would be reimbursed the full cost of operations performed on their
behalf. However, at any time after three years, COK is empowered under the
Ordinance to assign to KWWA full responsibility for the supply and distribution
of water in these municipalities and towns. GOK is expected to exercise this
authority if they do not improve their current performance in operations,
maintenance, billing and collection, or meet their financial commitments to
KWWA within the three year period.
Sector Investment and Finance
39.     COK has adopted GOI's targets for IDWSSD (see para 31) and has made a
heavy commitment to improving water supply and sanitation conditions in the
sector. Under the State's Sixth Plan an allocation of Rs 1,277 million has
been made to the sector representing about 7% of total Plan investments (double
the amount provided in the previous Plan) as compared with the corresponding
national figure of app-oximately 4%. The emphasis in GOK's investment program
has been on water supp;y rather than sanitation. GOK's Sixth Plan has given



-13-
priority to rural water supply, which has received some 65Z of the sectoral
allocation. A substantial investment of funds and management effort would
however be needed in this sector if GOK is to meet the Decade water supply
target of providing 100X coverage of its population by 1990. Details of the
State's Seventh Plan have not yet been finalized, but it is understood that GOK
intends to continue to emphasize its investment in rural water supply. Sector
investments under the Seventh Plan are estimated to be Rs 2,750 million, about
50% higher than Sixth Plan investments in real terms. OOK's funding to the
sector is on a loan/grant mix of 50X-50Z for urban water supply schemes and
25Z-75Z for rural schemes. Approximately 2/3 of GOK sector investments under
the Sixth Plan has been in the form of grants.
World Bank Operations in the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
40.     Since 1974, the Bank Group has made eight credits totaling US$602
million for water supply and sewerage projects in India and has provided a
further US$190 million for water supply and sewerage as part of a broader
program of infrastructure development in urban areas. 1/ Credit 390-IN (Bombay
Water Supply and Sewerage Project of January 22, 1974) and Credit 585-IN (Uttar
Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project of September 1975) have been
completed. The major conclusions of the Project Completion Reports for these
projects are discussed in the following paragraphs. Apart from two projects in
the Bombay Metropolitan Area, the other projects have assisted statewide
programs that have included design and construction activities conducted by
semi-autonomous state agencies.
Sectoral Objectives and Performance
41.     The World Bank's goals in the sector are: to support the certral and
state government's overall objective of extending water and sanitation services
to the population; and to assist in improving the efficiency of sector
operations. In pursuit of these goals, Bank projects seek to: (a) promote
institutional development; (b) encourage sound financial management; (c) assist
in the formulation of tariff policies to promote conservation, equitable access
to water, and cost recovery; and (d) foster the reevaluation of design stand-
ards and the adoption of lower-cost technologies. Physical works under
Bank-financed projects have been implemented satisfactorily with moderate
delays in implementation. Efforts to reduce costs through the judicious selec-
tion of service standards and use of lower-cost technical options have been
increasingly successful. Several programs to deveLop, test, and promote low-
cost sanitation technologies have been undertaken by state governments and by
the UNDP Technical Assistance Project (UNDP GLO/78/006) administered by the
1/ The projects cover services for Bombay (Credit 390-IN and follow-up
project, Credit 842-IN), Uttar Pradesh (Credit 585-IN), Punjab (Credit
848-IN), Maharashtra (Credit 899-IN), Rajasthan (Credit 1046-IN), Gujarat
(Credit 1280-IN) and TamiL Nadu (Credit 1453-IN, Special Fund 16-IN). Rural
water supply schemes were also included in the two Haryana Irrigation
projects (Credits 841-IN and 1314-IN). The First, second, and third
Calcutta Urban Development Projects (Credits 427-IN, 756-IN and 1369-IN) and
the Madras Urban Development Project (Credit 687-IN) have provided water
supply and sewerage facilities as part of a composite program to develop
urban infrastructure.



-14-
World Bank. While the physical progress of works under water supply projects
has been generally satisfactory, institutional and financial weakness of such
projects is a cause of concern. There is a growing recognition among policy
makers that in order to extend water and sanitation services to the majority of
the population, the sector must strengthen its institutions and generate a
larger portion of its funds through direct user charges.
42.     GOI is collaborating with IDA in a review of past project performance.
The objectives of this ongoing study are to identify the reasons for not
achieving agreed targets, and to work out a mutually acceptable action plan for
improving future performance. The review has revealed that the inability to
fully achieve project financial and institutional goals has contributed to
inadequate cost recovery and thus to the under-financing of operations and
maintenance. In retrospect, the difficulties appear to have stemmed from
several interrelated problems. First, the goals were ambitious. The projects
have sought the reorganization of participating agencies, and have introduced
new concepts and targets for cost recovery and new systems for reporting and
accounting. Second, the reforms and the detailed operating procedures needed
to impLement them have not been developed in sufficient detail. In several
cases, the agencies have relied heavily on local consultants with limited
experience in sector finances or operations. Third, the process of innovation
has itself been poorly managed. Realistic schedules needed for phasing in and
implementing new procedures have not been planned nor coordinated with the
training and technical assistance needed to facilitate the changes.
43.     While the review suggests that sector performance can be improved
substantially over the medium to long-term, it must be recognized that the
attitudinal and institutional adjustments underway will take time and that
project objectives need to be tailored accordingly. The review also supports
the rationale for further Bank Group involvement at the sector and project
levels in order to assist GOI in the achievement of the objectives discussed in
para 41 above.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.     The proposed project was prepared by KWWA with assistance from Bank
staff and consultants and was appraised in May/June 1984. The Staff Appraisal
Report No 5397-IN dated June 10, 1985, is being distributed separately. A
Supplementary Project Data Sheet appears in Annex III. Negotiations were held
in Washington D.C. in March/April 1985 with Mr. C. K. Ramachandran, Deputy
Secretary of the Department of Economics Affairs, Ministry of Finance, as
coordinator of the Indian Delegation.
Project Description and Objectives
45.     The proposed project would be implemented over five years (1985/90)
and represents a significant portion (about 31%) of GOK's sector investment
program under its proposed Seventh Five Year Plan (1985/90). It aims at
providing piped water to seven rural areas that currently depend on distant or



-15-
unsafe sources of supply. 1/ The project would also provide an improved supply
of water to the Quilon Municipal Corporation. Approximately 75Z of project
funds would be allocated to the rural component. Low-income groups would be
provided with assistance to connect to the water supply system, or would alter-
natively be served with standpost water. Pilot low-cost sanitation programs
would be introduced for both urban and rural areas. The project would consist
of the following components:
(a) Rural Areas: the construction of intake, treatment, transmission, and
distribution facilities to provide a design supply of approximately 180
million liters per day of piped water to the rural areas of Puthencruz,
Adoor, Chithara, Vilappil, Quilon Panchayats, 2/ Kottayam Panchayats,
and the Greater Cochin Development Area (GCDA);
(b) Urban Area: the construction of intake, treatment, transmission, and
distribution facilities (including metering) to provide a design supply
of an additional 35 million liters per day of piped water for the
Quilon Municipal Corporation area; and replacement of a deteriorated
transmission pipeline to reduce wastage;
tc) Low Cost Sanitation: a pilot low-cost sanitation component for 10
medium-sized towns, and a similar component for selected rural areas;
and
Cd) Central Services: the provision of centralized services for KWWA,
including leak-detection units, meter-repair facilities, workshops,
Laboratories, and funds for a sector-wide training program.
46.     In addition, KWWA would be provided with consultant services for the
implementation of accrual accounting systems and the training of staff in these
systems, for valuation of KWWA's assets, and a study of costs and revenue
sources. To monitor the implementation of a number of interrelated project
activities aimed at improving the operational efficiency and financial
viability of KWWA, an Action Plan has been agreed with GOK and KWWA. The
Action Plan would be reviewed annually and updated by KWWA in consultation wi' l
IDA (Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
47.     KWWA would implement the project except for the urban and rural low-
cost sanitation components, which would be implemented by the participating
local bodies with support from KWWA. Established in March 1984, KWWA is
managed by a Board of Directors, the Chairman of which is the State Minister
responsible for the water supply and sanitation sector. The Managing Director,
l/ About 80Z of the schemes would cover "problem villages", i.e. villages
which lack a reliable supply of water within a depth of 15 m or a distance
of 1.5 km; or those in which the supply has either a high incidence of
water-related disease or contains excessive fluorides, iron or chlorides.
2/ The Quilon Panchayats would share the produccion facilities of the Quilon
Municipality.



-16-
a full-time public health engineer nominated by the Government, acts as Chief
Executive. The remainder of the Board comprises two Government nominees and
three ex-officio members (the secretaries to the departments of finance, local
administration, and public health engineering).
48.     As a part of project preparation, consultants reviewed KWWA's organiza-
tional structure, staffing and procedures. A proposed organizational
structure, which takes into account the consultants recommendations and the
appraisal missions suggestions was reviewed with KWWA during negotiations. COK
would ensure that KWWA is fully staffed and all senior posts (four positions at
Chief Engineer level) sanctioned and filled by August 1, 1985 (Section 2.05 of
the draft Kerala Agreement). In order to coordinate, implement, and monitor
the proposed project, KWWA would establish a Project Management Unit, by
August 1, 1985, headed by a senior engineer, of the rank of at least Deputy
Chief Engineer (para. 6, Schedule 2, to the draft Project Agreement).
49.     The technical aspects of the project are well conceived and the overall
concept of the schemes represent least cost solutions. KWWA staff have
prepared all feasibility reports and by appraisal preliminary engineering
design had been completed in sufficient detail. The detail engineering is
sufficiently advanced and bid documents for the first year's schemes are
expected to be ready on schedule. Consultants, with experience in other
Bank-financed water supply projects in India, have prepared detailed recommen-
dations on systems of accrual accounting, performance budgeting, and management
information for KWWA. They have also recommended staffing requirements at the
divisional levei for accounting, and billing and coLlection activities. KWWA
intends to implement these recommendations, including the appointment of
suitably qualified financial staff to all corporate and divisional posts. The
Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer's post would be filled by August
1, 1985 (Action Plan), and consultant services would be used to assist in
implementing the accrual accounting systems (Schedule I, Section II, para. l(i)
to the draft Project Agreement). As an integral part of the consultants'
assignment in implementing KWWA's centralized financial and information manage-
ment systems, a specific progress report format would be developed by August 1,
1985, and quarterly progress reports would be submitted to IDA, starting with
the quarter ending December 31, 1985 (Action Plan).
Low-Cost Sanitation
50.     Under the proposed project, ten medium-sized towns for which
feasibility studies have been completed under the UNDP Global Low-Cost
Sanitation Project would be provided with pour-flush waterseal-type latrines.
A selected number of rural areas for which feasibility studies would be com-
pleted by October 1, 1985 under the UNDP Project would also be provided with
similar units (para. 3, Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement). The con-
struction of these units would be commissioned by the local bodies with KWWA
support.  KWWA would establish a cell for this purpose by August 1, 1985
(para. 3, Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement). The construction of
these units would be confined to areas where pollution of groundwater sources
would not present a problem. To ensure that this requirement is met, each
participating local authority would be required to pass by-laws by December 31,
1985 as a condition of disbursement of its portion of the credit.
(Section 2.06 of the draft Kerala Agreement and para 3 (b) of Schedule I to
Zhe draft Development Credit Agreement). The financing plan and cost recovery



-17-
measures for this component would be based on affordability criteria estab-
lished under the UNDP Project which is acceptable to IDA.
Manpower and Training
51.     The total staff of all categories employed in the water supply sector
in Kerala is about 5,500 including the staff of municipalities currently
operating their own water distribution systems. Manpower projections for the
remainder of the Decade, indicate an annual average recruitment rate of about
440 staff members. Systematic in-house training of the technical staff is not
currently provided by KWWA. As a component of the project, KWWA would develop
a comprehensive scheme of training and establish training facilities.
Initially, training priority would be given to: needs arising from institu-
tional reorganization; the introduction of new management, financial, and
central support services; and the upgrading of operation and maintenance
skills. The training component would include a Stage I preparatory phase and
a Stage II implementation program and evaluation mechanism.  KWWA would design
Stage I of the training component by January 1, 1986 (para. 4, Schedule 2 to
the draft Project Agreement). Consultants would not be invited to submit
proposals for Stage II until KWWA's Training Steering Committee has confirmed
the satisfactory completion of Stage I. The timing of Stage II would be agreed
with KWWA during project implementation (Action Plan).
Project Costs and Financing
52.     The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$85.2 million
equivalent, including about US$2.8 million in taxes and duties. Physical
contingencies (US$3.69 million) have been estimated at 10% of base costs for
civil works, and 5% for materials and equipment. Price contingencies (US$12.79
million) have been added for local costs at 8% for fiscal year 1984/85; 7% for
1985/86 through 1987/88 and 6% for 1988/89 onwards, and for foreign costs at 8%
for 1984/85; 9% for 1985/86 through 1987/88 and 6.5Z for 1988/89 onwards.
Details of project costs are included in the Credit and Project Summary.
Approximately 48 man-months of local consultancy services are required to
implement the accounting systems, and the proposed cost and revenue study under
the project.
53.     The proposed IDA Credit of US$41.0 million equivalent would finance
about 50% of project costs, net of duties and taxes. The Credit would finance
all direct and indirect foreign costs (approximately US$22.15 million) and
US$18.85 million of local costs. The balance of funding required for the
project (approximately US$44.2 million) would be provided by GOK as a
loan/grant mix. For urban schemes, the loan/grant mix would be 50X-50, and
for rural schemes 25-75%. Central services would he funded on a 100% grant
basis.
54.     Due to the preponderance of rural schemes, approximately 73% (US$62
million) of project costs would be made available to KWWA and the local bodies
in the form of capital grants. The 75% grant financing of rural schemes is
below the 90% level provided by many other States in India. GOK loans would be
at 8-3/4% interest per annum over a period of 25 years, including five years of
grace for principal and interest payments during which time the interest due
would be capitalized and added to the principal loan amount. The proposed
relending rate is comparable with the current interest charged by financial



-18-
institutions in India on loans for similar purposes and is expected to be
positive in real terms, since the average annual rate of inflation in India
over the project period is not expected to exceed 8%. The ownership of all
works constructed under the project with the exception of those relating to the
Quiton municipality and the low-cost sanitation components, would be vested
with KWWA. KWWA, the Quilon Municipality and participating local bodies would
be responsible for repaying their associated debts to COK.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.     Annex IV, attached, details the manner in which items would be procured
under the project. Contracts for equipment and materials, estimated at US$32.9
million including contingencies, would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA's guidelines for procurement.
A preference margin of 15% of the c.i.f. value or current import duty,
whichever is lower, would be granted to local manufacturers in bid evaluation.
Other contracts for equipment and materials would involve either small items
(below US$200,000) which cannot readily be grouped into larger bulk contracts
or contracts involving concrete construction and other materials such as asbes-
tos cement, and concrete pipes that are unsuitable for ICB because of high
transportation costs and/or high risk of damage in transit. These contracts,
(estimated at about US$9.1 million) would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with local bidding procedures satisfac-
tory to IDA.
56.     The civil works component of the project (US$31.4 million including
contingencies) would consist of a large number of relatively small contracts.
These works, which are widely dispersed throughout the project area, do not
require any special equipment or techniques and are labor-intensive. They
include labor-intensive pipe laying and the construction of pumping stations
traditionally carried out by registered contractors established in Kerala or
other Indian States and foreign bidders could not successfully compete with
local bidders for works of this type and size. The treatment plants to be
constructed would bs let on a turnkey basis. The value of these contracts
(average base cost US$295,000 each) is unlikely to be large enough to attract
foreign bidders and these would also be bid locally. Most of the contracts
for equipment, materials, and civil works are likely to be won by local
contractors.
57.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of the cost
of imported equipment and materials or 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured goods procured under ICB; 20% of the expenditures of locally
procured equipment and materials; 20% of the cost of civil works contracts
subject to LCB; 100Z of the cost of contracts for consultant services and
training, and loan fund expenditures. No disbursements would be made against
administrative costs. Disbursements against small civil works contracts, for
one or more progrcss payments not exceeding Rs 300,000 (about US$27,270),
equipment and materials for payments not exceeding Rs 150,000 (about US$13,640)
and loan fund expenditures on house connections would be on the basis of
Statements of Exp-tnditures. The supporting documentation for these expendi-
tures would be subject to independent audit and would be retained for inspec-
tion by review missions. Disbursements against expenditures for all other
items would be fully documented.



-19-
Cost Recovery Targets
58.     The cost recovery targets formulated for the Quilon Municipal area and
the more prosperous rural panchayats of Quilon, CCDA and Kottayam in the KWWA
service area, envisages the full recovery of all operation, maintenance and
overhead costs plus deb: service from the commissioning of schemes 1/ in FY91.
In the poorer and less developed rural areas of Puthencruz, Adoor, Chithara,
and Vilappil under KWWA's jurisdiction, there would be a full recovery of
operation, maintenance and overhead costs from the time of commissioning in
FY90. On the basis of these targets, a tentative tariff structure has been
developed for Quilon and the KWWA service area for 1990 (para. 59). The study
of costs and revenues to be initiated in 1987 will reconfirm the proposed
tariff structure (para 60). In the interim, tariffs and charges would be
increased (para. 62) to help to reduce GOK's operating subsidy and to bridge
the gap between prevailing and proposed tariff levels. GOK has confirmed the
acceptance of the targets set for FY90 and FY91 for the rural areas and for
FY91 for the Quilon Municipal area (Section 3.06(a) of the draft Kerala
Agreement).
Tariffs
59.     A tentative tariff structure has been developed to meet the proposed
cost recovery targets at commissioning of the project. The tariff rates
proposed on the basis of the tentative tariff structure are within the limits
of affordability (2Z of monthly average household income), established by the
socio-economic survey undertaken as a part of project preparation. This affor-
dability limit is similar to that found in other Bank water projects. It
assumed that there would be graduated tariff slabs for all connected domestic
users. The first slab would represent basic household needs of up to 5,000
liters/month  priced at the lowest rate of Rs 1 per 1,000 liters. 2/
Commercial users and households consuming over 15,000 liters per month would
pay double this rate and industrial consumers three times the domestic rate.
Quilon currently levies a water tax of 4% of annual rental value which is
expected to generate sufficient funds to pay for the supply of water through
public standposts. In non-urban project areas, where there is no water tax,
the financial analysis indicates that the cost of standpost water would be
about Rs 1 per capita per month in 1990 prices. Local Panchayats would be
required to meet these costs through their general tax revenues.
Study of Costs and Revenues
60.     KWWA has under implementation a commercial accounting system which
would permit a better analysis of its operating costs and financial status.
Over the next five years, KWWA may also be required to take over the ownership
and distribution systems of the ten municipalities outside its purview. It
I/ The commissioning of works in Kottayam is expected to be completed in
March 1989 and the cost recovery measures would be operative from FY90
onwards.
2/ No domestic free allowance is envisaged, but a minimum charge could be
levied against the first 5,000 liters per month.



-20-
would therefore be appropriate to reconfirm the estimated tariff structure
based on the cost recovery targets proposed for this project when better finan-
cial information is available, when KWWA's future responsibilities become
clearer, and when the time of project commissioning approaches. Consequently,
by December 31, 1987, COK would initiate a study of costs and revenues as a
part of the project, (Section 3.05(a) of the draft Kerala Agreement). In
addition to evaluating the actual tariffs for the project area, this study
would provide the basis for the development of a tariff structure for water
supply throughout the KWWA service area (including rates for bulk supply,
public standposts and private, commercial and industrial consumers) and of
appropriate charges for KWWA's transmission and distribution services to local
authorities outside its jurisdiction.
61.     As project area finances form a part of KWWA's overall financial
picture, future tariff policy must address the entire sector and not be limited
to the project areas alone. Consequently, by April 1, 1990, GOK would cause
KWWA to implement tariffs for its entire service area taking into consideration
the findings of the cost and revenue study (Section 3.05 (b) of the draft
Kerala Agreement). For those areas where KWWA does not set tariffs, it would
establish charges to fully cover its operation, maintenance and overhead costs
of providing these services.
Interim Tariff
62.     Tariffs were increased in Trivandrum and several other areas in 1984,
but they need to be revised again before project commissioning to cover the
current operating costs of the systems. Deficits due to existing low tariffs
and inadequate billing and collection necessitate GOK operating grants to KWWA.
To phase in future tariffs and to help alleviate the subsidy burden borne by
the State, an interim tariff increase would be required for all cocnected users
throughout the KWWA service area before the introduction of new tariffs in 1990
(para. 61). Within the project area, only Quilon Municipality would have a
water supply system in operation before FY90. As an interim measure the cur-
rent average tariff in Quilon of Rs 0.40/1,000 liters would be raised by 50% to
Rs 0.60/1,000 liters for domestic usage, and Rs 1.20/1,000 liters for commer-
cial and industrial usage by December 1, 1987 (Section 3.04(a) of the draft
Kerala Agreement).
63.     For all other connected consumers within the jurisdiction of KWWA an
interim tariff increase of at least 20% above present levels 1/ of water rates
for domestic, commercial and industrial usage would be implemented by
December 1, 1987 (Section 3.04(b) of the Kerala Agreement). In order that KWWA
would be able to meet its expenditures until FY90, COK would be required to
undertake to compensate KWWA for any shortfalls in revenues on account of its
operation, maintenance and debt service requirements from FY86 through FY89
(Section 3.06(b) of the draft Kerala Agreement). Municipalities outside the
jurisdiccion of KWWA would continue to reimburse KWWA for the operation a:ad
maintenance costs of their production facilities together with an appropriate
overhead fee. The Cochin Municipal Corporation would be required to pay a bulk
supply rate adequate to cover KWWA's operating expenditures. Accordingly, the
1/ About Rs 0.50/1000 liters.



-21-
Cochin bulk supply rate would be increased to Rs 0.25/1,000 liters by
December 1. 1987 (Section 3.04(b) of the draft Kerala Agreement).
Billing and Collection
64.     Billing and collection of water charges from private connections have
not b,een stressed by either PHED or KWWA. With the introduction of the new
accounting system, it would become easier to monitor this activity.
Consultants have already recommended the staffing and bookkeeping procedures
required to achieve acceptable billing and collection rates. KWWA would be
required to meet agreed billing and collection targets under the project (para.
5, Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement).
Benefits
65.     The project to be commissioned in 1989/1990 would provide a piped water
supply service for the first time to about 1.5 million people living in seven
rural areas, most of whom have no safe supply at present. A further 190,000
people, mostly in the low income groups in the Quilon Municipal Corporation
area, would also receive an improved service. By the time of commissioning,
all households in the project area would receive a basic supply of at least 30
lpcd. Thereafter, the proportion of direct house connections to standpost
usage is expected to grow steadily and net service levels are expected to
increase. By the year 2000, about 60% of the population in the Kottayam and
Quilon Panchayats and 40% of the population in the remaining rural areas, with
the exception of GCDA, would receive about 60 lpcd of piped water. In the
Quilon Municipal Corporation area and GCDA, 60% to 80% of connected households
would be provided with approximately 112.5 lpcd of piped water. The remainder
of the population served in both urhan and ruraL areas would receive about 30
lpcd through public standposts. The low cost sanitation program would provide
100% coverage of the population in the 10 mediumrsized towns and selected rural
areas.
66.     Careful consideration was given by KWWA to the selection of the
project's water sources. Surface water resources are widely available in
Kerala. Where groundwater is available, it is generally unreliable and of poor
quality. Sample studies conducted for groundwater development have indicated
that, whereas the capital costs would be comparable to those of surface water
sources, the operating costs would be high, making the groundwater alternative
Lneconomic. Surface water sources have therefore been selected for all seven
of the water supply schemes. Where feasible alternative surface water sources
weare available, the choice was based on the criteria of least-cost and
reliability of water flows. Financial and economic analyses have been con-
dccted on the assumption that industrial customers would be charged in 1990
about Rs 3.00 per 1,000 liters and commercial customers Rs 2.50 per 1,000
li:ers and that progressive tariffs would be applied to residential customers.
Constraints on sales imposed by affordability and competition from alternative
unsafe cupplies suggest that rates ranging from Rs 1.00 - 2.00 per 1,000 liters
are appropriate for domestic usage.
67.     The tariff structure would be finalized following completion of the
cost and revenue study (para. 60). Whenever progressive tariffs are being
applied, the benefits have been evaluated at the maximum rate to be paid by
consumers since this represents their willingness to pay for incremental



-22-
amounts of safe piped water. The estimated rates of return for each of the
water supply subprojects are about 12% for the Quilon Municipal Corporatiou
area, about 14% for the Kottayam, the GCDA, and Quilon Panchayats, and about 7%
for the poorer rural areas. The overall economic rate of return for the
project has been estimated to be about 8%. The estimated rates of return do
not reflect the value of external effects on health or the general environment,
nor do they capture any private benefits that consumers who have had no pre-
vious experience with a safe water supply may attach to the provision of such a
service.
Environmental Health Impact
68.     In the rural areas, where the existing water sources are poor in
quality and unreliable, the availability of sufficient quantities of good
quality water should lead to a marked reduction in the incidence of water-
related diseases. The urban water supply component in Quilon would improve
present service levels, provide more uniform distribution of piped water and
meet the increased demand due to population growth. These factors are expected
to produce improved environmental conditions in the urban areas. Finally, the
pilot low-cost sanitation components would greatly improve the sanitary condi-
tions in the selected towns and rural areas.
Impact on Poverty Groups
69.     The poorer groups in the rural areas of the project would benefit
substantially from the provision of public standposts. The design criteria
foz the standposts provides for a supply of water to 180 people per tap, sub-
stantially reducing the walking and waiting time for water collection. A
socio-economic study for the project area reported that households currently
spend an average of 1 hour 40 minutes per day in fetching water, often from
unsatisfactory sources. Conditions are worse during the dry season when many
sources of supply dry up. The urban water supply component of the project
would ensure that satisfactory service levels are provided at the standposts in
Quilon Municipality. Under the project, soft loans would be provided to low-
income consumers through a revolving fund to facilitate connections to the
water supply system . The low-cost sanitation components would have a substan-
tial impact on poverty groups, since the project provides a 100% coverage of
the population in the selected communities. On a proportionate basis, about
60% of the project investments have been allocated to the coverage of the poor.
Project Risks
70.     Because the project is large and covers a sizable area, implementation
would have to be well coordinated and monitored if the project is to be
finished on time. However, KWWA's technical staff (in its previous role in
PHED) has had considerable experience in handling projects of similar magnitude
and scope. Furthermore, the organization, management, and staffing of KWWA are
being strengthened as part of the project (para. 48), and consultants would be
available to assist in the implementation of improved financial and management
information systems and a project monitoring system.
71.     Achieving the project's financial objectives has been a major concern
in most water supply projects. To minimize the risk of failure, realistic
financial targets have been set and improved financial and accounting systems



-23-
are being implemented which would help measure and control KWWA's financial
performance. Interim tariffs required to phase in the tariffs proposed for
1990 were agreed at negotiations. A study of costs and revenues would be
undertaken as the basis for implementing a tariff structure and the application
of tariffs to the entire KWWA service area (paras. 60 and 61). Finally, an
Action Plan has been agreed upon to help improve cost recovery and operational
efficiency and to facilitate close monitoring of the progress of project
implementation.
PART V - LECAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India anu the
Associaticn, the draft Kerala Agreement between the Association and the State
of Kerala, and the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
Kerala Water and Wastewater Authority, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
73.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. The passage of by-laws ensuring that the construction of sanitary units
would be confined to areas where the pollution of groundwater sources would
not present a problem would be a condition of disbursement of the Project
(Schedule I, para 3(b) to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
74.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Claeisen
President
June 17, 1985



AlM= I
Page 1 of 5
TARLE  3A
INDIA                 - SOCL DICATOR  DATA 3IIC15
InIA                           mawUr                  EGTED AVEASJ 1
NUT                      (MOST RECIT ESTMTE) 
RaT                aW nin               MIDDz Ln
IM&!    1970&!    ZM  .TEATUk         ASIA 6 PACIFIC        ASIA 6 PACIFC
Amflin am SQ. -)
TOTAL                               3267.6    3287.6      3287.6
ACIUCULTURAL                        1763.5    1700.5      la2.L,
ca  - CAPITA (Is)                        60.0     100.0       260.0           273.6                   1091.2
-iBG conUUTEO   Mm CAPIT
(KILOGRAMS OP OIL EQUIVALT)           73.0      113.0      153.0           272.0                    567.3
MPIATION AM VIX S         D=w
POPULATIu*HID -TIM  (TCUSAJI)    434349.0  547569.0   716985.0
URBA  POPULTION (I OF TOTAL)          13.0       19.3       24.1            21.7                     34.7
POPULATION mIscons
POrUlTION IN TER 2000 (CILL)                             994.4
STATIOAY POPULATION (HILL)                              1707.2
OPULATION HMWZf                                            1.7
POnULTIEON  ENsm
PER SQ. IN.                        132.3      160.6      213.4           16b.6                    261.9
PER SQ. ON. AGEI. LAW              246.6     307.5       367.1           345.5                   1735.1
POPULATION AE STRUCTURE (Z]
0-LA YRS                           40.9       42.7       39.3             35.3                    39.0
15-64 ns                            54.5     S5.2         57.6            59.8                     57.6
65 AND AOM                           4.6       3.1         3.1             4.3                      3.3
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (E)
TOTAL                                1.8        2.1        2.2              1.9                     2.3
URBAN                                2.5        3.3        3.9             4.1                      4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          47.7      41.4        34.2            27.7                     30.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (Pt T110tlS)         23.8      17.6        12.7            10.1                      9.5
GCOSS REPROOUCTION RATE                2.9       2.8         2.2             1.8                      2.n
FANILY PLlANINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)           64.0    3782.0      6126.0
USERS (2 OF oaR SIED WusS)            ,,       11.7       28.0              ,,                     52.7
roO AnD STrITIO
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         98.0      102.0      101.0           112.8                    123.0
PIR CAPITA SUPPLY if
CALORIES (I OF REQURSIns)           96.0       91.0       8660            97.7                    114.4
POTEINS (caai  PER DAT)             544)       50.0       46.0            56.8                     57.0
iF WHICH ANIAL AND PULSE          17.C       15.0       13.0 /a          14.9                    14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DRATN RAIE           26.2      20.7        11.0             9.8                      7.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT SIMTH (YEARS)         42.5      47.5        54.6            60.0                     60.4
INFANT HOT. RAxE (PER NUS)           165.0     139.0        94.0            83.8                     66.3
ACCESS MO SAFE WATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                                 ..       17.0       33.0 id         32.9                     37.0
URA                                   ..       60.0       83.0 7d         70.9                     54.8
RURAL                                0.                  L20. o 7-1       22.1                     2h
ACCESS TO EYCRETA DISPOSAL
(S OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..       18.0       20.0 le          IL                     41.3
URBAN                                 ..        5.0       87.0 Te         72.8                     47.4
RURAL                                 ..        1.0        2.0 .-          4.6                     33.3
POPUIATION PFM PISICIA              4685.0    4890.0      3690.0 Jf       3484.2                   7749.4
POP. PER HISSING PERSON            10980a0 D A  7420.0    5460.0 W        4793.1                   2460.4
POP. PR HOSnTAL RED
TOTAL                             2130.0    1650.0      1290.0 If        1066.5                  1064.Z
URBAN                                 ..        ..       370.0o7         298.0                    651.2
RMAL                                  *-         *-    10410.07         5993.4                   25b
ASIZSSIONS PMR NOSPITAL RED             ..        ..          ..              ..                     27.0
AVERAE SIZE OF KOUSEOD
TOTAL                                5.2        3.6        5.2 /le
uRBAN                                5.2        5.6        4.8 7.                  
RURAL                                5.2        5.6        5.3 7T.
AVERA  N. OF PERSONS/ROd
TOrAL                                2.6        2.8
URBAN                                2.6       2.8
RURAL                                2.6        2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF OWELLIS)
TOrAL                                 - '          -
mn                                    ..        ..
WRAL                                  ..         ..



ANNX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE  3A
INDIA                  - SOCUL INIICATORS DATA SlKT
IND1A                                REFRERENC  GOUPS CWElIGHTED AVERACEB) 4j
mOST                     CMOS?T R3Z0   ESTIMATE) /b
Rd                EL LOW rNCe            NIBDDBLE INCaS
i960&      iob    EiiizSTUtAT          ASIA A PACIFIC         ASIA A PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRHARYt  TOTAL                       61.0       73.0        79.0             97.4                    102.0
MAIE                      80.0       90.0        93.0            110.5                     105.9
FEPALZ                    40.0       56.0        64.0             83.7                     98.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     20.0       26.0        30.0            35.9                      46.0
HAIE                      30.0       36.0        39.0             44.6                     48.7
FEMALE                    10.0       15.0        Z0.0             26.8                     43.1
VODCATNAL (S OF SECONDARY)              2.8        1.0         0.7 Ie          2.2                      17.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRUMARY                              46.0       41.0        54.0            38.5                      31.8
SECONDARY                            16.0       21.0         ..              18.7                     23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                27.8       34.1        36.2             53.4                     72.9
PASSENCER CARS/THDUSAND POP             0.6        1.1         1.4 /h          0.9                      10.1
RADIO RECEIVURS/TOUSAND lPOP            4.9       21.5        43.6            112.1                    113.6
TV RECEIVERS/ITOUSAND POP               0.0        0.0         1.7             15.7                     50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST") CICUATION
PEM THIUSAND POPULAOTIO              10.6       16.2        19.4 /h          16.2                     53.9
CINMIA ANNUAL ATTERDANCE/CAPITA         3.2        6.2         3.7 7?           3.6                      3.4
LABOR  -
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOiS)          185951.0   219194.0   282169.0
P8iALE (PERCENT)                     30.7       32.5        31.8             33.3                     33.5
AQICULTtiE (PERCEOT)                 76.0       74.0        71.0             69.6                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0       11.0        13.2             15.8                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.8       40.0        39.4             42.6                     38.7
HAWE                                 57.0       52.4        52.0             54.7                     50.9
rE AIE                               27.3       26.9        25.9            29.8                      26.6
ECOFICC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1        1.1         1.1             1.0                       1.1
tIM    DISI3BUl
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCGE!
RECEIVED BY
RIGHEST 52 OF IOUSIILDS              26.7       26.3 /i    22.2 It           22.2                     22.2
RICHEST  02 OF HDUSEEOLDS            51.7       *8.9 /1    49.4 re          48.0                      48.0
LOWEST 20S OF HO0SEHDLDS              4.1        6.77?       7.077           6.4                       6.4
DlAEST 402 OF EOIJSEUOLIS            13.6       17.2 7       16.2 li       15.5                      15.5
POVEt TYUS?   -
ESTIMUATD ABSOLUTE POVERMT  lUClEE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .          ..       132.0 lb         133.9                    188.6
RURAL                                  ..         ..       11i.0            111.6                    152.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INO1IE
LEVEL CUSS PEI CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..         ..          ..              ..                     177.9
RURAL                                  ..         ..          ..              ..                     164.6
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ASOLUrTE
POVERTY liCn LEVEL (Z)
URBN                                   ..         ..        40.3 lh         43.8                      23.4
RURAL                                  .          ..        50.7 7W         51.7                      37.7
..  NOT AVAILABLE
DOT APPLICABLE
NOT E S
/a   The group a*ragea far eaeh laIcaor are populatiao-ewgbctd artitItlc memo. Coverage of countrlea among the
IndIctors depeada an availability of data and In not unLfa.
lb   UnLest otbarwime  oted, 'Data for 1960' refer to any yer betwee  1959 and 1961; "Beta for 1970W betweea 1969 and
1971; and data for "oat BReent EatIate" batna    1980 and 1982.
/c   1977; Id 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; jg 1962; A  1979; /I 1964-65.
JUNE. 1984



ANNE I
cuiausua dtllu.-mues     Aan .     -4   a  Wd
.siu   n.?6s.-, v-c  ap la-. Met la-u.-, cue  i..   wk. Icce  ftlh ld`s us  iMMI. '.m. it uj.. a.... .6 tumia-                     .tt'uiu
"Eihss.  Mt S      _ uccecI,e "It. ci. -,ea-.u.              -1 ctttc. fsets  -sueL    lee etch istWe-e  WI aheu cm. flc  uslc. at hit e..it  A.
'en  t   eas   A."s,e mIIte....  l Imm  ci uuri us  .Ic       sIN tb, l5tcesu   &punS  W lb. e1..l4citti. 51dWc. "si -.    c           tuia-t ha1
jflthhimcts-d me.it.t                    WI "Ic t IL ..i..ntt   sau
'It             -P,. St-at Cut..-"                                                    1 p...tmtgmultt  itt ,-  oweep  WP..1 - uttul. I-ec
-    p~tcell.utte.- -  urns  ihecpubes.e                 'It-i.t puli me piec... c.ust  a   peeiu  hsit  m
AL:cA.M     mnu=uu ustd-Cnhl.   u`i t   euP                                     cshsslcmc-n    utml b.               uts    Idtcan.iclmu  tcI
s.i5     tee  aus BE IIn.LzMane All.-  C                                                                                 mal  tAss-sit - diihucat
egis      cgsm  - C.ul ily ititS.  ts. W em                 net.s9-
Ml  pcaim ctmi            mut- MImust. mi usca. mu mCcci      .                       fctWU~          miiitjeicuc3Lctud  - ct                     aI      W
la.                     IL___                                                                                                 a.b             qucl,ae-..l
im-ucucal. ccs q  ct  ses-   lue  nmutim   u dcemd  mut smu.iu   5t.tde OW.L-,-  c.ec hdsga   i
cescec  sae imtuA. Is te-M..                                                mhu i.A..a.idlu  .sc.te5lltu"
ft.t_     _1_~ - . -  1. W9.6  P- 'a"  ~ 1e11um4.17t   -7    mi  -   -I, -sii 1b-   --I. -ua  uIm   st
cu.P    uia  h    md-    hIn P.    c.c.ci.s ctc   Aesi.  ps                        t..  umugrtl                       [-iuct  cituut -1 Icecs. tfm-s .e-
tucit.lb nimcts  ur iccisca  i-u  ite ie aimtcmt.- mm   tshucL. a  elc    ise W ucMccIS..5c.-.
psicnli.eu Wc lumiit ma c1.1 Accisciallit .n               1. cue;~      .:                                         -L;            f
mealca5 ui urcsc,       lnuic.cccsic           ALtem. eclscu               M - !d,,          . - 1tstietitn.                              t
-  m ns   er   a   u-muilitm.mtsm         tler tiet-cu.  mum   ste-t..iminti    mi
l~s~ucce~~edum   c tem    .u         t.c-tlictnit                               ..temc   tiqu-ss  lmt  cm;                      luauc  ulcc
cus  i...uetcecailc.u5..C.m  ulcucusmc   (e                               Ic. uL-uu             icm   wtic   msc  utsucec-m
,nu.eI  Suci.i   e    4eseu  h   it   n   ise                                     iceit 3tic5uuc tI-    d -ict  se T. 5 pue1 ca-in 
us cuct     s   eth  csu     all suiu   tceccuem              a                   c-l-   tissic c.ae.tsecsu   cc   l  te
tmc  -   lc. tns lllAdit  lt tcc.cc cctse.  t                                         lariI nl.d5-
cc   C C imtme   cctnt*uue.lda    ci uLl mm,.                              Ic".-c"ictcuMit    lu "SMc.i.              Mlcde. -,A 1s-ssn  imctt.ci
tic  -umfp_  ctu  ccssmuseesc ;, .  Itsce5ct.                                         -Icute.5L-"ccm    -L-  c.lcc -R-u ac-d.c.  Amtmuice
-set-.a1-t0A -ute.                                                       Iu.it-st-,eiitR  fftma 4- sl   et- ttcEfJ    ec b.itdtu  cuie   _.
l~~tulct mc-. t-tc-mic-.` ..s-.-t  a .t...                                                                    leu.ts tau       5s.u..I  u
titRcuc   ie -Air  a1-v slumdccc                                              cdutc t-icei V.i isc=4    do-  Lsuct  -..uc       &hitm--    A- wt"-I-
estri timc. tic sC tutu   c. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~a t
temcri c. ilui.sa  sent  -Ottnu  l-.    -ucat. intm..IwI   til-l-
V- tet        uim   .  -.aue        .lct   c-e,_C t                                                     u-cdiwiie5-lcrcrct  n1-1u net
Vi-aiccis, t   A-h  c.9       - u       1t   - 9Wa diuhra   1mue  m-utiu.  sita
be . uabe(cabast-isusi.   et Ws                        P.utu  uid Wm   s.   .11c.; dMu Id fusm  cs, e,-   i t esWici us-s ucc
jan ts..le5uut ictc sift  a  ciut ea..                               riu I-P i. Il  la dL.e-           -       m. tsc.ese-
iced Cusa be Im  sreame  - auc dme  s  mae isSd-ce              fme-ierftrcc    eseis t                    met-m  i- iils   C
tat  lttt  - iuusus  .a.cl 5iccdss-eai               s-mrua-medteilmcism A                                   n t!tucaI.  UseL e        - m    A
ii simsuittat siuscececclesS    ui. dair  lsuugOecce  ecsice  ilr  -Y-c-ne       i    -t P-                                                        
pesi.                                                                      mess ue   an  5. e.  wisu                  cme      dite  cm
Stust  Pis.c-cs. itrs    -l, v-a-   utruct-c  d' eitd                                   att sa
c-u  i t.ltitL.c  i ertala ci 1.gft-cu =     at e I'l -
ta.e-Sleee.e       cC.-en     A-umi   -d i-ct.S.uttsgg sll                             a-a!        c.-isu   tccmim   u.s-t               se      scm  ue
ft. CIW.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~iiMt.eM c est                                                  - b.Mcie cccsie. catl cit
m lpudMin ul c5tp-d" led  n.smcu.Ic.smsc   r               Igi ls 'ae cc        n5dcwtc      . lte  a cUlt. liise."  -Iuat-li is
cul      see   i 5c)ase  cucLi aI-cuat-  uerums ctb                                tuSe-s imstai P-,titcgia5  iuc                 ecmm  -smi-
tut-u  s  can  .icjjl  eccnuIueet  abl-             Ir.syi- te                MtiIa, es   sdcccmm"L mi   et  tcc   t.i
dci''.asitchi  usAtu  A      t LZBIcic smuurm     la                                   in   c. a-c    e.iimc    -s -es  ceeessu
-A1awpml,c  I c 1-s.lu   la-sceis        s-u- mu dWItmWa.   n.iu                      te  asc-c.-   .eac-Ime-
e-ri-T. cci0  Wc smeIacc-  c        le    gacceu.m-Ii. mea.c    te er                                      uiliecei--i
uisc      at fl-s cu    C st-i s.-scWd-       aSt.   Sie
Wcetuct cPI  cse  t cli  t   ie   gceu.iss .i     iea.r
.ca.d   en L-c. Us fl    ul t te             eg  -m   prca..a  a), ,c-               BII~ss    i   i  e-sam    cte    a.cetc
ul ua 5umcu su suce  ee  it nim . Ia    it tSt  cc5m                                 mcpsstit  aLuau  icut
bAseWA-     udbe,cc-t  e                   mdc.                                      eisdastc  em   uc  iusqau.iac)-is.        uu 



4-I
P  4 of 5
RCStIC DKYELPUUW DAU
GM Pr CAPITA IN 1983-13$268 j/
GROSS DO5 STIC PRODuCT IN 1983/84 yI                                      ANRAL oATS OI GROWTH (2. Constant Prices c/
33/5-ni/60 60/61-6/65  65/6-69170  70/71-74/75 75176-79/80   0/081-82/83
US$ BlD.    2
CWD at Market Prices            189.81    100.0                   3.7         3.6         3.7         2.9         4.1          5.1
Cross Domestic lnvestment        *5.94      24.0
Grosa Natlonal Saving            43.17      22.7
Current Accounc Balance          -2.17     -1.5
OUPU,7  IAOR VORCE AND PRODWCTIVITr TM 1981
Value added (at factor coat)     Labor Force 1/   V.A. Per Worker
U5s Bun.       s                 nil.   s         0      Z of National Avareag
Agriculture                      52.5                 35.9        172.7    70.6    304        51
Industry                         34.5                 23.6        31.6    12.9   1092        183
Services                         59.2                 40.5        40.3    16.5   1469        246      *
Totsl/Average                   146.2                100.0        244.6   1o00.0    39       1W
COQVERNRNT FIIWICE
Canral Govermeant el                            Central Govarrmnt
Ra. Bin.           X of GOP                 Na. BUn.          1 of WP
1983/84     1983/84  1979/80-1963           1933/84     1983/84    1
Current Receipts                378.54        19.3           19.5            201.67       10.3            10.3
Current Expenditures            397.12        20.3           19.4            225.42       11.5            10.9
Current Surplus/Deticit         -18.58        -1.0            0.1            -23.75       -1.2           -4.6
Capital Expeandtures fE         149.66         7.7            8.0            116.12        5.8             5.8
External Assistance (net) d/     19.16         1.0            1.1
WHNEY. CREDIT ANDl PRLCES       1970/71  1975/76  1978/79  1979/80 1980181  1981/82  1982/83 1983/54 January 1984 January 1985
s1 Billion ousttanding at end of Weriod)
Mony and Quasi Money            109.8    224.8   401.1   672.3   557.7   627.5   728.7   860.9          835.1        "3.9
Bank CrediLt to Government (net)   54.6    106.3   159.3   200.1   257.2   306.3   353.8   407.7        403.1        183.9
Bak Credit to Comercial Sector  64.6    156.2   255.3   310.1   36b.4   434.6   517.1   612.7           575.5        685.0
(Percentage or Indx Ntmbers)                   I  April-Jan 83/L    April-J-n 84/8S
money and Quasl Honey as a E
of GDP                         27.3      30.3    41.1    44.1    43.7    42.5    44.5    44.0
Uboleala Price 
(1970/71 * lOD)               100.0    173.0   185.8   217.6   257.3   281.4   288.6   315.2          313.6           336.7
Anual Percentage changes in:
Uholesale Pricr                   7.7      -1.1     -       17.1    18.2      9.4     2.6      9.2        9:2             7.4
Bank Credit to Government (net)   15.0    22.7    16.0    25.6    28.5    19.1    15.1    15.3          16.9.gL/         23.2 h/
Bank Credit to Commarcial Sector  19.4     22.7    20.3    21.5    18.2    18.6    17.7    18.7          13.8 5/         15.6 hI
a/ The per capita GNP estimate Is at mrket prices. uing World Bank Atla methodology. bae period 1981-83.
All other conversons to diollars in this table are at the aversge exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimtee. Central Statistical Organiztlon.
Z/ Computed from trend line of GCP at fsctor cost series. loclqding -ne observatron bafoke first year and one observation after
last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates of oat disbursement of concessionsl aId and IBRD.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have bean metted out.
f/ ALL loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
g/ Percentage chage from end-March 1983 to end-Jan.84.
bl Percentage change from end-Earch 1984 to end-Jln.85.
il Total Labor Force ad  peentage breakdown from 1981 Censu. Excludes data for Assam.



reg 5 of 5
BAIAICE O  PANTII                    196U/U2   19H2183       1933/K      19K/S5        IUNCAlIWISE WOlF  (A CWBE    US  lln3983S4) 
CYBS) luU.)                                                                                                              KIS  Al* 
ExPorts of Goods g/                     S.519       A.20         3.35       6,724       nuinmring Goods                  1115      13
Imports of Goods                      -15.301   -14,290       -14.040     -14,501       To.                               469       6
Trade Balance                         - 6.7U    - 5.000       - 5.6S5       5.777       C_m                              1009      12
UWS (not)                               1.002         935         948       1.096       Clothing                          686       a
Lather end Lesther Products      343        4
Resource Balance                      - 5,780    - 5.065      - 4,737     - 4.678       Juts Wsnufsctures                 269       3
Iran Ore                         400       5
lIcereet Income (ner)  I                  350    -   302      -   664     -   785       Cotton Textiles                   316       4
NeCt Trnsfer  [/                        2.317      2.504        2.680       2.930       Sugar                             104       1
Rblance on Current Account            - 3,113    - 2.863      - 2.521     - 2,533       Other                            3704      44
Direct Investmet                           10          65          62          61
Offical Lomm & Grants (not)             1.681       1.901       1.91        1. 944
Cross Disbursements                     2.269      2.513        2.576       2.535       UTRAIL DEAT. OMARU  31. 1984
Aoorcization                              5U8         612         617         641
Private Dorroving (nt)                    333         366         528         844                                               U$ bIll1
Outstanding and Disbursed                 21 * 
lon-Rasident Depositu                     260         578         903         600       Undiebursed                                10.4
Tranaction with 3IP (net)                 690       1.960       1.295          70       Outstanding including Undisbursed          31.9
All other Item  0/                    - 2,264    - 1.522      - 1,347       - 683
lcreas  in Reserves (-1                 2.398    -  504       -   82       - 303       DEBT SERVICE RATIO POR 1933/84 j/ Si       13.6 per cent
Cross Reserves (end yeer) p1            4,461      4,965        5.847       6,150
Met Reserves (end year)                 3.497       2,069       1.697       2.250
TURtD/A LENDDIC.  Maa 31. 2985 j,
Fuel nd Related Materials
Imports (Petroleum)                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~US $ M0iie
Imports (Petroleus) g/                  5.553     4*614         2,983       3.026                                             1iRD      IDA
of which: Crude                       3,921       3.139       2.183       1.015
Products                    1,632      1,475          eoo       2,010       Oustanding and Dlabureed              2,158    8.902
Undiebursed                          4.326    3,748
Outsanding including Undisbursed    6,483   12,650
RATR OF EXCUlAlRE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971    :  USS1.00 - Rs 7.5e
Re 1.00 - U50.13333
Mfd-Decmber 1971 to end-June 1972:  USSW.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - U550.137376
After end-June 1972                :  FloatIng Rate
Spot Rate end-arch 1984           :    S851.00 - Rs 10.7181
Rs 1.00 - USS0.0933
Spot R.r- -1-flrch 1985           :  US51.00 - Rs 12.3457
Rs 1.00 - US50.0810
Estimated
ikF/ Fiues given cer elL iment incoma (net).  Major payments   e interest - foreign loans and charges paid to  IPf,
sad major receipts is interest 1srned - foreig assets.
1/ Figures given Include workere  rdittnes but exclude official rat assistance  hich Is Included withdn official loans
and sinte. sd mn-resident deposits which are  shotn separately.
m/ Exclude net use of WIP credit.
/   morciaian ad intereat payments on foreign loin as a percentage of totda curret receipts.
0/ Includes exchne  rate adjuments to the valuation oE ressrve. and financing of igbaencs in rupee trade.
E t Rcluding gold.
Net of petroleum exports



,ANNE II
Pasg 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF-BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1985)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Cr-dit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         ank         IDA jj      Undij brsed 2/
52 Loans/                                             2,379.0          -
96 Credits fully disbursed                                 -       5,589.2            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                       -          30.0           6.06
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -          18.0           0.01
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0         -            14.17
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                     25.0          -             3.66
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development             -          30.0           8.05
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -          20.0           1.32
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -           12.0           6.34
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0         -             1.90
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage             -          107.0          32.50
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -            8.0           4.85
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0         -             1.37
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0         -             0.02
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          30.30
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0          23.31
806-IN    1978     Jaumu-Kashmir Horticulture            -           14.0           9.12
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5           7.91
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -           16.0           2.29
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII               120.0         -             7.21
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -          150.0          27.26
342-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0         119.03
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -          190.0          14.50
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -           38.0           3.70
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -           27.0          11.99
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0           0.40
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -           30.0           0.18
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0           0.06
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0          -            45.98
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                    -          129.0          26.82
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply              -           48.0           0.45
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0           3.25
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0          25.86
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry            -           37.0           2.70
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                      -          20.0          14.41
981-IN    1980     Population II                          -          46.0          23.27
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                 -           32.0          16.81
1011-IN    1980      Cujarat Irrigation II                 -         175.0          84.89
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                             -          22.0          14.74
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                  -         300.0         124.04



AM=  II
Page 2 of 4
US$ millo:.n
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Akmaoval        PuroseI Bank                                IDA 1       Undisbursed ;i
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension          -          10.0           6.28
1033-rN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport               -          56.0          15.71
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                             54.0          24.87
1046-rN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -             80.0          44.81
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    99.2         -             3.96
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                  -         225.0          75.02
1887-IN    1980     Parakka Thermal Power                 25.0         -            25.00
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0         -            18.40
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                      -          35.0           9.75
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                     -           83.0          35.99
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II            -          42.0          19.31
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation                -          140.0          74.08
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII                -         314.0          71.66
11.16-IN    1981    Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -          54.0          33.13
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project             -          399.1          77.24
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -          23.0           8.96
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -          28.0          14.27
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0          23.98
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -         125.0          62.87
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II        -          400.0         243.01
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0         140.86
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0         -             8.60
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -           29.0          18.21
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0          13.31
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                          150.0          -            44.73
2076-IN    1982     Rsmagundam Tnermal Power II         300.0          -           264.07
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0           4.36
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization          200.0          -            76.58
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5          -           248.98
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.0          25.13
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3          -            20.00
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0          57.11
1286-TN    1983     JammulKashmwir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -           33.0          22.45
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Nadhya Pradesh                -            -
Irrigation II                      -           31.0          17.87
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation              -          127.0         101.25
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -           121.55
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -          200.0         167.25
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Naintenance II                   200.0          -           197.04
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development       139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0         100.78
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubewells II              -          101.0          87.73
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -          170.0         142.99
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Eydro Power          156.4         -           156.01



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Anproval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA 11      Undisbursed ;J
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III        -          147.0        128.60
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization         -           32.0          24.45
2308-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -           22.64
*       2283-IlN   1983      Central Power Transmission          250.7          -          250.07
2295-IN    1; -     Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -           45.82
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban                 24.1          -            23.80
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                  -          105.0         76.24
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -           31.0         29.14
1426-IN    1984     Population III                        -           70.0         65.63
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry             -           27.0         21.93
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                    250.0          -          247.92
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                      151.0          -          150.62
2403-IN    1984     Camoay Basin Petroleum              242.5          -          241.90
2415-IN    1984     Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer           203.6          -          200.18
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation                -          125.0        116.47
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation             -          172.0        145.22
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification*           280.7          -          280.70
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Power*           300.8          -          300.80
2416-IN    1984      Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*      157.4          -          157.40
SF-20-IN   1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*         -          129.8        129.80
2452-IN    1984     Fourth Trombay Thermal Power*       135.4          -          135.40
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply               -           36.5         34.99
SF-12-IN   1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply               -           36.5         34.99
1468-IN    1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -           17.5         16.46
SF-16-IN   1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -           17.5          16.46
1502-IN    1984     National Cooperative
Development-Corporation III        -          220.0         205.99
1514-IN    1985     Kerala Social Forestry                -           31.8         30.33
1523-IN    1985     National Agric. Extension I*          -           39.1         39.10
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Development*             -          138.0        138.00
Total                                   6,818.3    12,934.1
of which has been repaid              1.269.9        194.6
Total now outstanding                   5,548.4    12,739.5
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 31        5,548.4    12,739.5
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,575.90    3,333.48
11  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
/ Undisbursed mounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1985.
I Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Auount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                     Comwany                      Loan      Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.8         -       0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4         -       1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8        1.3     13.1
1964            Lakshmi Nachine Works Ltd.             1.0        0.3      1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1       3.8      i8.9
1976            Escorts Limited                        6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9        -       15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0          -       38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited            15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited              2.3        -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited               1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                 28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8         -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.5        -       15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.1        -        8.1
1984            The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       3.5         -       3.5
1985            Bihar Sponge                           8.9       0.8       9.7
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.                       20.5        -       20.5
1985            Kodi Cement                           12.0        -       12.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS        251.9       12.9    264.8
Less:  Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales           139.1        6.2    145.3
Now Held                    112.8       6.7    119.5
Undisbursed                  72.8       0.8      73.6
--e     _ _



ANNEX III
Page   1
INDIA
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About 24 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Kerala Water and Wastewater Authority.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
December 1980; October 1981.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 22, 1984.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 2, 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 30, 1985.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
D.,



ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) COK has accepted the financial targets set for FY90 and
FY91 for the rural areas, and for FY91 for the Quilon
Municipal area (para. 58).
(b) By April 1, 1990, GOK would cause KWWA t' implement
tariffs for its entire service area taki.ig into con-
sideration the findings of the cost and revenue study
(para. 61).
(c) Interim tariff increases would be implemented by GOK
for Quilon and for all connected users within the
jurisdiction of KWWA by Decemubr 1, 1987 (paras 62 and
63).
(d) GOK would compensate KWWA for any shortfalls in
revenues on account of operation, maintenance and debt
service from FY86 through FY89 (para.63).



ANNEX IV
INDIA
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROCURMENT METOD  a
(US$ Million)
Project El4ument                        ICR      LCB      N.A. lb   Total Cost
Land Acquisition                         -        -         1.0          1.0
Engineering                              -        -        8.2           8.2
Civil Works                              -       31.4       -           31.4
(6.3)                  (6.3)
Equipment and Materials                 32.9    9.1         -           42.0
(30.3)  (1.8)                  (32.1)
Technical Asaiistance and Training       0.1    1.0         -            1.1
(0.1)  (1.0)                   (1.1)
House Connection Fund                    -        -        1.5           1.5
(1.5)        (1.5)
Total                                   33.0   41.5       10.7          85.2
(30.4)  (9.1)     (1.5)        (41.0)
la Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Credit.
lb Not applicable.
* The above filgures are inclusive of contingencies.
r



INDIA
KERALA WATER SUPPLY
AND SANITATION PROJECT
KARNATAKA                           LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
-      Boudmree of WWA Reglam
* KCWWA Regln,d Officue
WMll~~~NA                                                                       tNADUo SI
,,*   . ;, .Waer Spl                 I'M.M
A     Low-Cow Smalltla (wbon)~
o Se11I '. Towni
-               :             ,o *o
1.4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
940AGAM~~~~AMLND
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
Didrkf~~~~~~~~~~9
sba"dA.~~~~~~~~~~
KOZI                                          Sft oun r0
'~~~~~             -~~~~~~~  ~~~~~                                                             it'w  "   a Axm






