Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14783
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1622-IN)
JUNE 30, 1995
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.0909 at appraisal (June 1985)
Rs 11.00 = US$ 1.00 at appraisal (June 1985)
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.0324 at project close (March 1994)
Rs 30.85 = US$ 1.00 at project close (March 1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                 = 0.0394 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                       = 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (krn)                        = 0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)               = 10.7639 square feet (sq ft)
1 square kilometer (krn2)         = 0.3861 square mile (sq mni)
1 hectare (ha)=0.01 km2           = 2.4711 acres (ac) or 10,000 sq m
I liter (1)                       = 1.0567 quarts liquid or
= 0.2642 US gallon (gal) or
= 0.9081 US quart dry (qt)
1 cubic meter (mn3)               = 35.3147 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter per capita                = 0.2642 US gallons per
per day (lcd)                     capita per day (gpcd)
1 cubic meter per second          = 264.1721 US gallons per second (gal/sec)
(m3/sec)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC          - Average Incremental Cost
DMA          - Directorate of Municipal Administration
DP           - Directorate of Panchayats
ERR          - Economic Rate of Return
GOI          - Government of India
GOK          - Government of Kerala
IDWSSD       - International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade
KWA          - Kerala Water Authority
LCS          - Low Cost Sanitation
LIC          - Life Insurance Corporation of India
PHED         - Public Health Engineering Department
PMU          - Project Management Unit
PWD          - Public Works Department
ROR          - Rate of Return
TAG          - Technology Advisory Group of UNDP/World Bank
UNDP         - United Nations Development Programme
WHO          - World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
a:Aicr\ke-icr toc                            _
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATiON PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONITEII
INTRODUCTORY SECTION
Table of Contents                                                                i
Preface                                                                         ii
Evaluation Summary                                                             iii
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
(a) Project Objectives                                                               1
(b) Achievement of Project Objectives                                                1
(c) Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project                   2
(d) Project Sustainability                                                          4
(e) Bank Performance                                                                 5
(f) Borrower Performance                                                            6
(g) Assessment of Outcome                                                            7
(h) Future Operabon                                                                 7
(i) Key Lessons Leamed                                                               8
II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment                                                      11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                                                 12
Table 3. Project Timetable                                                         14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                 15
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                 16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations                                     18
Table-7: Studies Included in Project                                                19
Table 8A: Project Costs                                                            22
Table 6B: Project Financing                                                        23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits                                               24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants                                                27
Table 11: Comptiance with Operation Manual Statements                              31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                             32
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                                                 33
APPENDIXES 
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire                                                          35
S. Borrower Contnbution to the ICR                                                 73
C. Map                                                                             82
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofrncial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Kerala Water Supply and
Sanitation project in India, for which Credit 1622-IN in the amount of SDR 42.70 million equivalent
was approved on July 16, 1985 and made effective on December 9, 1985. In December. 1991, SDR
20.00 million saving due to exchange rate fluctuations was cancelled and transferred to the Social
Safety Net Adjustment Program. The Credit was closed on March 31, 1994 after two 6 months and
two 1 year (total of 3 years) Credit closing date extensions. The total amount disbursed under the
Credit was SDR 21.69 million, out of the remaining SDR 22.70 million.
2.    Preparation of the ICR was first discussed with the Government of Kerala in November, 1993
by a supervision mnission and then followed by further discussion during a mission in May, 1994.
The ICR mission to assemble data was undertaken in July, 1994. The ICR is based on material in the
project file. The borrower contributed to the preparation of this ICR by presenting views reflected in
the mission's aide-memoire, preparing an evaluation of the project's initial preparation and execution
and commenting on the draft ICR, and preparing Appendix B to this report.



I



-iii- 
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Obiectives
1.    The broad aim of the project was to improve institutional, operational and financial
performance throughout the water supply and sanitation sector in Kerala, while also tackling specific
physical needs. The specific Project objectives were to: (a) assist in strengthening the operational and
financial roles of Kerala Water Authority (KWA), by promoting manpower development and
operational efficiency; (b) provide piped water supplies to about one million people residing in seven
rural areas; (c) increase the supply of water and extend the distribution facilities in one urban area to
about 150,000 people; and (d) introduce low-cost on-site sanitation LCS facilities and finance their
construction so as to benefit about 200,000 people residing in ten urban areas and to undertake a
similar pilot program for low-cost sanitation in rural areas.
Implementation ExDerience and Results
2.    The original project implementation schedule (1985-90) proved overly optimnistic as even after
Project extensions totalling three years the project implementation remained incomplete. The
institutional development and financial management and accounting aspects of the Project started
slowly and were inadequately resourced for most of the Project causing delayed results.
3.    The detailed engineering preparation was inadequate and did not progress in tune with the
major items of procurement. Implementation progress had slowed down considerably by early 1988.
The key factors which were within GOK/KWA control but contributed to the delays were: (a)
imposition of excessive GOK control over KWA; (b) inadequate organization and management by
GOK/KWA; (c) fast staff turn-over; (d) lack of counterpart finance; (e) land acquisition difficulties;
(f) inadequate experience in program management and contract scheduling; (g) poor procurement
administration practices; and, (h) inadequate engineering preparation.
4.     Because of these many problems and inadequacies the Project outcome is regarded as less than
satisfactory. However, the Project has achieved some worthwhile improvement in management
capability in KWA and in staff training and financial management and accounting performance, and
the physical targets of the Project were substantially achieved at the time of Credit closing. Two
water supply schemes had been commnissioned and the remaining five were due to be fully completed
and commissioned by October, 1994.
5.    The Project gave a start to the use of LCS in the State and demonstrated the successful use of
twin-pit latrines as a low-cost sanitation measure for rural and urban areas. However, the quantitative
achievement was far below Project targets. The unfinished LCS works are to be addressed through
the various LCS programs taken up by GOK.



-iv-
6.     The KWA staff training center was operational in 1991 after a delay of about 4 years and is
expected to contribute significantly to the improvement of operational efficiency and staff
productivity. The long delavs in preparation and submission of audited accounts experienced early on
have been reduced.
Summary of Findinas
7.     Overall, the conclusion of the Project experience is that physical development aspects of the
Project were inadequately prepared and not fully appraised. The establishment of a dedicated State-
wide utility, which has adopted tariff policies expected to lead to full financial viability may be
regarded as a worthwhile achievement. The improvements made in KWA in the areas of management
capability, staff training, financial management and accounting practices are sustainable and further
improvement is possible. Important experience was gained from the LCS component despite its low
level of physical achievement.
Future Operations
8.     The future operation of the water supply schemes will be the responsibility of KWA. The
LCS, being a "household" facility, will be operated by the beneficiaries. Operational Plan and
Performance Indicators (Annex 4 of Appendix A) have been prepared by KWA for water supply, and
by GOK for LCS, for future operations. The operation plan for water supply schemes appeared
somewhat "optimistic" as the projected water supply connections for 1994/95 may prove difficult to
achieve. Further, staff recruitment for water supply operations was also pending at Closure due to
Government ban on fresh recruitment.
9.     Sustainable operation of the water supply components is largely dependent on KWA's
management and personnel skills and its financial performance. The impetus provided by the Project
in management improvement, staff training and financial viability is expected to contribute
substantially to sustainable operation of the Project.
Key Lessons Learned for Proiect Identification
Identification
10.   A wide geographical spread of sub-projects causes problems for the management of project
preparation and supervision.
11.   The results of the economic evaluation should be used to help design the Project.
Preparation
12.   Sufficient time and effort should be given by the Bank and the borrower to the preparation
stage of the Project cycle. Specifically to:
(a)    Studies, surveys, investigations and engineering planning and design;
(b)    Preparation of detailed procurement plans and implementation timetable;
(c)    Realistic cost estimation;



(d)    A detailed implementation plan including an assessment of the magnitude of the
magnitude of the disruptive effects of changes to organizations;
(e)    Project performance indicators which should be worked out against a realistic
timetable for Project implementation; and
(f)    The availability of sufficient land and detailed land acquisition planning before
appraisal, such as to avoid delays during implementation.
ADpraisal
13.    Appraisal should occur only when the Project is ready. The problems of implementation
which beset the Project (delays, poor practices, wide ranging failures to reach targets) should be
identified at appraisal and appropriate plan of action should be prescribed and covenanted.
14.    Entity performance indicators and targets need to be agreed rather than being left to worked
out during implementation. There is no advantage in having financial performance covenants for the
individual sub-projects: rather, these should be for the utility entity.
Implementation
15.    Greater supervision effort by the Bank in the critical early stages of implementation would be
beneficial.
16.    The borrower must provide adequate field level management in order to avoid adoption of
poor practices of contract management, procurement etc.
17.    Prompt management action is required when borrowers fail to comply with covenants.
18.    Borrowers should realize that delays in implementation have an economic cost.
19.    Project conditionality should include a minimum of three year posting for field officers.
20. Consolidation of the procurement into a very much smaller number of larger contracts,
including "supply and install" contracts.



!



-1.-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. Statement and Evaluation of Obiectives
1.    The broad aim of the Project was to improve institutional, operational and financial
performnance throughout the water supply and sanitation sector in Kerala, while also tackling specific,
identified, physical needs. The objectives of the Project were to:
(a)    help strengthen sector-wise management in the newly created Kerala Water and Wastewater
Authority (renamed as the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) in 1986) and in municipalities
which operate their own distribution systems, by promoting manpower training, operational
efficiency through the reduction of water wastage and improved central services, sound
accounting systems and development of cost recovery targets;
(b)    provide piped water supplies to about one million people residing in seven rural areas;
(c)   increase the supply of water and extend the distribution facilities in one urban area (Quilon) to
about 150,000 people; and
(d)   introduce low-cost on-site sanitation facilities and finance their construction so as to benefit
about 200,000 people residing in ten urban areas and to undertake a similar pilot program for
low-cost sanitation in rural areas.
2.    It was entirely appropriate to have Project objectives of strengthening the newly established
institution and assisting it in developing relevant policies and practices to serve the needs of the
State's water supply sector. Demonstration of the successful use of twin-pit latrines as a low-cost
sanitation measure for urban areas was also a desirable and relevant objective given that sewerage
systems are not affordable in most Indian towns and cities.
II. Achievement of Obiectives
3.    The physical objectives were not fully accomplished despite three extensions of the Credit
closing date over the period from March 31, 1991 to March 31, 1994. By final Credit closure: (a)
only 10 of the 36 panchayats were covered with water supply, although works in those remaining
were substantially completed: (b) the augmentation of water supply to Quilon town had not been
completed and commissioned; (c) only 46% of the total number df latrines initially planned in the
urban areas were completed; and (d) only 42% of LCS units planned in the rural areas were



-2-
constructed. The economic rates of return (ERR) for the water supply sub-projects were below the
estimates at appraisal (Table 9) due largely to delays in implementation which led to the deferment of
net project benefits.
4.     The Project has achieved only modest results regarding the institutional and financial
performance. KWA performance on cost recovery was well below the forecasts due mainly to the
delayed introduction of tariff increases (Table 9). Tariff increases on a regular annual basis and of
sufficient magnitude to bring the entity eventually into viability (by about 1998/99) were introduced
only towards the end of the Project. As a consequence of these delays in action to increase revenues.
the GOK needed to provide the entity with considerable annual grants. The financial management
was improved in KWA by reorganizing and strengthening the Finance and Accounting Wings and
enhanced staff skills brought about by a concerted training program in the Accrual Accounting System
(AAS). Nevertheless, inadequate staffing greatly increased the time taken to implement the finance
and accounts reforms. The KWA staff training center was operational by Credit closure and is
expected to improve operational efficiencv and staff productivity (para 2.11 of Appendix A).
IHI. Implementation Record and Maior Factors Affecting the Proiect
5.     Water supply schemes. Implementation of the seven water supply schemes (para 1. 11 of
Appendix A) was started in mid-1985, except for Kottayam which was taken up in June, 1987. The
scope of the water supply schemes was marginally enlarged to cover the additional dwelling units and
roads constructed in the project area since inception of this Project and initial design of the schemes.
Only two water supply schemes (Vilappil and Puthencruz) were fully commissioned and the GCDA
scheme was partly commissioned (water supply commissioned in 5 of the 12 panchayats) by Credit
closing. Other schemes were at substantial completion level and all schemes were planned to be fully
commissioned before October, 1994 (para 1.13 of Appendix A).
6.     Low-cost sanitation. The LCS achievement was far below the targets even though there was a
good start made with continued progress at much higher rates than planned in the first two years.
The progress began to decline from the third year due to insufficient management control. counterpart
funds constraints and inadequate technical support from the KWA to the Department of Municipal
Administration and Departnent of Panchyats. Only 44% of the overall (urban and rural together)
target which was fixed at appraisal was achieved (para 2.08 of Appendix A).
7.    Institutional development and financial management and accounting aspects.  These aspects of
the Project got off to a slow start and were inadequately resourced for most of the time. While the
technical assistance for improved financial accounting practices commenced promptly, inadequate
staffing and inappropriate organizational arrangements for the Finance Wing hampered prompt and
efficient implementation. One consequence was considerable delay in the preparation of the entities'
accounts and hence much delayed audit reports.
8.     Proiect Objectives. These included improvement in cost recovery performance of the entity
during the Project. Targets for cost recovery were not identified at Appraisal, but financial
projections were prepared. These projections provide an opportunity to compare actual performance
with the expectations at Appraisal and these comparisons appear in Table 9 in the statistical annex.
Actual financial performance was well below projections and was inadequate; for example, negative
rates of return occurred throughout the project period. The main differences between projections and
actual were operating revenues which were forecast to be over double the actual levels achieved for



3 -
the period since 1989/90. Failure early on to introduce regular annual tariff increases of sufficient
magnitude to bring the entity into eventual viability by about 1988/99 was the main reason for this
poor performance. These tariff increases came only towards the end of the project period.
9.    The covenanted "Cost and Revenue" Study and "Training" Study were commenced only after
delay of several years (para 30) and actions anticipated in response to such studies were
commensurately delayed. An Organization Review Study was taken up by KWA following the
recommendations of the Cost and Revenue Study and the Training Study. However, this Study was
incomplete, although a draft final report was available at Credit closing.
10.   The original project implementation schedule (1985-90) proved overly optimistic as indicated
by the Project extensions totalling three years, and which proved to be insufficient. The principal
factors that affected the Project progress were as follows:
Factors not subiect to GOK control
(a)    Natural calamity: Floods caused by uncommonly heavy rains caused implementation delays
by several months in 1992-93.
(b)    Competing LCS Program: Availability of other GOI-assisted LCS programs which offered
more (and often substantial) subsidy to the people reduced the demand for latrines in some parts of
the project areas.
Factors subiect to GOK control
(c)    GOK control of KWA: Under the Kerala Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1986 KWA aimned
at becoming a largely autonomous and commercially oriented organization. In practice, its powers
were limited and its role was restricted by GOK. For example, KWA had no control over staff
recruitment; water supply tariff revision remained subject to GOK approval, and the KWA Board was
given limited powers to decide on contract awards. As a result, decisions were delayed or deferred
altogether.
(d)    Inadequate organization and management by GOK/KWA: The Project was generally poorly
managed. Although some changes in KWA organizational structure were made at the beginning of
the Project, no evaluations were made by GOK to determine effectiveness or whether further changes
would be desirable.
(e)    Staff continuity: Lack of KWA staff continuity was a serious issue during project
implementation, with too frequent transfers causing disruption to work schedules and reduced
effectiveness.
(f)    Counterpart funding constraints: Slow progress for other reasons was compounded from 1988
by GOK's failure to provide required levels of counterpart funding. This resulted in delays in
payments to contractors, and delayed the procurement of remaining contracts. During the extended
period of the Credit, counterpart funding problems eased considerably.
(g)    Slow preparation of KUDP: The Project's Development.Credit Agreement was amended in
March 1994 to accommodate financing the consultants studies for preparation of future urban



-4-
development projects in Kerala. However, the proposed Kerala Urban Development Project was
deleted from the Bank's lending program on March 25, 1994 due to very slow decision-making by
GOK.
(h)    Land acquisition difficulty: Land acquisition disputes caused delayed availability of land in
Puthencruz, GCDA, Adoor, Quilon and Chithara for water supply schemes. Land acquisition for
pipelines in one instance at Quilon was so difficult that eventually the pipes were taken through an
alternate route.
Factors subiect to KWA control
(i)    Lack of experience in program management and contract scheduling: KWA's lack of
experience in time-bound construction and related contract scheduling seriously affected the efficiency
of implementation of the Project. There were instances where, due to non-availability of the
appropriate size of pipe, the nearest available pipe size was used in some sections of the transmission
and distribution network in GCDA, Adoor, Quilon and Chithara.
(j)    Large number of small contracts: The lack of procurement planning resulted in the field
divisions embarking on a large number of small contracts where the estimated cost was within the
delegated award decision level at field level. There were 546 LCB civil works contracts of aggregate
value of Rs 446.3 million, and 710 LCB goods contracts of aggregate value of Rs 98.1 million for the
seven water supply schemes, apart from the ICB procurement of pipes and LCB procurement of water
treatment plants. This large number of contracts demanded substantial attention to coordinate the
availability of various goods and materials at site. Coordination difficulties were further aggravated
by the wide-ranging nature of the project engineer's district-wide responsibility for all water supply
schemes which did not permit sufficient concentration of effort on the needs of the Bank-financed
schemes.
(k) Inadequate procurement administration practices: The use of small and numerous contracts
proved to be an obstacle to timely completion of works and precluded the Bank's prior review. The
procurement practices adopted were not conducive to good results (for example, works awarded based
on the lowest offer without the effective prescription and appreciation of post-qualification
requirement; no compensation for price escalation). They caused delays and aggravated construction
management problems. Lengthy processes of contract award decisions were another factor which
contributed to the delays in implementation.
(1) Need for sound construction management practices: The physical works, mainly the laying of
pipelines, were not carried out using sound construction management practices (for example, new
pipelines were laid without testing for leak tightness and without keeping proper records and
drawings). This was evident from the inordinately long period taken for commissioning of water
supply schemes as several defects such as improper joints, missing links, pipe blockages, pipe bursts,
leaking joints, etc. had to be rectified before the trial operations.
(m) Inadeguate engineerinaz preparation: There was insufficient effort given for the preparation of
designs and detailed engineering drawings on time (KWA was responsible for detailed engineering for
pipes, storage reservoirs, pumps and pumphouses, intake structures). The procurement of these items
progressed without a sound implementation plan.          '



(n) Consultant appointment delavs: Long delays were experienced in appointment of consultants for
the covenanted "Cost and Revenue" and "Training" Studies.
IV. Proiect Sustainability
11.   The financial policy, mnanagement and accounting improvements introduced through the
Project are expected to lead to progressive and permanent improvements in efficiency and
performance. If KWA does not deviate from the tariff revision principles established under the
Project, it could become financially self-sustaining by 1998-99.
12.   The impetus provided by the Project in management improvement, staff training and financial
viability is expected to contribute substantially to the conditions for sustainable operation of the
Project assets.
13.   However, KWA has not taken the steps to post appropriate number of skilled staff for
operation and maintenance of the completed water supply schemes and has also not provided adequate
budget for this purpose. Currently, the operation and maintenance activities of the completed water
supply schemes are ad-hoc and largely rely on temporary recruitment (for a term of 6 months
naximum) of inexperienced and untrained staff.
14.   The service connection targets for the completed schemes were not achieved, in spite of
demands for connections from consumers. A concerted and determined effort on the part of the
KWA to achieve the connections targets, and establishment of widespread consumer meter repair
facilities, particularly in the panchayats, would be essential to meet the operational plan targets
(Annex 4 of Appendix A).
15.   The LCS component provided "household" facilities which are simple and inexpensive to
maintain. Evaluation reports confirm this experience, which provides the basis for some "cautious
optimism" for the Project to be sustainable as: (a) ownership of the latrine is with the householder;
(b) the users appear satisfied with the functioning of the latrines and do not report problems; and, (c)
the users are aware of the operation and maintenance procedures including the switching of pits.
However, for maximization of benefits, the local bodies will have to continue to provide advisory
assistance to the beneficiaries by providing oral and written guidelines as may be indicated by
periodical field monitoring.
V. Bank Performance
16.   Identification. A few brief reconnaissance missions to Kerala preceded the formal
identification mission of Nov/Dec 1982. The physical development aspects of the Project were of an
unusual mixture, for which the rationale was unclear. The Project consisted both of rural and urban
components, despite their quite different service delivery systems. The rural schemes were widely
scattered throughout the State which made regular physical inspection by supervision missions
difficult, and not cost-effective despite borrower concerns that this should have occurred. The rural
schemes were located in both stable and rapidly growing (peri-urban) areas, which also added to the
Project's complexity. Only one urban area was included, which was neither the State capital, nor one
of the States three large cities. Such a choice may have provided benefits to a larger number of
people with less logistical complexity. However the institutionat'development intentions of the



-6 -
Project were clearer which were to establish and develop a State-wide utility at arm's length from
Government.
17.   Preparation. The preparation of the Project commenced in July, 1983 and the Project was
appraised in May, 1984. Insufficient Bank effort went into preparation, with only one Bank mission
to visit Kerala in the intervening period in October, 1983 to assist the preparation. KWA's
engineering and management skills were not adequate to the task of Project preparation and needed
greater participation by the Bank in guiding and reviewing progress. Moreover, the limited Bank
staff-time (37.4 staffweeks - Table 12) involved in preparation was concentrated largely on orienting
the newly established institution in financial management skills. Total staff-time of 45.4 staffweeks
(Table 12) used by the Bank through the Credit effectiveness is only 41 % of a typical requirement of
about 110 staffweeks for such a project.
18.   Appraisal. The Bank may also be faulted for relying on outline proposals and preliminary
cost estimates prepared by KWA. The project costs proved overestimated. The complexity of the
duties of the engineers at the scheme level in KWA was underestimated. The proposed organization
structure did not respond to the needs of improving efficiency at the field level.
19.   The operational action plan did not adequately take into account the requirement to overcome
KWA's weaknesses. These weaknesses were not adequately addressed at appraisal. This was evident
during implementation, for example, as: (a) the pipes procured were based on rough estimates of
length for various pipe sizes; (b) the designs were not ready in an orderly manner; and (c) it took
considerable time for the agency to understand the Bank procedures and procurement guidelines.
20.    Projections of KWA financial statements were prepared at appraisal along with key cost
recovery indicators, although targets for the entity were not covenanted. The financial performance
of the sub-project schemes was covenanted, but monitoring of this covenant was not possible during
implementation since revenues would start to flow only after the completion of the schemes.
Generally, there was inadequate grasp by the Bank at Appraisal of the information needs and tasks
which would be required during supervision.
21.    With hindsight, the arrangements for LCS implementation were also inadequate leading to the
underperformance.
22.   The Bank inadequately appraised the financing capability of the GOK, leading to slow
application of counterpart funds.
23.   Supervision. There were 14 supervision missions undertaken in the 8.3 years of project
implementation period. Supervision involved 129.7 staffweeks in total (Table 12) of which 85.7
staffweeks (Table 13) were used in the field. Almost up to the scheduled project completion period
(31 March 1990), the project supervision team was small (comprising two persons) and usually made
brief visits (6 days on an average - Table 13). Such brief supervision missions, though composed of
members with the required skills, were not enough to deal with an agency which had no prior
experience in working with the Bank.
24.    Prior to FY91 total supervision staff-time averaged 10.9 staffweeks per annum whereas from
FY91 onwards it rose substantially to 18.8 staffweeks per annufm. Additionally the nature of the
supervision changed dramatically between these two periods. Only 43 percent of the time was spent



-7-
in the field prior to FY91 but 83 percem thereafter. There was only one supervision mission during
the formative stage of the Project implementation between February, 1988 and April, 1990 (in March,
1989) (Table 13).
25.   The low level of supervision effort by the Bank in the initial years helps to explain the decline
both in Project performance and GOK commitment from early 1988 (para 22). Progress with water
supply works was very slow, LCS achievement slumped and expected reforms of financial
performance at KWA failed to materialize. The increase in Bank effort and the need for extensions
after FY91 may be regarded as attempts to put right, somewhat late in the Project, poor and
deteriorating borrower performance with Project implementation.
VI. Borrower Performance
26.   The GOK-KWA performance was variable during project preparation and implementation.
They participated, though with occasional delays, in the project preparation as per program.
Considerable time was lost, however, between appraisal and effectiveness due to GOK's inability to
complete the processes for the establishment of KWA.
27.   The project implementation was given an enthusiastic start by GOK-KWA, but the initial
enthusiasm was not sustained in part due to weak organization and management and the consequences
of inadequate counterpart funds. GOK-KWA appeared to benefit from guidance and pressure by the
Bank to improve performance but this happened mostly during the extended period of project
implementation and came too late.
28.   The irnplementation of the Project began with the centrally administered procurement of large
contracts, comprising ICB procurement of pipes, LCB procurement of turnkey contracts for the water
treatment plants, and LCS construction. However, the detailed engineering preparation was
inadequate and did not progress in tune with the major items of procurement. The implementation
progress was slow from early 1988 (para 22) as: (a) the detailed engineering drawings were not
available, (b) employment of smaller contracts of large numbers with lack of supervision because of
the inadequate organization at field level; (c) counterpart funds constraints; and, (d) low levels of
commitment by GOK.
29.   Staffing levels and organizational arrangements for KWA Finance and Accounts remained
inadequate up to the time of Credit closing and the repeated extensions of the consultants' contract,
and extensive auditor comments on the entity accounts were due, in part, to these inadequacies.
30.   A Revolving Fund which was set up for water supply connections did not take-off at all in
spite of promotional efforts, relaxed eligibility criteria and increased loan amount offered for this
purpose.
31.   The covenants regarding the billings and collections targets for KWA, and the insurance
coverage for fixed assets of KWA were not complied with (Table 10). Other covenants were
generally complied with, although with considerable lapses. The covenanted Cost and Revenue Study
was delayed by about four and half years and the Training study was delayed three years and nine
months. Completion of entity audits did not occur on time due to the inadequate staffing for Finance
and Accounts Wings during the period of reorganization and chailge, although the delay was



-8-
considerably reduced as the Project progressed and as the Finance and Accounts Wings became better
organized and the catching-up operations were completed.
VII. Assessment of Outcome
32.   Because of the many problems and inadequacies of the Project the outcome is regarded as less
than satisfactory. However, the physical targets of the Project have been substantially achieved at
Credit closing (para 3). KWA has adopted tariff policies which is expected to lead to full financial
viability and may be regarded as a worthwhile achievement. Also a worthwhile improvement in
management capability was achieved in KWA in staff training and financial management and
accounting performance. The improvements made in KWA in these areas are sustainable and further
improvement is possible. KWA will become a more effective and autonomous agency if they and the
GOK continue with the 15 percent per annum tariff revisions as announced (para 4). The sense of
commercial operation and accountability imbibed through the Project is expected to improve
performance in water supply operations.
33.   The LCS component achieved a performance well below physical targets, although there were
some important improvements in planning and implementation procedures and financial record
keeping.
VIII. Future Operation
34.   GOK/KWA developed an Operational Plan and Performance Indicators (ref. Annex 4 of
Appendix A) for water supply and LCS components for period up to the year 2000-2001. Milestones
for future operations for each rural/urban water supply scheme and for the LCS units constructed
have been indicated in the Plan. The water supply schemes are proposed to cover 90% population in
the respective project area with continuous supply. Per capita net water supply for house service
connections is taken as 60 liters/capacity/day (lcd) with exception for GCDA and Quilon town where
a higher service level has been planned. The supply through the standposts is proposed to be made at
a net rate of 30 lcd.
35.    Financial projections suggest KWA viability by about 1998/99. A growth of service
connections (linked to the population growth and persons per household) for each water supply
scheme, an increase of tariff at the rate of 15 % per year, and a steady improvement of revenue
collection performance (to reach 100% in 2000-2001) are the basis of revenue projections. The O&M
expenditure for the water supply schemes included the costs of staff, chemicals, electricity and other
items. Debt servicing and depreciation reflect the assets acquired under the Project.
36.   However, the projected water supply connections for 1994/95 will be difficult to achieve.
The time likely to be available in five of the seven water supply schemes after commissioning (these
schemes were due to be commissioned in the later part of 1994), will not be adequate to install all the
projected connections. KWA will need to make up the shortfall of 1994-95 connections, as early as
possible in order to adhere to the operational plan and adherence to the performance targets. Water
meter repairing facilities are also inadequate and yet of paramount importance in order to raise the
bills on a volumetric consumption basis.



-9-
37.   The LCS works will be directly used and operated by the beneficiaries. There is some real
possibility of further enhancement of Project benefits, if the local bodies continue to provide advisory
assistance to the beneficiaries by way of oral and written guidelines, as may be undertaken by
periodic field monitoring. These aspects were considered by GOK while developing Project
Performance Indicators (Page 9 and 10 of Annex 4 of Appendix A). A sustained and aggressive
effort will be necessary on GOK's part to improve LCS loan recovery.
38.    An annual update by GOKIKWA of the Operational Plan and Performance Indicators together
with an analysis of the achievement and reasons for shortfall, if any, would be a desirable tool for the
GOK to monitor the Project benefits and decide on follow-up actions.
IX. Key Lessons Learned
Proiect Identification
39.    The urban and rural combined structure of the Project was too complex and geographically
spread for manageable project preparation and appropriate supervision. There would have been
managerial and implementation advantages in having a simpler and more focussed approach.
40.    The economic case for the Project rested largely on the provision of additional quantities of
water supply. However, a more thorough review and economic comparison of altematives, indicating
the rehabilitation and disinfection of previous dug well sources, may have resulted in a different
project proposal.
Prenaration
41.   Insufficient time and effort was given to the preparation stage of the Project cycle, and as a
result many aspects of the Project had not reached a satisfactory standard of preparation before
appraisal. Accordingly, lending was premature. Specifically:
(a)    Studies, surveys, investigations and engineering planning and design were inadequate.
(b)    There were no detailed procurement plans.
(c)    The implementation timetable was vague.
(d)    Proper enquiries were not made to ensure cost estimation was realistic.
(e)    The modernization of the financial management systems and changes to the basis of
accounting at KWA were without a detailed implementation plan nor adequate
assessment of the magnitude of the disruptive effects of the changes on the
organization.
(f)    Performance indicators were not worked out against a realistic timetable for Project
implementation.
(g)    Land had not been acquired by the time of appraisal leading to extensive delays
during implementation.



-10-
Appraisal
42.    A set of performance indicators for the KWA as an entity should have been identified rather
than being left to be worked out during implementation. There was no advantage in having financial
performance indicators for the individual sub-projects.
43.    The problems encountered with the loan arrangements for the LCS program were not
considered at appraisal. The scrutiny of the details of administration of the LCS program was
insufficiently searching and as a result many features of the program had to be changed. Audit
procedures for the LCS program were inadequate and were changed.
Implementation
44.    The resources devoted to supervision by the Bank in the formative early stages of
implementation were not sufficient and led to a stalling of the progress and deterioration in Project
management by the borrower. Additionally, the proportion of Bank supervision effort spent in the
field in these early stages was too low.
45.    There was failure by the borrower especially at field level to undertake proper management,
with attendant waste and adoption of poor practices of contract management, procurement etc.
46.    Policy regarding tariffs was not adhered to (until the closing stages) resulting in serious
deterioration of KWA financial performance.
47.    There was no recognition by the borrower that delays in implementation have an economic
cost.
48.    The Bank should have monitored closely the availability of counterpart funds and taken steps
to rectify the shortfalls as soon as they occurred.
49.    Staff continuity was a serious problem. Project conditionality might have included a
miinimum of three year posting for field officers.
50.    There was a need to identify a clear mechanism for prompt award of contracts. There is also
need of consolidation of the procurement into a very much smaller number of larger contacts,
including "supply and install" contracts.
Summinz Ur,
51.    Many of the problems of implementation which beset this Project (delays, poor practices,
wide-ranging failures to reach targets) could have been foreseen and arose from poor identification
and preparation. The single most important conclusion to emerge from the Project management
experience, therefore, is that greater effort both by Bank and borrower needs to go into these early
stages of the Project cycle. Appraisal should occur only when the Project is truly ready. A
subsidiary conclusion for similar projects in the future in India and elsewhere is that field level
supervision effort by the Bank needs to be substantial during the early stages of implementation to
ensure that the Project remains firmly on the rails.        '



11
a:ljcrltabe-O1 .wk1                                                                  Table 1
Page 1 of 1
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
-            Table 1 Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partal          Negligible       Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                   yyy
Sector policies                                                                  yyy
FinanciaJ objectives                            WYY
Institutional development                        Yy
Physical objectives                             WYy
Poverry reduction                                                                 YYY
Gender issues                                                                    yyy
Other social objectives                                                          yyy
Environmental objectives                                                          YYY
Public sector management                                                         yyy
Private sector development                                                       yyy
Other (specify)
S. Project sustainability           Ukely           Unlikely          Uncertain
YYY
Highly
C. Bank perfornance                 satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                                                    yyy
Preparation assistance                                            yyy
Appraisal                                                         yyy
Supervision                                     yyy
Highly
0. Borrowerperformance              satisfactory    Satsfactory       Oeficient
Preparation                                                       yWY
Implementation                                                    yyy
Covenenat compliance                                              yyy
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                          Highly
E. Assessment of outcome            sabisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    UnsatistactorY
yyY



a:\icrktable-02.wk1                                        12                                             Table 2
Page 1 of 2
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit title                    Purpose                                                 approval             Staus
Preceding operations
1. Uttar Pradesh Water Supply        To reorganize water supply and sanitation sector            1975             Complete
and Sewerage Project             in the state: to construct new piped water supply
(Cr. 585-IN)                     schemes for rural areas, and improve and augment
water supply and sewerage in five major cities: to
implement procedural reforms to achieve better
fiscal discipline: strengthen operation and
maintenance and develop skills in management and
finance.
2.  Secono Bombay Water Supply       To construct 450 mid filteration plant and other             1979            Comnplete
and Sewerage Project             allied works. construction of balancing reservoir
(Cr. 842-IN)                     and large diameter transmission pipelines:
improvement of distnbution system and renovation
of transmission mains, reservoirs, pumping
stations etc.: and improvement of sewage
collection and conveyance system in 5 zones:
renovation of sewage treatment plant.
3. Punjab Water Supply and           To improve water supply and sewerage in eight                1979            Complete
Sewerage Project                 towns: and train staff and supply of specialized
(Cr. 848-IN)                     equipment.
4.  Maharashtra Water Supply and     To construct 200 mid water treatment plant and               1979            Complete
Sewerage Project                 allied works. rehabilitate existing water
(Cr. 899-IN)                     treatment plant. construct reservoirs,
transmission mains and improve distribution system
in five towns and villages: expand sewage
treatment capacity and extend sewage collection
system.
5.
Rajasthan Water Supply and       To provide water supply to problem villages and              1980            Complete
Sewerage Project                 improve and extend water supply to four major
(Cr. 1046-IN)                    cities: to extend sewerage system in three major
cities: and strengthen operation and maintenance.
6.  Gujarat Water Supply and         To bring water to rural communities where water is           1983            Complete
Sanitation Project               scarce or unsafe for human consumption: to improve/
(Cr. 1280-IN)                    extend water supply and sewerage services in
selected urban centers: to extend and upgrade
sewage collection and disposal systems in densely
populated areas in major municipalities; to
provide low-cost sanitation in medium-size towns;
and to strengthen the institutional frame work of
the sector through improved financial management.
accounting, billing and collection practices, and
introduction of cost recovery targets and
establishment of training facilities.
Tamil Nadu Water Supply and      To improve water supply in larger urban areas and            1984            On-going
Sanitation Project               to provide water supply to certain smaller towns
(Cr. 1454-N & SF-12-IN)          and rural areas: to provide low-cost sanitation
to selected urban communities and to strengthen
institutional, managenal. and financial practices.



a:\icr\table-02.wkl                                      13                                             Table 2
Page 2 of 2
Year or
Loan/Credit title                   Purpose                                                approval            Status
Following operations
t. Third Bombay Water Supply and    To construct 455 mid water treatment plant and             1987            On-going
Sewerage Project                other allied works, construction of storage
(Cr. 1750-IN & Ln. 2769-IN)     reservoirs and large aiameter transmission
pipelines: pumping stations etc.: and to construct
sewers and enhance sewage pumping capacity and
provision of low-cost sanitation.
2. Madras Water Supply and          To augment water supply sources by 102 mid and             1987            On-going
Sanitation Project             improvement of water supply distribution system;
(Ln. 2848-IN)                   and to improve sewerage system and strengthen
institution.
3. Hyderabad Water Supply and       To provide additional 135 mid water to Hyderabad:          1990            On-going
Sanitation Project              and to rehabilitate and strengthen the existing
(Cr. 2115-IN)                   water system and sewerage system: and to provide
low-cost sanitation units to serve low-income
people; and to strengthen institution.
4. Maharashtra Rural Water          To raise the standard of living in rural areas              1991           On-going
Supply and Environmental        through improved health and productivity, by
Sanitabon Project               expanding access to potable water supply systems
(Cr. 2234-IN)                   and environmental sanitation facilities. To
develop replicable models for coordinating water.
environmental sanitabon and health communications
program and strengthen the insitutitonal capacity.
5. Kamataka Rural Water             To raise the standard of living in rural areas             1993            On-going
Supply and Environmental       through improved health and productivity, by
Sanitation Project              expanding access to potable water supply systems
(Cr. 2483-IN)                   and environmental sanitation facilities. To
develop repitcable models for coordinating water.
environmental sanitation and health communications
program and strengthen the local insitutitonal
capacity.
.5.



14
a:\icr\table-03.wk1                                                Table 3
Page 1 of 1
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual
Steps in project cycle                          Date planned    latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                      26-Nov-82
Preparation                                     May-83           30-Jul-83
Appraisal                                       Sep-83           28-May-84
Negotiations                                    Jan-84           25-Mar-85
Letter of development policy                    N.A.             N.A.
(if applicable)
Board presentation                              Mar-84           16-Jul-85
Signing                                              -           24-Sep-85
Effectiveness                                   Jun-84           09-Dec-85
First tranche release (if applicable)           N.A.             N.A.
Midterm review (if applicable)                  N.A.             N.A.
Second (and third) tranche release              N.A.             N.A.
(if applicable)
Project completion                              31-Mar-90        31-Oct-94
Credit closing                                  38-Mar-91        31-Mar-94
N.A. Not applicable



a:\icr\table-04.wk1                                                                                                     Table 4
Page 1 of 1
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (CR. 1622-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (USS thousand)
FY 1986   FY 1987   FY 1988   FY 1989   FY 1990   FY 1991   FY 1992   FY 1993   FY 1994   FY 1995
Appraisal estimate                2,600     10,700    22,100    32,900    39,200    40,900    41,000
Actual                                0      5,095     6,170     10,655     14,727     18,602    22,524    22,524      25,715    28,978
Actual as % of estimate               0       47 6       27.9       32 4      37 6       45 5       54 9       54 9       62 7       70 7
Date of final disbursement                                                                                                     17-Aug-94      @
_--- -   --   -    -   --   -   ---   --   -    - -   -- -   -- - - - -  -   -   -    -  -   -   -_         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    



16
a:\icr\table-05 .wp                                                                         Table S
Page 1 of 2
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Implementation Completion report
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1.     The following Project Monitoring Indicators (SAR: ANNEX 16) were proposed for discussions at
negotiations and were to be monitored on a quarterlv basis, during and after the execution of the Project. These
indicators were proposed to be applicable to each of the sub-project areas, where applicable, and to KWWA as a
whole.
Ehsical Cr a
2.     (a)     Water Production
(i)    average dailv production for each month of the quarter;
(b)    Water Connections and Metering
(ii)    number of new connections for the quarter (domestic, standpost, commercial,
industrial);
(iii)    number of net defective meters for quarter;
(iv)    number of meters repaired during quarter.
(i)    number of major leaks repaired during quarter and, cumulatively, to end of quarter
since beginning of repair program.
(d)     Low-Cost Sanitation
(i)    number of individual units installed for the quarter. and cumulative total;
(ii)    number of seats installed in communal facilities, for the quarter. and cumulative total.
Staffing
3.     The number of permanent employees engaged in sector activities at end of quarter detailed as follows:
(a)    headquarters (management, engineers. accountants and others);
(b)    regional offices (management, engineers, accountants, operation and maintenance staff, metering
and collections staff and others).
Project Expenditure
4.     (a)     monthly project expenditures by cost categories;
(b)    cumulative expenditures at end of quarter, indicating actual versus projected expenditures.
Financial Indicators
5.     (a)     Financial Ratio



17
a:\icr\table-05.wp                                                                                Table 5
Page 2 of 2
(i)     working ratio (ratio of all operating costs, excluding depreciation and interest expenses. to
revenues);
(ii)    debt service coverage (ratio of total internal cash generation to the debt service requirement);
(iii)    rate of return for developing rural and urban areas (ratio of operating income. including
depreciation but excluding interest expense, to net fixed assets in operation);
(iv)    ratio of accounts receivable to total billings.
(b)     BMing and Collection (monthly basis
(i)     average tariff for all meters sold:
(ii)    number of connections billed (domestic, commercial, industrial and government users);
(iii)    amount billed (shown separately for current demand arrears) for standposts. government,
domestic. commercial, and industrial usage;
(iv)    number of bills collected (domestic. commercial. industrial users);
(v)     amount collected (shown separately for current demand and arrears) from standposts.
government, domestic, commercial and industrial billings;
(vi)    percentage of unaccounted water (ratio of water billed to meters sold);
(vii) number of disconnections and reconnections during quarter;
Pnnulation Statintics
6.      'he following indicators relating to population and service level should be monitored on a yearly basis:
(a)     population in urban areas;
(b)     population in rural areas:
(c)     total population served by domestic water connections in both urban and rural areas;
(d)     total population served by standpipes in both urban and rural areas.
7.       The recorded minutes of negotiations however. does not indicate whether any discussions to this effect
(para 1) was held and therefore, it is not known whether, any indicators for project implementation were
proposed. However, the Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement provided an action plan, which was covenanted
under Clause 2.01(b) of Project Agreement. Compliance status is reported in Table 10 (Status of Legal
Covenants).
8.    - Para 6 of Table 9 shows the trends in operating income for the entity (operating revenues less operating
costs including depreciation), comparing projections at appraisal with actual performance during the project
implementation period, and para 7 of Table 9 provides a cornparison for the entity for four performance indicators
also for the project implementation period.
9.      The quarterly reports prepared by KWA following the indicators (paras 2-6) were not complete and were
not fuirnishing specific information on the progress of the Project. KWA thus revised in 1991 the quarterly
progress report format to a more comprehensive and effective presentation which reported on each project
component and provided detailed progress status on (a) procurement: (b) expenditure and disbursement; (c)
physical progress - contractwise; (d) physical progress -componentwise; (e) consulting services assignments; (f)
covenant compliance, etc. in annexures to the reports.



18
a:\icr\table-06. wp                                                              Table 6
Page I of 1
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Implementation Completion report
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1.    Key indicators for operation were not defined in the SAR. The minutes of negotiations also do
not provide any information whether indicators for project operation were discussed and defined. No
project operation indicators were defined during the project implementation.
2.    However, the Government of Kerala and the Kerala Water Authority have developed
operational and performance indicators for water supply and LCS components of the Project. for period
up to the year 2000-2001 (see attached Annex 5 of Appendix B of this Report). Section H (Future
operation) of the Project Implementation Assessment contains a brief report on the GOK-KWA
developed operational and performance indicators.



a:\cic\table-07 wkl                                                                                                                   Table 7
19
Page 1 of 3
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT(Cr 1622-[N)
Implementation Completion Report
Table 7 Studies Included in ProlecL
Purpose as defined
Study                               at appraisal/redefined                         Status      Impact of study
Indicated in SAR
Accrual Accounting System           Full implementation of AAS. Training           Complete   Accounts are well organized and records
(AAS) Implementation                of the financial staff. preparation ot                     are poduced in less time than it used
accounts and progress reports. valuation                  to take before. Future audit reports
of fixed assets lor water and sanitation                   are likely to be produced on time.
sector
Cost and Revenue Study              To provide factual basis for                   Completed  State-wide tanff with provision for
development of a structure for water          late         automatic annual increase established.
supply tariffs and charges throughout
the State
Training Needs Study                Assessment of training needs and               Completed  Training Center established and
identification io training courses            late        traIning courses are conducted
regtlariy. The personnel training
program launched is Sep-91 has brought
awareness among KWA staff of good
operation and maintenance and accounting
accounting practices.
Added during Implementation
Project Management and              To develop project management skills           Complete   Good reporting of prolect progress.
Reporting System                    and progress reporting.
Orpnization Review Study            To review the existing organization            On-going    Study was not completed at Credit
and its mandate and recommend the                          dosing, but draft final report was
changes necessarv for KWA to be more                       available.
effective
Audits of Consumer Ledger in        To prepare proper database for future          On-going
Trivandrum                          billing including the proposed
compterised billing
Updaaion ot fixed assets            To accurarelv present the value ot             On-going
registers                           fixed assets in the Balance Sheet and
appopriate recording ot depreciation
in the Income Statement.
Assssment of dues from              To determine the factual position of           On-going
Local Bodies                        Local body arrears to take decision on
the disposition of arrears
KUDP Preparation
Water Suppiy
Feasibiliry Studies of Water        To prepare technical proposals for a           Complete   The reports ted to detailed engineenng
Supply for Thiruvananthapuram.      future KUDP                                                phase of prolect preparation.
Kochi and Kozhikode
Water Resources Studies for         To determine the dependability of the          Complete   Water sources identified and the
Kochi and Kozhikode                 proposed water sources for water supply                    extarctable quantity determined.
to Kochi and Kozhikode.



a.\icr\table-07 wkl                                            20                                                                    Table 7
Page 2 of 3
Purpose as cetined
Studv                               at appraisaliredetined                        Status       Impact of study
Sewerage and Low-Cost Sanitation
Final Engineering desien and        Part of project preparation exercise          On-going
Environmental Assessment tor
Kochi and Kozhikode water
suppiy
Feasibilitv Studies of              To prepare technical proposals tor a          Complete   The reports led to detailed engineering
Sewerage and LCS for               future KUDP                                                 phase of protect preparation.
Thiruvananthapurarn
Final Engineering design and        Part ot nroiect preparation exercise.         On-going
Environmenmal Assessment tor
sewerage for
Thiruvananthapuram
Feasibilirv Studv and               To prepare technical proposals tor a          On-going
Environmental Assessment ot         luture KUDP
Kozhikode LCS
Environmental Assessment of         Part ot project preparation exercise.         On-going
Thinivananthapuram LCS
Roads
Feaibility Studies of Roads         To prepare technical proposals for a          Complete   The repons led to detailed engineenng
ror Thiruvananthapuram.             future KUDP                                           -   phase of project preparation.
Kochi and Kozhikode
Final Engineenring design and       Part of project preparation exercise.         On-going
Environmental Assessment for
Roads of Thiruvananthapuram.
Koc-hi and Kozhikode
Trafrtc Management
Traffic Management Studv ot-        Part ot project preparation exercise.         On-going
Roads for Thiruvananthapuram.
Kochi and Kozhikode
Storm Water Drainage
Identifiomion and Instituti-        To prepare technical proposals for a          Complete   The repons led to detailed engineering
onal Studies of Drainage for        future KUDP                                                phase of project preparation.
Thiruvananthapuram. Kochi and
Kozhikode
Final Engineering design and        Part ot project preparation exercise.         On-going
Environmental Assessment Ot
Drainage for Thiruvanan-
thapuram. Kochi and Kozhikode
Financial Management and Accounting
Financial Management and            To implement AAS in the Municipal             On-going
Introduction of Accrual             Corporations of Thiruvananthapuram.
Accounting System                   Kochi and Kozhikode.
Strategy Studv for                  To determine the strategy for                 On-going
Intrduction of                     introduction of computensed financiai
Computerised Financial              management svstem for
MaNgement System                    Thiruvananthapuram. Kochi and Kozhikode



a.kicrktable-07 wk l                                          21                                                                   Table 7
Page 3 of 3
Purpose as defined
Study                              at appraisal/redefined                       Status      Impact ot study
Preparation of Annual              To prepare outstandrinte accounts            Complete   Complete acconuts for 1985-88 available
Accounts for 1985-88 for
Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi
Preparation of Annual              To prepare outstanding accounts              Complete   Complete acconuts for 1985-88 available
Accounts tor 1985-88
for Kozhikode
Preparation of Annual              To update accounts                           On-going
Accounts for 1988-94 for
Thiruvananthapuramn
Preparation of Annual              To update accounts                           On-going
Accounts tor 1988-94 for Kochi
Preparation of Annual              To update accounts                           On-going
Accounts tor 1991-94
for Kozhikode
.is



22
a:\icrUtable-8a.wk1                                                  Table 8A
Page 1 of 1
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal est. (US$M)      ActuaUlatest est. (US$M)
Local   Foreign            Local   Foreign
Item                       costs   costs   Total      costs   costs   Total
Water Supply:
Rural Stable Areas          9.79    2.42    12.21      8.06    2.01    10.07
Rural Developing Areas     21.57    9.37    30.94     15.82-   6.78    22.60
Urban Area                  2.96    3.13     6.09      3.23    3.23     6.46
Low Cost sanitation:
Rural Areas                 3.04    0.19     3.23       1.49    0.09    1.58
Urban Areas                 2.67    0.16     2.83      1.33    0.08     1.41
SUB-TOTAL                   40.03   15.27    55.30     29.93   12.19    42.12
Central Services:
Meter Workshop              0.08    0.01     0.09      0.04    0.00     0.04
Meters                      0.00    1.49     1.49      0.00    0.54     0.54
Veh, Misc                   0.44    0.02     0.46      0.18    0.18     0.36
Total                       0.52    1.52     2.04      0.22    0.72     0.94
Others:
Revolving Fund              1.39    0.00     1.39      0.00    0.00     0.00
Land                        0.85    0.00     0.85      2.03    0.00     2.03
Training                    0.62    0.09     0.71      0.16    0.01     0.17
Consultancy                 0.14    0.00     0.14       1.22    0.50    1.72
Total                       3.00    0.09     3.09      3.41    0.51     3.92
SUB-TOTAL                   43.55   16.88    60.43     33.56   13.42    46.98
Engineering                  8.23    0.00     8.23      9.13    0.00     9.13
Physical Contingency         2.76    0.93     3.69       -       -       -
Price contingency            8.45    4.34    12.79       -       -       -
TOTAL                       62.99   22.15    85.14     -42.69   13.42    56.11
NOTE: Actual/latest estimate includes
Physical contingency and Price contingency



23
a:icr\table-8b.wkl                                                               Table 8B
Page 1 of 1
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Table 8B. Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local Foreign                   Local Foreign
Source                          costs costs      Total           costs costs      Total
IDA                             18.85    22.15     41.00        14.57     14.41     28.98
Cofinancing institutions        -         -         -           -          -        -
Other extemal sources           -         -         -            -         -         -
Domestic contnbution           44.14      0.00     44.14        27.13      0.00     27.13
TOTAL                          62.99      22.15     85.14       41.70     14.41     56.11
'..^



24
a:\icr\table-09.wp                                                                Table 9
Page I of 3
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Analysis
1. Economic rates of return (ERR) for the three sub-projects were estimated at Appraisal according
to a methodology set out in a Note to the Project File. The same methodology has been applied for the
ICR but with updated assumptions and data.
2. In brief, the methodology compared the prospective sub-project costs and benefits over time
against the costs of supplying water prior to implementation. Costs prior to imnplementation were time
costs for water collection from wells. Costs of the sub-projects were capital and on-going operations
and maintenance. The quantified benefits were two-fold: the cost savings for the same volume of water
consumed after the sub-project as before, and. the estimated willingness to pay by the beneficiaries for
the additional water consumed. A stream of net benefits was estimated from which ERRs were
derived. However, the analysis recognized that there may have been important additional
non-quantified benefits, particularly for health.
3.  One of the principal differences between the implementation of the Project and its Appraisal was
the delay in completion of the works, by up to four years depending on the sub-project. Delay in
completion caused the deferment of both costs and benefits, and reduced the Project's ERR due to the
extension of the construction period. The economic analysis was also performed on the assumption that
implementation was over four years as planned. The results of the original Appraisal and ICR
economic analyses were as follows:
EstimtedR    Quilon Municipality  Developing Rurai Stable Rural
At Appraisal        12.2%o               14.1%         7.1%
As inmiplemented     8.7%                11.6%         5.2%
If implemented      10.8%                13.6%         6.4%
in 4 years
4. The principal assumptions and data items which were used in the ICR economic analysis indicating
those which differed between the two analyses were as follows:
(1) An adjustment for price distortions using the Standard Conversion Factor applied to all costs, and
set equal to 0.9 (Memo from Director of 09-May-94). The Appraisal analysis used shadow exchange
rates.
(2) Actual capital costs and their timings (however, see also iterm (10) below). 0 & M costs were
revised estimates.



25
a:\icr\table-09.wp                                                                    Table 9
Page 2 of 3
(3) The GDP deflator up to 1992/93 was used to obtain constant prices. Thereafter the Indian
inflation rate assumptions were used (Memo from Director of 09-Mav-94). The Appraisal analysis
used inflation assumptions available at that time. 1990 was used as the year for constant prices in both
analyses.
(4) The wastage rate (difference between production and consumption quantities) was assurned to be
25 % for Quilon and 15% for the two rural sub-projects. Appraisal assumptions were not known.
(5) Opportunity cost of capital was 12% (Memo from Director of 09-May-94) for the ICR. and 9% at
Appraisal.
(6) Renewal of the capital items of machinery and equipment was included in years 10 and 20 from
commissioning, and assumed to be 13% of capital costs. Appraisal assumptions are not known.
(7) The cost of water prior to the schemes was Rs 3.92/m3 at Appraisal and increased to Rs 8.01m3
for the schemes as implemented. This equals two hours of unskilled labor wages and the increase
reflects the significant change in real wages in Kerala in recent years.
(8) The price elasticity of demand used to calculate the benefits of additional supply was -0.5, the
same as Appraisal.
Other assumptions which were used in the ICR analysis which may be significant were:
(9) All schemes were assumed to be commissioned by 1994/95 (although at Credit closing several
were not completed although expected to be so within the time frame).
(10) No allowance was made for the time costs to households for the collection of water from
standposts.
Financial Analysis
5.  Financial projections were made at Appraisal on the individual sub-projects and for the water
entity as a whole and are included in the SAR (Annex 19). Four principal financial ratios covering
different aspects of cost recovery were used: working ratio (WR); operating ratio (OR); debt-service
coverage (DSC), and rate of return on net fixed assets (ROR) 1/. Financial results for the entity have
been prepared using actual out-turn data but separate analyses of the results for the sub-projects have
not been undertaken.
6.  The trends in operating income for the entity (operating revenues less operating costs incl.
depreciation), comparing projections at Appraisal with actual performrance, were as follows:



20
a:\icr\table-09.wp                                                                 ITabhle
Page 3 of 3
Operating Income iLoss,. Rs million
Appraisal      Actual
1985/86           (32.4)        (16.3)
1986/87           (41.2)       (174.0)
1987/88           (59.0)       (169.8)
1988/89           (80.0)       (237.5)
1989/90            95.6        (216.4)
1990/91            70.6        (224.6)
1991/92            68.4        (311.3)
1992193            66.6        (250.0)
1993/94           162.4        (302.8)
7.  Comparisons for the entity for the four performance indicators were as follows:
WDR                  OR                 DSC                   ROR
Appri    Actual     Apprl    Actual     Appri    Actual      Apprl    Actual
1985/86        0.81      0.35      1.34      1.11       0.5       9.64         0     -0.3%
1986/87        0.86      1.35      1.36      2.22      0.32    -1.00%          0     -3.5%
1987/88        0.91      1.28      1.44      2.00      0.20    -0.82%          0     -3.1%
1988/89        1.02      1.67      1.53      2.38         0    -1.47%          0     -4.2%
1989190        0.53      1.45      0.75      2.00      1.85    -1.31%      2.7%      -3.6%
1990/91        0.55      1.47      0.83      2.00      1.39    -0.43%      1.2%      -3.4%
1991/92        0.57      1.85      0.86      2.38       1.3   -0.70%        1.6%     -4.3%
1992193        0.61      1.41      0.87      1.75.     1.21    -0.28%       1.5%     -3.2%
1993/94        0.48      1.49      0.76      1.79      1.72    -0.35%       3.4%     -3.6%
J1/ WR is the ratio of total operating costs excl. depreciation to gross operating revenues. OR is the
ratio of operating costs incl. depreciation to gross operating revenues. DSC is the ratio of income
before depreciation and interest to debt service charges. ROR is the ratio of income before interest to
net fixed assets.



27
aAicr\table-10.wp                                                                                                       Table 10
Page I of 4
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Impiementauon Completion Report
Table 10 Status or Legal Covenants
Agree-  Section Covena- Present  Original   Revised   Descnpnon of covenant                       Comments
ment            nt type  scams    fulfillmenc rulfillment
date      date
KER    2.01 (a) 5       CP                            GOK declares comrrutment to objectives and  Funds constramrEs and weak
shall carrv out Parts C and D of the Project wich organzauon and management were
due diligence and efficiency and shall provide   responsible for lower achievement.
funds, facilities services and other resources.    Only 44% of the target was
achieved.
KER    2.01(b) 4        C                             GOK to provide KWA. Quilon and local bodies
project tunds equivalent to USS19 million to be
onlent at not less than 8.75 % repayable over 25
years with 5-year grace period.
KER    2.05    5        CD        10/15/85  04/01/86  GOK to ensure KWA fully staffed and all senuor
post sancooned and filled
KER    2.06    5        C         12J31/85            GOK to cause all local bodies partcipating in
low-cost saruitaon (LCS) component to pass by-
laws saisfactory to IDA to regulate construction
of LCS unuts
KER    2.07    5        CP                            GOK to provide the necessary legal cover to    The KWA Act became affective
maintain KWA's legal status. power and     frmm 04-Aug-86, and repaced the
funerons as vested in it by the Ordinance  cottinuing Ordinance. However,
KWA's powers re personnel
appointments have since been
curtiled by GOK Order. The
KWA Act, per the Cost & Revenue
Study, gives KWA full authority
over tariffs. However. in practice.
GOK approvals have been sought on
tariff revisions. A revision to the
Act(Dated 02-Mar-93 but effective
31-Dec-92): (i) authorizes a
Fjnancial Member" on KWA's
Board, and (ii) permts. on a
resticted basis. a murucipality to
opt out" of KWA's management of
its water supply.
KER    3.01 (a) 9       C         10/05/85            GOK to cause Quilon to: (a) set up a separame    Quilon Munucipaliry set up a
and (b)                                       cell for moniuonng and reporting its water supply separate accounting cell to report its
accounts, and (b) mauntain records and accounts water sector funances in Jul-85.
adequate to reflect in accordance with accrual   However, effective 01-Apr-90,
accounang practices its operation and financial  KWA assumed the responsibility for
condition pertaming to its water supply sector.   Quilon's water supply.



28
a:\icr\table-1O.wp                                                                                                       Table 10
Page 2 of 4
Agree-  Section Covena- Presenm   Original  Revised   Descnption ot covenant                       Comments
ment            nt type  stamzs    fulfillment tulfillment
date      date
KER    3.01(c)  I        C        12131187  12/31/88  GOK to cause Quilon to mainmain its financial   Effective 01-Apr-90 Quilon water
accounts tor water suppty on accrual accounring supply system became the
basis and to have its accounts/financial    responsibility of KWA.
staements audited for each financial year by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and to
provide IDA. no later than 9 months after end of
fiscal year. certfied copies of financial
stamments and audit reports.
ICER    3.02(a)  1       CD       12/31/87  03/15/18  GOK to cause KWA and local bodies to mamiin Separate accounts are mamitaned for
(b) A (c)                                      for the low-cost-sanitation components separate  low-cost sanutation components.
accounts to have the said accounts aujt:    Audiu from the Examiner of Locai
annually by independent auditors and to provide Funds Accounts were not
financial statements/audit reports to IDA within 9 satisfactory: audits by pnvate
months of end of each fiscal year.          auditor.
KER    3.03    2         C                             GOK to cause the Local Bodies to take
responsibility for the cost recovery from the
household beneficiaries under Parts C and D of
the Project.
KER    3.04(a) 2         C        12/31/87             GOK to cause Quilon to implement interim tariff Effective 01-Apr-90 Quilon water
inerfese                                   supply system became the
responsibility of KWA.
KER    3.04(b) 2         C        12/31/87             GOK to implement interim tariff increase in  Efrective 01-Apr-90 Cochin water
KWA service area and in respect of bulk rate to supply system became the
Cochin                                     responsibility of KWA.
KER    3.05(a) 2         CD       12/31/87  04/01/88  GOK to iniuate cost and revenue study in KWA'sThe srudv initiated only on 05-Apr-
service area and Quilon                     91. Final report was available in
Jul-92.
KER    3.05(b) 2         CD       0NM01/90             GOK to cause and enable KWA to adopt        Substanual tariff increase became
appropriate new tariffs. considering findings of  effective 01-Oct-91. A further
study in 3.05(a).                          revision with 15% automaEic anmual
increase effective from 01-Jun-93.
KER    3.06(a) 2         C        04/01/91             GOK to cause and enable Quilon to make      Effective 01-Apr-90. Quilon water
(i)                                            suitable adjustmenes to water tariffs to produce. supply system is the responsibility of
beginning FY91 to produce revenues sufficient to KWA.
cover all O&M costs and debt service
requirements related to water supply.
KER    3.06(a) 2         CD       04/01/91             GOK to cause and enable Quilon Panchayats.   Schemes not completed at Credit
(ii)                                           Komtyam Panchayats and Greater Cochin       closing, but new State-wide tariff
development Area to make suitable adjusrments  adopted effective 01-Oct-91 and
to water tariffs. beginning FY91 to produce  revised with effect from 01-Jun-93.
revenue sufficient to cover all O&M costs and   KWA is responsible for water
debt service requirements related to water  supply operations.
supply.



29
a:\icr\table-10.wp                                                                                                      Tabil 10
Page 3 of 4
Agree-  Sccrion Covena- Present  Original  Revised   Descripnon of covenant                       ConmmenLs
mert            nt ype  siatu    rulfdilment tulfillment
date      date
KER    3 06(a) 2        CD       04U01/90             GOK to cause and enable rural areas or      Only PuEhencruz and Vilappil
(iii)                                         Putbencruz. Adoor. Chithara and Vilappil to    schemes completed and
make suitable adjustments to water tanffs.  commissioned. Adoor and Chidiara
beiantrug FY90 to produce revenues sufficient to schemes not completed at Credit
cover all O&M costs related to water supply.    zlosing. State-wide tanff adopted
effective 01-Oct-91 and revised with
effect from 01-Jun-93 is applicable.
KER    3.06(b) 2        CP                            GOK to compensate KWA for any shortfall in   GOK funds intended for investment
revenues account of its O&M/debt service   were diverted by KWA for
requirements for financial years 1986 to 1989.  opention and maitenance purposes
in some years.
KWA    2.01(a) 5        CP       03/31/90             KWA to carrv out Parts A. B. E and F of the    Part F. revolving fund for
project as described in Schedule 2 of the DCA.  connections did not receive
corsimers response despite upward
revisions to eligibility criterta.
KWA   2.01(b)                                         KWA to carry out its pan of the project per
imnIemenration procedures in Schedule 2 to Lhe
Project Agreement - interalia:
10      C                             1. KWA Leak Detecton Program by 31-Dec-85.
3       CP                            2. KWA Leak Detecuon Unit established by 01- Leak Detection Unit no longer
Apr-86.                                    operatonal.
5       C                             3. KWA LCS Cell by 15-Oct-85
KWA Rural LCS Feasibiliry Study by 0 1-Oct-
35.
5       CD                            4. KWA commence design or Training by 01-   Study commenced in Sep-89 and
Jan-86.                                     Final report was available in Jun-92.
2       NC                            5. Meet agreed billing and collecuon targets per Records do not permit definitive
Apr-85 Agreed Minutes para 22:              assessment but not in compliance.
'4                                         DATE        BILLINGS        COLLECTIONS
By 31-Mar-87  80 % Accounts   80% Billings
By 31-Mar-88  95% Accounts   90% Billings
9       C        10/15185             6. Establish Project Management Unit (PMU)
widt powers, functions. financial and
administrauve policies as agreed with IDA and
maaged by a Deputy Chief Engineer



30
a:\icr\table-lO.wp                                                                                                       Table to
Page 4 of 4
Agree-  S-cuon Covena- Presenc  Original   Rcvised   Descnpoon ot covenant                         Commenus
mete            nt type  stanus    fulfillment ruifillment
date      date
KWA   3.01    j         C                             KWA shali carry on its opertions and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound
administrauve, financial ard public utility
pacuces under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
KWA   3.03       0 O     iC                           KWA to carry insumance coverage suiable to    Not done. Audim of fixed asets in
IDA.                                        progress.
KWA   4 01(a)  L        C                             KWA to maiman its records and accounts on an
accrual accounung basis adequate to retlect its
operanons and financial conditions.
KWA   4 01(b) I         CD        12131187 & 12I31/88  KWA to have its annual accounts and financial  The delays in submission of audit
(i)&Gii)                 then                 semmnenu audited by independent auditors     report are Lrraduallv being reduced.
arnUai-ly           accepable to IDA and to provide IDA. no later  The delay is iiniked to iadequate
by 31-Dec           thun 9 months after and of fiscal year. certfied  statfing of KWA's Finance and
copies of financial statements and audit reports. Accounts Department.
KER - Kerala Agreement with State of Kerala
KWA - Project Agreement wich Kerla Water Authority
Covenam types:                                                                          Prsent sttus:
I- Accounussaudits                               8 - Indigenous people                 C  -covenam complied with
2= Financal performnaa revenue                    9 - Monitrng, review, and reporurng   CD -comptied with after delay
generanon from beneficiaries                 10 - Project implementauon not covered  CP- complied with pamaliv
3 - Flow anc uulizauon of project funds              by categones 1-9                   NC - not complied witn
4 * Counterpart funrding                         I -Secroral or cross-secwral budgeurv
5- Management aspects of the project                 or other resource allocation
or executing agency                          12 - Sectol or cross-sectoral policv/
6 - Environmental covenants                          regulawrvrinsttutonal action
7   Involuntarv resettlement



31
a:\icr\table-11.wkl                                                                TabLe 11
Page 1 of 1
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
TabLe 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OD 13.10: Borrower Compliance with            There has been considerble delays in
Audit Covenants                               submission of audit reports.  However,
over the project implementation period,
the deLays are graduaLly reduced. The
delay is Linked to inadequate staffing of
KWA's Finance and Accounts Department.
However, the 1992-93 accounts and audit
reports, due December 31, 1993, were not
received until February, 1995 and the
1993-94 accounts and audit reports, due
December 31, 1995 were not received by
June 30, 1995.



32
a:\icrtable-12.wkl                                                       Table 12
Page 1 of 1
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(USS thousand)
Planned             Revised             Actual
Stage of
project cycle          Weeks    USS        Weeks    US$        Weeks    USS
Through appraisal         -         -         -         -          37.4      -
Appraisal-Board           -         -         -         -           6.8      -
Board-Effectiveness       -         -         -         -           1.2      -
Supervision               -         -         -         -         129.7      -
Completion                -         -        8.2       8.9          6.0
TOTAL                     -         -         -         -         181.1
.1*



Iable 13
Page I o 2
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr 1622-IN)
Implementation Cormpleion Reo
Table 13 Bank Resources Missions
-   -   -- - -- -   -   ---                           ..    __..... _. _......_...___._ .........._..__.. __-
PerlorMan rFiag
Number   Days   Speaalizsd    Implemen-  Deveop-
Siag of projed     MontW      of        in      staff skdUs   llaon      ment
cyqd               yew        persons  field   represented    status      rnpacl                   Types of problems
Through aWpr       Nov-DecM2      2        12   SE. FA             -          -
Oct-83         3       10   SE, FA. EC         -          -
Apral               May-JunI84     6       20   SE. FA. TR,
OR, LE
Appraisal through        -         -    Nil            -            -         -
Daod approval
Board approval     Aug-85          1        2   FA
uvough
effecteness
Supervision        Feb-86          2       10   FA. SE             1          1    Sme and acquston fell behind Four
montits delay in appoiing finanialw
consultanis and consequenl delay in lull
implementation ot the new accounting and
financial system anticipated
Aug-86         1        8   FA                  1         1    Prolect implementation is delayed by ive
mont  due to Idt siwnng d pojed ad
KWNA adjustment lo IDA procuremenl and
reporing procedure.
Mr-87          3        8   FA. SE             1          1    Waler supply construclion delayed by six
monts due to KWAs adustmaui to IDA
procutreent and reporling procedures
Nov-87         1        4   SE                 1          1    * (see note below)
Feb-88         2        8   FA. SE              1         1    Implementation of new financial systems and
dvil wol  are tang behind.
MY-89          2        3   SE, FA             2          2    Covenants relating to cointerpart lunding
and GOICs interm fundig of KWAa operatiNg
delcit are not in compliance Audit
reports are overdue. Accounting reforms are
btang longer lo inplment Commenem    ol
covenanted Cost and Revenue stdy nd
Trang tudy are overdue
Apr-90         3       13   SE. FA. EC         3          2    Slower implementation pace, counterpart
hning conarnsm; ousltading critical
land acquisition m three of the seven water
supply schemes, outstandinq rnal design and



ail:Wxable-13 wkl                                                                                                                    Table 13
Page 2 of 2
Performance rating
Number   Days    Specialized    Implemen-  Develop-
Slage of project     Month/      of         In       stafl fskills  tation       ment
cycle                 year       persons   rield    represented    stalus        impact                      Types ol problems
.~~~~~~~~- - -           -- - -- -       -- - _      --- - -    ........___. . ... ..  _..,,,... .  ,         .  ,,...., .   ..    . .. ... .. .. .. . .. .. . . . .. .
Nov/Dec-90      3        17   SE. FA. EC            3          2      Slow progress, non-compliance of covenanis
including audil covenants, counlerpari
funding constraints
Mar-91          3         15   SE. EC, FA           3          2      Slow piogress in implelrient.iltiro and studies
initialed under the Technical Assistance
have been substatilially delayed
Sep-91          3         14   SE. FA, LO           3          2      Delays in complelioln ol accoUnts antd audits.
weak financial management. weak project
management: and delays in appointment of
stall for revenue billing and collection
MaylJun-92      3         14   SE. FA               3          2      Slow progress and Weak Inancial performance
Sep/Oct-92      2         14   SE, FA               3          2      Counterparl funding constraints, need for a
further larill revision, need for additional
permanent qualified staff 1i) the Finance and
Accounis Departmenl ol KWA, weak
organization for and nar,agemenl of Ihe
low-cost sanitation program, and poor
procedtries for the related niallers of cost
estimation and contract avwaids
Feb-93          4         12   SE. SA, EC           2           2     Slow progress
Nov-93          4         14   SE, SA. FA           2           2     Slow progress in water supply works and LCS
implementation.
November 1987 Supervision mission dealt with procurement matters only. No report is available
Key to specialized staff skills
FA Finacial Analyst; SE Sanitary Engineer. EC Econornist, TR Training. LO Disbursement
OR Organization and Management, LE Legal; SA Low Cost Sanitation Specialist



APPENDIX A
.4.



35
a:\am\keo794am.icr
INDIA: KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT 'Cr. :622-IN)
Implemenacticn Completion Reporting Mission 04-16 Jul-94
AIDE-MEMOIRE
PaQe
I.   BACKGROUND AND INJTRODUCTION                                         2
The Mission                                                          2
The ICR Process                                                      2
The Project                                                          3
- Agreed Objectives                                                  3
- Project Description                                                3
- Project Completion Schedule                                        4
- Overview of Project Completion Status                              4
- SAR Cost Estimates, Revisions and Expenditures                     7
The Credit                                                           7
II.  VIEWS ON PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                      8
Bank view on Project implementation                                  8
GOK-KWA View on Pro]ect implementation                              11
III. 'MPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTING - GOK-KWA CONTRIBUTTION         12
IV.  PROJECT'S OPERATION AND SUSTAINABILITY                              12
The Water Supply Components                                         12
The Low-Cost Sanitation Components                                  13
V.   OPERATIONAL ACTION PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                  14
Annex 1: Water Supply Component: Description of Works Implemented        10 pages
Annex 2: Low-Cost Sanitation: Latrines Constructed: Urban                 1 page
A=gx 3: Low-Cost Sanitation: Latrines Constructed: Rural                  1 page
Annex 4: Project Cost Estimates and Expenditure                           I page
Annex 5: Operational Action Plan and Performance Indicators              10 pages
Annex 6: List of Key Persons met                                          1 page



36
INDIA: KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATICN PROJECT 'Cr. 1622-IN)
Impiementaticn Compietion Reporting Mission 04-16 Jul-94
DRAFT AIDE-MEMOIRE
I.  SACKGROUND AND INTRODUCTION
The Mission
1.01 A mission of Mr. ShyamaI Sarkar, Sanitary Engineer, New Delhi Office of
the World Bank and Mission Leader and Mr. V.R. Iyer of the UNDP/World Bank
Regional Water Supply and Sanitation Group (New Delhi RWSG-SA) visited Kerala
from 04-16 Jul-94 to discuss with the Government of Kerala (GOK) and Kerala
Water Authority (KWA) the Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation Project, the
Credit of which closed on 31-Mar-94.
1.02 The mission's main objectives were: (a) to review the Kerala Water
Supply and Sanitation Project and record views of the Bank, KWA-GOK on the
project implementation and operational plan; and (b) to advise and provide
support to GOK-KWA for preparing its own contribution to the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR).
1.03  The mission's program has included:
(a) field visits to all the seven water supply schemes taken up under this
Credit, and visits to four Municipalities (Punalur, Adoor, Mavelikara
and Attingal) and four Panchayacs (Vilavoorkal, Vadakkevila, Eravipuram,
and Sakthikulangara) where low cost sanitation units were implemented
under this Credit, with a view to: (i) examine the degree of achievement
of project activities and GOK-KWA performance; and (ii) ascertain the
prospects for the sustainability of the schemes implemented, including
the plan of their future operations;
(b) discussions with officers of the GOK (Secretaries to the State
Government, Director of Panchayats, Director of Municipalities, several
Panchayat Executive Officers and Municipal Commissioners) and the senior
management staff of the KWA to review the Project with regard to the
agreed project activities in its physical, institutional and financial
aspects, and the problems faced and lessons to be learned from this
operation; and
(c) review the data collected and needed for Statistical Annexes of the ICR,
and any other additional data required for the ICR.
1.04  A State-level wrap-up meeting was held on 16-Jul-94, chaired by the
Additional Secretary, Local Administration Department and attended by GOK and
KWA officials. A list of the key officials met by the mission is in Annex 6.
'..
1.05 The mission wishes to acknowledge with thanks the courtesy and
cooperation which it has received from the GOK-KWA staff in the conduct of its
work and the project data provided to the mission.
1.06 A previous mission visited Kerala in May-94 when a GOI-GOK-KWA request
for Credit extension to 30-Sep-94 was under the Bank consideration, and
discussed generally the completion reporting steps and ICR data requirements.
That mission informed GOK-KWA that as no communication regarding the Credit
closing date extension was received by them, they should assume that the
Credit closing date will not be extended, given that extensions accumulating
to more than three years are granted only in the most exceptional
circumstances.
The ICR Process
1.07 The Bank's letter of 20-Jun-94 to GOK copied to GOI, indicated the
purpose of the ICR, the process involved in its production, the borrower
contribution and the borrower responsibilities. The ICR aims at improving the



37
I effectiveness of Bank loans and heightens che Borrowers' ability
implement, and operate projects. The ICR system is designed to:
de feedback from impiementation experience to imporove ccuntry
ng strategies and the design of future operations;
ensure greater development impact and sustainability of projects
.g the operaticnal phase;
force self-evaluation, including development -rmpact assessment, by
3ank and Borrowers;
requirements for accountability and transparency in Bank
.ities; and
:ain a record of the implementation experience of Bank-financed
itions to facilitate assessment of development impact.
2ctives
)roject was formulated with the broad aim of improving
ial, operational and financial performance throughout the water
sanitation sector in Kerala, while also tackling specific physical
X were identified. The objectives of the Project were to:
strengthen sector-wide management in the newly created Kerala Water
qastewater Authority (KWWA), and municipalities which operate their
iistribution systems by promoting manpower training, operational
:iency (through the reduction of water wastage and improved central
Lces), sound accounting systems and development of cost recovery
-ts;
ide piped water supplies to about one million people residing in six
L areas, most of whom have no safe supply;
ease the supply of water and to extend the distribution facilities
ae urban area so as to provide reasonable access to about 150,000
cly low income) people; and
oduce low-cost on-site sanitation facilities and to finance their
truction so as to benefit about 200,000 people residing in ten urban
s and to undertake a similar pilot program for low-cost sanitation
ural areas.
scription
Project components were ("Part" refers to the Project Description -
of the Develcpment Credit Agreement):
l Stable Areas - Design and construction of four new schemes to
ide a design total supply of 32 mld to four rural'stable' areas:
encruz, Adoor, Chithara and Vilappil. Each scheme was based on a
le source and included an intake, treatment plant, transmission,
ribution works and meters (Part A).
1 Developinc Areas - Design and construction of schemes to supply
e rural 'developing' areas: Quilon panchayats, Kottayam panchayats
the Greater Cochin Development Area (GCDA). The design supplies for
e schemes totalled 147 mld; Quilon panchayats was to share the
uction facilities of the Quilcn Municipality. Each scheme was based
single source and included treatment plant, transmission,
ribution works and meters (Part A).
.n Area - Design and construction of a scheme to augment the supplies
he Quilon Municipality. The design supply of the scheme was to be
ild. The scheme included intake, treatment plant, transmission,
ribution works and meters. Replacement of a deteriorated trans-
;ion pipeline to reduce water wastage was also included (Part B).



38
Urban Low Cost Sanitation - A prototype sub-project to provide low-cost
sanitation to 10 towns which have been selected under the UNDP India
Low-Cost Sanication Project (Part C).
Rural Low Cost Sanitation - A similar prototype sub-project to provide
low-cost sanitation facilities to rural areas in the State (Part D).
Technical Assistance - Assistance tO KWWA and to the Municipalities
(which operated their own distribution systems) in developing sector-
wide training services and providing centralized services which included
leak detection units, meter repair facilities, workshops, laboratories
and stores. In additicn, consulting services were included for
implementation of comprehensive financial systems, training in these
systems, a valuation of KWWA's assets and a state-wide water tariff
study (see para 1.18 for consulting services for possible future KUDP)
(Part E).
Revolving Fund for Connection - A revolving fund for the provision of
loans to assist low-income households to meet their costs for completion
of house-connections (Part F).
Proiect Completion Schedule
1.10 The Credit Agreement was signed on 24-Sep-85 and the Credit was
effective from 09-Dec-85. The Project was scheduled for physical completion
by 31-Mar-90 which is an elapsed time of 4.3 years from the date of Credit
effectiveness. The Credit closing date was originally fixed for 31-Mar-91 and
subsequently, was extended four times to an aggregate period of 3 years with
the final Credit closing date being 31-Mar-94 (para 1.27).
Overview of Pro-ect Completion Status at Credit closinq
The Water Supplv Components
1.11 The water supply components envisaged seven schemes to benefit 36
panchayats and one municipality, and accounted for about 61% of the total
project costs.  The table below indicates the number of panchayats, population
coverage and number of service connections estimated for each of the schemes.
Panch-  Munici-  Project              Popula-  New conns. bv Mar-95
yats    pality   Area   Population  i:ion to       House    Stand-
SCHEME      Nos      Nos       sqm    Year 1990   benefit       conns.   posts
Puthencruz   4                 95.5    85,890          80%      4,638       374
GCDA         12               243.8   382,060          90%     18,709    1,400
Kottayam      4                99.0   162,100          90%      7,960    1,252
Adoor         5               160.0   157,000          70%       8,478      696
QuilQ;1       6      1         65.2   187,300 (Panch)70%       20,992    1,183
161,620 (Muni)
Chithara      4               111.3   124,000          90%      6,696       384
Vilappil      1                19.2    26,820          76%       1,448      115
36      1        794.0 1,286,690                  68,921    5,404
1.12  These schemes were based on sufficiently reliable surface water sources -
five of them would draw water from other major impounding projects and the
two remaining schemes (Adoor and Chithara) would rely on unregulated run-of-
river flows. A weir is under construction (incomplete at Credit closing, due
for completion by Mar-95) on Achencoil River downstream of intake well to
improve the dependability of water source for Adoor scheme (Annex 1, para 10).
1.13 Implementation of the above water supply schemes was taken up in mid
1986, except Kottayam where the implementation was taken up in Jun-87. KWA
forecast of completion of commissioning of these water supply schemes was
revised many times. After a long delay, only two (Puthencruz and Vilappil)
schemes were completed and fully commissioned, and another one, the GCDA



39
scheme, was partly ccmmissioned benef:ting or.iv 5 of 12 panchavats at the time
of Credit closing  'l-Mar-94).  Other schemes were at substantial completion
level and were expected zo be fully commissioned by end of Sep/Oct-94.  The
status (as of 30-Jun-94) of all seven water supply schemes as reported to the
mission by KWA was as follows:
Actuali/
Expended    Percent                         Estimated
SCHEME        Rs million  Compieticn  Remarks              Compign Date
Puthencruz      45.4           1009      Commissioned       31-Mar-93
GCDA           244.5            98%      Partly Commiss'd  30-Sep-94
Kottayam       117.3            98%      Not Commissioned  31-Aug-94
Adoor           72.0            96%      Not Commissioned  31-Aug-94
Quilon         228.0            95%      Not Commissioned  31-Oct-94
Chithara        69.5            95%      Not Commissioned  30-Sep-94
Vilappil        17.4           100%      Commissioned       31-May-91
1.14 Annex 1 contains mission's observations on each of the seven water
supply schemes and a tabular presentation of physical descriptions of works
implemented. All works, except treatment plants for the GCDA and Vilappil
schemes, were designed and constructed to meet the prospective demand of year -
2011.  The water treatment piants for GCDA and Vilappil schemes were installed
to meet the demand of year 2C01 only.
The Low Cost Sanitation (LCS) Components
1.15 Overall achievement of 44% of 55,631 (SAR target) in respect of
construction of low cost sanitation facilities is disappointing. Only 46% of
the latrines planned (SAR target) in the urban areas were constructed, though
the program was extended to cover 5 more municipalities than initially
planned. In the rural areas, only 42% of the planned (SAR target) latrines
were constructed in 32 panchayats.  The implementation status is summarized
below. Annex 2 & 3 of this aide memoire show the achievements in urban and
rural areas respectively.
Urban: Municipalities       Rural: Panchayats
Number of   Number of        Number of   Number of
Municina-   sanitation       Panchayats  sanitation
lities         units         units
SAR target             10        25,631          32          30,000
Rev. target !May-92)  15         13,941          32 1/       16,000
Actual achievement    15         11,730          32          12,740
Achiev/SAR Target    150%             46%       100%             42%
* Achiev/Rev Target    100%             84%       100%            80%
1/ Revised to 60 in 1988 from initial 32, but scaled back in May-92
The Technical Assistance Comnonent
1.16  The planned TA included various consultant studies [(i) assessment of
training needs; (ii) cost and revenue; (iii) valuation of assets; and (iv)
implementation of a comprehensive financial and accounting system] and
training implementation, and strengthening of centralized services. All these
activity commenced some considerable time after Project inception.  The
financial and accounting study was delayed by more than one year, the training
study was delayed by four years, and the cost and revenue study was delayed by
over four years.
1.17 During the course of Project implementation additional studies and
additional items for the centralized services were included aiming at
strengthening KWA's organization and management capability. Technical
assistance from consultants was expanded and it covered financial management



40
and accounting, the cost and revenue study, the training study, design and
introduction of pro)ect monitoring system, KWA organization review study,
audits of KWA's consumer ledgers and assessment of KWA's dues from local
bodies. Bulk meters, domestic water meters, computers and vehicles were
additional items procured.  KWA's Organization study was not compiete at the
Credit closing, but a draft final report was available.
1.18 Several consuiting service assignments for the possible future Kerala
Urban Development Project ;KUDP - para 1.19) were also financed. The KUDP
preparation studies reiated to the feasibility study, environmental assessment
and final detailed engineering of water supply, sewerage & sanitation, roads
and traffic management, surface water drainage and solid wastes management as
well as studies on municipal finance and accounting systems.
1.19 To accommodate financing the costs of consulting services to help
prepare a possible future KUDP, an amendment to the Project description in the
Schedule to the Deveiopment Credit Agreement iDCA) was agreed between the Bank
and the GOI.  However, _n a letter of 25-Mar-94 to GOK, the Bank had advised
that this possible KUDP had been deleted from the Bank's lending program due
to slow government decision making on actions agreed with KUDP preparation
mission. However, the Bank letter did indicate that there may be some
possibility that the water supply and sanitation investments planned in the
proposed KUDP could be financed under some future Bank lending operation but
that this possibility was yet to be assessed in detail.
1.20  Almost all the KUDP studies (para 1.18) were in advanced stages of
completion at the time of mission's visit, and these studies were scheduled to
be fully completed at various dates before 30-Sep-94. The mission was
informed that even though the Bank's decision to delete the proposed future
urban development project from the lending program might affect further
progress of the consulting studies, GOK remains committed to complete all the
studies taken in hand and will strive to complete them at the earliest.
1.21 Bulk meters and domestic water meters. All the bulk meters (153 nos.)
procured to facilitate proper performance monitoring and operational
management of the seven water supply systems implemented were allotted to the
schemes. Some have been installed (in Puthencruz and in Kottayam) and others
are being installed. The supply position of the domescic consumer meters is
not encouraging. Only 38,500 (about 34%) meters were supplied against orders
for 113,921 to be completed by 23-May-94. The mission learnt that KWA was
reconsidering the procurement of the remaining meters as they have decided to
change policy and have the ownership and maintenance of meters located with
the consumers. The consumers are proposed to be penalized for r.on-performance
of water meters.
1.22 Leakage detection and meters repairs. Both leakage detection and
establishment of consumer water meter repairs were taken up on a pilot basis
by KKA. The leak detection pilot study was taken up in Trivandrum and a Leak
detection cell was formed in Jun-86.  KWA could not mobilize resources to
implement the recommendations of the pilot study and no action was taken. For
meter repairs, seven private servicing stations were established in Trivandrum
in Jun-88. Initially, this experiment had shown some encouraging results, but
with the passage of time, the performance fell below the expected level and
KWA closed down this option. An alternative arrangements for meter repairs
using the Kerala State Women's Development Corporation has been worked out and
three servicing stations - one each at Trivandrum, Kochi and Kozhikode, are
planned. Installation of these service stations is awaiting vacation of Court
stay orders.
The Revolving Fund for Connections
1.23 The Revolving Fund for connections provided in the Project was based on
the belief that many households may be constrained from requesting for private
connections because of the lump sum connection charges. However, a request
was made by one consumer only, in spite of promotional efforts by KWA



41
involving panchavats in Vilappil and Puthencruz and a relaxed eligibility
criteria and increased loan amount.
SAR Cost Estimates, Revisions and Exoenditures
1.24 At appraisal the Project cost was estimated to be Rs 936.79 million
(about USS 41.0 million). The revised pro]ect cost estimated on 31-May-92 was
Rs 1,278.8 million.  The revision of cost estimates arose partl}r because of
(a) estimating revisions; 'b) some adjustments to the Project scope in the
form of distribut:on systems extension commensurate with the roads development
in the Project area; 'c) financing of consulting studies for preparation of a
future KUDP (para 1.18) ; :d) prices offered for materials in respect of some
ICB procurement were substantially lower than the estimates; and (e)
availability of substantially high local currencv due to the devaluation of
Rupee during the project implementation from Rs 1' (at appraisal) to about Rs
31 per US$ 1.00.
1.25 As against this revised estimated cost 'para 1.24), the project
expenditure was Rs 1,138.5 million at Credit closing, which is about 22% more
then the SAR estimate in Rupee terms, but 11% less than the-May-92 estimates.
A comparison of SAR estimate, GOK-KWA revised estimate of 31-Mav-92 and actual
project expenditure at Credit closing is given at Annex 4, which mav be
summarized as follows:
(Rs millicn)
SAR         31-May-92   31-Mar-94
Item                      Estimate   Estimate    Actual Exp.
7 Water Supply Systems    671.65       785.44       794.01
Water Supply - Other         46.75       65.06       19.07
Low-Cost sanitation          82.65       83.02       60.53
Technical Assistance          1.95      102.75       34.99
Training                      9.73       17.44        3.39
Land and Engineering        123.86     211.55       226.53
TOTAL                       936.79   1,278.86    1,138.52
% over Appraisal Est.         100          137         122
D over 31-May-92 Est.          73          100          89
1.26  It is evident that the difference between the revised estimates and the
actual expenditure is mainly accounted bv lower expenditure in (i) low-cost
sanitation both in urban and rural areas (para 1.15 & i.25); cii) Less than
anticipated expenditure in the procurement of meters tonly about 34% domestic
consumer meters procured -para 1.21) and meter workshops (para 1.22); (iii) no
expenditure incurred for Revolving Fund for connectlons (para 1.23); and (iv)
lower utilization in respect of training programs.
The Credit
1.27 The key dates related to the Credit, are as follows:
Elapsed Time (Year)
from Effectiveness
Appraisal                             MayjJun-84
Board Approval                        16-Jul-85
Signed                                24-Sep-85
Effective                             09-Dec-85           0.0
Project Completion                    31-Mar-90           4.3
Original Credit Closing               31-Mar-91           5.3
First Extension to                    30-Sep-91           5.8
Second Extension to                   31-Mar-92           6.3
Third Extension to                    31-Mar-93           7.3
Fourth Extension & Credit Closing   31-Mar-94             8.3
SDR 20.0 million of the original Credit of SDR 42.7 million, was canceled in
Dec-91 at the request of the Government of India (GOI)



42
1.28  In response to the Mar-89 Bank supervision mission request for a project
restructuring proposal as the Credit could finance larger investments than
those represented by the on-going project, a restructuring proposal was
received by the Bank _n Nov-90.  :t included proposals for the completion of
twelve water supply schemes whose construction was initiated with financing
from the Life Insurance corporaticn (LIC). It also included proposals for
water supply improvements tz the system serving Trivandrum, low-cost
sanitation, training, water meters, vehicles, a revolving fund for
connections, meter testing and repairs and for leak detection studies by
consultants. The cotal estimated cost of these proposals was Rs 915 million.
1.29  Under the  Special Action Program' of the Bank, designed to assist India
with the balance of payments difficulties arising from the Gulf crisis, the
disbursement ratios under the Credit were increased in 1991. A reassessment
of the Credit utilizaticn concluded that the Credit could at best finance
additional investmencs to the tune of Rs 600 million only. The reduced
availability of finance required reconsideration of the scale of the proposals
(para 1.28) by GOK/KWA. Subsequently, with the cancellation of SDR 20.00
million (para 1.27) in Dec-91 at GOI request, the Bank's consideration of
restructuring the Project was dropped.
II. VIEWS CN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATICN
Bank . -ew on Proiect implementaticn
2.01 The Project has achieved a worthwhile improvement in management
capability in KWA and in staff training and in movement towards financial
viability. The physical targets of the Project have been partially achieved.
2.02  The Water Sulnlv Comronent:  At the beginning of the project
implementation, and for the first few years, the attention of GOK-KWA was
entirely on the centrally administered procurement of large contracts,
comprising ICE procurement of pipes, and LCB procurement of turnkey contracts
for the water treatment plants. Such actions were not supported by sound
procurement and other activity scheduling, such as the preparation of designs
and detailed engineering drawings, preparation of cost estimates, and contract
packaging.
2.03 The lack of a sound procurement planning and activity scheduling
provided an environment for the field divisions to embark on smaller contracts
with a few exception (e.g. distribution extensions), primarily to keep the
contract value within the award decision powers at the local level. This led
to uncontrolled proliferated a large number of smaller contracts for the water
supply schemes. For instance, there were 546 LCB civil works contracts of
aggregate value of Rs 446.3 million, and 710 LCB goods contracts of aggregate
value of Rs 98.1 million. The substantially higher organization and
management attention required for coordination of the availability of various
goods and materials on site, in a systematic way, for timely construction was
not available where such a large number of small contracts were employed.
There are instances in GCDA, Adoor, Quilon, and Chithara that specified pipes
in adequate quantities were not procured through the large ICB contracts
requiring the field staff to use the nearest pipe size they could obtain
locally through LCB small contracts.
2.04 The Engineer responsible for scheme implementation could not pay the
required attention on the specific work as his/her district wide
responsibility (except for Puthencruz and GCDA schemes) did not provide enough
time for the Bank financed water supply scheme alone. Such an unsatisfactory
organizational set ap at scheme level was further affected by very fast
turnover of key senior/middle level staff. For example, the post of Chief
Engineer (South) who is responsible for all the water supply schemes had seen
thirteen incumbents during the project implementation period of about 8.3
years. Similarly, since effectiveness there have been seven superintending
Engineers of Quilon Circle, responsible for Quilon, Adoor and Chithara water



43
supply scnemes, _2 Executive Engineers, Quilon and seven Executiv,e Engineer,
Chithara.
2.05 The organizaticn and manacement system resulted in a very slow pace of
implementation, and the physical works carried out, generally, did not follow
sound construction management practices with inadequate supervision by senior
staff:
2.06  mnadeauate provision of councerpart finance further slowed down the
physical progress. The mission learnt that the very low disbursement rate
(20%) for LCB works and goods for a project which financed about 63% of
project costs through LC3 was unattractive for the GOK to commit a higher
budgetary provision. However, with the improved disbursement ratios
consequent to the "Special Action Program" of the Bank (para 1.29) the
counterpart finance avaliability eased considerably with increased commitment
of GOK-KWA, and no shortage of funds was experienced in the closing years of
the Project.
2.07 The mission observed that the implementation of many small works
contracts (para 2.02) over a long period of time and having inadequate
coordination among various suppliers, and inadecuate maintenance of test
records and drawings, proved obstacles for quick commissioning of the
completed schemes.  The pre-ccmmissioning exercise required a further thorough
testing and repairs/rectifications or improper jcints, missing links, pipe
bursts, pipe leakage, pipe blockages, etc. which are not expecced in a new
pipe network if laid properly and tested for leak tightness before back-
filling.
2.08 The low cost sanitation implementation which was the responsibility of
GOK (Directorate of Municipal Administration (DMA) for urban areas, and
Directorate of Panchayats (DP) for rural areas) got off to a good start in the
first year of implementation and peaked in the following year, and then
registered a declining rate of progress except for the last two years of the
extended period of closing. This declining progress resulted by the
insufficient management control, counterpart funds constraints and inadequate
technical support from KWA to DMA and DP. The Technology Advisory Group (TAG)
technical assistance available for this program also ceased in 1988 as its
operation was closed down. The annual construction performance was as
follows:
No. of latrines constructed
YEAR           Urban           Rurai        Totai
1986-87           2,449          2,500        4,949
1987-88           3,806          4,506        8,312
1988-89           1,205            744        1,949
1989-90            762             431        1,193
1990-91            763             174          937
1991-92            146              83          229
1992-93            323             269          592
1993-94          2,276           4,033        6,309
TOTAL            11,730         12,740        24,470
SAR TARGET       25,631         30,000        55,631
% Achieved          46%              42%          44%
2.09 Although overall achievement is only 44% of the target, despite 8 years
of effort, the Project has produced the following positive outcomes:
a)  more than 146,000 poor people were benefitted;
b)  many women secured access to a basic facility;
c)  project implementation experience  of several local bodies strengthened;
d)  several masons were trained and they constitute a valuable local
resource;
e)  local bodies were exposed to improved accounting systems; and



44
f)  substantial amount ftotalling Rs 6.7 million) is available with
DMA/DP/Locai bodies as a result of loans recovered from project
beneficiaries and could be used to benefit more poor people.
2.10  The institutional development and financial management and accountinq
aspects of the ProDect got off to a slow start. The covenanced "Cost and
Revenue", Study and "Training" Study were ccmmenced only after substantial
delay of several years ipara 1.16) and management actions anticipated in
response to such studies were commensurately delayed. Technical assistance
for improved financial accounting practices commenced more promptlv, but
inadeauace staffing levels and inappropriate organizaticnal arrangements for
the more junior levels of KWA's concerned staff hampered prompt
implementation.
2.11  The recommendations of the '"Cost and Revenue" Study has brought in an
important change in water tariff policy. A new tariff was introduced in Jun-
93 with provision for subsequent annual automatic increase by 15% (The Kerala
example of annual automatic tariff increase is being adopted in Uttar Pradesh,
Rajasthan and few other States in India). Following the "Training" Study, a
training center has been established in KWA and after a belated start in 1991,
the training program has achieved substantial momentum.
2.12 The audit covenant was never in compliance due to delays in submission
of audit reports.   These delays have been reduced over the project
implementation period as the financial management and accounting procedures
were partially improved with the introduction of Accrual Accounting System
(AAS) and positioning of personnel and personnel training. A further
improvement is expected with the filling of the senior level positions in the
KWA's Finance and Accounts Department, and it appears that the audits of 1993-
94 will be prepared on time. Due to long delays in completing the LCS audit
through the Examiner of Local Funds Accounts, GOK employed a private auditor.
The audit reports could not be completed on time due to the substantially
deficient data available to the auditor. With the major improvements in the
LCS record keeping systems suggested by the auditor, it is now expected that
the LCS audits for 1993-94 will be completed on time.
2.13 Despite the Kerala Water Supply and Sewerage Act aimed at KWA becoming
an autonomous and commercial organization, in practice limited powers and
restrictive role was given to KWA by GOK.  For example, KWA has no control on
the staff recruitment and the tariff revision, and when legislative action
authorized a "Member (Accounts)" on KWA's Board, certain administrative
details delayed the actual appointment for several months. Despite strong
agreement on the principle to separate the career streams of staff engaged in
sub-professional work on the accounts from those performing the administrative
jobs, these streams could not be separated. This has resulted in reducing the
benefits of the training under the Project for such accounts personnel. The
KWA Board was not empowered to take decisions on contract award which
continued to require government approval.
2.14 About 10.67 ha land were acquired for water supply schemes from 65
private land owners through the normal land acquisition procedures. The
mission was informed that the acquisition of land did not have any significant
impact on the income of the land owners. However, land acquisition disputes
caused delayed availability of land and consequent delayed construction in
Puthencruz, GCDA, Adoor, Quilon, Chithara. In Quilon, acquisition of land
proved so difficult for pipelines near Anandavalleeswaram that finally, the
pipes were taken through a different route.
2.15 The project monitoring system was generally weak. A belated development
of a project monitoring system helped to bring control of the project's
implementation and was an important tool for KWA officials, both in the field
and headquarters. The mission believes that KWA's familiarity with this
system, and conviction of the usefulness of it, will usher in sound project
monitoring.



45
GOK-KWA views cn Pro7ect  molemenzatign
2.16 Though the institutional and financial objectives were not achieved
fully by the Credit closing, the GOK-KWA ccnsiders that the impetus provided
by the Project will take KWA quite far in achieving these object:ves.  The
dependency on grants funding byf the State will reduce, and KWA is expected to
be able to sustain its own program by the turn of the century.  GOK indicated
that the centralizaticn of water suppiy operations in the whole State of
Kerala and vesting czmplete responsibility from planning to O&M and billing
and collection with the KWA, were considered as the most important achievement
of the Project. However, a recent amendment of the KWA Act permitted a
municipality to "cpt cut" subject to GOK approval.
2.17 KWA felt that a better achievement could have been shown by GCK-KWA had
the Bank agreed to the GOK request to extend the Credit by six months more
(i.e. up to 30-Sep-94). By that time all the seven water supply schemes would
have been completed and a higher LCS coverage could have been achieved.
However, the mission was informed that GOK-KWA are committed to complete the
water supply schemes as planned, and confirmed to the mission that necessary
budgetary provision has been made for this purpose.
2.18  This being the first Bank in-vestment In the drinking water sector in
Kerala, the GOK-KWA expected some intimate guidance from the Bank to be able
to meet the institutional and management parameters set at appralsal, and to
achieve the Project's institutional and financial objectives. In KWA's
opinion such guidance was not available except towards the end of the Project.
Guidance on the Bank's procurement procedures provided at the Project's outset
were considered inadequate and resulted in protracted correspondence for
finalization of the draft bidding documents for contracts requiring Bank's
prior review. Guidance provided on disbursements procedures and disbursement
claims processing and audit matters was also considered by KWA as minimal and
inadequate, for an agency exposed to the Bank requirements for the first time.
2.19 GOK-KWA expressed their disappointment to the mission in respect of (a)
Bank's non-acceptance of the Project restructuring proposal for finance (para
1.29); and (b) dropping the proposed Kerala Urban Development Project from the
lending program when preparation studies required for appraisal were almost
ready (para 1.19).
2.20 In spite of the Project having a reasonably good start and benefitting
from three additional ',years of extension, several factors contributed to the
incomplete state of the Project according to GOK-KWA. They are:
(a)   Counterpart funding and disbursement rate:  Funds were not forthcoming
in a timely manner to the extent the project implementation required.
Poor disbursement rate for LCB procurement of goods and works was a
deterrent as flow-back to the sector was very small. With the improved
disbursement rate consequent to the Bank's Special Action Program (para
2.06), the counterpart finance availability eased and no shortage of
funds was experienced in the closing years of the Project.
(b)   Inefficient procurement administration:  A hierarchial system
designating officials to decide on contract award was inadequate. The
system led to a proliferation of small contracts requiring extensive
time for contract administration and supervision (para 2.03).
(c)   Slow nerformance by contractors:  Awarding a number of contracts to a
single contractor based on 'lowest offer' without an evaluation of the
bid capacity, and some ccntractors' inability to execute the works as
per agreed program, slowed down the progress.
(d)   Difficulties in land accruisition:  General reluctance of the people to
part with land and taking recourse to the Court actions resulted in
delay in land acquisition in some cases (para 2.14).



46
(e)   Unproduct:ve use of KWA staff time:  Preparation of an abortive proposal
to restructure the project took consideranle t:me of staff involved in
the project implementation (para 1.28 and 1.29)
(f)   Additional distribution extensions work.:  :nclusion of additional
distribution extensions for eacn of the seven water supply schemes,
almost at the end of the project life, though essential for expansion of
service coverage. 'iad burdened the field staff and consequently further
delayed the water suppiy scheme impiementation.
(g)   Natural calamitv:  Floods caused by uncommonly heavy rains caused
delays.
2.21 GOK-KWA commented that the Bank supervision missions' visits to the
sites were few and far between - only a couple of visits made towards the end
of the Project. Acknowledging the benefits of those visits, GOK-KWA suggested
that such visits if undertaken from the beginning of the project
implementation could have helped the Bank to appreciate the difficult project
execution environment, and may have led to improvements through advice and
suggestions.  In response to this comment, it is noted that   .
III.  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETICN REPORTINIG - ',O-KWA CONTRIBUTION
3.01 KWA has constituted an ICR Group under the Chief Engineer (South) and
having members from the finance and technical wings. This group will obtain
specific input from DMA and DP and will prepare the draft ICR contribution to
be included as Appendix B of the ICR. Upon review by KWA and GOK, the report
will be furnished to the Bank at NDO through the GOK by 31-Jul-94. A draft
ICR contribution, prepared by KWA, was discussed with the mission.
3.02 The mission provided a list to GOK/KWA of the information required for
preparation of the ICR and its statistical annexes. Formats were provided
wherever required for assembly and reporting of field data. The mission
reviewed these formats with KWA and GOK staff. Most of the information
requested was made available before mission's departure. However, some
critical information could not be assembled by this time and KWA agreed to
provide this information before 31-Jul-94.
3.03 The mission was pleased to review a format prepared by KWA ICR group to
report Performance Indicators. Performance Indicators for each of the seven
water supply schemes and LCS (urban and rural) will also be furnished, after
review by KWA and GOK, to the Bank by 31-Jul-94 at the latest.
IV. PROJECT'S OPERATION AND SUSTAINABILITY
The Water Supply Components
4.01 The sustainability of the water supply components, which are "community"
facilities, is largely dependent on KWA's management and personnel skills and
KWA's financial performance. While additional improvements are needed in
these areas, the Project has achieved worthwhile management improvement, staff
training and movement towards financial viability. This provides the basis
for some "cautious optimism", notwithstanding the fact that KWA has many water
systems under its jurisdiction which do not work properly or, in some cases,
at all.
4.02 On the positive side the mission believes that the financial policy,
management and accounting improvements introduced through the Project will be
sustained. If KWA does not deviate from the tariff revision principles, it
may become a truly autonomous agency. For example:
(a)   The most recent tariff increase effective 01-Jun-93 provided for
subsequent annual automatic increase by 15% which, it has been
projected, will lead to KWA's no longer needing grants-in-aid from GOK



47
by 1998-99. The mission was informed that effective 01-Jun-94 the
tariff was increased by 15's. KWA is keen to implement the automatic
annual increase, and did not anticipate any insurmountable obstacles to
such annual tariff increases;
(b)   the Accrual Accounting System (AAS) has been implemented and a
considerable number of accounting staff have been trained;
(c)   KWA, under the Project, established a Training Center which is run by a
small core of KWA staff and with the assistance and support of a group
of external guest lecturers. The personnel training program launched in
Sep-91 has brought awareness among KWA staff of good operation and
maintenance and accounting practices. These are considered the most
important areas for training by KWA and KWA has indicated its intent to
continue such effort.
4.03 On the negative side, it is clear that KWA has not taken the steps to
post appropriate O&M staff and provide the necessary budget for this purpose,
despite earlier mission recommendations to this effect. The current operation
and maintenance arrangements of the completed water supply schemes are
entirely ad-hoc and largely rely on temporary recruitment (for a term of 6
months maximum) of inexperienced and untrained staff; by the time they gain
some experience, they are replaced with a new batch. The existing O&M
staffing arrangements are extremely unsatisfactory.
4.04 In this connection, the mission observed signs of inadequate operation
and inappropriate handling of equipment (resulting in their less than
satisfactory performance) within a short period after the commissioning of
water supply systems. In mission's discussions with GOK-KWA, it was stressed
that appropriate staffing for operation and maintenance together with
appropriate tariff and sound financial management are the most important
issues for sustainable operation.
4.05 The mission also observed that the service connection targets fixed for
Vilappil and Puthencruz were not achieved which raises the question of
financial viability of the schemes. Moreover, KWA does not have widespread
consumer meter repair facilities, particularly in the panchayats, which raises
the question of whether revenues raised by KWA on a volumetric consumption
basis can be sustained.
The Low-Cost Sanitation (LCS) Components
4.06  In contrast to water supply's "community" characteristics, the LCS
component provided "household" facilities. These are simple and inexpensive
to maintain given adequate initial construction quality, which the evaluation
reports available indicate that largely the case.
4.07 The mission was pleased to note evidence that latrines constructed under
the low cost sanitation program are physically sustainable and properly
maintained as (a) ownership of the latrine is with a householder, (b) the
users appear satisfied with the functioning of the latrines and do not report
problems, and (c) the users are aware of the operation and maintenance
procedures including the switching of pits as already demonstrated with the
help of local masons. However, it is important that the local bodies continue
to provide advisory assistance to the beneficiaries by providing oral and
written guidelines as may be indicated by periodical field monitoring. Such
assistance may be required particularly in changing the discharge pit when one
is filled and for emptying the contents of the first pit when digested.
4.08 On the financial side, a sustained and aggressive effort will be
necessary to improve LCS householder loan recovery. This may be particularly
so because of the availability of other programs (such as GOI sponsored Urban
Basic Services and Environmental Improvement of Urban Slums in urban areas and
Jawahar Rojgar Yojana and Rural Sanitation Prograi' in panchayats) which
provide higher grants and easier loan terms to householders for low cost
sanitation units. There is a need for a consistent state-wide policy on such matters



48
V. OPERATIONAL ACTION PLAN AND PERFORMANCE TD+ICATORS
5.01 The mission reviewed the draft Operational Action Plan and Performance
Indicators prepared by KWA for the water supply schemes, and by DMA and DP for
LCS programs. These are given in Annex S. The indicators for water supply
largely relate to operational performance. The activitles needed to promote
project sustainability were lsted for LCS.
5.02 These action plans were the subject of considerable discussions between
GOK-KWA and the mission. For water supply KWA will have to improve its
operational performance considerably to meet the performance indicators. For
LCS it is likely that the beneficiaries themselves will take the steps needed
(with the assistance of the local masons, as required) to -secure the
continued functioning of the latrines.
.1.



49
Annex 1
Page 1 of 10
a:\am\annex-l .wp
INDIA: KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Implementation Completion Reporting Mission 04-16 Jul-94
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENTS: MISSION OBSERVATIONS AND DESCRIPTION OF
WORKS IMPLEMENTED AND OBSERVATIONS
1.    This Annex contains mission observations on the physical aspects of the seven water supply
schemes and description of works implemented in each of the water supply schemes. The description
of works implemented has been prepared based on the information furnished to the mission in the
field and also the information which were furnished by the KWA at a later date to the New Delhi
Office of the World Bank.
2.     Puthencruz Water Supply Scheme: All works including distribution extensions, envisaged
under this scheme were complete. The scheme was commissioned in Mar-93. At present,
reportedly, 5.8 mild water is produced against 7.2 mld installed capacity. 1480 house connections
were provided, 1128 standposts installed and 39 non-domestic connections were given including those
connections existed before the scheme was commissioned. The performance is affected by inefficient
operations of the water treatment plant and inadequate staffing. The loss of head indicators of filters
are not in working order.
3.    Three bulk flow meters have been installed on three delivery mains from the master overhead
tank at Choondy, and an electronic flow meter have been installed at the raw water inlet of the flash-
mixing chamber. However, there was no attempt on the part of operating staff to read the bulk-flow
meters and equate the flow conditions to ascertain the systems functional efficiency. No operational
procedures were established, and lack of such procedures was evident as some areas do not receive
enough water even at the beginning of the scheme commissioning. Intermittent water supply has been
resorted to when the scheme was designed for a 24 hours supply and is producing adequate quantity
of water.
4.     Greater Cochin Development Area (GCDA) Water Supply Scheme: The scheme has been
partly commissioned in May-93 with the commissioning of the 70 mid water treatment plant at
Alwaye. Five (Keezhmadu, Edathala, Choornikkara, Kalamassery and Thrikkakkara) of the 12
panchayats were provided with water supply where new connections were given. All works including
the system testing and trial run were completed in another three panchayats (Vazhakkulam,
Kizhakkambalam and Kunnathunadu). Water supply in these three panchayats was due to be
commissioned and the standposts locations were finalized in consultation with the panchayats.
5.    Inadequate investigations led to non-feasible solutions for Chambakara canal crossing and
RCC O.H. tank at Chellanam. KWA has finally persuaded state PWD to allow the clear water
transmission pipe (350 mm dia MS pipe) laid alongside the footpath of the highway bridge over
Chambakara canal. The works were due for completion by 25-Jul-94. This will enable pre-
commissioning trial in the remaining four panchayats (Maradu, Kumbalam, Kumbalangi and
Chellanam) where the water supply commissioning is scheduled to be completed by Sep-94. Though
Chellanam O.H. tank, for which bids (with designs from the bidder) were invited (bid opening on 06-



50
Annex I
Page 2 of 10
6.     Present surplus waEer of this scheme is diverted for Cochin citv and the transmission pipe
network at Thammanam facilitates easy transfer of water from the GCDA system to Kochi system. It
is a matter of concern that the drinking water scarcity existing in Kochi. and the city's economic and
political position in the State. water from this scheme might be diverted for Kochi city in surnmer
months when the demand in the GCDA project area will also be high.
7.     Kottavam Water Supply Scheme: The scheme has not been commissioned though all works,
except 5 kms of 40 kms distribution extension works, were completed. A pre-commissioning trial has
been in progress since Mar-94. and the scheme is due to be commissioned by 31-Aug-94. The water
treatmnent plant (15.64 mid capacity) trial operation was unsatisfactory as (a) rate of flow recorder and
loss of head recorder of filter bed 2 were not in working conditions: (b) operator on duty was
unaware of the use of the rate of flow recorder/controller and head loss indicators and backwashes
filters once in a day as a routine; (c) despite apparatus for common laboratory tests were procured, no
trained person was posted who could deternine the required chemical dosage; (d) arbitrarv quantity of
chemicals (alum for coagulation and chlorine for disinfection) were being used.
8.     Lack of procurement scheduling contributed to severe delays in commissioning this scheme.
Having completed most of the reservoirs by 1988, most of the pipelines (per original project
proposal) completed by 1990 (though in places with some gaps due to delayed supply of fittings and
pipes), and having achieved good progress in completion of the water treatment plant works by 1992,
the scheme has not been commissioned due to delays in (a) procurement for pump house and clear
water reservoir; and (b) supplies of some pipes and valves. A lot of repairs of pipes and joints were
required at the trial run and no reservoirs were fitted with water level indicators.
9.    No staff position was created for operation of the scheme. The pre-commissioning trial has
been taken up by mobilizing a few staff from other schemes. and by recruitment of a few temporary
staff. A maintenance services contractor was appointed to repair the visible leaks.
10.    Adoor Water SuPDIV Scheme: Construction of a 12.38 mid water treatment plant was nearing
completion, over head tank for Pallikkal zone was under construction. trial run of the distribution
system was in progress and all other works were almost complete. The scheme is expected to be
ready for commissioning before 3 1-Aug-94. The weir downstream of intake across Achencoil river is
rescheduled for completion by 31-Mar-95. However, the delayed construction of weir is not expected
to affect water supply in the short term.
IL    CI Class B and Class A pipes for transmission of raw water (12.38 mid water to 80 m head)
to the water treatment plant were replaced with Premo pipes (locally made PSC pipe, not of good
specifications and quality) apparently due to non-availability of C.I. pipes. Realizing the vulnerability
of Premo pipes to high pressure head, an air-cushion valve and two zero-velocity valves were
additionally fixed on the transmission main after detailed hydraulic study of the surge behavior.
12.   Ouilon Water Supplv Scheme: Progress with this scheme is far behind and now
commissioning is rescheduled for Oct-94. In view of a large number of contracts (36 nos.) including
the intake well & pump house, erection of raw water pumps, treatment plant, laying of distribution
pipes (19 nos. contracts), and laying of transmission pipes (6 nos contracts), were incomplete, the
rescheduled commissioning date appeared optimistic. The 25 kms long gravity transmission main was



51
Annex I
Page 3 of 10
commissioned and now used for transmission of treated water from the existinz water treatment plant.
Difficultv experienced from the organized local trade union activity in the execution of works
according to KWA, is the principal cause of delay. Currently, the interference has been resolved
except at Neendakara panchayat where construction works of the over head tank is stopped after
reaching the tank floor level.
13.    KWA has made a departure from the original plan of twining the existing gravity main for
clear water transmission from the water treatment plant to Anandavalleeswaram reservoir at Quilon
town. KWA has planned to reject the existing main and use the newly laid gravitv main as a
pumping main for transmission of 59 mrid treated water which is the aggregate production capacity of
the existing and the new water treatment plant capacity. No reference of Bank's no objection to such
a deviation from the original proposal was available.
14.    Chithara Water Supply Scheme: Construction of water treatment plant and erection of
transformers were the major works remained to be completed. The scheme is now expected to be
conmmissioned before 30-Sep-94. Cl Class B and Class A pipes which were originallv chosen to be
the raw water transmission pipes were partly repiaced by Premo pipes due to non-availability of CI
pipes at site. Overall delivery head being 118 meters, KWA has taken surge protection measures by
providing air-cushion valve and zero velocity valves.
15.    Following inadequacies in the detailed engineering were observed.
(a)    Replacement of part of CI raw water transmission pipes with Premo pipes;
(b)    Over designed size (9 m dia) of intake and pump house:
(c)    Space for two additional turbine pumps provided in spite of adequate provision of standby
purnping capacitvy
(d)    Over designed chemical house at water treatment plant constructed (probablv. one-eighth of it
would have been adequate); and
(e)    The depth of clear water reservoir at the water treatment plant could have been smaller to
avail of higher gravirv head.
16.    Vilappil Water Supply Scheme: Vilappii water supply scheme is in operation from May-91.
458 house service connections. 13 non-domestic connections and 181 standpost connections were
provided. KWA has appointed temporary staff for operation and maintenance functions. and has a
small laboratory attached to the treatment plant. The laboratory test results were well maintained.
The mission met with some consumers who expressed satisfaction with the water supply, chough at
times the water supply is reportedly irregular due to power shut-down and low voltage.
17.    The general house-keeping and maintenance of equipment required improvement. Some
observations on the operations are: no recorders (flow recorders, loss of head recorders and rate of
flow controllers) were in working order: the electronic flow recorder fixed to measure the inflow to
the plant was out of order for over one year; the valves fitted on the back wash water drain were
leaking profusely; the laboratory apparatus are mostly broken down; and filters were washed everyday
as a routine without assessing the need. Based on some meter records and also field enquiry. the
mission estimated a large volume (about 60%) of unaccounted-for water in Vilappil scheme. and
brought it to the notice of the engineering and finance wings of KWA.



Annex 1
52                                 Page 4 of 10
a:\amn\annex l.wp
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENTS
Puthencruz Sub-Proiect: Description of Works Implemented
Component         Location       Description       CaJ.i Size    Function
Intake well, transmission and treatment
Intake well       Kadambanadu   R.C. Well          6 m dia       As source of water
Raw water pumps  Kadambanadu   Turbine pumps    8.75 mnid        To pump raw water
3 Nos. 50 HP                   from source to treatmen
each                           plant
Raw water         Kadarnbanadu   C.I. Class B &    300 nmu dia   To convey raw water
pumping main    to treatment    Class A            5.35 kms      from source to treatment
plant                                          plant
Treatment plant    Hillock at    Rapid sand filter   7.20 mid    Treatment of water
Choondy
Clear water pumps Hillock at     3 Nos. 50 HP      8.75 mid      To pump water from the
Choondy        each                           sump to service
reservoirs
Clear water       Choondy to     AC pipe           250-300 nmn  To convey water to
gravity main     reservoirs                        dia 8.68 kms  reservoirs
Distribution svstem
Service reservoirs  Sub-project  2 Nos. G.L.       1.36 ml       To provide storage
area           I No. O.H.        1.21 ml
Distribution      Throughout the AC and PVC        230.8 krns 50  Distribution in sub-
network ilc      sub-project     pipes             mm to 300    project area
extensions        area                             mm dia
Standposts to be   Sub-project    400 Nos.         12 mm         Rural water supply to
provided          area                                           poor
Service           Sub-project    5,800 Nos HSC    12 mm size   Rural water supply
connections to be  area          725 Non-dom       Various sizes
provided                         connections



Annex I
53                                 Page 5 of 10
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENTS
GCDA Sub-Proiect: Description of Works Implemented
Component         Location        Description      Cap./ Size    Function
Intake well, transmission and treatment
Intake well       Alwave         R.C. Well          12 m dia      As source of water
Raw water pumps  Alwave          Turbine pumps    70 mid          To pump raw water
3 Nos. 215 HP                   from source to treatment
each.                           plant
Raw water         Alwave         GRP pipe          900 mm dia   To convey raw water
pumping main                                       0.11 kms       from source to treatment
plant
Treatment plant    Alwave         Rapid sand filter   70 mId      Treatment of water
Clear water pumps Alwaye          Centrifugal       70 mIld       To pump water to
pumps: 2 Nos.                   service reservoirs
429 HP each
Distribution system
Clear water pumnps Sub-project    Centrifugal       64 mld        To pump water from
area           pumps: 15 Nos.                  sump to service
each 20 HP to 75               reservoirs
HP
Clear water       Sub-project    C.I. Class B &     250-500 mm   To convev water to the
pumping main      area           Class A           dia 40.1 knis  reservoirs
Service reservoirs  Sub-project  5 Nos. G.L.        17.61 rnl     To provide storage
area           9 Nos. O.H.       13.53 ml
Distribution      Throughout the  AC and PVC       458 kms 63    Distribution in sub-
netivork i/c      sub-project    pipes             mm to 600    project area
extensions        area                             mmn dia.
Standposts to be    Sub-project   1140 Nos.         15 mm         Rural water supply to
provided          area                                            poor
Service           Sub-project     32,000 HSC        12 mm size    Rural water supply
connections to be  area           10.500 Non-dom    Various sizes
provided                         connections



Annex I
54                                 Page o of 10
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENTS
Kottavam Sub-Proiect: Description of Works Implemented
Component         Location       Description       CaD.! Size    Function
Intake well, transmission and treatment
Intake well       Nattasserv     R.C. Well         6 m dia       As source of water
Raw water pumps  Nattasserv      Turbine pumps 3   18.81 mid    To pump raw water
Nos, 30 HP each                from source to treatment
plant
Raw water         Nattasserv     C.I. Class LA     500 mm dia   To convev raw water
pumping main                                       55 m          from source to treatment
plant
Treatment plant    Nattasserv    Rapid sand filter   15.64 mid    Treatment of water
Distribution system
Service reservoirs  Sub-project  I No. G.L.         1.53 ml      To provide storage
area           4 Nos. O.H.       3.76 ml
Clear water       Sub-project    C.I. Class B &     250 mm dia   To convey water from
pumping main      area           Class A            30.22 kmns    sump to reservoirs
AC pipe           300 mm dia
2.96 kms
Clear water pumps Nattasserv     Centrifugal pumps  15.64 mid    To pump water from the
9 nos. 40 HP and                sump to service
3 nos. '5 HP                    reservoirs
Distribution      Throughout the  AC and PVC       371 kms 90   Distribution in sub-
network i/c       sub-project    pipes             mmn to 600    project area
extensions        area                              mm dia
Ra.
Standposts to be   Sub-project   550 Nos.           15 mm         Rural water supply to
provided          area                                            poor
Service           Sub-project     12.560 HSC        12 mm size   Rural water supply
connections to be  area          2,250 Non-dom      Various sizes
provided



Annex I
55                                 Page 7 of 10
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. t622-IN)
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENTS
Adoor Sub-Proiect: Description of Works Implemenced
Component         Location       Description       Cap./ Size     Function
Intake well, transmission and treatment
Intake well       Kaipattoor     R.C. Well         8 m dia        As source of water
Kadavu
Raw water pumps  Kaipattoor      Turbine pumps 3   10.30 mid      To pump raw water
Kadavu         Nos. 140 HP each                from source to treatment
plant
Raw water         Kaipattoor     AC pipe           400 mm dia   To convey raw water
pumping main      Kadavu to                        8.25 krms      from source to treatment
Chiranikai                                      plant
Treatment plant    Chiranikai hills Rapid sand filter   12.38 nlid  Treatment of water
Clear water pumps Chiranikai hills 3 Nos. 60 HP     10.30 mid     To pump water from the
each                            sump to service
reservoirs
Clear water       Sub-project    80-200 mm dia CI 2.52 krns       To convey water to
pumping and       area           pipes             pumping        various zonal reservoirs
gravity main                     200-400 mm dia   25.27 kms
Ac pipes          gravitv
Distribution svstem
Service reservoirs  Sub-project  9 Nos. G.L.       2.58 ml        To provide storage
area           2 No. O.H.         1.24 ml
Distribution      Throughout the  AC and PVC       224.4 kms 75  Distribution in sub-
network i!c      sub-project     pipes             mm to 400    project area
extensions        area                             mnm dia
Standposts to be    Sub-project  485 Nos.           12 mm         Rural water supply to
provided          area                                            poor
Service           Sub-project    11,500 HSC         12 mm size    Rural water supply
connections to be  area          1,525 Non-dom      Various sizes
provided                         connections



Annex 1
56                                   Page 8 of 10
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENTS
Adoor Sub-Project: Description of Works Implemented
Comronent         Location       Description       Cap./ Size    Function
Intake well, transmission and treatment
Intake well       Kaipattoor     R.C. Well         8 m dia      As source of water
Kadavu
Raw water pumps  Kaipattoor      Turbine pumps 3   10.30 mild    To pump raw water
Kadavu         Nos, 140 HP each               from source to treatment
plant
Raw water         Kaipattoor     AC pipe           400 mm dia   To convey raw water
pumping main      Kadavu to                        8.25 kms     from source to treatment
Chiranikai                                    plant
Treatment plant    Chiranikai hills Rapid sand filter   12.38 mild    Treatment of water
Clear water pumps Chiranikai hills 3 Nos. 60 HP    10.30 mld    To pump water from the
each                           sump to service
reservoirs
Clear water       Sub-project    80-200 mm dia CI 2.52 kms      To convey water to
pumping and       area           pipes             pumping      various zonal reservoirs
gravity main                     200-400 mm dia   25.27 kms
Ac pipes         gravity
Distribution system
Service reservoirs  Sub-project    9 Nos. G.L.     2.58 ml      To provide storage
area           2 No. O.H.        1.24 ml
Distribution      Throughout the AC and PVC        224.4 kms 75  Distribution in sub-
network i/c      sub-project     pipes             mm to 400    project area
extensions        area                             mm dia
Standposts to be   Sub-project    485 Nos.         12 mm        Rural water supply to
provided          area                                          poor
Service           Sub-project    11,500 HSC        12 mm size   Rural water supply
connections to be  area          1,525 Non-dom    Various sizes
provided                         connections



Annex I
57                                 Page 9 of 10
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
Chithara Sub-Project: Description of Works Implemented
Component         Location        Description       Cap./ Size    Function
Intake well. transmission and treatment
Intake well       Mylamoodu       R.C. Well         9 m dia       As source of water
Raw water pumps  Mylamoodu       Turbine pumps      12.20 mid     To pump raw water
and Booster    3 Nos. 75 HP                    from source to treatment
station        each. Centrifugal               plant
pups: 3 Nos. 75
HP each
Raw water         Mylamoodu to  C.I. Class A        350 mm dia   To convev raw water
pumping main      treatment plant  and              1.40 kms      from source to treatment
Premo pipe        400 mm dia   plant
5.40 kms
Treatment plant    Madathara      Rapid sand filter   9.72 mid    Treatment of water
Distribution system
Service reservoirs  Sub-project   7 Nos. G.L.       2.47 ml       To provide storage
area           2 Nos. O.H.       0.80 ml
Clear water pumps Thenkakalla    Centrifugal        7.80 mid      To pump water from the
pumps: 3 Nos. 15                sump to service
HP each                         reservoirs
Clear water       Thenkakalla to  C.I. Class B      100 mm dia   To convev water to the
pumping main      reservoir R6                      2.70 kms      reservoirs
Distribution      Throughout the  AC and PVC        121 kms 75   Distribution in sub-
network i/c       sub-project     pipes             mm to 400    project area
A._
extensions        area                              mm dia
Standposts to be    Sub-project  285 Nos.           20 mm         Rural water supply to
provided          area                                            poor
Service           Sub-project     9,170 HSCs        12 nmm size   Rural water supply
connections to be  area           930 Non-dom       Various sizes
provided                          connections



Annex 1
58                                Page i0 of 10
KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENTS
Vilappil Sub-Proiect: Description of Works Implemented
Component         Location        Description       Cav./ Size    Function
Intake well, transmission and treatment
Intake well       Vellaikadavu    R.C. Well         6 m dia       As source of water
Raw water pumps  Vellaikadavu    Turbine pumps 3   2.72 mid       To pump raw water
Nos, 40 HP each                 from source to treatment
plant
Raw water         Vellaikadavuto  C.I. Class B      200 mnm dia   To convey raw water
pumping main      Kavinpuram                        2.85 krs      from source to treatment
plant
Treatment plant    Kavinpuram     Rapid sand filter   3.35 mid    Treatment of water
Distribution system
Service reservoirs  Sub-project   3 Nos. G.L.       0.66 ml       To provide storage
area           1 No. O.H.        0.25 ml
Clear water pumps Sub-project     Centrifugal       1.48 mId      To pump water to
area           pumps: 2 Nos. 15                 service reservoirs
HP each & 2 Nos.
10 HP each
Clear water       Treatment plant C.I. Class A      250-300 mm   To convev water to
pumping main      to reservoirs                     dia 1.50 kms  reservoirs
& AC              300 mrn dia
0.28 kms
Distribution      Throughout the  AC and PVC        37.0 kms 75   Distribution in sub-
network i/c       sub-project     pipes             mm to 300    project area
extensions        area                              mm dia
Standposts to be    Sub-project   185 Nos.          15 mm         Rural water supply to
provided          area                                            poor
Service           Sub-project     1,400 HSCs        12 mm         Rural water supply
connections to be   area          150 Non-dom       Various sizes
provided                          connections



59
Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
a:\am\annex-2.wk1
INDIA: KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Low Cost Sanitation - Latrines Constructed: URBAN
Si.   Name of Municipality         Number of
No.                                LCS units
constructed
1.   AtKingal                          1,115
2.   Badagara                          1,051
3.   Kasaragod                          472
4.   Mavelikkara                       1,000
5.   Moovattupuzha                      730
6.   Pala                               801
7.   Ponnani                           1,035
8.   Ponalur                           2,603
9.   Shoranur                          1,008
10.  Thrchur                             500
11.  Kalpatta                            170
12.  Perinthalmanna                      302
13.  Thaliparamba                        250
14.  Ottappalam                          470
15.  Adoor                               223
TOTA   15 municipalities               11,730
NOTE Rs 32.0 million were spent to construct 11,730
latrines (as above) against a target of 25,631
latrines fixed at appraisal.
The average cost per urban latrine is Rs 2,730.
The average cost per rural latrine is Rs 2,239.



60-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 1-
a:\am\annex-3.wk1
INDIA: KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)
Low Cost Sanitation - Latrines Constructed RURAL
Si.   Name of Panchayat             Number of
No.                                 LCS units
constructed
1.   Vilavoorkkal                        500
2.   Kilikolloor                         500
3.   Adoor                               500
4.   Kumaranalloor                       500
5.   Chellanam                           500
6.   Vilappil                            500
7.   Sakthikulangara                     500
8.   Thrikkadavoor                       500
9.   Ezhamkulam                          490
10.  Vijayapuram                         484
11.   Nattakom                           500
12.   Panachikkad                        497
13.   Kumbalangi                          500
14.   Maradu                              500
15.   Keezhmadu                           500
16.  Vadavucode-Puthencruz               493
17.   Trikkakkara                        500
18.   Chithara                            143
19.   Kadakkal                            180
20.  Chadayamangalam                      265
21.   Eravipuram                          229
22.   Kunnathunad                         393
23.  Aikkaranadu                          301
24.   Vazhakkulam                         359
25.   Kizhakkambalam                      350
26.   Purakkad                            295
27.   Punnapra                            298
28.   Mararikulam South   -               409
29.   Kuthiathode                         308
30.   Vadakkevila                         420
31.   Mayyanadu                            80
32.   Erathu                              246
TOTA   32 Panchyats                    12,740
NOTE Rs 28.53 million were spent to construct 12,740
latrines (as above) against a target of 30,000
latrines fixed at appraisal.
The average cost per rural latrine is Rs 2,239.
The average cost per urban latrine is Rs 2,730.



61
cdc a:\keicra4r.wkl and c:\123\kew\keicra4r.wkl                                                           Annexure 4
04-Oct-94
INDIA: KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (Cr. 1622-IN)             Page 1 of I
Implementation Completion Reporting Mission; 04-16 July 1994
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND EXPENDITURE TO 31-MAR-94
--------------------------------
SUiMARY
---------------- ------ ---- --- -----                     -----------------
ApErsisae                               AEtle                    31-may-92               Actual Costs to       Percent
Estimate                        EM~I'a't C 'Estimate                               31-Mar-94           Cange,8t
Inc Contingenci ts                                                        Actual to
Rs aill           Item                Rs mill   % TOT          Rs mill   S TOT          Rs sill   S TOT           BAR
Mater Supply                  671.86     71.7S        785.44       61.42        794.01     69.72         18.22
Low-Cost Sanit'n               92.65       8.8S        83.02        6.52         60.53      5.32        -26.82
Central Services               27.83       3.02         46.14       3.62         19.07       1.72       -31.52
Others                         42.14       4.52        177.89      13.92        79.64       7.0S         89.02
Enginaering                   112.31      12.02        186.37      14.62        185.27      16.32        65.02
--      ---- -- ---- -- ---- ---
GRAND TOTAL                   936.79    100.0S        1278.86    100.02        1138.52   I10.02          21.52
DETAILS
Water Supply (TOTAL)         (671.86)    71.72        (785.44)    61.42       (794,01)    69.72          18.22
134.56   Rural Stable Areas          166.84      17.82        214.21      16.92        204.27      17.92         22.42
340.35   Rural Developing Areas    422.02        45.02        4S2.41      35.42        458.66      40.32          8.72
66.94   Urban Area                   83.00       8.92        118.76       9.32        131.06      11.52         57.92
Low Coat Sanit'n (TOTAL)    (82.65)        8.82        (83.02)      6.52       (60.53)      5.32        -26.8
35.48   Rural Areas                  43.99       4.72         38.99       3.02         28,53       2.5S        -35.12
31.18   Urban Areas                  38.66       4.12         44.03       3.42         32.00       2.82        -17.22
Central Services (TOTAL)    (27.83)        3.02        (48.14)      3.62        (19.07)      1.72       -31.52
0.99   Meter Uorkshop                1.23       0.12           2.4       0.22          0.80       0.12        -35.O0
16.36   Meters                       20.29       2.22         32.89       2.62         10.98       1.02        -45.92
5.09   Vehicles, Misc                6.31       0.72         10.95       0.89          7.29       0.62         1S.S5
Others (TOTAL)                (42.14)      4.52       (177.89)    13.92         (79.64)      7.02        99.02
15.26   Revolving Fund               19.92       2.02         18.92       1.52          0.00       0.02      -100.0O
9.31   Land                         11.54       1.22         38.78       3.02         41.26       3.62        257.52
7.85   Training                      9.73       1.0         17.44       1.42          3.39       0.32        -65.22
1.57   Consultancy                   1.95       0.22        102.75       8.0         34.99       3.12       1654.4%
(9SW-TOTAL)                  (824.48)    88.02    (1,092.49)    85.42         (953.25)    83.7t          15.62
90.58 Engineering                   112.31      12.02        186.37      14.62        185.27      16.32         65.02
40.57 Physical Contingency            NA        NA             NA        NA             NA        NA            NA
140.70 Price contingency               NA        NA             NA        NA             NA        NA            NA
936.79 (GRAND TOTAL)                t936.79)   100.0      (1,278.86)   100.02    (1,138.52)   100.0            21.52
_:=:   _z: :              ------:---::---- ::::::::
NOTE:    Uer BAR pare 2.08:
ural Stable" Communities are Puthencruz, Adoor, Chithara and Vilappil
"Rural Developing" Communities and Quilon Pnachayats, Kottayem Panchayets and
the Creeter Cochin Development Area (GCOA).
'Urban Area" is Quilon Municipality
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -             - - -    - - ----- - - - --     - - - - - - - - - ------



6 2
a:\am\annex-5.wki                                KERALA WATER AUTHORITY                            Annex 5
OPERATIONAL PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                 ------------
Page 1 of 10
PUTRENCRUZ WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
Year       1994/95   95/96    96/97    97/98    38/99   99/2000  2200/01
Population in Service Area  aNos.)                  87748    38713    39689    90676    31673    92682         '3701
Population Coverage (Percent)                          90        90        90       90        90        90        90
Population Covered (Nos.)                          78973    79842    80720    81608    82506    33413          84331
Water Produced (Mld)                                 4.17     4.70      4.90      5.11      5.30      5.48      5.62
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                            25        25        25       25        25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                         24        24       24        24        24        24        24
Average Water Supply (lpcd)
- Panchayat Area
(a) through HSC                           60        60        60        60        60        60        60
lb) through Standposts                    30        30        30        30        30        30        30
Number of connections
- House Service Connections                         1200      3200      3800      4400      5000      5500      5800
- Standposts                                         380       390       400       400       400       400       400
- Non-domestic                                       560       600       630       655       675       700       725
Revenue Collection Performance (Percent)               70        75        80       85        90        95       100
Staff Required for  O&M (Nos.)                         73        73        73       77        77        77        77
Trained O&M Staff (Nos.)                               29        37        44       54        62        69        77
Average No. of Connections per O&M staff               16        44        52       57        65        71        75
Net Revenue (Rs lakhs)                              32.80    42.10    49.66    57.84    67.79    79.45    92.31
Net Expenditure O&M (Rs lakhs)                      29.48    32.43    35.67    39.24    43.16    47.48    52.23
Net Income (Rs lakhs)                                3.32      9.67    13.99    18.60    24.63    31.97    40.08
Average increase in population in project area 1.1% per year
Population in Service Area (1991 census)           83991
Projected Population for 1993/94                   86793
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                            25        25       25        25        25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply tHrs)                         24        24       24        24        24        24        24
No of users per household                             5.5      S.5       5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5
Average users per Standpost (Nos.)                    190       160      150       144       138       133       131
Non-domestic consumption (lpcd)                      1000      1000     1000      1000      1000      1000      1000
Average revenue from one connection per month (Rs.)
HSC             25    28.75    33.06    38.02    43.73    50.28         57.83
Standpost      875       875       875       875      875        875       875
ND              50    57.50    66.13    76.04    87.45   100.57   115.65



63
KERALA WATER AUTHORITY                           Annex S
OPERATIONAL PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                  ------------
Page 2 of 10
GREATER COCHIN DEVELOPMENT AREA (GCDA) WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
Year       1994/95   95/96    96/97    97/98        98/99   99/2000  2000/01
Population in Service Area (Nos.)                  407340   412228   417174   422180   427247   432374   437562
Population Coverage (Percent)                          90        90        90        90        90         90        90
Population Covered (Nos.)                          366606   371005   375457   379962   384522   389136   393806
Water Produced (Mld)                                19.73    26.14    32.52    39.27    46.38         53.87    60.18
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                             25       25        25        25        25         25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                          24       24        24        24        24         24        24
Average Water Supply (lpcd)
- Panchayat Area
(a) through HSC                            70       75        80         85        90        95       100
(b) through Standposts                     30        30       30        30         30        30        30
Number of connections
- House Service Connections                          5000    :0000    15000    20000    25000         30000    32000
- Standposts                                          648      1140      1140      1140      1140      1140       1140
- Non-domestic                                       1350      3000      4500      6000      7500      9000    10500
Revenue Collection Performance (Percent)                70       75        80        85         90        95       100
Staff Required for  O&1M (Nos.)                        171      171       171       181        181       181       181
Trained OhM Staff (Nos.)                                68       86       103       127       145        163       181
Average No. of Connections per OEM staff                29       58        88       110        138       166       177
Net Revenue (Rs lakhs)                              63.80   131.18   171.94   225.85   296.62   388.87   487.48
Net Expenditure O&M (Rs lakhs)                        261   287.10   315.81   347.39   382.13   420.34   462.38
Net Income (Rs lakhs)                             -197.20  -155.93  -143.87  -121.54    -85.51   -31.47    25.10
Average increase in population in project area 1.2% per year
Population in Service Area (1991 census)           388360
Projected Population for 1993/94                   402509
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                             25       25        25        25         25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                          24       24        24        24         24        24        24
No of users per household                             5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5        5.5       5.5
Average users per Standpost (Nos.)                    523       277       257       237       217        197       191
Non-domestic consumption (lpcd)                      2000      2000      2000      2000      2000       2000      2000
Average revenue from one connection per month  (Rs.)
HSC             25    28.75    33.06    38.02    43.73         50.28    57.83
Standpost      875       875       875       875       875       875        875
ND              50    57.50    66.13    76.04        87.4s   100.57   115.65



64
KERALA WATER AUTHORITY                          Annex 5
OPERATIONAL PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                ------------
Page 3 of 10
KOTTAYAM WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
Year      1994/95   95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99   99/2000  2000/01
Population in Service Area (Nos.)                 172060   :74005   175971   177959   179970   182004   184061
Population Coverage (Percent)                         90        90       90        90        90        90        90
Population Covered (Nos.)                         154854   156604   158374   160163   161973   163804   165654
Water Produced (Mld)                                9.59    10.97    11.29    11.65    11.91    12.17    12.39
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                           25        25       25        25        25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                        24        24       24        24        24        24        24
Average Water Supply (lpcdl
- Panchayat Area
(a) through HSC                          60        60        60        60       60        60        60
(b) through Standposts                   30        30        30        30        30       30        30
Number of connections
- House Service Connections                         5130    10640    11020    11420    1.800    12180    12560
- Standposts                                         460      550       550       550      '550       550       550
- Non-domestic                                      1700     1775      1900      2050      2125     2200      2250
Revenue Collection Performance (Percent)              70        75       80        85        90        95       100
Staff Required for  O&M (Nos.)                        80        85       90        90        95        95        95
Trained O&M Staff (Non.)                              32        43       54        63        76        86        95
Average No. of Connections per OM staff              64       125      122       127       124       128       132
Net Revenue (Rs lakhJ)                             51.72    80.03    93.24   109.28   127.77   149.91   176.13
Net Expenditure OiM (Rs lakhs)                     45.00    50.00    57.50    66.12    76.04    87.45   105.60
Net Income (Rs lakhn)                               6.72    30.03    35.74    43.16    51.73    62.46    70.53
Average increase in population in project area 1.13% per year
Population in Service Area (1991 census)          164498
Projected Population for 1993/94                  170138
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                           25        25       25        25        25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                        24        24       24        24        24        24        24
No of users per household                            5.5      5.5       5.5       s.s       5.S      5s5        5.5
Average users per Standpost (Nos.)                   275       178      178       177       176       176       176
Non-domestic consumption (lpcd)                     1000     1000      1000      1000      1000      1000     1000
Average revenue from one connection per month (RS.)
HSC             25    28.75    33.06    38.02    43.73    50.28    57.83
Standpost      875      875       875       875       875      875       875
ND              50    57.50    66.13    76.04    87.45   100.57   115.65



65
KERALA WATER AUTHORITY                            Annex S
OPERATIONAL PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                  ------------
Page 4 of 10
ADOOR WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
Year       1994/95   95/96    96/97    97/98        98/99   99/2000  2000/01
Population in Service Area (Nos.)                  155413   157123   158851   160598   162365   164151   165957
Population Coverage (Percent)                          90        90        90        90        90         90        90
Population Covered (Nos.)                          139872   141410   142966   144539   146129   147736   149361
Water Produced (Mld)                                 8.79      9.17      9.60      9.90    10.18      10.38    10.54
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                            25        25        25        25         25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                         24        24        24        24         24        24        24
Average Water Supply (lpcd)
- Panchayat Area
(a) through HSC                           60        60        60         60        60        60        60
(b) through Standposts                    30        30        30         30        30        30        30
Number of connections
- House Service Connections                          8470      9000      9750    10250    10750       11250     11500
- Standposts                                          442       449       456       463       471       477       485
- Non-domestic                                       1000      1150      1300      1400      1475      1500      1525
Revenue Collection Performance (Percent)               70        75        80        85         90        95       100
Staff Required for  O&M (Nos.)                         62        62        62        66         66        66        66
Trained O&M Staff (Nos.)                               25        31        37        46         53        59        66
Average No. of Connections per O&M staff              137       145       157       155        163       170       174
Net Revenue (Rs lakhs)                              54.47    64.60    77.50    91.93   109.21   129.27   151.89
Net Expenditure O&M (Rs lakhs)                      57.89    58.78    59.54    60.49    61.38         62.32    63.21
Net Income (Rs lakhs)                               -3.42      5.82    17.96    31.44    47.83    66.95    88.68
Average increase in population in project area 1.1% per year
Population in Service Area (1991 census)           148759
Projected Population for 1993/94                   153722
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                            25        25        25        25         25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                         24        24        24        24         24        24        24
No of users per household                             5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5        5.5       5.5
Average users per Standpost (Nos.)                    211       205       196       190        185       180       178
Non-domestic consumption (lpcd)                      1000      1000      1000      1000      1000       1000      1000
Average revenue from one connection per month (Rs.)
HSC             25    28.75    33.06    38.02    43.73    so.28    57.83
Standpost      875       875       875       875       875        875       875
ND              50    57.50    66.13    76.04    87.45   100.57   115.65



KERALA WATER AUTHORITY                           Annex 5
OPERATIONAL PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                 ------------
Page 5 of 10
QUILON WATER SUPPLY SCHEME (RURAL PORTION)
Year       1994/95   95/96    96/97    97/98       98/99     ?8/99   0OOO/o0
Population in Service Area (Nos.)                 276486   281463   296530   291687   296937   3022B2   307723
Population Coverage (Percent)                          90       90        90        90        90        90        90
Population Covered (Nos.)                         248838   253317   257877   262518   267244   272054   276951
Water Produced (Mld)                                11.28    12.54    13.10    13.60    13.95    14.31    14.66
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                            25       25        25        25        25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                         24       24        24        24        24        24        24
Average Water Supply (lpcd)
(a) through HSC                           60        60        60        60        60        60        60
(b) through Standposts                    30        30        30        30        30        30        30
Number of connections
- House Service Connections                         3000      6400      6600      6800      6950      7100      7200
- Standposts                                         580       600       620       640       655       670       685
- Non-domestic                                       500       750      1000      1200      1300      1400      1500
Revenue Collection Performance (Percentl               70       75        80        85        90        95       100
Staff Required for  O&M (Nos.)                         52       52        52        56        56        56        56
Trained O&M Staff (Nos.)                               21       26        31        39        45        50        56
Average No. of Connections per OM staff               58      123       127       121       124       127       129
Net Revenue (Rs lakhs)                              51.03    67.69    79.38    92.80   107.00   123.58   142.70
Net Expenditure O&M (Rs lakhs)                      37.50    43.13    49.58    57.03    65.60    75.43    86.74
Net Income (Rs lakhs)                               13.53    24.56    29.80    35.77    41.40    48.15    55.96
Average increase in population in project area 1.8% per year
Population in Service Area (1991 census)          257444
Pro3ected Population for 1993/94                  271598
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                            25       25        25        25        25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                         24       24        24        24        24        24        24
No of users per household                             5.5      5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5
Average users per Standpost (Nos.)                    401      364       357       352       350       348       346
Non-domestic consumption (lpcd)                      1000     1000      1000      1000      1000      1000      1000
Average revenue from one connection per month (Rs.)
HSC             25    28.75    33.06    38.02    43.73    50.28    57.83
Standpost      875       875       87s       875       875       875       875
ND              50    57.50    66.13    76.04    87.45   100.57   115.65



67
KERALA WATER AUTHORITY                           Annex S
OPERATIONAL PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                 ----------
Page 6 of 10
CHITHARA WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
Year       1994/95   95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99   99/2000  2000/01
Population in Service Area (Nos.)                 126988   128385   129797   131225   132668   134128   135603
Population Coverage (Percent)                          90        90       90        90        90        90        90
Population Covered (Nos.)                         114289   115547   116818   118103   119402   120715   122043
Water Produced (Mld)                                 7.11     7.35      7.54      7.79      7.93      8.04      8.14
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                            25        25       25        25        25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                         24        24       24        24        24        24        24
Average Water Supply (lpcd)
(a) through HSC                           60        60        60        60        60        60        60
(b) through Standposts                    30        30        30        30        30        30        30
Number of connections
- House Service Connections                         6700      7250      7750      8500      8800      9000      9170
- Standposts                                         228       235       245       255       265       275       285
- Non-domestic                                       800       850       875       900       910       920       930
Revenue Collection Performance (Percent)               70        75       80        85        90        95       100
Staff Required for  O&M (Non.)                         48        48       48        52        52        52        52
Trained O0M Staff (Nos.)                               19        24       29        36        42        47        52
Average No. of Connections per O&M staff              140       151       161      163       169       173       176
Net Revenue (Rs lakhn)                              34.19    41.66    50.73    62.70    75.19    89.57   106.46
Net Expenditure OLM (Rs lakhe)                      38.88    42.90    47.20    51.90    57.00    62.70    69.00
Net Income (Rs lakhs)                               -4.69    -1.24      3.53    10.80    18.19    26.87    37.46
Average increase in population in project area 1.1% per year
Population in Service Area (1991 census)          121551
Projected Population for 1993/94                  125606
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                            25        25        25       25        25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                         24        24       24        24        24        24        24
No of users per household                             5.5       5.5      5.5       s.s       5.S       5.5       5.5
Average users per Standpost (Nos.)                    340       322       303      280       268       259       251
Non-domestic consumption (lpcd)                      1000      1000     1000      1000      1000      1000      1000
Average revenue from one connection per month (Rs.)
HSC             25    28.75    33.06    38.02    43.73    50.28    57.83
Standpost      875       875       875       875       875       875       875
ND              50    57.50    66.13    76.04    87.45   100.57   115.65
.  .v 



63
KERALA WATER AUTHORITY                          Annex S
OPERATIONAL PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                ------------
Page 7 of 10
VILAPPIL WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
Year      1994/95   95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99   99/2000  2000/01
Population in Service Area (Nos.)                  29689    30046    30406    30771    31140    31514    31892
Population Coverage (Percent)                         90        90       90        90        90        90        90
Population Covered (Nos.)                          26720    27041    27366    27694    28026    28363    28703
Water Produced (Mld)                                1.29      1.36     1.43      1.48      1.55      1.60      1.66
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                           25        25       25        25        25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                        24        24       24        24        24        24        24
Average Water Supply (lpcd)
(a) through HSC                           60       60        60        60       60        60        60
(b) through Standposts                    30       30        30        30       30        30        30
Number of connections
- House Service Connections                          550      680       850       980      1140      1280      1400
- Standposts                                         181      185       185       185       1S5       185       185
- Non-domestic                                        75       100      110       120       130       140       150
Revenue Collection Performance (Percent)              70        75       80        85        90        95       100
Staff Required for  OM (Nos.)                        26        26       26        26        26        26        26
Trained OM Staff (Non.)                              10        13       16        18        21        23        26
Average No. of Connections per O&M staff              21        26       33        38        44        49        54
Net Revenue (Rs lakhs)                             14.77    16.85    18.94    21.24    24.09    27.40    31.22
Not Expenditure OiM (Rs lakhs)                      9.So    10.93    12.57    14.46    16.63    19.12    22.00
Net Income (Rs lakhJ)                               5.27      5.92     6.37      6.78      7.46      8.28      9.22
Average increase in population in project area 1.2% per year
Population in Service Area (1991 census)           28306
Projected Population for 1993/94                   29337
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                           25        25       25        25        25        25        2S
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                        24        24       24        24        24        24        24
No of users per household                            5.5       5.5      5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5
Average users per Standpost (Non.)                   131       126      123       121       118       115       114
Non-domestic consumption (ipcd)                     1000      1000     1000      1000      1000      1000      1000
Average revenue from one connection per month (Rs.)
HSC             25    28.75    33.06    38.02    43.73    50.28    57.83
Standpost      875      875       875       875       875      875       875
ND              50    57.S0    66.13    76.04    87.45   100.57   115.65



69
KERALA WATER AUTHORITY                            Annex 5
OPERATIONAPERFORMANCE INDICATORS                             ------------
Page 8 of 10
QUILON WATER SUPPLY SCHEME (URBAN PORTION)
Year       1994/95   95/96      96/97    97/98    98/99   99/2000  2000/01
Population in Service Area (Nos.)                  145531   146986   148456   149940   151440   152954    154484
Population Coverage (Percent)                          90        90        90        90        90         90        90
Population Covered (Nos.)                          130977   132287   133610   134946   136296   137659   139035
Water Produced (Mld)                                10.78    16.06    19.30    20.51    21.64    24.01    24.80
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                            25        25        25        25         25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                         24        24        24        24         24        24        24
Average Water Supply (lpcd)
(a) through HSC                            60       60         75        75        75        85        85
(b) through Standposts                     30       30         30        30        30        30        30
Number of connections
- House Service Connections                          7000    12600      14000     1S500     16725    17775      18775
- Standposts                                          540       500       460       420       400       385        375
- Non-domestic                                       3000      6000      7000      7500      8000      8500      8750
Revenue Collection Performance (Percent)               70        75        80        85         90        95       100
Staff Required for  OM (Nos.)                         98        98        98       102       102        102       102
Trained O&M Staff (Nos.)                               39        49        59        71         82        92       102
Average No. of Connections per O&M staff               71       129       143       152       164        174       184
Net Revenue (Rs lakhs)                              98.66   148.86   182.45   222.67   274.49   338.53   415.08
Net Expenditure OM (Rs lakha)                     112.50   129.38   148.73   171.08   196.80   226.28   260.22
Net Income (Rs lakhs)                              -13.84    19,48    33.72    51.59    77.69   112.25   154.86
Average increase in population in project area 1i per year
Population in Service Area (1991 census)           139852
Projected Population for 1993/94                   144090
Non-Revenue Water (Percent)                            25        25        25        25         25        25        25
Duration of Water Supply (Hrs)                         24        24        24        24         24        24        24
No of users per household                             5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5        5.5
Average users per Standpost (Nos.)                    171       126       123       128       111        104        95
Non-domestic consumption (lpcd)                      1000      1000      1000      1000      1000      1000       1000
Average revenue from one connection per month (Rs.)
HSC             45    51.75    59.51    68.44    78.71    90.51   104.09
Standpost    1314       1314      1314      1314      1314      1314      1314
ND              50    57.50    66.13    76.04    87.45   100.57   115.65



70
GOVERNMENT OF KERALA                           Annex 5
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                          Page 9 of 10
LOW COST SANITATION PROGRAM: URBAN (PROJECT MUNICIPALITIES)
Year       1994/95   95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99   99/2000  2000/01
Latrines Required (Nos.)                             2211
Latrines Constructed (Nos.)                         13941    13941    13941    13941    13941    13941    13941
Latrines Functioning (%)                               90       100       100       100      100       100       100
Latrines in actual Use (6)                             90       100       100      100       100       100       100
Awareness/Education                                    15        15        15        15        15       15        15
Campaign Held (Nos.)
Use and maintenance                                 13941      -         -       13941      -         -        13941
Booklet distributed (Nos.)
Households where first pit                           2449      3806      1205       762      763       146       323
filled and has been changed (nos.)
Households where digested                            -         -         -        2449      3806      1205       762
Contents of first pit have
been removed (Nos.)
Water Quality/Pollution                                15        30        60        60       60        60        60
Checks conducted (Nos.)
Collection of Loan                                     40        60        80      100       100       100       100
Repayment due (%)



7'
GOVERNMENT OF KERALA                           Annex 5
PERFORKANCE INDICATORS                          Page 10 of 10
LOW COST SANITATION PROGRAM: RURAL (PROJECT PANCHAYATS)
Year      1994/95   95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99   99/2000  2000/01
Latrines Required (Nos.)                             3260     -         -         -         -        -         -
Latrines Constructed (Nos.)                         16000    16000    16000    16000    16000    16000    16000
Latrines Functioning (I)                               80       90       100       100       100      100       100
Latrines in actual Use (1)                             80       90       100       100       100      100       100
Awareness/Education                                    32       32        32        32        32        32       32
Campaign Held (Nos.)
Use and maintenance                                 16000     -         -        16000      -        -        16000
Booklet distributed (Nos.)
Households where first pit                           2500     4506       744       431       174        83      269
filled and has been changed (nos.)
Households where digested                            -        -         -         2500      4506      744       431
Contents of first pit have
been removed (Nos.)
Water Quality/Pollution                                32       64       128       128       128       128      128
checks conducted (Nos.)
Collection of Loan                                     40       60        80       100       100       100      100
Repayment due (1)



72
Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
a:Aam\annex-6.wkl
INDIA: KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT. Cr. 1622-IN
Implementation Completion Reporting Mission: 04-16 July 1994
SCHEDULE OF KEY PEOPLE MET BY THE MISSION
GOK Sectt.  Mr. N.V. Madhavan, Secretary (Water Supply) & Chairman KWA
- S. Subbiah, Additional Secretary, Local Adm. Department
Mr. K. Mohandas, Secretary, Local Administration Department
- Mr. Kamal Kutty, Director, Municipal Administration
- Mr. Narayanan. Joint Director
- Mr. Keshavan, Director, Panchayats
- Mr. Divakaran, Joint Director
KWA         Mr. M.P. Mohan, Managing Director
KWA         Mr. A. K. Sadanandan, Technical Memrer
KWA         Mr. P.R. Nair, Chief Engineer (South)
KWA         Mr. A. Arunachalam, Deputy Chief Engineer, PMU
KWA         - Mr. K.G. Padmanabhan Nair, Executive Engineer, PMU
KWA         Mr. K.P. Thankappan, Director, KWA Training Center
KWA         Mr. V. Kurian, Accounts Member
KWA         Mr. M. Ganesan, Finance Manager & Chief Accounts Officer
KWA         Mr. P. Venugopal, Superintending Engineer, Kochi
KWA         - Mr. T.K. Raghunathan, Executive Engineer, Kochi
KWA         - Mr. K.K. Mathew, Executive Engineer. Kochi
KWA         Mr. S. Manikantan Nair. Superintending Engineer. Kottayam
KWA         - Mr. P.R. Dharmaraja lyer, Executive Engineer, Kottayam
KWA         Mr. G.K. Keshavaiyer, Superintending Engineer, Quilon
KWA         - Mr. J.T. Karingada. Executive Engineer, Adoor
KWA         - Mr. Nair, Quilon
KWVA        - Mr. K. Padmanabhan, Executive Engineer, Chithara
KWA         Mr. Satish, Superintending Engineer, Trivandrum
KWA         - Mr. Sahadeva, Executive Engineer. Vilappil



73
APPeDIX B
Page 1 of 9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA KERALA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1 622-IN)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    Introduction
The United Nations have designated the decade 1981-1991 as the International Drinking
Water supply and Sanitation Decade, the goal being access to safe water and sanitation to all
communities by the year 1990. GOI had committed to this decade program sponsored by United
Nations and.had prepared objectives and targets. One of the objectives was "coverage of 100% of
rural population with basic mninimum needs of safe water supply and coverage of 25 % of rural
population with sanitary toilets, by the year 2000". But the financial constraints prompted GOI to
explore the possible means of mobilizing additional financial resources by way of Bilateral assistance
from Dutch and Danida and loan assistance from the WB etc. The WB came forward to extend loan
assistance to Water Supply and Sewerage sector in addition to other developmental activities. For this
purpose, in Kerala the erstwhile Public Health Engineering Departmnent was converted to Kerala
Water and Waste Authority, an autonomous organization on 1st April 1984. The organization was
later on renamed as Kerala Water Authority. To achieve the targets of International Water Supply
and Sanitation Decade, several water supply schemes were formulated and posed to the WB. The
WB identification mission in October 1983, pre-appraisal mission in 1984 had discussed and decided
to finance the Kerala Water Supply & Sanitation Project (KWSSP). The original credit was to the
tune of 42.7 million SDR which was later reduced to 22.7 million SDR by the Bank.
2.     Proiect Objectives
2.01   The objectives of the project were:
(a)   to provide piped water supplies to about one million people residing in rural
areas;
(b)   to increase the supply of water and to extend the distribution facilities in
selected urban area to about 150,000 people;
(c)   to introduce low-cost on-site sanitation facilities and finance their construction
so as to benefit about 200,000 people residing in ten selected urban areas and
undertake a similar pilot program for low-cost sanitation in selected rural areas; and
(d)   to assist in strengthening the operational and financial roles of KWA by
promoting manpower development, operational efficiency (through the reduction of
water wastage and improved central services), sound financial management and
improved centralized services.
2.02   The project was appraised as the Five Year investment program of KWA. The principal
project components are:



74
APPB\DIX B
Page 2 of 9
Part A:      Water Supply Systems to four rural stable areas viz. Puthencruz.
Adoor, Chithara, and Vilappil and to three rural developing areas viz.
GCDA. Kottayam and Quilon panchayats.
Part B:      Augment the water supply to Quilon Municipality.
Part C:      Low-Cost sanitation facilities to about ten towns which have been
selected under the project.
Part D:       Low-Cost sanitation facilities to selected rural areas in Kerala.
Part E:      Technical Assistance to KWA.
Part F: Establishment of Revolving Fund to provide loan to assist low income
households.
2.03   The implementing agency for the proposed project except for the LCS component is KWA.
The objective of the LCS component was to introduce hygienic way of living at least to a portion of
Urban & Rural population of low income group. DMA and DP are the implementing agencies for
LCS in urban and rural areas respectively.
3.    Achievement of Proiect Obiectives
3.01   The project was apprised in 1985 with completion date as 31st March 1990. The scheduled
completion date was extended up to 3 1st March 1994. The achievements as on closing date were as
follows:
3.02   Water SuIplY Schemes
(i)    Water supply scheme to Puthencruz was commenced in June 1986 and commissioned in
January 1993 as per original proposal. The scheme including the distribution extension, which was
included later within the project scope, was commissioned in March 1994. 650 House Service
Connections and 372 Public Stand Posts were installed in the project area.
(ii)    Water supply scheme to Vilappil was commenced in June 1987 and commissioned in January
1992 as per original proposal. The scheme as fully commissioned in March 1994 including the
extension of distribution system, additionally included. 500 House Service connections and 181
Public Stand Posts were installed.
(iii)   Water Supply scheme to Adoor was commenced in May 1986. At the closing date. the
scheme was in advanced stages of commissioning. Even though the scheme is not commissioned,
trial run have been commenced.
(iv)   Water supply scheme to Chithara was commenced in June 1986. At the closing date. the
scheme was in advanced stages of commissioning by completing 94% works.
(v)    Water supply scheme to rural developing areas of GCDA was started in June 1986. Water
Treatment Plant of the scheme was commissioned in May 1993. At the closing date, 75% of 5
Panchayats in the scheme area were receiving drinking water. Trial run was done in three
panchayats. For the remaining 4 panchayats, supply of water could be done by 31st July 1994. 648
Public Stand Posts were installed in different locations. Some of the components like Champakara
Canal Crossing, OH Tank at Chellanam and distribution extension were not completed.
(vi)   Water supply scheme to rural developing areas of Kottayam was started in June 1987. At the
closing date, all the works except some portions of distribution extension works were completed.



75
APPBOIX B
Page 3 of 9
Pumping of clear water to 2 out of the 4 reservoirs was done and distribution networks through these
two reservoirs were charged. Charging of the other reservoirs and their distribution networks were in
progress. Trial run of the scheme was in progress.
(vii)   Water supply scheme to rural developing areas and municipal areas of Quilon was started in
May 1986. At the closing date, 86% of the works were completed.
3.03   Low Cost Sanitation
(i)    Urban: Original proposal was to construct 25,631 latrines in 10 selected towns under Part C
of the project. This target was subsequently revised as 13,941 latrines in 15 selected towns. As on
closing date, 11,730 latrines benefitting 70380 population were constructed and the remaining were
under construction.
(ii)    Rural: As per Part D of the project, construction of 30,000 latrines in 60 selected panchayats
were envisaged. The target was subsequently revised as 16,000 latrines in 32 selected panchayats.
At the closing date, 12,740 latrines were constructed and the balance were under construction. The
population benefitted by the latrines already constructed was 76,400.
The design followed for the low cost latrine is that followed by the UNDP design of two-pit
latrines. Model latrines were constructed at different places in the State inviting selected
beneficiaries, masons and other technical staff and these groups were given training on site. Rural
women showed appreciable interest and involvement in the program.
3.04   Technical Assistance
(i)    With the assistance of consultants, new accounting system has been successfully introduced in
KWA and all accounts for 1987-88 and thereafter are being maintained on an accrual basis. A related
MIS has also been developed. An effective project monitoring and management system from the
support of consultants was introduced and was made operational. Cost & Revenue Study was
conducted and during the period of study, the existing anomalies in the tariff structure were removed
by enforcing tariff increase with effect from 1st October 1991 by which the tariff throughout the State
was unified. Based on the recommendations of the Cost & Revenue Study, revised tariff for water
was enforced with effect from 1st June 1993. This tariff rate is subject to 15% increase every year
which will be enforced automatically, by order. By the introduction of new accounting systern and
project monitoring system in KWA and with the enforcement of new tariffs, physical and financial
position of KWA was improved. All covenanted consultancy services viz. Accrual Accounting
System Study, Cost & Revenue Study and Training Study have been completed. Consultants' services
to prepare a possible Kerala Urban Development Project (KUDP), which was subsequently included
in the project scope during June 1992, were in advanced stages of completion.
(ii)    Bulk water meters as envisaged were procured and installed in the project area.38,500 nos.
domestic water meters out of the 113,921 nos. ordered, were received. The installation of these
meters has been stayed by the High Court of Kerala based on a case filed by one of the meter repair
workshops under contract with KWA. The matter is expected to be sorted out shortly.
(iii)   Computers as envisaged were procured and were put in use. All vehicles (except jeeps 3
nos.) as planned, survey equipments, facsimile machines, cash registers and photocopiers were
procured and all were put in use. Meter workshops and leak detection units were formed on
experimental basis.



76
APPBDIX B
Page 4 of 9
3.05   Training
In-house training courses (50 types numbering to 305 nos.) as per Consultants' suggestions
were effectively conducted to the staff by which operational. financial and managerial performance of
KWA improved substantially.
3.06   Revolving Fund Connections
Earnest attempts were made in the Water Supply Project areas to introduce the "Revolving
Fund Connections" under Part F of the project. Public response to this was found to be far from
encouraging and so Revolving Fund could not be made operative.
3.07   In summary, most of the project objectives were in various stages of achievement. Had the
project extension up to 30th September 1994 been granted, goals of the project would have been
fully achieved.
4.    Implementation record and major factors affecting the project
4.01   The project, originally estimated to cost Rs. 936.60 million was revised to Rs. 1278.80
million during June 1992. The devaluation of Rupees from about Rs. 11.00 to about Rs. 31.00
equivalent to one US $ created an opportunity to spend more money on the scheme. Hence minor
adjustments to the project scope such as extensions to distribution systems of water supply schemes,
procurement of additional computers, consultancy services to prepare a possible Kerala Urban
Development Project (KUDP), to update fixed assets register, to audit consumer ledger, to assess
dues from local bodies etc. were also taken up by revising the cost estimate to Rs. 1278.80 million.
Even though the Credit was reduced to 22.7 million SDR from 42.7 mrillion SDR, due to the above
reason, the original scope of the Project was not affected.
4.02   From 1986-87 onwards, GOK earmarked certain allocations in the budget for the
implementation of WB schemes. WB reimbursement is approximately 50% of the project cost againsm
statements of expenditure sent by KWA.
4.03   At the closing date, two out of the seven water supply schemes were commissioned and other
water supply schemes were in advanced stages of commissioning. About 85 % achievement has been
made in other components of the project except for the Revolving Fund Connections.
4.04   The project schedule was optimistic and project extensions totalling three years were
sanctioned. At closing date, the project objectives as envisaged could not be achieved fully. The
reasons for the delay in implementation were:
(i)    difficulties in land acquisition;
(ii)   unexpected rains and floods during monsoons twice in a year caused delay in execution of
works;
(iii)  inadequate counterpart funding and delays in the release of funds during the earlier years;
(iv)   delay in decision making due to constraints in rules and procedures;
(v)    procurement of materials in a centralized system as per normal procedures;
(vi)   subsequent increases in the project scope;
(vii)  substantial loss of the professional time in preparing prop,osals for restructuring the project
scope to accommodate uncompleted water supply schemes executed with the assistance of the



APPBaDIX B
Page 5 of 9
LIC and frustration caused by the Bank's non-acceptance of the proposals after a protracted
dialogue;
(viii)WB insistence for single responsibility contracts for distribution
extension;
(ix)   delays in getting power connection and also sanction from PWD for cutting open roadway to
make trenches,
(x)    dual control for the LCS component etc.
4.05   The delay was also due to award of a number of contracts, especially turnkey type contracts,
to a single contractor based on lowest price offer as per rules and regulations for award of contracts
existing in the State. Since the contractor was unable to concentrate upon a particular work due to
overload, the completion was delayed.
4.06   Delay was also due to procedures of awarding the contracts with less delegation of powers at
lower level.
5.    Project Sustainability
5.01   The sustainability mainly depends on the financial status of KWA. The sources of funds are
the revenue from water charges and from GOK's budget allocation. Tariff revision with removal of
free allowance has been effected in October 1991. The tariff was further revised by 50% and an
automatic annual increase of 15% in water charges has been adopted effective from 1st June 1993.
Urban and Rural Stand Post Charges have also been introduced effective from 1st October 1991. A
proposal for Sewerage Tax is being considered for towns with sewerage system. On commissioning
of the water supply schemes now in progress, including the 7 schemes taken up under this project, the
financial position of KWA would further be improved with the increase in House Service Connections
and Public Stand Posts. An all out effort in reducing the 0 & M cost is contemplated. Energy Audit
of HT/EHT installations is proposed to be conducted to determine the causes of energy losses and
reduction of such losses. Also, it is expected that Operation costs of water treatment plants could be
reduced by proper determination of chemical dosage and control of it. KWA has plans to set up
regional and district level laboratories and more R & D interventions to fulfil this objective.
5.02   Above all it is very much essential that proper staff for Operation & Maintenance of the
schemes are to be posted when the schemes are commissioned. Also the staff posted for Operation
should have sufficient training in Operation. KWA & GOK will take necessary action on these
aspects. The training program in KWA should continue and KWA is hopeful to find resources from
budget provision to sustain the program.
5.03   Regarding sustainability of Low Cost Sanitation keeping its future maintenance in view, the
Director of Panchayats issued two detailed instructions:
(i)    detailing the very important points to be looked into while the construction is going on and
(ii)   insisting on the main aspects to be followed with regard to the use and maintenance of
latrines.
It was felt that the second aspect could be better implemented only if the womenfolk were
made well aware of the scheme and its benefits. This is being achieved with the help and
involvement of "Mahila Samajams" which are organizations of local women and by the active
involvement of the Panchayat members.
6.    Bank Performance



APPBDDIX B
Page 6 of 9
6.01   KWA acknowledges the guidance and support it received from the World Bank officials in
strengthening the Physical. Financial and Institutional aspects of the Authority. The State has accrued
the benefit of seven major Water Supply Schemes through WB assistance. Of these. 2 schemes were
comrnissioned within the closing date and others were in final stages of commissioning.
6.02   The contribution of the WB in introduction of accrual accounting system in KWA and in
strengthening of the Finance wing through additional posts are particularly noteworthy.
6.03   The association with the WB has modernized KWA to the extent that modem day equipments
like Fax could be introduced in KWA. Further. KWA was able to make substantial headway in
computerization because of support from WB. The systems and procedures adopted for Project
Monitoring has also been helpful.
6.04   WB assistance has been particularly significant in the area of in-house training. The setting
up of a training unit has contributed immensely to organizational development of KWA. But KWA's
repeated attempts to include development of infrastructure facilities such as Training Centre Building,
laboratories, workshops, library etc. for training were persistently turned down by the WB. Lack of
these facilities resulted in rendering the training courses conducted not to the expected standard and
will continue as a setback until it is remedied through other sources. As a policy, infrastructure
development should forerun training activities.
6.05   KWA has gained financially to the extent that Consultancy studies carried out under assistance
from the Board and the WB's insistence on implementation of the recommendations led to revision of
water charges twice during the period of Credit i.e. 1/10/1991 and 1/6/1993 and also provided for
annual increase by 15%.
6.06   The Review Missions should have spent a larger proportion of time in field visits. This
would have resulted in better appreciation of the problems of various projects and facilitated removal
of obstacles to timely completion of projects. The missions were unwilling to move around and see
things and interact with the Officers in charge at the sites to get a clear perspective.
6.07   The WB suggestion to finance 12 uncompleted Water Supply Schemes earlier financed by the
Life Insurance Corporation led promised assistance did not materialize. This has led to inordinate
delay in completion of these schemes and also cost escalation. It is not understood why the WB
finally declined the proposal. The delay of the Bank in decision making rendered the time and
resources spent by KWA in preparing restructuring proposals infructuous, which also created
disillusionment among the KWA Officers.
6.08   The cancellation of KUDP, studies for which were financed under KWSSP, was also
disappointing. These studies were undertaken at substantial cost with the hope of obtaining WB
assistance. It would be impossible to finance this project without assistance from financial
institutions. The resources spent on KUDP could have been more fruitfully utilized in other sectors
of the State's economy if the Bank had not given high hopes on the prospective improvements in the
much needed water supply sector, which was subsequently turned down by the Bank.
6.09   WB should have also reviewed more effectively the flow of funds from GOI to GOK and to
the KWA. This would have speeded up the transfer of funds and consequently enabled completion of
schemes on time.



79
APPENDIX B
Page 7 of 9
6.10   The suo moto offer of extension of Credit closing date by six months from 31/3/94 reduced
the momentum gained in completion of various schemes within the Credit closing date. Though the
project was originally envisaged to be completed by 1990, it was quite evident at that time that the
completion of project would take another three to four years. Yet the WB was offering piecemeal
extensions of short durations every time. This created uncertainty in WB support resulting in delay
for arranging works. Had the total extension been in a single lot, the progress could have been much
better. The results of certain movements from WB side were considered as very positive until they
themselves withdraw their promises and new initiatives. The frequent, long missions were taking lot
of valuable time of many manmonths of very senior level officers every year. Some of these mission
activities were very fruitless according to us.
6.11   WB insisted to have elaborate bidding documents for Supply & Lay contracts even for smaller
portions of the project contrary to the procurement methods adopted earlier. This sudden departure
from the adopted practice of KWA consumed much time. The results were also not more productive.
6.12   IDA procurement procedures were different from normal procedures of KWA and contributed
to significant delay in project execution. Also, WB has a tendency to insist for consultancy services
for each and every action. For an organization like KWA with sufficient engineering and
management capabilities, consultant recruitment should be selective and used to fill in the gaps only,
and not as a routine. Some of the consultancies turned out to be fruitless. Consultancies alter the
nature of functioning of KWA, which has sufficient infrastructure to undertake such works.
6.13   The category-wise disbursement adopted by the WB was found to be too complex. If the
disbursement was a certain percentage of the expended amount, it would have been much easier for
preparing the disbursement applications. A seminnr on Disbursement procedures was conducted by
the Planning Board in January 1994 in Trivandrum with the participation of the WB, which was at the
fag end of the project period. If such a seminar was held at the beginning of the project, it would
have been much useful. The Credit disbursement is very low considering the burden of KWA/GOK.
A cost - benefit analysis may be worthwhile for future co-operation.
6.14   Detailed Engineering reports were not prepared for the schemes during the appraisal period of
the WB mission. As such, the initial period of execution passed off in preparing DER causing delay
in completion of the project. If the conmmencement of project implementation was set after finalizing
the DER, the presently seen pseudo-delay could have been avoided or at least lessened.
7.     Borrower Performance
7.01   KWA took time to familiarize with IDA procedures and requirements. This led to delays in
several cases. Despite this, most of the objectives of the Credit have been achieved as mentioned in
para 2.
7.02   KWA had to execute the project within the framework of all existing Rules and Regulations
including the economy measures ordered by GOK. This virtually delayed key decisions, often for no
fault of KWA. If a separate setup had been envisaged for tender processing/sanction as far as WB
schemes were concerned, it would have facilitated quicker decision making.
7.03   There was too frequent transfers of officers engaged in project execution. This led to
consequent delays in project completion.



c 0
APPB'DIX B
Page 8 of 9
7.04   In spite of all the above bottlenecks KWA could commission two of the seven Water Supply
Schemes and the five other schemes were in the final stages of commissioning. Moreover, by the
establishment of a Training Centre of its own, KWA could conduct 50 variety of training courses
numbering to 305 since the inception of the Training Centre during the project period wherein 4399
staff members were imparted training.
8.     Assessment of Outcome
8.01   The project was aimed at strengthening of physical, financial and institutional aspects of
KWA. As far as physical and institutional aspects are concerned, the achievement is satisfactory.
But the position is expected to improve on commissioning of the water supply schemes now in hand.
Manpower development through training implementation is highly satisfactory. Through centralized
services, there was overall performance improvement in KWA.
8.02   The improvements in the accounting aspects were substantial. The conversion of Government
system of accounts into Accrual Accounting system was one of the major achievements. Computers
could be extensively used in the compilation of accounts and in many other areas. The Annual
accounts could be finalized quickly and it is almost up to date. The various consultancy studies have
revealed the need for strengthening the Finance & Accounts department. As a result, apart from
recruiting professional accountants in key posts, the KWA Board now has an Accounts Member.
9.     Future Operation
The Operation & Maintenance of the project will be done by utilizing the existing facilities of
KWA. For the two already commissioned schemes, sufficient staff has been positioned for 0 & M.
Definite norms are prevailing in KWA for 0 & M staff. According to these norms, future operation
would be undertaken by KWA. In addition to the financial resources from revenue, there would be
certain provision in the annual budget of GOK for these activities.
10.   Key Lessons Learned
10.01 Action Plan for project implementation, introduced by the WB in June 1992 was very much
useful for monitoring and achieving the target. If the Action Plan were drawn up at the initial stage
itself, it would have helped in avoiding delays by timely identification and sorting out of key issues
holding up progress. The system of drawing up Action Plans for monitoring can be implemented in
other projects of KWA.
10.02 Award of more than one contract, especially of major installations of different projects, to the
same contractor caused problems and resulting delays in implementation. If there were restrictions in
awarding more than one contract to a single contractor, this could have been avoided. KWA will
consider these aspects and will move for changing code rules.
10.03 For the implementation and monitoring of the project, selected, well-experienced staff will
have to be in charge throughout the project period.
10.04 In summary, even though the Kerala Water Authority could not fully achieve the entire targets
envisaged within the completion date, KWA has achieved enough to be proud of, this being its first
experience with the Bank.



81
APPENDIX B
Page 9 of 9
10.05 Regarding Low Cost Sanitation, the points to bear in mind when such projects are formulated
are:
(i)    Proper selection of beneficiary group and making available basic technical knowledge to them
well in advance by imparting proper training.
(ii)    The beneficiaries should be taken into confidence and all efforts should be made to convince
them that the project is means for them and their involvement is highly necessary and
(iii) The long term maintenance aspect should be explained to the beneficiary group, especially
awareness should reach the womenfolk.
10.06 GOK wishes to express its gratitude to the WB for the financial assistance received as well as
for the guidance and support given for the implementation of the project and for the multifaced
institutional developments that have been made possible during the project period. GOK is highly
hopeful that the Bank will come forward in rendering assistance for its future activities.
Signed N.V. Madhavan
SECRETARY TO GOVT. OF KERALA
IRRIGATION & WATER SUPPLY DEPARTMENT
NOTE: This contribution from the Government of Kerala has been received through the Department
of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India letter of 21 September 1994.



76'                                           77                                            78'
''rn
;   ) t_>INDIA
KozASArogo0;,        S }                                                                       KERALA WATER SUPPLY
AND SANITATION PROJECT
K A R N AT A K A                               LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Boundaries of KWWA Regions
\     KWWA Regionol Offices
Sub-Projects;
-12                       , \             /                                                               U      Urban Water Supply                      12
. \       .O Rural Water Supply Districts
Consoonre/ -        _                   0;                                           ^A     Low-Cost Sanitation (urban)
1,-.. '----*'                 n   ~~~~Selected Towws
Maio, Roads
.~BAOAGARA  10n?Iopo,dy-               Railways
kAD^1^RA   {Ko.lopody  _<                       Rivers
Distr,ct Boundaries
-   State Boundaries
'-   International Boundaries
KozhikodeNj       - '.
-11                                 ' PPU'tA                     '                                                                      lle~~~~~~~~~A 
PONNAN)    @
. . \4 '- 9'~'''@^ TAMIL NADU
HUR
GREA ERCTOCHI N
-10    SDEVELOPMENT AeA                                 N
C    MVA TUUH           on 
on on   o. ol A oP
'~~~~~~rvrdu                 VIIAPPIL<<   -
ALL  PE           g- Sn J
MAVE          llw RK   
76'\R   '7'
KIlOMETERS                                                                    o-
0   20      40       60      80      10 0\ A2lXA 
c                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TrivanrnI                         O
o   75                                        7O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'                              77                                            7 









- J : u ;
..! _ . _
: , - . 7: !
! *: ! _7' r
' . ' ! ! i :. 
!: ,                            . .. _                                ! . ' . ' :"
! .:            ',      ,             J                                     !
.l     ;         1   ._' \



