OFFICIAL IT NUMBER 1622 IN
DOCUME NTS
Kerala Agreement
(Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF KERALA
Dated                             , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1622 IN
KERALA AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated b L'9k $tld      7f         , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE
OF KERALA, acting by its Governor (Kerala).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-two million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 42,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Kerala
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Kerala, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Kerala declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
and cause to be carried out Parts C and D of the Project
described in said Schedule with due diligence and efficiency and
in   conformity  with   appropriate   administrative,  financial,
engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.


﻿-2-
(b) For the purpose of carrying out the Project, Kerala
shall make available to KWWA, Quilon and the Local Bodies the
proceeds of the Development Credit made available to it by the
Borrower under financial arrangements which shall provide, inter
alia, for a loan in an amount in Rs equivalent to $19,000,000 to
be repayable over a period of 25 years, including a grace period
of 5 years, and bearing interest at the rate of not less than
(8.75%) per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and outstand-
ing from time to time.
(c) Kerala shall exercise its rights under the preceeding
financial arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Association and Kerala and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, Kerala shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. Kerala shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Kerala
Agreement and Parts C and D of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Kerala shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of its Parts of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Kerala shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of its Parts of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Kerala of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. Kerala shall ensure that the KWWA is fully
staffed and all senior posts are sanctioned and filled by Octo-
ber 15, 1985.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. By December 31, 1985, Kerala shall cause, all
Local Bodies participating in carry4ta out Parts (C) and (D) of
the Project to pass by-laws, satisfactory to the Association, to
regulate the construction of low-cost sanitation units and to
restrict their use to areas where the pollution of water sources
will not result therefrom.
Section 2.07. Kerala shall provide the necessary legal cover
to maintain KWWA's legal status, powers and functions sub-
stantially as vested in it by virtue of the Ordinance.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Kerala shall cause Quilon to:
(a) set up a separate cell for monitoring and reporting of
its water supply sector's accounts by October 15, 1985;
(b) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with accrual accounting practices its operations and
financial condition pertaining to its water supply sector;
(c)  (i) have   said   accounts  and   financial  statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each financial year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Associaticn as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
said financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request;


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. Kerala shall ensure that: (a) expenditures and
cost recovery accounts for Parts C and D of the Project are
maintained; (b) have said accounts audited by independent
auditors, acceptable to the Association; and (c) have said
audited accounts furnished to the Association not later than nine
months after the end of each financial year, beginning FY 1987.
Section 3.03. Kerala shall cause the Local Bodies to take
responsibility   for  the   cost  recovery   from  the   household
beneficiaries under Parts C and D of the Project, in accordance
with the Action Plan.
Section 3.04. In accordance with the terms set out in Annex
1 to this Agreement, Kerala shall, not later than December 31,
1987;
(a) cause Quilon to implement an interim tariff increase;
and
(b) implement an interim tariff increase in KWWA service
area and in respect of the bulk rate to Cochin.
Section 3.05. Kerala shall: (a) by December 31, 1987 initi-
ate a cost and revenue study in KWWA's service area and Quilon;
and (b) by April 1, 1990, cause and enable KWWA to adopt appro-
priate new tariffs taking into consideration the findings of said
study.
Section 3.06. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, Kerala shall cause and enable:
(i) Quilon to make such suitable adjustments to water
supply tariffs as shall be required to produce
each financial year, beginning FY 1991 and there-
after, revenues sufficient to cover all its oper-
ation and maintenance costs, and debt service
requirement on its debt outstanding from its water
supply operations;
(ii) Local Bodies referred to in Part A.2 of the Pro-
ject to make such suitable adjustments to water
supply tariffs as shall be required to produce in
each financial year, beginning FY 1991 and there-
after, revenues sufficient to cover all their
operation and maintenance costs, and debt service
requirement on their debt outstanding from their
water supply operations; and


﻿-5-
(iii) Local Bodies referred to in Part A.1 of the Pro-
ject to make such suitable adjustments to water
supply tariffs as shall be required to produce in
each financial year, beginning FY 1990 and there-
after, revenues sufficient to cover all their
operation and maintenance costs.
(b) Kerala shall undertake to compensate KWWA for any
shortfall  in   revenues  on   account  of   its  operations  and
maintenance, and debt service requirement, for the financial
years 1986 through 1989.
(c) For the purposes of this Section, the following terms
have the following meanings only with respect to water supply
operations:
(i) "revenues" means gross revenues from all sources
less provision for uncollectable accounts;
(ii) "operation and maintenance costs" means all costs
incurred on account of operations, including
expenses of administration, adequate maintenance
and taxes or any payments in lieu of taxes, if
any, excluding provision of depreciation, and
interest and other charges on debt; and
(iii) "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund
payments, if any), interest and other charges on
debt.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Kerala thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:


﻿-6-
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Kerala of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For State of Kerala:
Chief Secretary
Government of Kerala
Secretariat
Trivandrum, Kerala, India


﻿-7-
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Trivandrum
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Kerala, may be taken or executed by the
Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as the Chief
Secretary shall designate in writing, and Kerala shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                         W,96/vt
 I                 Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF KERALA
By/Authoridereti
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
ANNEX 1
INTERIM TARIFF INCREASE
(Metered rates in Rs/1000 liters)
Domestic           Commercial
KWWA service area                0.60                 1.20
Quilon Municipality              0.60                 1.20
Bulk rate
Cochin Municipality             0.25


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198                          S   R.
FOR SECRETARY


