Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
C R'. ,sv- xz r
Report No. 4937a-ET
ETHIO!-A
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
August 8, 1984
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their ofticia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Birr  =  USS0.483                      US$1  =  Birr 2.07
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric)
ABBREVIATIONS
CIMMYT    -     International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
GUE       -     Government of Ethiopia
IAR       -     Institute of Agricultural Research
ICARDA    -     International Center for Agricultural Research
in the Dry Areas
ICktISAT   -    International Crops Research Institute for the
Semi-Arid Tropics
IORC      -     International Development Research Center
ILCA      -     International Livestock Center for Africa
MOA       -     Ministry of Agriculture
PADEP     -     Peasant Agricultural Development Program
SAFGRAD   -     Semi-Arid Food Grain Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Ethiopia
July 8 - July 7



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                       i - ii
Chapter I - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Background . . . .                                             1
Natural Resources                          .    .    .1
Crops    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
Livestock  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     3
Land Tenure and Farmer Organization  . . . . . . . . . . .     4
Agricultural Agencies and Services . . . . . . . . . . . .     4
Production Policy  .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     7
Bank Group Lending for Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . .     7
Chapter II - THE INSTITUTE OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH  . . . . .     8
History    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  8
Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     8
audget  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
Research Program Planning and Review . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Other organizations Conducting Research  . . . . . . . . .    11
Straff    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
Research Stations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Infrastructure and Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Status of Research   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .     14
IAR Linkage with MOA at FieldLevel  . . . . . . .  . .        16
Chapter III - THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     17
A.  Project Genesis  . . . . . . . . .                    .       17
B.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Brief Discussion . . . .    17
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. G. Stern and Ms. M. Greene (IDA), Messrs. J. Kulski and M. Linder
(Consultants), assisted by staff from CIMMYT, ICARDA, ICRISAT/SAFGRAD and
ILCA, that visited Ethiopia during June/July 1983.
This document ha a restuicted distrbution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pa.ge No.
C. Detailed Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Field Crop Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Coffee Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     21
Irrigation/Salinity Research . . . . . . . . . . . . .     21
Animal Husbandry and Fodder/Forage Research  . . . . . .   21
Farming Systems Research . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Strengthening Alem Maya College  . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Strengthening Research/Extension Linkage . . . . . . . .   23
Strengthening of Headquarters Services . . . . . . . . .   23
Construction Program . . . .... .  . .  . . . . . . .      24
Technical Assistance and Training  . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Vebicle and Equipment Replacement and Supplies . . . . .   27
Proiect Phasing  . . .. . .......                          27
Project Preparation Facility . . . . . . . . . . . . .     27
Env41ro mental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Chapter IV - COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT  . . . . . . . . . .   28
Project Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
Finaucing  . . . .  .  .  .   ..  .. .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . .   .  29
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
Chapter V - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
Project Implementing Agency  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
Construction Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
Addis Abeba University . . .       .. . . . . . . . .        34
Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
Monitoring and Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .    35
Government Financial Commitments . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
Chapter VI - BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . .   37
Chapter VII -SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
AMNEXES
Annex 1:
Table 1 - Major Food Crops - Area Sown,
Production and Yield 1980/81-1982/83               43543
Table 2 - Estimated Size and Percentage Composition
of Annual Food Crop Areas in 1978/79



Table 3  -  Institute of Agricultural Research
1982-83 Budget and Allocation Per Department
Table 4  -  Technical Assistance Program
Table 5  -  Training Program
Table 6 -   Vehicle and Farm Equipment List by IAR Stations
and Headquarters
Table 7  -  Addis Abeba University - Costs of Categories and
Expenditure
Annex 2:      Detailed Cost Tables
Table 1  -  Strengthening of Food Grains and
Pulses Research (Wheat)
Table 2  -  Strengthening of Food Grains and
Pulses Research (Barley)
Table 3  -  Strengthening of Food Grains and
Pulses Research (Sorghum)
Table 4  -  Strengthening of Food Grains and
Pulses Research (Maize)
Table 5  -  Strengthening of Food Grains and
Pulses Research (Tef)
Table 6  -  Strengthening of Food Grains and
Pulses Research (Pulses)
Table 7  -  Strengthening of Coffee Research
Table 8  -  Strengthening of Irrigation, Drainage and Salinity Control
Research
Table 9  -  Strengthening of Livestock Research
(Sheep Productivity Improvement)
Table 10 - Strengthening of Livestock Research
(Pasture and Forage Research)
Table 11 - Development of Farming Systems Research
Table 12 - Assistance to Alem Maya College
Table 13 - Research/Extension Liaison
Table 14 - Strengthening of Headquarters Services
(Publication and Information Services Unit)
Table 15 - Strengthening of Headquarters Services
(Biometrics Unit)
Table 16 - Strengthening of Headquarters Services
(Research Planning and Programming Unit)
Table 17 - Strengthening of Headquarters Services
(Project Services)
Table 18 - Construction, IAR Headquarters Building
Table 19 - Construction, Additional Buildings for
Research Stations and Institutions
Table 20 - Short-term Technical Assistance and Training
Table 21 - Replacement of Equipment and Supplies
Table 22 -  Project Component by Time



Annex 3:      Disbursement Schedule
Annex 4:      Guidelines for Consultants
Terms of Reference
Annex 5:      Documents Available in the Projects File
CHARTS
Chart No. WB 25598 - Institute of Agricultural Research,
Proposed Organization Plan
Chart No. WB 25599 - Schematic Plan of Research Stations,
Sub-stations, Joint Trials and
Cooperating Institutions
Chart No. WB 25964 - Implementation Schedule
Chart No. WB 25965 - Implementation Schedule
NAPS
Map No. IBRD 17592 - IAR Facilities and Cooperating Institutions



.
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY
Borrower:          Ethiopia
Amount:            SDR 21.1 million (US$22.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project
Objectives:        The proposed project will help to improve the quality of
research staff, rehabilitate existing research
facilities, and provide the necessary technology and
additional facilities to strengthen research efforts and
their focus on identifying improved input packages
suitable for smallholders and adaptable to varying
farming conditions. The project will complement the
Government's proposed peasant agricultural development
program which will strengthen agricultural extension
work and thereby the capacity to impart the findings of
the research to the farmers. It will also build upon
past achievements and address existing constraints to an
expanded research program.
Project
Description:
Over five years the project will: (i) strengthen field
crop and coffee research; (ii) strengthen
irrigation/salinity research and animal husbandry and
pasture research; (iii) improve adaptive research to
translate findings into messages suitable for farmers;
(iv) rehabilitate research station plant and equipment;
(v) improve headquarters support services to the
stations; and (vi) provide technical assistance and
strengthen training programs. The primary focus of the
project will be on field crop and coffee research in
high potential areas, since this research offers
oppportunities for quicker returns than would be
obtainable from research in other subsectors. Increased
crop production in high potential areas would help
stimulate economy-wide growth and also to generate
surplus food to cope with frequent shortages in
drought-prone areas. The project mainly faces risks of
delays in project implementation, of disappointing
research results, and of diversions of research efforts
away from priority subject areas. To help minimize
these risks and to recognize potential problems early,
the project provides for substantial technical
assistance to strengthen and assist the implementing
agencies, improvements to planning mechanisms, and a
monitoring and evaluation program. There is also a risk
of potential losses of research staff to other
employment, but this risk is not considered high for
this type of project.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                    US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
Items
Grain and Pulses Research                   1.96        5.10        7.06
Coffee and Irrigationl
Drainage Research                         0.40         0.72        1.12
Livestock/Pasture Research                 0.68         1.21        1.89
Farming Systems Research                   0.71         0.89        1.60
Alem Maya College Programs                 0.51         0.66        1.17
Research/Extension Liaison                 0.41         0.28        0.69
Headquarters Services                      0.57         1.33        1.90
Construction Program                       3.39         1.84        5.23
Short-term Technical
Assistance and Training                   0.20         1.70        1.90
Replacing Equipment and Supplies           0.40         1.52        1.92
Contingencies:
Physical                                  0.30         0.20        0.50
Price                                     3.11         3.95        7.06
Total Project Cost                        12.64        19.40       32.04
Total Project Cost
(net of taxes and duties)               10.34        19.40      29.74
Financing Plan:
USS Million
Local     Foreign     Total
IDA                                        2.60        19.40      22.00
Government                                10.04         -         10.04
Total                                     12.64        19.40      32.04
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
IDA FY        85    86   87    88    89    90    91
Annual                                  0.2   3.3   5.0   5.5   4.0   2.0   2.0
Cumulative                              0.2   3.5   8.5  14.0  18.0  20.0  22.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 4937a-ET, dated August 8, 1984.



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
I. The Agricultural Sector
Background
1.01      Ethiopia, with an estimated annual per capita GNP of about US$140
in 1981, is one of the least developed countries in the world. Its area
measures 1,223,000 km2, which is administratively divided into 14 regions,
subdivided into 102 awrajas and 581 woredas. Its estimated population of
about 33 million (1982) is growing at about 2.5 percent annually and is
predominantly (over 85 percent) rural. Agriculture is the dominant sector
of the economy. It accounts for about 50Z of GDP, 90% of export revenue
and provides the livelihood for 85% of its people. The peasant sector
farms about 94% of the country's cultivated land and produces about the
same percentage of total agricultural production. Thus, performance of the
smallholder subsector dominates the economy. Agricultural growth at 1.8X
per year since 1974/75 against a population growth rate of 2.5% has been
inadequate and the sector has as yet been unable to support economy-wide
growth, forestall increases in consumer food prices or improve food
supplies and reduce malnutrition.
Natural Resor :ces
1.02      Virtually all crop production and some 75% of livestock
production come from the highlands. These form a 50-million ha plateau, at
an altitude generally over 1,500 m, about two-thirds of which has rainfall
over 800 mm. The highlands have a high potential for agricultural
production and support almost 70% of the country's population. The
balance, mostly in north and northwest Ethiopia, has low rainfall
concentrated in July and August and degenerated soils, and crop production
is always uncertain. The rest of Ethiopia consists of hot and dry lowlands
populated by nomadic pasturalists who practice little crop production. The
project would be primarily concerned with strengthening agricultural
research in high potential highland areas.
1.03      Highland topography varies from quite large, flat or gently
undulating areas to steep ranges and deeply incised river valleys. Soils,
mostly derived from volcanic rocks, vary from red loams in hilly regions to
heavy black clays in valleys and flat lands. Erosion is evident in all but
the flattest parts of the highlands, but can be largely controlled by the
cultivators. The Government of Ethiopia (GOE) is considering communal or
self-help schemes for that purpose. With the exception of high acidity in
some of the highest areas and impeded drainage on clays, there are few
soil-related problems to crop production. Crops on most soils respond to
nitrogenous fertilizers and on lighter colored soils also to phosphates.
The great bulk of the arable soils have fair to excellent potential for
agricultural production.



1.04      liost of the high potential highland areas average 800-1,400 mm
rain per year over six to eight months. The range throughout the highlands
is 500 mm in the north spread over two months to over 2,000 mm in the
southwest over 10 months. The heavier and better distributed rains of the
south and southwest, combined with deep loamy soils, make that part the
main tree crop area of Ethiopia. November to March is generally the driest
season, which also has the coolest nights, while July to August are the
wettest months in most areas. Lack of rain during the dry season rather
than temperatures constrain year-round crop production. To summarize, soil
and climate are favorable for a highly productive rainfed agricultural
system in much of the highlands.
1.05      Irrigation could intensify production in the highlands and is a
precondition for intensive agriculture in the lowlands. Preliminary
reconnaissance studies have identified a possible 0.8 million ha of
irrigation potential from rivers. Most of this is in the lowlands because
rivers run in deep gorges in the highlands, but there is some irrigation
potential in the latter areas from lakes. Only about 80,000 ha, less than
1.5% of the total cultivated area is irrigated, mainly from the Awash
river. The cost of major river-based irrigation in Ethiopia is high due to
remoteness of irrigable areas and lack of infrastructure. Promising minor
irrigation i portuniries in the highlands from small earth dams are under
investigation, but there appears to be little ground water resource
potential for irrigation.
Crops
1.06      Crops account for about 80% of the gross value of agricultural
production. Of about 6 M ha under crops annually, about 5.5 M ha are under
field crops, principally cereals (85Z), pulses (12%) and oil crops (3%).
Estimated sown areas, production and yields (1980/81-1982/83) are shown in
Aanex 1, Table 1 which is summarized below:
Average Area Sown to Field Crops, Production and Yields
(1989/81-1982/83)
Crop Type                        Area           Production         Yield
('000 ha)       ('000 tons)      (tons/ha)
Cereals                          4,600             6,050            1.3
Pulses                             735               825            1.1
Oilseeds                           210                85            0.4
1.07      Distribution of food crop areas is illustrated in Annex 1, Table
2. About one quarter of the sown area is in Shewa Region and two-thirds
occurs in five (of the 14) regions -- Arsi, Gojam, Gonder, Shewa and
Welega. In these areas arable land is intensively utilized, but in some of
the eastern and southern regions, expansion of the cultivated area with



- 3 -
high production potential is possible. Main cereals are tefl/ (grown as a
cereal only in Ethiopia), maize, sorghum, barley and wheat. -Tef has the
least yield potential, but is the preferred foodgrain and is the most
widely sown. It grows well on heavy clays, which are common in the
highlands and on which other foodgrains do not thrive, and has good
nutrition and storage qualities. Barley is widely sown at higher
altitudes. Maize is important in reliable rainfall, medium altitude areas,
almost coinciding with the tree crops area of western and southern Ethiopia
and Harerge Region. Sorghum is the main grain of low lying, warmer, drier
parts of the highlands, but is also important in several maize growing
regions and dominates the rotation in Harerge Region. Two or three of the
main cereals are usually grown together.
1.08      Pulses form from 10-20Z of the rotation in most highland regions
and include horse beans, the most important pulse, also field peas, chick
peas, lentils and haricot beans. Over half of the pulses area is found in
Snewa and Goader Regions. Niger seed,2/ called 'neug" in Ethiopia, is the
most important oilseed, found mainly in the northwestern highland regions
- Gojam, Gonder and Welega. Other oil crops, including linseed, rapeseed,
safflower and groundnuts form a minor part of the rotation elsewhere.
Output of sesame, formerly produced on a large scale by commercial estates
in northwest Gonder, has declined in recent years. Ensete3/ or false
banana, a perennial, is an important backyard foodcrop in the southern
highlands, while fruit trees and vegetables are common homestead features
in many areas.
1.09      Coffee is the most important cash crop.  It originated in
Ethiopia and grows on some 0.5 m ha - much of it wild. The coffee area
forms a crescent in the southwest, south and southeast highlands. Of the
estimated 200,000 tons annual production, about 90,000 tons are exported,
generating about 60% of total export revenue in 1981/82. About 90% of
exports are sundried coffee and the Bank is helping to increase the
proportion of more valuable washed coffee by financing washing stations.
Efforts to improve production are supported by EEC projects. Other
important industrial crops are mainly grown on state farms under irrigation
and include 50,000 ha cotton and 20,000 ha sugarcane, mostly for in-country
requirements.
Livestock
1.10      With 27 million cattle, 24 million sheep, 18 million goats, 7
million equines, 1 million camels and some 52 million poultry, Ethiopia has
the largest livestock population of any African country. Most of it is in
the highlands except camels and goats that predominate in the lowlands.
Grazing is mostly communal and is supplemented by crop residues. Little
fodder is grown at present. Livestock products are estimated to constitute
1/ Eragrostis tef.
2/ Guizotia abyssinica.
3/ Enset ventricosum - banana family, but food is extracted from stem and
roots.



- 4 -
20Z of the gross value of agricultural production. Meat and milk
contribute vitally to people's nutrition, and stock and livestock products
sales provide an important source of cash income to farmers. Hides and
skias rank second, after coffee, as a source of export revenue. Peasant
crop production is entirely dependent on animal draft power from some 5-6
million oxen.  Most farmr-t-road or village market transport is by
donkeys. Carts are not c33con except in urban areas. As with crops, there
is great potential t! increase productivity of and income from this
sector. So far, main efforts both by extension and research services have
concentrated on animal health aspects, introduction of foreign breeds for
crossing with locdl dairy stock, improving poultry and pasture and forage
crops. The International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) in Addis Abeba
is collaborating with IAR in livestock and pasture research and has
pioneered farming systems research on integration of high yielding dairy
stock into the farming system.
Land Tenure and Farmer Organization
1.11      The Government carried out a land reform program in 1975 that
entailed nationalization of all land. Land use rights were given to the
over 5 million cultivators, many of whom had been tenants. While the land
ceiling is 10 ha, farm size is related to family size and averages about 2
ha. Most large agricultural estates have been converted into state farms
which cover 250,000 ha. Following land reform, the Government promoted
three types of institutions to develop the peasant sector -- peasant
associations, service cooperatives and producer cooperatives. Peasant
associations are local institutions charged with land distribution,
conservation, local government and development. There are about 19,579,
each covering about 800 ha and comprising 200-400 farmers. This system is
firmly established. There are 3,700 service cooperatives with an average
membership of four to five peasant associations, serving 4.6 million
peasant households. These cooperatives are to provide inputs, consumer
goods, marketing, credit and other services to members. Most of them are
at an early stage of developing such services and are mainly dealing with
consumer goods. The objective of producer cooperatives is to pool
resources and operate both crop and livestock production communally. GOE
is encouraging formation of producer cooperatives by giving incentives to
members, including lower taxes and priority access to production inputs,
consumer goods, building materials and MOA field staff. As of June 1983,
1,021 producer cooperatives had been formed with average membership of 60
households each, which represents 1.3% of the peasant sector. The
establishment of peasant associations and service cooperatives could be a
decisive factor in forthcoming efforts to accelerate agricultural growth.
Agricultural Agencies and Services
1.12      Ministry of Agriculture.  Up to 1979 the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) was responsible for all aspects of agriculture. In that year, the
Ministry of State Farms, the Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development and the
Relief and Rehabilitation Commission4/ were established and excised from
MOA. At that time also the Institutie of Agricultural Research (IAR),
4/  Responsible for relief and resettlement work.



- 5 -
inputs supplies and crop marketing services were removed from direct MOA
control. However, bIOA remains responsible for developing the peasant
sector, comprising 95% of agricultural resources and production, and is
therefore the main user of research findings for transmittal to farmers.
IAR is the main agricultural research agency. Since the 1979
reorganization, collaboration between MOA and IAR has been unsatisfactory.
The Institute and measures for improving communications with MOA are
described in Chapter 'I. The following are the main MOA departments:
Agricultural Development; Animal Resources Development; Fisheries; Peasant
Association and Cooperatives; Soll and Water Conservation; Training
Services; Engineering Services; Planning; and several departments
concerned with MOA administration. Of these, the Agricultural Development
Department is responsible for exteasion and transmitting research findings
to farmers.
1.13      The main strategy and support for building up and improving MOA
services for peasant agriculture have come from the two Minimum Package
Projects (Credits 416-ET and 1088-ET), partly financed by IFAD and SIDA.
The main objective was to boost production in 440 highland woredas by
strengthening MOA services, and providing farmers with advice and materials
for adopting an improved seeds and fertilizer technology. The Projects
also finance inputs, rural road construction and soil conservation. A
mid-term review of the second project concluded that agricultural impact
was disappoincing because of inadequate incentives due tc high input costs
compared to market prices (para 1.15), -se of field staff primarily for
organizing the new producer cooperatives to the detriment of agricultural
advisory work, poor liaison between MOA and IAR staff, and inadequate
budget support. A revised program for intensifying services to the peasant
sector is under preparation, known as Peasant Agricultural Development
Program (PADEP). To improve on performance of earlier programs, features
being addressed during planning are input distribution; role of coopera-
tives; revision of pricing and marketing policies; reorganization of MOA,
including decentralization of planning and administration; and introduction
of improved agricultural extension methods. Both PADEP and this project
would aim to restore close links between IAR research and MOA extension.
1.14      Other Ministries.  The Ministry of State Farms is responsible for
large-scale commercial agriculture, including 250,000 ha arable (grain,
horticulture, cotton) and several livestock enterprises (dairying, beef,
poultry). It operates through several corporations. While drawing on IAR
mainly for improved varieties, the Ministry is developing its own capacity
to conduct adaptive research on fertilizer use, crop protection and
mechanization options. The Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development oversees
coffee marketing through the Coffee Marketing Corporation and handles the
development and improvement of smallholder coffee processing and
production. These latter activities have attracted IDA sup-ort (Credit
290-ET) for processing,5/ and EEC support (through two projects) to
improve cultural practices and disease control. The Ministry has
established an extension service which liaises closely with the IAR coffee
research section. The Relief and Rehabilitation Commission has the
staneding of a ministry and deals with relief for people affected by natural
51 A follow-up project has been approved.



- 6 -
and man-made disasters and for resettlement of about 120,000 farmers from
overcrowded, eroded and military conflict areas. The Commission relies on
IAR research results for helping settlers, but its calls on IAR are
relatively small compared to those needed by MOA, owing to the large number
of farmers dealt with by the Ministry.
1.15      Inputs and Marketing Services.  Imported diammonium phosphate is
the main input handled to date. The Agricultural Marketing Corporation
(Ministry of Domestic Trade) has imported and transported the fertilizer to
MOA stores, while MOA has handled distribution to farmers. To improve
these services, M0 in 1983 established the Agricultural Inputs Marketing
Corporation to handle all aspects of inputs procurement and distribution,
but by end-1983, this new corporation had not yet been registered legally
and its operations were limited. Seeds of improved crop varieties are
produced and sold by the Ethiopian Seeds Corporation. It forms part of the
Ministry of State Farms,6/ since state farms serve as contract seed
growers and deliver seed-to the Corporation for processing and
distribution. It relies on IAR for new varieties and breeder seed. While
processing capacity is adequate for the foreseeable future, the Corporation
suffers from lack of attractive varieties and poor seed quality. The
project would be important to the Corporation by attempting to improve
breeder seed quality and develop new crop varieties. So far, most inputs
- seeds, fertilizers and pesticides -- have been used by state farms. For
instance, in 1981/82 smallholders purchased only 700 tons seed and 30,000
tons fertilizers (5 kg/cultivated ha). Small demand for seed by
smallholders reflects the lack of high yielding varieties and disappointing
growth in fertilizer use is due to the unfavorable fertilizer/produce price
ratio in recent years. The project would reinforce research on improved
varieties, but their successful use would depend on. reliable inputs
services and adequate price incentives. In the course of PADEP
preparation, the Bank is assisting GOE to address these issues (para 1.13).
1.16      The Agricultural Marketing Corporation is responsible for
purchasing, storing and distributing grain, pulses and oilseeds. It is
receiving IDA support (Credit No. 789-ET) to expand storage and improve its
activities. Out of an estimated 1.5-1.8 M tons of traded produce, the
Corporation purchases about 0.5 M tons, at prices set by GOE, which are the
same throughout the country. The balance is marketed by farmers directly
to consumers in amall quantities or by traders. In an attempt to channel a
higher proportion of the produce through the Corporation, GOE has, contrary
to project objectives, curtailed traders' activities. This has resulted
in material inefficiencies (high margins). A March 1983 GOE/Bank review of
marketing, prices and price incentives found that the present system also
acts as a production disincentive in several high potential production
areas, and has caused food shortages and high prices in urban areas. The
review also considered that the Corporation would not, on its own, be able
to handle additional throughput that would result from increased
production. A consuLtancy study of the Corporation's efficiency has
commenced and is due to be completed by mid 1984. GOE is considering
options for improving production incentives and marketing. The above study
would help to define merketing options more clearly.
6/ A closer association with MDA is being considered.



-7-
1.17      Credit. The Agricultural and Industrial Bank (wholly Government-
owned) is charged with providing agricultural credit. Its main business
derives from financing state farms. Lending to the peasant sector is small
to date and expansion is constrained by the small branch network and
staff. However, some inputs credit is available to small farmers in a few
areas. Fertilizers are channeled to farmers by MOA through peasant
associations for cash or credit. The Agricultural and Industrial Bank,
which finances fertilizer sales and distribution has to recover the credit
from peasant associations through MOA. This system entails much work for
MOA staff; has resulted in unsatisfactory transaction records and loan
recovery; and is under review together with all other aspects of-inputs
distribution (para 1.16). Service cooperatives (para 1.11) may become
important borrowers and onlending agencies for both long- and short-term
credit. An IFAD project, recently approved, and which is being supervised
by Bank staff, would strengthen the operational capacity of the
Agricultural and Industrial Bank and channel long-term credit through it
mainly to service cooperatives, for their own development purposes and for
onlending to farmers.
Production Policy
1.18      Ethiopia has been importing foodgrains, averaging 285,000 tons
per annum over the last five years, shifting from largely commercial
imports in 1976/77 to mostly food aid recently. GOE's development policy,
therefore, gives highest priority to attaining foodgrain self-sufficiency.
Expanding agricultural exports also commands high priority. Most emphasis
is to be given to foodcrop production by the peasant sector in the
highlands. Foodcrop production growth has been slow for reasons previously
discussed including unfavorable weather,7/ high inputs costs, inadequate
production incentives, marketing problems and the limited impact of
research and extension work. The World Bank is collaborating with GOE in
policy reviews and in preparing priority investment projects.   This
project would play an important part in accelerating agricultural growth by
strengthening research and re-establishing research-advisory services
linkages.
Bank Group Lending for Agriculture
1.19      The Bank Group has considerable experieace in lending for
agriculture in Ethiopia, having approved 13 crtdits supporting agricultural
sector development since 1969.  Assistance to the two phases of the Minimum
Package Program (para 1.13), the two phases of the Wolaita Agricultural
Development Project (WADU) and the Lower Adiabo project have been
specifically directed at smallholder agriculture. Other projects include
three livestock projects aimed at assisting the small-scale livestock
sector, a land settlement project at iumera, an irrigation project at
Amibara, Coffee Processing I, the Drought Rehabilitation Project and a
Grain Storage and Marketing Project, in addition to a DFC project with an
agricultural credit component for the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank. Performance of agricultural projects has been mixed.
7/ Weather in 1983 appears to have been more favorable, but extensive
drought is reported for 1984.



- 8 -
The Revolution brought unforeseen changes for some projects, and the
difficult security situation has affeczed others, notably the Rangelands
and Lower Adiabo Projects. In addition, management problems and occasional
material shortages have caused implementation delays, but these have
usually been overcome. When achievement of project objectives are in
question, GOE has been willing to enter into a dialogue with the Bank. The
joint GOE/Bank Minimum Package Project mid-term review and the joint
marketing and price incentives study (which relates to the Grain Storage
and Marketing Project) are good examples of such consultation. In general,
implementation of agricultural projects in Ethiopia compares favorably with
that of similar projects in East Africa.
II. THE INSTITUTE OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Iistory
2.01      The Institute of Agricultural Research (LAR) was established in
1966. While giving IAR the task to develop a national research program,
GOE realized that the Institute would take some time to build up adequate
capacity for the task and encouraged other organizations, notably the
University and the Chilalo (now Arsi) Agricultural Development Unit to
continue their research activities. In 1979, GOE reconfirmed the IAR
charter and gave the Institute the mandate to carry out and coordinate
agricultural research in Ethiopia, excluding forestry, fishery and -ood
technology research. The development of the Institute owes much to four
successive phases of a UNDP financed and FAO executed project (1966-83)
that supported development of research infrastructure and research programs
and the training of research scientists. In addition, two of the present
IAR research stations (Awasa and Bako) were originally developed by
bilateral aid as independent stations and were subsequently absorbed by
IAR. The Institute now comprises a headquarters, seven research stations
with substations and a staff of about 145 scientists (graduate and
post-graduate).
Organization
2.02      The Institute was established as a semi-autonomous body initially
under the Ministry of Agriculture.  The Minister of Agriculture was the
Chairman of the Board of Directors. In 1979, MOA was reorganized (para
1.12) and the IAR Board was also reconstituted. It no longer answered to
MOA but was chaired by the Commissioner of the Ethiopian Science and
Technology Commission. Other members were:
The Principal Secretary, MOA;
The Principal Secretary, Ministry of State Farms;
The Principal Secretary, Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development;
The Senior Deputy Commissioner of the Relief and Rehabilitation
Commission;
The Head, Agriculture and Development Division of the Central
Planning Supreme Council; and
The General Manager, IAB (Board Secretary).



- 9 -
2.03      The 1979 changes were made to ensure that the new ministries were
represented on the IAR Board and would have their needs for agricultural
research catered for adequately by IAR. However, the change in organi-
zation proved unsatisfactory, in particular, causing lack of liaison
between IAR and MOA. Consequently, late in 1983, to foster resumption of
close MOA/IAR collaboration, GOE reinstated the Minister of Agriculture as
IAR Board Chairman. The Commissioner of the Ethiopian Science and
Technology Commission remains a Board Member, otherwise the Board has not
been altered. A close working relationship between research and extension
forms the basis for success of both activities. The recent change in IAR
Board leadership therefore satisfies a prerequisite for the success of this
and the proposed PADEP project-that had been lacking.
2.04      The Institute's administration is highly centralized.  The
General Manager, assisted by a Deputy Geaeral Manager, administers the
Institute from headquarters in Addis Abeba. Line control for all
administrative functions rdns from the General EManager to officers-in-
charge of research stations and for technical matters to department heads
(para 2.05). The main financial and administrative services are also
located at headquarters together with small planning and publications/
public relations units. Virtually an research staff work at the seven IAR
research stations. Each station is administered by an officer-in-charge,
assisted by administrative staff. He is usually a senior research worker
expected to combine administration with research work. Each main station
controls associated substations.
2.05      Research staff are grouped into subject matter departments -
field crops, horticulture, coffee, crop protection, animal science, soil
science, agricultural engineering and socio-economics -- each directed in
technical matters by a department coordinator. In this organizational
system, the powers of the officer-in-charge of a station are confined to
station administration and purely departmental work is directed by
department coordinators. For crops/horticulture research, multi-discipline
crop improvement teams were set up in 1979, each led by a team coordiaator
who reports to the head of the Field Crops/Horticulture Department
respectively. Staff for the teams, full or part-time, is allocated by the
various departments with breeders, agronomists/horticulturists coming from
the Field Crop/Horticulture Departments. Specialists from other
departments on the teams look to their department heads for technical
guidance and back-up, but execution of tasks for the team is directed by
the team coordinator. This arrangement allows effective deployment of
IAR's relatively few specialists. There are five teams dealing with
cereals, two with pulses, two with oil crops, and four with horticulture.
The Coffee Department is another multi-discipline team but it differs from
the others ia being virtually self sufficient for specialists. The project
would focus in particular on cereals, pulses and coffee research teams,
which handle the crops that account for the great bulk of agricultural
production and exports. Oil crops are also important and their improvement
is already receiving adequate assistaace from the International Development
Research Center (IDRC).
2.06      The organizational arrangement is functioning quite well and no
alteration is proposed. But there were some areas which, at project
appraisal time, needed strengthening. The first was overall technical



- 10 -
direction of IAR activities. The General Manager was an administrator and
the deputy post was vacant. Since then, experienced research scientists
have been appointed to both posts and assurances have been obtained that
staff satisfactory to IDA will be maintained in the two posts during the
project period. They will be able to provide technical planning and
evaluation of research programs, technical guidance to the Board and give
constant and intensive technical guidanze to research staff in the field.
All these activities had been inadequate in recent years. The General
Manager would be the convener of a technical committee described in para
2.10 that would, inter alia, advise the Board of the views of user and
collaborating agencies. The proposed organization of IAR is illustrated on
Chart WB 25599.
2.07      Research station management is a second area that needs
strengthening. The managers are capable people, but have had little farm
management training. Provision for such training has been included in the
project training component (para 3.28). Administrative assistance for
officers-in-charge of stations is the third area that needs to be
improved. In each case the officer-in-charge of a research station is a
senior scientist badly needed to conduct research work, but too much of his
time is taken up with routine station administration. IAR management has
decided to utilize some of the training funds (para 3.28) for additional
training and upgrading of administrators to enable them to relieve the
scientists of much of their administrative burden.
Budget
2.08      The size of the IAR budget depends on broad sectoral guidelines
given by GOE, the budget submitted by IAR and the Central Planning Supreme
Council recommendations after review of the IAR budget. The 1982/83 IAR
budget allocation totalled Birr 13.7 X (Annex 1, Table 3) of which Birr 11
M (80X) was from GOE and the balance, Birr 2.7 M, from foreign support,
mostly UNDP. The total represents about 0.342 of the 1981/82 agricultural
GDP, somewhat below the target of 0.5% by 1985 suggested by the UN World
Food Conference, as an appropriate allocation for developing countries.
This is slightly below the 0.38% of agricultural GDP of 10 East African
countries in which agriculture's contribution to GDP is only 35%, compared
to 50% in Ethiopia; and well below the 1-2% of agricultural GDP spent on
agricultural research in developed countries. These comparisons indicate a
need for greater investments than at present in agricultural research in
Ethiopia, a need amply confirmed by findings on staff, equipment and
buildings inadequacies for the research tasks to be tackled. Budget funds
are passed on to IAR and by IAR to its stations punctually. There is no
shortage of funds for staff pay, casual labor and routine local purchases.
However, there are inadequate resources to permit capital expenditure to
expand research facilities; and there is a lack of foreign exchange for
imported equipment (additional or replacement), materials, technical
assistance and training abroad. This situation is likely to continue, but
there appears to be no problem in meeting additional recurrent local costs
that may arise out of the project.



- 11 -
Research Program Planning and Review
2.09      Program planning and review take place in four stages.  First,
there is a preview where teams/departments review results of the previous
year's work and propose a new work program. A report is then prepared by
each department/team for consideration at the National Crops Improvement
Conference usually attended by 200-300 participants from all sections of
the agricultural industry. The conference views are incorporated when
department/team coordinators revise their program proposals and budgets,
which then undergo a one-week detailed review and often further revision by
IAR senior scientists. The management then consolidates the program and
sends it to its member agencies for comment and, when these have been
received and accommodated, the program is sent to the Central Planning
Supreme Council for budget approval. Each research sub-project is planned
on a three-year basis. This system ensures finance for the duration of
each set of trials and confines annual planning to one-third of the
program.
2.10      While user agencies are invited to participate at all stages of
program review and planning, it seems to have been difficult for them to
make a meaningful input into shaping the program. Technical guidance from
TAR Headquarters has also been inadequate. The 1_.cter shortcoming should
be alleviated by the appointment of the senior technical management staff
(para 2.06). Several measures would focus on greater users' impact on
program planning. There would be closer linkage between MOA and IAR at top
level (para 2.03). Better linkage at field level (para 2.24) would
identify and keep IAR informed of specific and localized problems that
should be investigated; and farming systems research, to be built up by the
project, (para 3.14) would contribute increasingly to this process. In
addition, a technical committee has been established comprising senior
technical representatives of the four user agencies, main collaborating
research agencies, and IAR, to advise the IAR Board on the needs of each
agency to be addressed in the program, evaluate proposals and help plan the
collaboration of other research agencies in the national research program.
Other Organizations Conducting Research
2.11      Three colleges of Addis Abeba University -- Alem Maya, Debre
Zeyit and Awasa (see Map IBRD 17592) - have been conducting agricultural
research. There are major stations at Debre Zeyit and Alem Maya that form
part of the national research station network and staff from all three
establishments collaborate with and form part of IAR crop research teams.
Formerly, most researchers were drawn from the University staff, but with
the build-up of its own scientist staff, IAR became less dependent on the
University and recently collaboration has weakened. The project would
attempt to reestablish close collaboration to ensure that University
physical and manpower resources play an appropriate role in agricultural
research. There are signs that the new IAR Board (para 2.03) has already
achieved closer collaboration between the University and IAR. In December
1983, GOE decided to discontinue agricultural training at Debre Zeyit,
however the research station, which is one of the oldest in the country,
will continue to function and the University will continue to operate it.
The station management arrangements including staffing proposals are
satisfactory to IDA. Two other institutes linked to IAR are the Plant



- 12 -
Genetic Resources Center and the Scientific Phytopathological Laboratory.
The first of these is one of an international network of centers to collect
and preserve germ plasm of economic plants. It has been established with
German aid and is administered by IAR. The second institute at Ambo, has
been established by agreement between the Governments of Ethiopia and the
USSR. It submits its programs to IAR and participates in plant protection
surveys and research of several crops. Training of Ethiopian specialists
in the USSR, to take over this laboratory in 1986, is underway.
2.12      Other important local agencies conducting research are the
Ministry of State Farms, the Arsi Rural Development Unit and HOA. The
first two of these have well developed research services of their own where
they test IAR results, screen some imported foreign materials and
investigate local problems. Both organizations pro?tde IAR with sites for
its own trials. The Arsi Unit started research in the year that IAR was
founded and operates a large main station, eight sub-stations and numerous
testing plots. The Ministry of State Farms employs 40 research staff and
has a particularly strong horticultural program which complements IA
work. Collaboration is satisfactory and the two organizations provide IAR
with valuable adaptive trials information. The Ministry benefits from
technology developed by IAR primarily for peasant farmers and relies on its
own research service for solving problems specifically related to state
farms. MOA has, over several years, conducted widespread adaptive trials
and demonstrations on its own and farmers' plots, but these have not been
analyzed lately. Analysis would yield valuable information and would be
attempted by the IAR Biometrics Unit to be established by the project (para
3.21).
2.13      In addition, IAR has established good links with international
research institutes conducting work relevant to Ethiopia. These institutes
provide germ plasm for crop screening and breeding programs and Ethiopian
researchers benefit from training programs of the institutes. In addition,
scientists from the institutes visit Ethiopia regularly and IAR partici-
pates in several important International trials. The links between IAR and
the international institutes would be strengthened by the Project Technical
Assistance Program (para 3.27). One of these institutes, the International
Center for Livestock in Africa (ILCA), has its headquarters in Addis Abeba
and collaborates closely with IAR in its Ethiopian work.
Staff
2.14      Out of a total of some 1,800 permanent employees, 145 are
scientists, about 210 technical staff, about 200 administrative and general
services staff and the rest are laborers. Of the scientists, some 110 were
in post during appraisal8/ and 35 abroad for higher degree training. Of
the latter, five staff are overdue and may not return. Of the scientific
staff in post, 44 hold higher degrees (9 PhD and 35 MSc) but ten of these
are largely occupied with administrative duties (para 2.07).
Unfortunately, only about half of the 80 staff members who went abroad for
higher degree studies prior to 1980 are now working for IAR. Some did not
return to Ethiopia and others are working for different agencies in
81 July 1983.



- 13 -
Ethiopia. In fact, IAR became a source of highly qualified staff for new
public agencies such as the Ministry of State Farms. The total number of
technical support staff is just adequate to match professional staff and
would be increased as the number of professional staff grows. Half are
technical assistants with junior college diplomas and half are field
assistants with certificate or on-the-job training. There is now an
adequate supply of both BSc and diploma candidates for recruiting new
techaical staff. The distribution of graduates between departments is 50
for field crops, 10 for horticulture, 32 for plant protection, 23 for
animal science and pasture work, 13 for soil science, 8 for engineering and
9 for economics. Despite the high emphasis on field crops, there are still
gaps in the research teams. The relatively high number of staff in the
plant protection department is deceptive, since only six hold higher
degrees and the rest are BSc graduates mostly without special training in
their assigned discipline. The project would strengthen priority sections
of IaR by additional staff, training and technical assistance (para 3.03).
2.15      The loss of higher degree staff abroad or through relocation to
other agencies in Ethiopia represents a serious setback to IAR. Another
problem is preference of more senior staff for postings close to Addis
Abeba where there are better schooling and other amenities than in more
distant posts. In addition, some staff members feel that service in
institutes other than IAR offers better career opportunities. Ideally, IAR
should offer better incentives to maintain an enthusiastic and motivated
staff, but GOE is not able to improve IAR employment terms in isolation
from the rest of the public service. The problem of public servants'
benefits is under examination by a COE commission. In the meantime, IAR
management will explore the possibility of regrading various posts and
payment of responsibility allowances to holders of such posts as
officer-in-charge of a station, department head and research team
coordinator. The project will help to improve staff living conditions by
providing housing in several stations remote from urban areas.
Research Stations
2.16      The distribution of the seven existing IAR main stations and the
24 associated substations is shown oa Map IBRD 17592 and is illustrated on
Chart WB 25599. Collaborating University and Arsi Rural Development Unit
stations (paras 2.11 and 2.12) complement the station network. The main
crop production regions are covered with the exception of Gojam and
Gonder. EEC has recently agreed to provide funds to establish and equip a
new station (see Map IBRD 17592) that will serve these regions. Further
station development may seem desirable but would be counterproductive at
present by diverting staff from existing research teams.
2.17      The Holetta station, 45 km from Addis Abeba, was originally
developed as IAR's main station and remains the largest in staff terms,
having one third of IAR's professional staff. It is the national
coordinating center for animal science, pasture, wheat, barley, highland
oil crops and highland pulses resea;ch and of the plant protection and soil
science departments. Nazret is the coordinating research center for
agricultural engineering, horticulture, sorghum, and lowland pulses; Awasa
for maize; Jima for coffee; Melkawerer for irrigation and fiber crops; and
Mekele for dryland farming. Bako is a major crops and livestock research



- 14 -
testing center and a similar role is foreseen for the proposed Gojam/Gonder
statioa. The University station at Debre Zeyit is the main tef, durum
wheat and chickpea/lentil center and the appraisal mission recommended that
because soils at Holetta are acid, Debre Zeyit is a more suitable locale
for pulses and should become the main research coordinating center for all
highland pulse work. For each crop, breeding and selection would take
place at the coordinating center or be supervised by coordinating center
staff, while other stations and substations would be used as testing sites
and for local adaptive research.
Infrastructure and Equipment
2.18      Each station has adequate land, good offices and laboratories and
has, over the years, been provided with farm, laboratory and other
equipment. At the three stations which are not adjacent to an urban area
-- Holetta, Bako and Melkawerer -- additional staff housing is needed, and
additional office space for existing staff is also needed at Holetta. On
all stations, existing office and laboratory facilities are fully used and
additional programs would require new buildings. The IAR headquarters is
in a rented former private house which is unsuitable and too small for
housing headquarters staff. A purpose designed building is needed. The
project would address both existing construction needs and those arising
from expanding programs.
2.19      Much of the equipment and vehicles are old and many have been
kept working beyond a reasonable working life, with resulting breakdowns
and high maintenance costs. Equipment constraints now hamper research
station operations and lack of vehicles has reduced the amount of "off-
station" work that the staff can undertake. There is maintenance staff at
each station that has been able to keep tractors and vehicles working
reasonably well, but has been less successful with farm implements and
laboratory equipment. The project would provide training for a laboratory
equipment technician. To improve farm equipment maintenance, IAR has
recently appointed a chief mechanic. Be will, inter alia, sort out
repairable implements from those that should be scrapped, order necessary
spares, set up maintenance programs for each station and visit the stations
regularly to supervise maintenance.
Status of Research
2.20      IAR has made substantial progress since its establishment 17
years ago. By way of institution-building, a network of stations and
sub-stations has been created and a large staff of scientists and
technicians has been recruited and trained. Crop research was accorded
priority in the research program. Identification of Coffee Berry Disease
resistant strains of coffee bushes is one of the best known achievements.
The new strains are being distributed on a large scale and are helping to
control this serious disease. Plant protection research found controls for
many economically important pests and diseases, which have been published
in a manual. A detailed screening program of local and imported field crop
strains and considerable crop agronomy research have been conducted. Crop
breeding programs are of recent origin and resultant crop strains are
begianing to be tested.  In national yield trials, new wheat, maize,
sorghum and malting barley varieties have outyielded local entries. Trials



- 15 -
with other crops have been less successful in identifying better types,
however, and many of the recommendations issued by IAR are quite old. Crop
research has thus contributed little by way of new varieties or practices
in recent years that were an improvement on older recommendations.
Introduction of plant breeding, to overcome local ecological, pest and
disease problems and establishment of multi-discipline crop research teams
were steps adopted by IAR to achieve more productive results. Constraints
that have continued to hamper the research effort are described below. The
project would attempt to address these constraints.
2.21      Quite a number of varieties have been released, particularly
wheat, barley and maize, but their iapact has been confined to smallholders
in Arsi Region and to state farms. In Arsi, close collaboration between
research, inputs and extension services of the Arsi Rural Development Unit
led to adoption of improved wheat and malting barley varieties and improved
cultivation methods. The Region has become a major food surplus area. On
state farms, substantially higher than average yields of maize and wheat
have been obtained on a large scale (with comparably higher use of
inputs). These examples illustrate the potential for increased crop
production through improved technology in Ethiopia. Lack of widespread
adoption by small farmers may be partly due to weak supporting services and
inadequate production incentives described earlier (para 1.13), but in
addition to removing those constraints, better crop production technology
is needed. In recent years, research tempo has been static due to problems
that need to be addressed. Worn out equipment and vehicles have proved a
constraiat. The latter, for instance, severely limited IAR ability to
conduct off-station work including collaboration with MOA adaptive trial
work. The consequent lack of adaptive trial work in farmers' fields,
widespread off-station ecological testing of results and inadequate
off-station investigations into local problems that need research has
constrained the success of the IAR program. All crop teams lack depth of
qualified staff and all have alowed down and some even stopped when team
members have gone abroad for training.
2.22      More specifically, wheat and barley research lacks plant
pathology facilities and expertise, and barley and highland pulses have
weak breeding programs, unable to take advantage of the rich gene potential
available locally and abroad. The sorghum improvement program conducted by
the University staff with IDRC assistance at IAR stations was probably the
most advanced crop research program until recently. The end of IDRC
support coincided with the departure abroad of the team leader/breeder and
a transfer of the program to IAR, which could not, overnight, generate
adequate resources to maintain it. The program was put almost on a care
and maintenance basis and needs rehabilitation. Tef, which is the most
widely sown of all Ethiopian crops, is handled by the weakest of the crop
research teams. Furthermore, while technical problems are particularly
complex, there is no tef research abroad from which IAR could benefit.
This program needs major strengthening. Proposals for improving grain and
pulses research programs are described in Chapter III. Oil crops do not
need project assistance since they are already receiving adequate funding
and technical assistance from IDRC. IDRC support started in 1981 and is
scheduled to continue until at least 1987 and, if necessary, IDRC would
most probably extend its support beyond that time.



- 16 -
2.23      Uther IAR departments have developed more slowly. The livestock
department has concentrated on improving milk yields by crossing various
exotic breeds with local strains, a long-term program that is continuing.
The forage and pasture sections are conducting a screening program that has
already given useful results. Horticulture and agricultural engineering
programs are still in the early stages and are two subjects that UNDP is
continuing to support. The Economics Department has been collecting farm
management data, helping state farms compile production costs and, more
recently, has started testing the economics of the IAR packages of
recommendations. This Department needs strengthening in particular to
ascertain why some seemingly attractive IAR recommendations are not easily
adopted by Ethiopian farmers. Maize is a good example of a crop in which
new technology has been widely accepted in other East African countries,
but which has proved of little interest to date to Ethiopian smallholders
in similarly favorable ecological conditions.
IAR Linkage with MOA at Field Level
2.24      At present, linkage at field level between IAR and MOA is
confined to eleven jointly managed MOA/IAR sites (Map IBRD 17592 and Chart
WB 25599). On these, crop variety, fertilizer and other agronomy trials
are conducted. IAR also extends results by research reports and advisory
bulletins. The impact of IAR findings on production could have been
greater with closer MOA/IAR linkage. The recent appointment of the
Minister of Agriculture as Chairman of the IAR Board has established
satisfactory linkage at top management level. At field level, the
influence area of each station would be defined, and a team of three
specialists would he appointed at each station for multilocational testing,
research on local problems, interaction with MOA on their farm trials and
for the formulation of extension recommendations. For the latter purpose,
the senior team member would be responsible for arranging monthly
(quarterly) workshops with NOA Subject Matter Specialists in the influence
area of the station. He would be responsible to the officer-in-charge of
the IAR station, who would chair meetings twice a year between IAR station
and MOA staff to consider the seasonal extension activities timetable of
MOA, plan trials on MOA/IAR sites, and finalize proposals arising from
monthly workshops. Assurances have been obtained that IAR teams will be
appointed at Holetta, Bako and the Gojam/Gonder station by December 31,
1984. Other teams may be appointed later, but in any case before December
31, 1985 (para 3.18).
2.25      At the first three stations (para 2.24), joint IAR/MOA
study/survey teams would be established to conduct farming systems research
(paras 3.14-3.15). Among other things, these teams would conduct studies
of:
(a) farm budgets for different agro-ecological situations and
associated recommendations;
(b) constraints on adopting such recommendations within existing
farming systems - land, labor etc.;
(c) causes of yield variations between farmers; and



- 17 -
(d) variations in farming systems dictated by socio-economic factors,
such as eating habits, marketing, availability of credit and
inputs and incentives.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Genesis
3.01      With the likelihood of reduced UNDP support for research, GOE
inquired about possible Bank support for the subject. As a result, a small
FAO/Bank Cooperative Program reconnaissance team visited Ethiopia in late
1981 to explore investment requirements for research. The team found that
there was considerable need for further donor support for research and on
the basis of its report (Reconnaissance Report No. 44/81) dated December
17, 1981, a Cooperative Program preparation mission visited Ethiopia in
May/June 1982 and wrote a detailed Provisional Preparation Report (No.
16/82 CP-ETH 11) dated August 17, 1982. A joint Cooperative Program/Bank
staff follow-up mission in January/February 1983 finalized preparation
field work. The project is based on the resultant report (Ethiopia -
Agricultural Research Project Preparation Report No. 1','82 CP-kTH 11) dated
April 12, 1983, the findings of a Bank Appraisal Mission that visited
Ethiopia during June/July 1983, and of a short follow-up mission in
December 1983.
B. Project Rationale, Objectives and Brief Description
3.02      This would be the first Bank project exclusively concerned with
financing agricultural research in Ethiopia. The project is to be
implemented over a six-year period and IAR would be the main project
agency. In view of the dominant role of agriculture (para 1.01), there is
imperative need to accelerate growth to fuel economy-wide development and
to improve food supplies, reduce malnutrition, and eliminate local
famines. The complexity of Ethiopia's agriculture, due to its varied
environmental and climatic conditions, dictates the need for giving high
priority to agricultural research. A research effort that delivers
practical results to farmers in such a way that they can translate them
into increased production and/or reduced production cost is a prerequisite
for an effective agricultural production drive in Ethiopia. Agricultural
production is overwhelmingly in the hands of peasant farmers. The main
objective of the project would thus be identification of messages suitable
to smallholders, adapted to varying farming situations. The project is
therefore in line with GOE development priorities and would form an
important part of the Bank strategy for assisting Ethiopia to accelerate
agricultural growth. It is closely linked to the GOE/Bank Policy dialogue
on improving incentives and produce marketing and to the proposed Peasant
Agricultural Development Project for developing better advisory and inputs
services; as well as to ongoing IDA lending for agriculture.
3.03      The project would build on past achievements in research and
address difficulties outlined in Chapter II. Its main focus would be on
strengthening field crop and coffee research to establish dynamic and
self-sustaining crop research teams; improve adaptive research so that
station findings can be translated into messages suitable for farmers;



- 18 -
rehabilitate plant and equipment to ensure the proper functioning of
research stations; and improve headquarters back-up services to the
stations. The focus on field crops and coffee in high potential farming
areas is dictated by the opportunity for quicker returns than would be
obtainable from research in other subsectors. Increased crop production
from these areas is the best way to stimulate economy-wide growth and to
generate enough surplus food to deal with periodic shortages in
drought-prone areas. Subsequently, the focus could well broaden to include
other subsectors, notably livestosk improvement.9/ The project already
includes a component for sheep and pasture improvement, however, which have
been identified as priority gaps in livestock research. The following is a
list of project components:
(a) Strengthening foodgrain, pulses and coffee research;
(b) Filling gaps in ongoing irrigation/drainage research;
(c) Initiating sheep improvement research and strengthening
pasture/forage research;
(d) Initiating farming systems research;
(e) Assisting Alem Maya College to strengthen research, provide
research/extension linkage and expand agricultural post graduate
training;
(f) Establishing research/extension liaison teams at research
stations;
(g) Improving headquarters services including library, biometric,
research planning and project support services;
(h) Constructing IAR headquarters and staff housing and additional
office, laboratory and greenhouse space at research stations;L/
(i)  Technical assistance and training;10/ and
(j) Replacing worn-out vehicles and field and laboratory equipment.
9/ A recently completed livestock study has identified major constraints
and opportunities in this subsector.
10/ Construction and technical assistance and training are largely in
connection with other components listed above.



- 19 -
C. Detailed Features
Field Crop Research
3.04      This component would strengthen wheat, barley, sorghum, maize,
tef and pulses research. The design of this component enjoyed
participation of specialists from the International Maize and Wheat
Improvement Center (CIMMYT), the International Center for Agricultural
Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA), the ,Semi-Arid Food Grains Research and
Development/International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid
Tropics (SAFGRAD/ICRISAT), and ILCA. Gaps in existing research expertise
would be filled by 21 man-years of technical assistance for which
specialists will be mainly provided by the above international research
institutes; 37 man-years of higher degree training (3 PhD and 14 MSc);
additional short-term training at international research institutes; and
attendance at various international workshops. Research infrastructure
would be strengthened by construction of laboratories, seed stores, and
greenhouses and the purchase of 20 motor vehicles, 6 tractors, farm
implements, and laboratory equipment and supplies. The project would also
finance incremental staff salaries and additional operating costs. Details
of investments and costs are shown in Annex 2, Tables I through 6; ane for
related civil works on Table 19. A summary of the more important
objectives and investments are given below.
3.05      Wheat Research - centered at Holetta for bread wheat and at Debre
Zeyit for durum wheat, enjoys a fairly strong plant breeding effort. How-
ever, its effectiveness is constrained by inadequate plant pathology
support and a weak agronomy program. To overcome these shortcomings the
project would fund construction of a breeding/pathology laboratory at
Holetta and eight years technical assistance, four for a plant pathologist,
and four for a wheat agronomist. The purchase of five motor vehicles, two
tractors plus necessary farm and laboratory equipment would accelerate the
program's momentum and facilitate more multi-locational testing of new
varieties.
3.06      Barley Research - also centered at Holetta, has a weak breeding
program in addition to inadequate plant pathology support. The program
would share the wheat laboratory for intensified breeding and pathology and
also share the new farm and laboratory equipment, and would receive two
vehicles and specialized plot sowing and harvesting equipment. The
breeding program would be strengthened when the experienced breeder and
team leader returns to Ethiopia later this year after higher degree
training and he would be able to call on short-term technical assistance
for problem-solving.
3.07      Sorghum Research - is centered at Nazret but has a widespread
testing program at Jima, Bako, Alem Maya and Melkawerer, and at several of
their sub-stations. Irrigation at both Nazret and Melkawerer is used for
off-season work. This program has regained some momentum with the return
of two plant breeders after training abroad. To deal with the serious



- 20 -
strigall/ problem that limits sorghum production in the lower areas, the
project would fund technical assistance for a weed scientist for one
year. Additional field equipment, including a tractor, would help to
improve operations at Nazret and the testing stations. Three new motor
vehicles and three motorcycles would help in surveillance of the widespread
ecological selection/testing program.
3.08      Maize Research - woUld be centered at Awasa with testing at Bako
and Jima stations and their substations. The research team is reasonhally
strong but is scattered and would be concentrated at Awasa. The program
has lacked focus and would call on short-term techaical assistance frcm
time to time to improve problemr-oriented planning and progess monitorirg.
Five new vehicles and seven motorcycles would allow Int.'nsification of
ecological (including on-farm) testing and a tractor and three sets of
equipment (one for Jima and one for Bako for existing tractors) would
improve maize experimental work at the various stations. Irrigation
equipment at Awasa would allow doubling the rate of the breeding program.
3.09      Tef Research - centered at Debre Zeyit has never enjoyed the
benefits of a strong team and at present is virtually on a care and
maintenance basis. The major input would be technical assistance for a
plant breeder and a cytogeneticist, the first for a two year period
initially that could be extended and the second for four years. They would
collaborate with the Ethiopian breeder who is due to return from abroad
later this year and would initiate inter-specific breeding in an attempt to
improve stem strength. To support the accelerated effort, the project
would fund construction of a laboratory building, purchase of plot and
laboratory equipment and two vehicles. There may be need to contract some
of the more complex cytogenetic work to a research agency abroad and funds
for that purpose would also be included in the project. While the impact
of this work would not be immediate, the project would attempt to initiate
a vigorous and hopefully expanding research program for this crop, in line
with its importance in Ethiopia and expressed GOE policy.
3.10      Pulses Research - is divided into two groups -- highland pulses
at present partly conducted at Holetta and partly at Debre Zeyit, and
lowland pulses at Nazret. The highland program that deals with the great
bulk of pulses grown in Ethiopia would be concentrated at Debre Zeyit and
needs strengthening. As with barley, there is great genetic diversity that
promises high benefits from a more vigorous selection/breeding program.
Strengthening would include four years technical assistance for a breeder/
pathologist, construction of a laboratory, purchase of two motor vehicles,
a tractor and field and laboratory equipment. The lowland pulses program
already has an adequate team to deal with the introduction of pulses into
Ethiopia's warmer areas where they are not commonly grown at present, but
for which there is a high potential. Some facilities and equipment are
inadequate and the project would finance construction of a laboratory, and
purchase of field and laboratory equipment and two vehicles.
11/ A parasitic weed.



- 21 -
Coffee Research
3.11     The importance of the coffee crop to Ethiopia calls for an
effective research prcyram. Coffee research is centered at Jima and work
directed from there is also conducted at seven substations covering the
main coffee areas. Both UNDP/FAO and EEC funding have supported coffee
research in the past, the latter mainly for research connected with Coffee
Berry Disease control. Some gaps have remained in facilities needed by the
Coffee Research Team. To fill these, the project would finance
construction of laboratory space for physiology, entomology, liquoring and
soils investigations, greenhouse and insectarium space; purchase of related
equipment, two motor vehicles and simple processing equipment for
substations; and would provide technical assistance for classifying the
taxonomy of the many dif.frent strains of coffee in Ethiopia and higher
degree training (1 MSc and 1 PhD) (details in Annex 2, Table 7).
Irrigation/Salinity Research
3.12      Irrigation investigations are conducted at Melkawerer and have so
far focussed on water management trials. Salinity/alkalinity problems have
emerged in some irrigated areas, as yet minor, but potentially dangerous.
Some work on these problems has been initiated and UNDP would continue to
finance an expert to carry out control trials (not basic research, but
testing well known control measures developed elsewhere) until Ethiopian
specialists, receiving higher degree training abroad, return. To date the
work has been constrained by lack of suitable laboratory facilities. The
project would help to construct, equip and operate a laboraLory for that
purpose (Annex 2, Table 8). The work would be important for the 80,000 ha
presently under irrigation in the dry, hot lowlands of Ethiopia, producing
all the sugar and practically all the cotton in the country.
Animal Husbandry and Fodder/Forage Research
3.13      While the major focus and resource allocation of the project
would be on crops research, a modest program would address priority areas
of animal husbandry and related research. With disease control research,
an Important subject for Ethiopia, the responsibility of the National
Veterinary Institute, IAR priorities are to improve the genetic potential
of the national herds and their feed supply. Much has been done to upgrade
dairy catcle and there is enough information for field implementation.
However, little improvement has been made in the 24 million head national
sheep flock. The ongoing modest fodder and forage research effort also
needs strengthening. Better fodder and forage would help increase animal
production for consumption or sale and improve animal draft power for crop
production. Sheep research would focus on increasing meat production from
seasonal breeding, improving animal health through better husbandry
practices and selecting superior strains from local breeds. Project
support (Annex 2, Table 9) would include two years technical assistance for
a sheep improvement expert, two vehicles, equipment, funds to develop
recently acquired land at Debre Birhan, additional research and technical
staff and overseas training. Investments for strengthening forage/fodder
research (Annex 2, Table 10) would 'e similar and in addition would include
funds to expand field trials cons-derably on the stations dealing with this
type of research -- Poletta, P_.Ko and Adami-Tulu (livestock research



- 22 -
substation of Holetta) and on farmers' land. Project investments would
allow expansion of the ongoing program to introduce and cultivate improved
pasture and fodder species, management of indigeneous and sown pastures,
trials of legumes, including browse species, and overccme difficulties in
fodder/forage seed production. Both programs are expected to benefit from
the close coordination and collaboration which has developed between IAR
and ILCA's Ethiopian work. They would also link closely with farming
systems research (para 3.14), which would investigate means of integrating
both improved crop and livestock production on peasant farms.
Farming Systems Research
3.14      Farming systems research is a complex and relatively new form of
research and needs careful introduction. The main objectives of this
research have been listed in para 2.25. The nature of the work would
further strengthen the IAR/MOA linkage at field level and become an
important input into research program planning (para 5.09).
3.15      The project would help to establish three joint MOA/IAR farming
systems research teams. The exact composition of the teams and staff
contributions to them from MOA and IAR respectively have not yet been
finalized. The model of a farming systems research team used for
estimating costs comprises a farm management economist, an agronomist, and
a livestock specialist to be provided by IAR and an extension subject
matter specialist to be provided by MOA. With two suitable economists
already employed by IAR, the project would finance employment of six
assistant research officers; four years technical assistance of an expert
to help traia the teams and initiate the research; six vehicles;
construction of office space; camping and office equipment; and short term
and higher degree training (2 MSc) (Annex 2, Table 11). Short-term
training would be particularly important and it is expected that both ILCA
and CIMMYT, which have pioneered farming systems research in East Africa,
would be able to help with this aspect. Assurances have been obtained that
the first team would be established by June 30, 1985 and the other two by
June 30, 1986, and that team composition would be satisfactory to IDA.
Strengthening Alem Maya College
3.16      The College trains students to BSc level and more recently has
started giving MSc level training. Its 400 ha farm is the regional
research center for the Harerge Region and an important testing site for
IAR crop research. In the absence of an IAR station in the area, it would
also be the station from which research/extension linkage would be provided
for the Region. As on IAR stations, equipment is worn out and needs to be
re,iaced. In addition, more staff is needed and, to cater for ecological
variations of the region, five substations need to be developed. The
project would fund two agronomists for the main station and a technical
assistant and field assistant each per substation; three motor vehicles and
two tractors with implements for the main station; plot equipment for each
station; and a small store/office to be built partly from local materials
(cement floor, iron roof, mud and timber wall) for each substation (Annex
2, Table 12).



- 23 -
3.17      It is highly desirable that Alem Maya College should increase its
capacity for higher degree training of IAR staff. The main benefits would
be reduced loss of trained staff abroad; reduced setbacks to IAR research
programs, since students would be able to carry out research for their
degree that would fit into the IAR program; and greatly reduced training
costs. At present, Alem Maya College lacks experienced staff to expand
higher degree training and teaching space also needs to be expanded.
Experts from international centers, who would assist the crop improvement
and animal husbandry research programs, would be able to undertake some
lecturing and thesis supervision (para 3.27). The President and Post
Graduate Study Dean of Addis Abeba University would welcome such
assistance. The shortage of lecturing staff would also be addressed by
UNDP assistance to Alem Maya College. The project would finance a
laboratory, teaching workshop and graduate library, associated furniture
and equipment, a vehicle and technical assistance needed to expand
post-graduate training at Alem Maya College. Addis Abeba University and
the College have prepared a plan, satisfactory to IDA, for this
sub-component.
Strengthening Research/Extension Linkage
3.18      The project would establish research/extension liaison teams and
would finance the cost of an assistant research officer, or if available a
research officer each at Holetta, Nazret, Awasa, Jima, Bako and the
Gojam/Gonder stations. Other team staff would be drawn from field crop
teams. Each team would be provided with a vehicle and the project would
also fund a technical assistant, a clerk, and stationery supplies for
monthly workshops for each team (Annex 2, Table 13). Operation of the
teams has already been described (para 2.24).
Strengthening of Headquarters Services
3.19      Library - the main library is at Holetta station at present, but
in inadequate premises. In recent years the supply of technical books and
journals has not met the needs of this library. Other research station
libraries are poorly stocked and have no recent journals. The main library
would be moved to the new headquarters (para 3.23) to provide services to
the stations by distributing regular or special orders of journals, books
and other technical literature, acting as a lending library for the
stations and assisting them to manage their libraries. The project would
strengthen library services by an initial major injection of books, and
with funds for regular supplies of additional books and journals. Library
services would be improved by provision of shelving, microfiche equipment,
and training of an assistant librarian abroad (Annex 2, Table 14).
3.20      Publications Unit - the existing small unit at headquarters would
be strengthened, once the new building is completed, with additional
equipment -- duplicator, copying machine, binding machine and materials; a
selection of audio-visual equipment; and employment of a publications
distribution officer and two proofreaders. The investment would help the
unit to expand output, quality and quantity of IAR publications, and to
speed up their distribution (Annex 2, Table 14).



- 24 -
3.21      Biometrics Unit - establishment of a biometrics unit at
headquarters would fill a gap in existing IAR services. The unit would
assist researchers in the design and analysis of experiments. An early
task would be to analyze a mass of' existing data including the accumulation
of several hundred 14OA-conducted trials. The project would finance the
cost of a biometrician consultant fo-. two and a half years, one MSc
fellowship, purchase of a mini computer, and miscellaneous office
equipment, a short-term consultant to advise on computer type, and
operating cost of the unit (Annex 2, Table 15).
3.22      Strengthening the Planning Unit and Project Services Staff - to
strengthen IAR planning capacity, this component would cover the cost of an
assistant planning officer (BSc Economics), an MSc fellowship, two
vehicles, office equipment and operating costs (Annex 2, Table 16). With
regard to project implementation, major procurement and construction
programs have been handled by FAO staff in the past. To implement this
project expeditiously, IAR has strengthened its engineering unit by
appointing a senior engineer and assurances have been obtained that an
engineer satisfactory to IDA would be maintained in this post during the
project period. To ensure smooth procurement activities, the purchasing
officer would collaborate with the procurement agency that would be needed
to assist with purchasing internationally procured items (para 4.06). The
construction engineer's tasks are outlined in para 5.03. An assistant
engineer and clerical staff would also be appointed. The project would
fund cost of the above staff, purchase of three vehicles, office equipment,
and other operating costs (Annex 2, Table 17).
Construction Program
3.23      The program includes construction of IAR headquarters buildings
in Addis Abeba (Annex 2, Table 18), and staff housing, laboratories,
greenhouses, stores and several other buildings on research stations (Annex
2, Table 19). Distribution is shown in the table below.
Proposed Project Works on Research Stations
Staff    Consult.             Labora-    Seed    Green-   Other
Houses   Houses    Offices   tories    Stores   houses   Bldgs.
Statioa      No.       No.      (Rooms)     No.        No.      No.       No.
Alem Maya     -        -           -        -          -        -         5
Awasa         -         -          -        -          1        -         1
Bako          7        -           2        -          -        -        -
Debre Zeyit   -         3          -        2          1        1         -
Holetta       7         3         11        1          1        -         -
Jima          -         -          -        2          -        1         -
Melkawerer    7        -           -        1          -        -         -
Nazret        1        -           -        1          1        -         1
Total        22         6         13         7         4        2         7



- 25 -
The Addis Abeba headquarters would have four floors and would house the
existing staff of about 120 with space for expansion up to 135. The design
allows addition of up to two floors. Ancillary buildings would house an
auditorium, the central library and a cafeteria at the same site as the
office block; and garages, a spares store and workshops at another site.
Total iloor area would be 3,050 m2- The necessary land has been obtained
and designs have been substantially completed.
3.24         Staff houses are planned only for stations which are not close
to urban areas. In these stations there is a housing shortage which
constrains staffing. For instance, until more housing is provided, married
staff may not have their families at these stations. Twenty one of the
houses would be two bedroom units with 100 m2 floor area each, for the use
of research scientists. The staff house at Nazret is an exception and is a
four-room design (215 m2) to provide temporary accommodation to new staff
until they can find housing in town. In addition, six houses are needed
for accommodating consultants who would be serving four-year contracts in
Ethiopia. Provisionally three houses each have been planned for Holetta
and Debre Zeyit. They would be standard design three-bedroom houses of 125
m2 floor area each and would be suitable for housing senior IAR scientists
in future. Since consultants would arrive during the first project
year,construction should start as soon as possible and GOE has been granted
advance funds for that purpose under a Project Preparation Facility
arrangement (para 3.31).
3.25      Host other construction derives from the components already
described. Four of the laboratories, seed stores and one greenhouse are
needed for the field crops improvement program, and two laboratories and a
greenhouse for the coffee research program. Laboratories have been custom
designed for the purposes that they would serve and range in size from
240 m2 to 305 m2. -Other Buildings' in the above table include five simple
store cum office structures for Alem Maya substations, a machinery shed at
Awasa and a cafeteria/auditorium (260 m2) at Nazret. The extra office
accommodation listed in the table is needed at Holetta to relieve the
present shortage, and at Bako to accommodate the new farming systems
research unit there. Only line drawings or ground plans have been
completed for the station construction program.
3.26      While the IAR engineering section would be strengthened, it would
not be able to supervise the sizeable construction program. A firm of
architectural consultants would be appointed for that purpose and their
appointment on a contract acceptable to IDA (para 5.03), would be a
condition of disbursement for civil works. The success of the crop
improvement program and provision of additional services by the IAR
headquarters depends to same extent on early completion of the construction
program. Completion of preliminary designs, working drawings and
preparation of tender documents would be desirable as soon as possible, to
allow contract bidding by project signature time, and GOE has been granted
an advance under a Project Preparation Facility arrangement to cover the
cost of necessary work (para 3.31).



- 26 -
Technical Assistance and Training
3.27      Of ten experts to be financed for 32.5 man-years of long-term
consultancies,12/ six consultants for 21 man-years would support the field
crop research pogram.  Of the balance, two years would be for sheep
improvement, two for fodder/forage, four for farming systems and two and a
half for biometrics. The two main objectives of the technical assistance
component would be, first, to improve critical parts of the IAR research
program and, second, to help develop IAR capacity to maintain the pace and
quality of the research program after the project. To ensure attainment of
the first objective, special links with several international research
centers would be developed. To attain the second objective, the long-term
consultants would, in each case, collaborate for several years with
Ethiopian scientists who have already completed higher degree training or
would do so during the project period. There would also be 8 months of
short-term consultancy for the coffee program and an additional four years
not allocated, to be used for miscellaneous short-term consultancies.
Thus, the total program would provide 36 man-years of experts' services and
is summarized in Annex 1, Table 4.13/ Performance of consultants used in
the past has been varied. To obtalTa suitably experienced and well
qualified specialists, IAR plans to offer contracts to several
international research institutes to provide and backstop consultants.
Back-up services would include visits from senior staff, and full access to
germ plasm and training services. The following institutes would be
concerned; CIMMYT for cereal pathology and agronomy, ICARDA for pulses,
ICRISAT for sorghum and ILCA for sheep and forage/fodder. IAR agrees that
provision of specialists by international institutes would be preferable to
open recruitment and the above listed institutes have all indicated
agreement in principle to participate. In addition to their research
duties the consultants would be expected to participate in expanding the
local higher degree training program to some extent, by short periods of
lecturing, but mainly by becoming thesis supervisors (para 3.17).
Guideline terms of referenlce for long-term consultants are described in
Annex 4. Assurances have been obtained that consultants (including those
on short-term appointments) would be appointed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA and that to ensure completion of four-year assignments
and early benefits from other long-term consultants, all long-term
consultants would be appointed before June 30, 1985, with the exception of
the biometrics specialist (para 3.21). The timing of his appointment would
be linked to the installation of the mini-computer.
3.28      IAR research staff requires upgrading and the project would
continue the training program funded by UNDP to date. lt would comprise
higher degree fellowships and short-term training, the latter mainly at
international research centers and is summArized in Annex 1, Table 5. Of
the total 27 higher degree fellowships, 14 would be for MSc and 3 for PhD
training for crop improvement teams, 2 MScs for farming systems research,
one MSc and a PhD for coffee research and one MSc each for sheep research,
forage research, biometrics, library management and research planning.13/
12/ Longer than one year.
13/ Costs included in cost tables for relevant components described in
previous paragraphs except for short-term training which is shown in
Annex 2, Table 20.



- 27 -
It is expected that at least half the fellowships for field crop
improvement teams would be awarded for training at Addis Abeba University.
In addition, there would be funding to allow 75 IAR staff over the project
period to receive specific short term training at international research
centers and additional funding to allow scientists to attend seminars and
workshops and to go abroad to select genetic materials. To overcome the
problem of placing candidates for higher degree fellowships into
appropriate courses and institutes abroad, IAR would continue to use FAO
services for that purpose.  In addition, to facilitate smooth
implementation of the training program and its early start, IAR has drawn
up a project training plan and timetable. Assurances have been obtained
that IAR would use its best efforts to make arrangements for placing
candidates by March 31, 1985. An addition to the training plan is
expected, detailing these arrangements.
Vehicle and Equipment keplacement and Supplies
3.29      Purchases for the crop improvements component would partly
replace old and worn-out equipment and vehicles. Additional items need to
be replaced during project implementation to allow effective functioning of
research stations and would be provided under this component. Major items
include 29 motor vehicles, 8 tractors, two electricity generating sets (for
Bako and Melkawerer), miscellaneous laboratory equipment, a variety of
identified farm machinery items and spare parts. There would also be an as
yet unallocated amount of US1OO,0O0 equivalent for small items and for
such requirements as improving domestic water supplies and other repairs
needed on some stations. Details are shown in Annex 2, Table 21 and a list
of vehicles and farm equipment for IAR Headquarters and research stations,
in Annex 1, Table 6. The project would also fund imported agricultural
chemicals needed by IAR during the project period.
Project Phasing
3.30      The project implementation charts (Charts 25964 and 25965) and
detailed cost tables (Annex 2) illustrate forecast project phasing.
Equipment purchases would be initiated early and orders for about 75% of
total purchases would be placed in the first year and the remainder in the
second and third year. The training program would start in the second year
and continue throughout the project period. Consultants are scheduled to
start work during the first year and their housing should be constructed
before they arrive (para 3.31). They would have two, three and four year
assignments. Execution of some parts of the project would depend on early
completion of construction work, particularly construction of laborato-
ries. It is therefore planned that detailed design and tender documents be
prepared before the project is signed so that construction can start early
during the first project year (para 3.31). Construction is estimated to
take three years.
Project Preparation Facility
3.31      To allow project construction to start early (para 3.30)
US$130,000 equivalent are needed for architectural consultant's fees prior



- 28 -
to project signature. The consultant's tasks would include preparing site
plans, preliminary designs, and detailed working drawings; preparing
tender documents; and helping IAR to prequalify contractors. In addition
six houses would need to be constructed before the scheduled arrival of
research consultants during the first project year. Estimated construction
time is six to nine months and estimated cost is US$370,000. Total cost
for the consultant's fees and houses would be US$500,000. IAR would not be
able to finance the total cost of fees and construction and in view of the
importance of initiating project implementation early, a US$300,000 advance
to GUE has been agreed by IDA, under a Project Preparation Facility
arrangement. The amount would cover 60X of estimated total cost, which
would be the same percentage funding as proposed for other project
construction work (para 4.07). The arrangement will help to remove
implementing bottlenecks that could have delayed project execution
materially.
Environmental Impact
3.32      The project would have only beneficial impacts on the environ-
ment. The proposed research work should lead to greater productivity and
improved land utilization. The salinity research component (para 3.12)
would test methods of preventing salinity from damaging valuable irrigated
land and of rehabilitating areas that have already been affected by
salinity or alkalinity problems, thereby paving the way for directly
improving the environment.
IV. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Project Cost
4.01      Total cost is estimated at US$32.0 M equivalent, of which
US$19.4 M or 61% are foreign exchange costs and US$2.3 H equivalent are
duties and taxes. Cost estimates are based on July 1983 prices adjusted to
May 1984. Price contingencies for foreign exchange costs of 3.5% for 1984,
8% for 1985, 9% for 1986-88, 7.5Z for 1989 and 6% for 1990 and of 1O0
annually for civil works and 9Z annually for all other local costs, all
three sets compounded annually, have been applied to base costs plus
physical contingencies. Physical contingencies of 10% have been added to
civil works costs. Price contingencies amount to US$7.1 M or 28.3% of base
costs plus physical contingencies. Detailed costs are given in Annex 2. A
summary is given below.



- 29 -
Project Cost S-ary
(BIRR '000)           (US '000)                Z Tota
Z Foreign  DM
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Exchn    Costs
5=-   _.- .=
A. STRENGTENIN OF FOOB  hIMS
MU PULSES REECH                   4,061.0 10549.6 149610.5  1P961.8 SO6,4 705892  72    29
D. STREB 1NXNG OF WDIC RBESARCH LNES    832.4 19487.0 24319.4   402.1  718.4 1.120.5  U       5
C. STRENSIIENING F L)ESO  RESEARC    19415.9 2,501.2 3I917.1   684.0 1t208.3 1.824    64      8
D. WJEIJVIEM1 OF FAMNG SYSTENS RESEARCl   1490.4 1,836.1 3,316.5   715.2   87.0 19602.2  55   7
E. SSISTWaCE To MDIM MAYA COLEE     1051.0 1,38.6 2,419.6   507.7  661.1 1,168.9     57      5
F. RESERVKTIEIBI LIAISON              842.0  576.3 1,418.3   406.7  2784   685.2      41      3
6. STRENSTHENIN OF _RANR     SERICES    1,180.7 29753.1 3,933.9   570.4 1,330.0 1g.94  70     8
H. CONSTRMON                         7,005.7 3,819.4 10,825.1  3,384.4 1,845.1 5,229.5  35    21
1. SHO-TERN TE   L ASSISTCE
mm US RABII                         412.3 3,512.4 39924.7   199.2 19678. 1,896.0   89       8
E. REW    W EWIPIE T UM SNPLI        818.6 39162.7 3,981.3   395.5 1527.9 1s3.4      79      8
TtOa DAELIE COSTS                     19100o.1  31%6.4 50,666.5  9Y227.1 15,249.5 24,476.*6  62    100
Musil Cntingies                       620.3  420.3 1040.6   m.7   2.0  502.7         40      2
Price Continencies                  6446.4 8175.4 146621.7  3,114.2 39949.4 7POU.6   56     29
Total PRET COSTS                      26,166.8 40,162.0 669328.9 12,641.0 19,401.9 329042.9  61   .131
-        -      -       -      =                     =__ -
Financin_
4.02      The proposed IDA credit of US$22 M to GOE would cover 74Z of
project cost net of duties and taxes and would meet all foreign costs and
25Z of local costs. The balance would be met by GOE, who would pass on
US$21.5 million of the proceeds of the credit to IAR and US$0.5 H to Addis
Abeba University, both sums as grants and would also make adequate funds
for the balance of the project cost available to IARE and the University.
The University would use the funds for expanding agricultural post-graduate
training at Alem Maya College (estimated cost US$0.8 H). In addition, IAR
would pass on part of the proceeds of the credit and GOE funds to Addis
Abeba University for project expenditures for a subproject for improving
research facilities at Alem Maya College (estimated cost US$ 0.9 M) and a
subproject for field crops research at Debre Zeyit Research Station
(estimated cost US$1.7 M) (para 5.04). The University would conclude an
agreement with IAR that would describe the purpose of the respective
subprojects, and specify items to be financed; the work to be done and how
it would be executed; detailed costs; the finanr.ing plan; the scheme
starting and completion date; and the obligations of IAR and the University
respectively (para 5.05). Conclusion of such agreement satisfactory to
IDA, would be a condition of disbursement of the relevant funds. The
proposed project financing plan by different categories is shown below:



- 30 -
Proposed Financing Plan
GOE                 IDA                TOTAL
Category            Br'000        X      Br'000       X      Br'000        Z
Civil Works          5,696       40       8,543      60      14,239       22
Imported Vehicles
& Equipment        3,141      21       11,620      79     14,761        22
Local Furniture
& Equipment          348       40         523      60         871        1
Technical
Assistance         1,593       10      14,336      90      15,929       24
Fellowships and
Training             337        5       6,410      95       6,747       10
Incremental
Salaries           4,294       70       1,823      30      6,117         9
Incremental
Operating Costs    5,380       70       2,285      30      7,665        12
Total               20,789       31      45,540      69     66,329       100
Procurement
4.03      The IAR headquarters building and its ancillary buildings (US$2.2
H) would be subject to international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Domestic civil works contractors participating in the
bidding would qualify for a 7 1/2Z preference. The remaining civil works
(US$3.8 H) would consist of 54 buildings, mainly staff houses, laboratories
and stores spread over 14 sites which are far from each other. Contracts
for the work would be awarded after local competitive bidding according to
GOE procedures, which have been reviewed and found to be satisfactory.
Foreign firms would also be eligible to participate in the bidding.
Architectural consulting services (US$0.4 M), would be hired according to
Bank guidelines. Prior to project start-up, construction of six urgently
needed houses would be undertaken; also the design and tender preparation
for the entire construction program. Both activities would be financed
under a Project Preparation Facility (US$0.5 M).
4.04      Vehicles, farm, laboratory and other imported equipment (US$6.8
M) would be grouped, whenever possible, into contracts valued at US$100,000
or more and would be procured after international competitive bidding.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preferen:e in bid
evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f.-bid price of imported goods or the actual
customs duties and import taxes whichever is lower. Smaller contracts
could be procured by local competitive bidding, according to procedures
acceptable to IDA. Foreign firms would be eligible to participate. There
would be minor exceptions such as spare parts or specific scientific
instruments which may need to be procured directly from manufacturers or
after obtaining quotations from at least three reputable manufacturers or
other established sources (if there is more than one reputable manufacturer



- 31 -
or established source), and publications (US$0.3 M) which would be ordered
directly from publishers. Furniture and some minor equipment items (US$0.4
M) would be procured by local competitive bidding. Consultant services
(US$7.7 M) would be procured according to Bank guidelines. The remaining
expenditures including fellowships and training (US$3.1 M), staff salaries
and allowances (US$3.0 M) and operating costs (US$3.7 M) are not subject to
procurement procedures. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$20,000 each which are required urgently for project execution may be
purchased by prudent shopping with at least three price quotations. The
total value of items purchased in this way should not exceed US$300,000.
The above procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
Procurement Plan
(USS million)
Procurement Method             Total
Project Element                ICB      LCB     Other      N.A.        Cost
Construction                   2.4      4.0      -          -          6.4
(1.4)   (2.4)     -          -          (3.8)
Vehicles, Farm,
Laboratory and Other          6.8      -        0.3        -          7.1
Imported Equipment           (5.3)    -        (0.3)      -          (5.6)
Furniture and Minor            -        0.4      -          -          0.4
Equipment Items                       (0.3)                -         (0.3)
Training                       -        -        -          3.2        3.2
_       _        -         (3.1)       (3.1)
Technical Assistance           -        -        7.7        -          7.7
-  -    (6.9)       -         (6.9)
Staff Salaries                 -        -        -          3.0        3.0
_       _         -        (0.9)       (0.9)
Operating Costs                -        -        -          3.7        3.7
_       _        -         (1.1)       (1.1)
PPF Refinancing                -        -        -          0.5        0.5
(Construction)                 -       -         -         (0.3)      (0.3)
TOTAL                      9.2      4.4      8.0       10.4       32.0
(6.7)   (2.7)    (7.2)      (5.4)      (22.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amount financed by IDA.
4.05      For all civil works contracts exceeding US$200,000 and for
purchases of equipment and supplies exceeding US$100,000, proposals for
advertising, draft tender documents, bid evaluations and award proposals
would be sent to IDA for review before contract award. An estimated 80% of
total contract value would require such review procedures. Other contracts
would be subject to selective post-award reviews. Two copies of all
contracts whether subject to pre-award review or not would be sent to IDA
prior to submission of the first withdrawal application. Assurances have
been obtained that procedures described in this and the two preceding
paragraphs would be followed.



- 32-
4.06      IAR has little experience in international competitive bidding or
in calling for bids and placing contracts for sizeable civil works pro-
grams. The need to hire consultants to assist with the civil works program
has been described (para 3.26). Assistance would also be needed by IAR for
procuring foreign goods. Funds for technical assistance for procurement
have been included in the project and IAR and GOE have decided to use a
procurement agency to train IAR purchasing staff and to help IAR with major
overseas procurements.
Disbursements
4.07      Disbursements from the US$22 M credit would cover:
(a) IOOZ of foreign and 60% of the local cost of civil works;
(b) 0OUZ of foreign expenditures of vehicles, equipment, spares,
furniture, chemicals, and publications if directly Imported, 100%
of ex-factory price if manufactured locally, and 60% of the cost
of locally procured items;
(c) 100% of the foreign cost of expatriate consultants and 80% of the
cost of local consultants and 100% of foreign and BOZ of local
training costs;
(d) reducing percentages of staff salaries and operating costs as
follows: 60% of US$1 million of the costs, 40% of US$2 million
of the costs, and 20% of the US$3.6 million balance of the costs;
and
Ce) PPF (US$0.3 M): 60Z of civil works and related consultants'
costs.
4.U8      Disbursements for expenditures under items (a), (b) and (c) would
be made against full documentation, except in cases where they are
reimbursable against Statements of Expenditure as indicated below.
Reimbursements of eligible expenditures In both local or foreign currency
in respect of the following items will be made solely on the hi. Is of the
Statements of Expenditure:
(a) Reimbursement appllcations for less than the equivalent of
USS20,0U0;
(b) Contracts for goods and services with a value below the
equivalent of US$10,000; and
(c) Incremental staff salaries and operating costs.
4.09      The project is to be completed over six years and a schedule of
estimated quarterly disbursements is shown in Annex 3. Disbursement
profiles show a nine-year disbursement period for East African agricultural
projects and 10 years for all project types in Ethiopia. The latter have
been delayed by civil strife during the review period. Measures to
accelerate project execution include appointment of consultants to assist
IAR wlth construction and equipment procurement; preparation of



- 33 -
construction tenders before negotiations; assignment of scientists under
the technical assistance program to IAR by international research
institutes, which eliminates the time-consuming consultants' recruitment
process; and use of FAO services to select fellowships abroad for IAR
staff. These measures should allow project completion over six years, but
an additional 9 months would be allowed for completing disbursements by
June 30, 1991. The faster build-up of disbursements than shown in the
profiles is mainly due to the plan to order most of the equipment and
commission virtually all of the construction program early during the
project period that should result in fairly lumpy disbursements rather
earlier than shown in the profiles.
4.10      Special Account. To ensure that funds are available for those
parts of the project that require local disbursements, a Special Account in
Ethiopian Birr, to be operated by IAR would be opened in the National Bank
of Ethiopia, with an initial deposit of SDR equivalent of US$500,000 from
IDA. The account would be used to pay the IDA. portion of expenditures for
civil works, purchase of locally procured furniture and equipment,
incremental staff salaries and incremental operating costs. It would be
replenished on the basis of documentary evidence to be provided to the
Association by the borrower, of payments made from the account for goods,
services and works included in the above categories and required for the
project. The opening of the Special Account would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Implementing Agency
5.01      The Institute of Agricultural Research would be the main
beneficiary. It would implement the project and would be responsible for
administering all of its aspects except for expansion of post-graduate
training facilities at Alem Maya College which would be executed by Addis
Abeba University directly. The Deputy General Manager of IAR has been
designated to be the officer-in-charge of project implementation. The
Addis Abeba University research station at Debre Zeyit and at Alem Maya
College would also benefit from the project and preconditions for the
University participation for those subprojects are described below (para
5.05).
5.02      In IAR headquarters, the planning, engineering, purchasing,
personnel and finance sections would be particularly concerned with project
implementation. The heads of these sections would constitute an informal
project service unit under the direction of the officer-in-charge of
project implementation (para 5.01). The engineering and purchasing
sections would have a heavy workload and have been strengthened (para
3.22). Measures to facilitate project implementation include assistance
with international procurement (para 4.06), employment of a firm of
architectural consultants for the construction program (para 3.26),
obtaining technical assistance from international research institutes (para
3.27), and FAO assistance in placing candidates for fellowships (para
3.28).



- 34 -
Construction Program
5.03      Because the IAR engineering section would not be strong enough to
handle all aspects of preparing and supervising the construction program,
a firm of architectural consultants would be hired to assist with design
and supervision of the construction program. The firm's tasks, up to and
including placing bids for construction contracts, would be financed under
a Project Preparation Facility arrangement that has already been described
(para 3.31). Subsequent duties would include evaluating bids, on-site
supervision of construction, preparing schedules showing when equipment and
furniture for the buildings are needed so that the IAR engineer can make
appropriate procurement arrangements with the purchasing section. The IAR
senior engineer would be responsible for advising his management on
selection of consultants, and award of construction contracts. His tasks
would include supervising all aspects of the consultants' work; preparing
the construction program and budget; reviewing reports, plans and
specifications related to the construction program; with assisteance from
the consultants calling and evaluating bids; and, on instruction from IAR
management, awarding work contracts. After contract award, apart from
supervising on-site consultants, he would be responsible for checking on
progress of works; exercising strict cost control; reviewing and
recommending payment of consultants' and contractors' accounts; and
ensuring construction quality before accepting completed buildings and
arranging and supervising maintenance of existing and new !AR buildings.
Addis Abeba University
5.04      The University would be directly responsible for implementing a
subproject for expanding post-graduate training at Alem Maya Agricultural
College (para 3.17), and through IAR would implement two research
subprojects, one at Alem Maya for strengthening the college research
station ncluding substation development (para 3.16), and another at Debre
Zeyit Research Station, comprising strengthening durum wheat research (para
3.05); tef research (para 3.09); and highland pulses research (para 3.10).
The University would implement all parts of the Alem Maya subprojects. At
Debre Zeyit, however, IAR would be responsible for technical assistance,
training and provision of incremental staff, while the subproject to be
executed by the University would include civil works, purchase of vehicles
and equipment and financing incremental operating costs other than for
incremental staff. A summary of investments for the subprojects to be
executed by the University is shown in Annex 1, Table 7.
5.05      Completion of an agreement between IAR and the University,
satisfactory to IDA, would be a precondition of initiating the two research
subprojects (para 4.02). Subproject description in the agreement should
accord with Appraisal Mlission recommendations, unless otherwise agreed by
IDA. Other obligations to be agreed to by the University would include
acceptance of project procurement, accounting and auditing procedures
(paras 4.03 through 4.05 and para 5.06); IAR research program planning and
review procedures (paras 2.09 and 2.10) for stations financed by this
project; and appointment of research/extension coordinators with the same
duties as similar IAR staff (para 2.24).  The University would report every
six months to IAR with a copy to IDA, on physical and financial progress.



- 35 -
Progress of the research program would be issued in time for the annual
research program review.  Financing procedures could luclude direct payment
by IAR of accounts certified by the University for agreed equipment
purchases and civil works and payment of other expenses through a fund
maintained by the University. Replenishment by IAR could be on the basis
of a six-month budget forming part of the University's progress report,
accompanied by an authorized certificate showing amounts spen., balances
from previous advances and additional advances required. Apart from
channeling finance for the component, IAR would assist the University with
procurement and civil works design and supervision, if needed.
Accounts and Audits
5.06      IAR would maintain separate records of project expenditures and
participating Uaiversity units would also maintain separate accounts for
each subcontract. Both institutions would have their project accounts
audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to IDA. The audit would
include examination of Statements of Expenditure submitted to IDA for
reimbursement. The audited accounts, including auditors' reviews of
Statements of Expenditure, would be sent to IDA within six months after the
end of the Institutes' financial year, and assurances to that effect and
that the above accounting and auditing procedures would be applied would be
obtained. While IAK accounting work is satisfactory and their accounts are
up-to-date, independent audit of the accounts is considerably in arrears.
The delay appears due to difficulties of stations to maintain accurate
records during the revolutionary period. A special effort is underway, at
the initiative of the GOE Ministry of Finance, to update IAR audits. The
updating should be completed as soon as possible. Consequeatly, assurances
have been obtained that updating should be completed by April 30, 1986 and
that audited 1984/85 accounts and the auditor's report would be presented
to IDA before that date and for subsequent accounts within six monchs of
the end of the financial year. Assurances were also obtained that other
accounting and auditing practices and procedures outlined above would be
followed. The auditor would be requested to issue a long form report for
the 1984/85 accounts and for subsequent years, if IDA requests such report
for any particular year, providing infc-rmation listed in the World Bank
Guidelines on auditing of projects, financed by the Bank.
Monitoring and Reporting
5.07      IAR would prepare a quarterly progress report on physical and
financial progress in a format acceptable to IDA that would include a
section on progress of the University with executing its project
components. The reports should reach IDA in Washington within two months
of the end of the reporting period. Within six months of completing the
project, IAR would prepare a completion report acceptable to IDA that would
deal with all aspects of the project, including achievements of the
Institute by way of research results and their adoption by farmers. The
completion report should also contain a multi-year summary of major
results, the benefits to farmers of adopting the results over a period of
years, including an evaluation of seasonal risks involved. Inadequate
attention to this type of analysis is often the reason why seemingly
promising technical research findings are not adopted by farmers.



- 36 -
5.08      Monitoring the progress of physical implementation of the project
such as construction, procurement, amount of technical assistance, training
and staff employment and project expenditure on each category would flow
from the quarterly reporting procedure. Monitoring the direction and
quality of research would be the function of the research program review
process (para 2.10) which consists of the preliminary review, the National
Crop Improvement Conference, and the review of modified proposals by the
inter-disciplinary group of senior IAR staff (team, department and station
heads and IAR management). Xey reports prepared for the process are the
summary of findings from previous work and proposals for new work; revised
proposals for consideration by the inter-disciplinary team; and agreed
annual research proposals. To enable IDA to monitor progress in improving
the research Drogram, the preliminary report should be sent for IDA review,
not later than March 31 each year and a copy of revised proposals by July
31 of each year. Assurances have been obtained that reporting procedures
outlined above would be observed.
5.09      One difficulty in program review/formulation has been lack of
early participation in the process by MOA staff or any others than IAR
specialists dealing with specific research tasks. In future, both MOA
staff and IAR farming systems research would have impact on shaping the
research program. The continuous interaction of research and extension
workers at the regular workshops (para 2.24) would be an important channel
for that purpose. IAR specialists would prepare proposals for experiments
from research requirements identified during the season and discussed at
the workshops. The proposals would be assigned priorities at the two
seasonal meetings between IAR station and MOA regional senior staff (para
2.24) for inclusion in the proposed research program. As a result, there
should be greater emphasis than at present on local adaptive research,
focused on solving farmers' problems. Participation of IAR users'
representatives particularly from MOA, would also be important at the
program review by the IAR multi-disciplinary group when each research
project and subproject would be reexamined. In each case technical
feasibility would be considered. In addition, to ensure effective research
resource allocation, the economic relevance of the experiment would be
compared to other proposals. In the case of ongoing trials, progress made
in achieving objectives and continuing relevance of the trial would also be
examined.
5.10      The General Manager and Deputy General Manager would play a major
role in this process. Apart from guiding research workers, they would
provide the Board with guidelines on major objectives to be achieved,
progress in doing so and options for resolving technical issues that
require Board decisions. They would be provided with an assistant to do
much of the groundwork including collating and summarizing departmental and
commodity team progress reports and program proposals. In addition, to
examine the progress of the project and its impact on Ethiopian agriculture
in more detail than would be possible during annual or routine reviews,
IDA would conduct a mid-term review during the third project year and
exchange views with GOE on findings. This review would investigate what
changes, if any, may be needed in project execution or in the research
program. to improve the effectiveness of the research effort.



- 37 -
Government Financial Commitments
5.11      Apart from financing US$10.04 M equivalent of project cost, GOE
will need to fund additional recurrent staff and operating costs after the
project period. In the final project year, these would amount to
Birr 3.9 M (US$1.9 M equivalent) or 30% of its present total IAR budget.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Agriculture dominates the Ethiopian economy and dictates its
growth. Production increases in recent years have been limited. The
option to expand the cultivated area has been less available recently
further contributing to slow agricultural growth. Accelerating production
will therefore require technology for intensifying cultivation of the
existing cropped area. For such intensification, other factors have to be
right at the same time, such as effective advisory, inputs and marketing
services and adequate production incentives. However, suitable technology
is a prerequisite to stimulating production increases and must be provided
by research. This project would focus on improving research for the main
food and export crops of Ethiopia, with the objective of making a
breakthrough in yield levels that have shown little change in recent
years. If successful, the project would help to raise farmers' income and
provide rural employment. The main beneficiaries would be the 6-7 million
peasant farmers, whose average US$80 per capita annual income is below the
poverty line assumed to be US$120 per capita, per annum.
6.02      It is impossible to quantify benefits in precise terms since it
is difficult to forecast the degree of success or failure of research
programs. It is equally difficult to separate the impact of extension and
inputs on increased production. However, where ex-post studies have been
attempted in Latin America, India and some other countries, the economic
rate of return to agricultural research has usually been above 40%. As an
example, if as a result of the project, crop production in Ethiopia would
increase by 1% after five years, the economic rate of return would be about
25x. The project would also have substantial institution building bene-
fits. Agricultural research showed much promise in Ethiopia initially, but
then faltered. The project would address identified weaknesses of the
research system in expertise and infrastructure on the one hand and in
program planning and inter-institutional collaboration on the other. The
training and technical assistance programs should go a long way to help IAR
become a strong and self-sustaining organization. Close linkage with
several international research institutes should contribute markedly to
that process. Long-term assignments of experts in Ethiopia from these
institutes would not only help to build up IAR research programs, but would
also improve the quality and quantity of local higher degree training.
Close collaboration between IAR, the University and MOA to be fostered by
the project, would lead to better deployment of research resources, wider
research coverage of the country, greater focus on farmers' problems in the
research program and, above all, better transmission of technology messages
from IAR and the University to MOA extension services. Improving delivery
of those messages to farmers is a major objective of the closely related
PADEP project, which is being prepared.



- 38 -
6.03      There would be a risk that project implementation would be slower
than projected and measures to guard against implementation problems have
been outlined (para 4.09). There would also be the risk, inherent in any
research project that, despite technically sound work, results would be
disappointing or that the program would not address the country's
priorities. The annual research program review and evaluation (para 2.10)
in which the Bank would be able to participate (para 5.08) is designed to
ensure that the program reflects the country's priorities and that
individual sets of experiments can be redesigned or terminated if results
should be disappointing. In the past, a large percentage of scientists
left IAR (paras 2.14 and 2.15) and the risk of further losses persists.
However, the record of staff returning from training abroad has improved
and losses from this source would be further reduced by expanding local
higher degree training (paras 3.17, 3.27 and 3.28). The risk of losses to
local agencies is also much smaller than in the past, when new
organizations were i%cing formed that had to draw experienced staff from
existing institutions, particularly from IAR. In the first place, the
staffing needs of other agencies no longer attract priority over IAR and
secondly, GOE has recognized the importance or research to the economy and
therefore of maintaining a stable and motivated research staff.
Nevertheless, Bank staff will continue their dialogue with GOE on improving
IAR staff terms. The above risks are not abnormal for this type of
project, which can be fully justified, because strengthening agricultural
research is essential for the development of Ethiopia and potential
economic benefits from the project are high.
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS
7.01      Assurances were obtained from GOE at negotiations that:
(a)  IAR would continue to employ a General Manager, Deputy General
Manager and Senior Engineer, satisfactory to IDA during the
project period (paras 2.06 and 3.22);
(b)  IAR would establish three research/extension coordinating teams
by December 31, 1984 and three more by December 31, 1985 (para
2.24);
(c)  One farming systems research team would be established by June
30, 1985 and two more by June 30, 1986. The composition of each
team to be satisfactory to IDA (para 3.15);
(d)  Consultants would be appointed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA and at specified dates (para 3.27);
(e)  IAR would use its best efforts to make arrangements for the
placing of candidates for high degree fellowships by March 31,
1985 (para 3.28);
(f)  Procurement procedures outlined in paras 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05
would be followed (para 4.05);



- 39 -
(g) IAR and Addis Abeba University would maintain appropriate
accounting and auditing procedures and updating of the
independent audit of IAR accounts would be completed by April 30,
1986 (para 5.06);
(h) Reporting procedures outlined in paras 5.07 and 5.08 would be
adopted (para 5.08).
7.02      Conditions of disbursement would be that:
(a) IAR has appointed civil works consultants (para 3.26); and
(b)  An agreement between IAR and the University satisfactory to IDA
has been signed for subprojects for which IAR would channel funds
to the University or one of its units (para 4.02).
7.03      Opening of the special account would be a condition of
effectiveness (para 4.10).



40                                      Annex I
Table 1
nETIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Major Food Crops - Area Sawn - Production and Yield, 19R0/81-1982/83
Area Sow;                        Production                        Yield
thousand hectares                  thousand tons                      tonslha
1979[80   1980/8L   1981182      1979/80   1980181   1981/82      1979/80   1980/81   1982/82
Cereals
TYf               1,490    1,362       1,313        1.430     1,312      1,089       0.96      0.96       0.83
%kise           -   827       736        598        1,527       948      1,154       1.85      1.29       1.93
Barley              790       831        707        1.034     1,075        926       1.31       1.29      1.31
Wbeat               461       536        649          522       614        701       1.13       1.15      1.08
Sorghu            1,014       979        826        1,642     1.411      1,206       1.62      1.44       1.46
Nlllet              218       233        227          207       205        197       0.95      0.88       0.87
Sub-total      4,800    4,677       4,320       6,362      5.565     S,237        1.32      1.19       1.21
Pulses
Roruebeaus          324       306        349          487       469        471       1.50      1.53       1.34
Cbickpeas           171       149        134          146       118        102       0.86      0.79       0.76
Haricot beans        19        21         22           26        20         11       1.37      0.98       0.50
Yield Peas          210       169        171          243       148        166       1.16      0.87       0.47
Lentils              42        53         69           31        60         50       0.74      1.13       0.72
Sub-total        766      698         745         933        81S       800        1.21      1.17       1.07
Ollseeds
weug                113       124        132           52        64         S1       0.46      0.52       0.39
lAuseed              44        57         60           21        27         26       0.48      0.47       0.43
Sesame               35        34         32            3         6          7       0.09      0.18       0.22
Sub-total         192       215        224           76        97        84        0.40      0.45       0.38
TOTAL               5.758    5,590       5,289        7,371     6,477      6,121



ETHIOPIA
ACRICULTURAL USSARCH PROJECT
Zitluated Size and Percentase Cogeoattion of Annual Food Cro; Areas in 1978/79
S of Total
Sorghuu/                                                   Food Crop
Tef           barley           Wheat          Maize           Millet.        Pulses         Olleeda           Total       Area
Aruast    '000 ha (X)          29    (2.1)  164   (14.6)  163   (32.3)   44    (4.9)    25   (2.6)   66   (10.3)    4    (2,6)                  495        (9.3)
(W)I/      (5.9)         (33.0)          (32.9)           (8.9)           (5.0)         (13.3)          (1.0)             (100)
Bale       '000 ha (X).         8    (0.6)   78    (9.3)   34    (6.7)    I    (0.I)            2   (0.2)   17    (2.6)    3    (2.0)           143        (2,7)
tS)11      (5.6)         (54.5)          (23.8)           (0*7)           (1.4)         (11,9)          (2.1)             (100)
Eritrea   '000 ha (2)          29    (2,1)   26    (3.1)   16    (3.2)   18    (2.0)   118  (12.4)   18    (2.8)   10    (6.5)                  235        (4.4)
(2)1/    (12.3)          (11.1)           (6.8)           (7.7)          (50.2)3I        ('.7)          (4.2)             (100)
Gaeo Cofa '000 ha (Z)          15    (1.1)   32    (3,8)    2    (0.4)   29    (3.2)            9   To.,9)    7    (1.1)    -       -                      (1t.8)
(Q)1/    (16.0)          (34.0)           (2.1)          (30,9)           (9.6)          (7.4)                            (100)
Cojam      '000 ha (X)        243   (17,8)   86   (10,3)   28    (5.6)   48    (5,4)    51   (5.3)   52    (8.1)   50   (32.7)                  558       (10.4)
(2)1/    (43.6)          (15.4)           (5.0)           (8.6)           (9.1)J/        (9.3)          (4.0)             (100)
Gonder    '000 ha (X)         206   (15.1)  121   (14.5)   26    (5.2)   28    (3.1)   110  (Ti.5)  137   (21.4)   42   (27.5)                  670       (12.5)
(ZL)/    (30.7)          (18.1)           (3.9)           (4.2)          (16.4)3/       (20,4)          (6,3)             (100)
HIarerge   '000 ha (X)          3    (0.2)    2    (0.2)    6    (1.2)   40    (4.5)   163  (17.1)    3    (0.5)    -               -           217        (4.1)
(m)l/      (1,4)          (0.9)           (2.8)          (18,4)          (75.1)          (1,4)           -                (100)
Illubabor 'OW  ha (Z)          47    (3.4)    4    (0.5)    2    (0.4)   64    (7,2)    24   (2,5)    9    (1.4)    1    (0.6)                  151        (2.8)
(2)1/    (31.1)           (2,6)           (1.3)          (42*4)          (15.9)          (6.0)          (0.7)             (100)
Kefa       '000 ha (7)        117    (8.6)   23    (2.8)    8    (1.6)  171   (19.2)    34   (4.1)   17    (2.7)    1    (0.7)                  376        (7.0)      F'
(Z)Q/    (31.1)           (6,1)           (2.1)          (45.5)          (10.4)          (4.5)          (0.3)              100
Shoew      '000 ha (2)        346   (25.3)  200   (24.0)  160   (31.7)  196   (22.0)   140  (14.7)  222   (34.6)    9    (5.9)                 1273       (23,8)
(Q)1/    (27.2)          (15.7)          (12.6)          (15o4)          (11.0)         (17,4)          (0.7)              100
Sids o    '000 ha (2)          13    (1.0)   55    (6.6)    1    (0.2)   95   (10.7)            2   (0.2)   11    (1.7)    -        _           177        (3.3)
(Z)!/      (7.3)         (31.1)           (0.6)          (53.7)           (1.1)          (6.2)           _                 100
Tigre      '000 ha (2)         67    (4.9)   26    (3.1)   36    (7.1)    6    (0.7)    87   (9.1)   30    (4.7)    6    (5.2)                  260        (4.9)
(t)I/    (25.8)          (10.0)          (13.8)           (2.3)          (33.5 )/       (11.5)          (3.1)              100
Wellega   '000 ha (2)         178   (13.0)   14    (1.7)    2    (0,4)  144   (16.2)   122  (t2.8)   14    (2.2)   24   (15,7)                  498        (9.3)
(Z)h/    (35.8)           (2.8)           (0.4)          (28.9)          (24.5)3/        (2,8)          (4.8)              100
Welo       '000 ha (2)         65    (4.8)    4    (0.5)   20    (4.0)    7    (0.8)    61   T6.6)   38    (5.9)    1    (0.6)                  198        (3.7)
(Z)W      (32.9)          (2.0)          (10.1)           (3.5)          (31.8)         (19.2)          (0.5)              100
Total    '000 ha (S)    1,366  (100.0)  835  (100.0)  504  (100.0)  891  (100.0)   955 (100.0)  641  (100.0)  153  (100.0)    5,345                     (100.0)
(X)       (25.5)         (15.6)           (9.4)           16,7           (17.9)         (12.0)          (2.9)              100
1/  Z of Region total.
2/ S of Crop total.
m Millet to Important.
Sourcet  Provisional Military Government of Ethiopia, Ministry of Agriculture.
Area, Production and Yield of Hajor Crops for the Country and by Regions, July 1979.                                                                   c 
"~ 0



-42-                            Annex 1
Table 3
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Institute of Agricultural Research
1982-83 Budget and Allocation Per Department
Major
Government    External     Total      External
Contri-       Contri-     Contri-    Contri-
bution        bution      bution     butors
Birr '000
Agricultural Engineering         98.3           90.4       188.7    UNDP
Animal Science, Pasture
& Forage Crops               1,414.1          252.3     1,666.4     UNDP
Crop Improvement              2,696.4          711.6     3,408.0     UNDP &
IDRC
Basic Research                1,030.2          180.6     1,210.8     UNDP
Socio-Economics & Farm
Management                   1,227.5          134.1     1,361.6     UNDP
Management and Common
Service                      3,578.9            -       3,578.9     UNDP
Plant Genetics Resource
Center                         307.2       1,220.1      1,527.3     UNDP
Planning & Programming,
Liaison & Publications         158.6            -         158.6     UNDP
Small Farm Implements           504.3           90.2       594.5     UNDP
TOTAL                        11,015.5        2,679.3    13,694.8
(US$ '000)
5,321.5       1,294.3     6,615.8



- 43 -
Annex 1
Table 4
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program
A. Long-term Consultancies
Consultancy
Consultancy             Period
Discipline                    Type                 (Years)
Wheat/Barley            Pathologist                     4
Wheat/Barley            Agronomist                      4
Sorghum                 Weed Scientist                  1
Tef                     Cytogeneticist                  4
Tef                     Breeder                         4 1/
Highland Pulses         Breeder/Pathologist             4
Sheep                   Sheep Specialist                _
Pasture/Forage          Pasture/Forage                  _
Specialist                   2
Farming Systems         Farming Systems
Research                Research Specialist           4
Biometrics              Biometrician                    2k
Total                    10                         31i
11 2 years initial appointment that could be extended up to 4 years.
B. Short-term Consultancies
Co___sulta__ ___ l
Consultancy
Consultancy             Period
Discipline                    Type                 (Months)
Coffee                  Taxonomist                      8
Biometrics              Computer Specialist             1
Unallocated                                            46
Total                                               55



- 44 -                            Annex 1
Ta bl=e5
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Training Program
A. Higher Degree Fellowships
Number of Fellowships
Discipline                             1sc               PhD
Wheat                                  2 1/               1
Barley                                 2 1/
Sorghum                                2 f/
Maize                                  2 1/_
Tef                                    2 T/               1
Highland Pulses                        2 1/               1
Lowland Pulses                         2 1_
Coffee                                 1                  1
Irrigation/Drainage                                       1
Sheep                                  1
Pasture/Forage                         1
Farming Systems Research               2
Library                                1
Biometrics                             1
Planning                               1
Total                             22                   5
B.  Short-term Training
Total
Discipline                           Number            Months
Coffee                                  6                 18
Irrigation/Drainage                     3                 12
Seminars and Workshops                  _                225
Unallocated                            75                675
1/ At least one local fellowship.



- 43 -
ACRIWTUitAL CUDIT eIAZ  PMncr
Vehbcle ad   srt bTMeStt LitAe                       Ien  Ladgquarter
Ihika               Head-
A_er    lask       JIM        Noleltta    Hurr  lasart   qfartAre
Vehicles
4 UD  hlcles                    3         S        4            9          3         4          3
4 VD station wagons             2                               2
Care                            1                  2            2                    1          6
Doube-cab pickepe               2                  1            3          2         2          I
Nutb-usas                       1
lO-to trucks                              I        I           I           I         I          Z
Hotorcyclsa                     5         I       11            2                    3
Blcycl-n                                                                             4
Fam. ZquILwant
Tractorsi  60 UP                1                                          1
G0o a                          3        1           2           1         2
SO 11P
Plald     p      rnte                     1                     2
Ox-draw l       eplats                    1                     1
Flot cobir_                                                    t                    1
May balarn                                3                     2          2
ids takes                                 I                     1          1
lEpra                           1         *         1           1          3
Plote  drills                                                   1          2         3
Panter/seader                                                                        I
Soi Ssader/cultIpackr                                           1                    2
Plot tbr  raht                                                                       3
rPet thibrm                     1         I                    4                     I
Bsed trhers                                                     1 
DI  pl                          2         1        1                       1         1
Noldlolrd PIoC                  1                                          X
mlac bhrrow.                    1 
SprIng tootb barro              1         1        1                       1
fltary cultivetors              1                  1 
CuLtivterAr                                                                          2
ers                             1         1        1
Sad ter_ra                      1         1        1
Pulpers 
Fl-al cbopper                   1         2        1
Slbera                                            1
Trailer:t 5 5-to  5ipping                                       2          2
4-tn tipping       2
tank1
Iaise ablllrt                   I         I
Gtain c.eaners                            1
SCed cle_nrg
aquipat  ets                  1                               3
lad pma                         1                               1          1
Dudt                                                                       I
PatILier spreadars
(400 1)                       1         1        1            1          1
Tractoar_-mnted
sprayra (10001)               I         I        1            1          1         1
Knapac  sprayers                3  *      1        2            a          3        15
Notorised dtetr                                                                      3
ack-111 blade                  1         1        1
Dryer                           I
Haadtoolr (sets)                          1                     1          1         1
Gardes tractors aN
i.list.                                                                             1
Laioumre                        2         2        2            2          2         2
Poatbole dier                                                              I
loan deplpa                                       16
Deortitert                                         a
Scals                           1         3       2             6          3        1O
Ruc. yatboh gcal
field  quipSt  *t s
Rird scalng devi Cesir)                                                              1
Sbhp ID tess and applicators
Csa)                                    1                    2           1
Sheep  bring equipnt,
ets                                                           1 
Plet presses                                                   10          S
Ditcber                                                                              I
Irfigarin. pr                   1                               1
Zrrhatia  pIPes for 2 ha
(am)                          1                               1
1500 mIatt a_teatr 
60 m  geeratote                           2                                2



- 46 -                           Annex I
Tabl=e7
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Addis Abeba University - Costs by Categories of Expenditure 1/
Birr '000                   US$'000
Local    Foreign   Total   Local    Foreign    Total
Research Stations
Debre Zeyit
Civil Works               580       333      913       280      161      441
Imported Vehicles
and Equipment            255     1,306    1,561       123      631      754
Local Furniture
and Equipment             15        12       27         7        6       13
Incremental
Operating Costs         322        700    1,022       156      338      494
Subtotal                1,172     2,351    3,523       566    1,136    1,702
Alem Maya College
Civil Works              220        132      352       106       64      170.
Imported Vehicles
and Equipment            120       520      640        58      251      309
Local Furniture
and Equipment              6         4       10         3        2        5
Incremental Salaries     447          -      447      216         -      216
Incremental
Operating Costs          124       261      385        60      126      186
Subtotal                  917       917    1,834       443      443      886
Total                  2,089      3,268    5,357    1,009    1,579    2,588
m                                       m  
Postgraduate Program
Alem Maya College
Civil Works            )          )       )          )        )        )
Imported Vehicles      ) 780      ) 940    1,720    ) 377    ) 454    ) 831
and Equipment         )          )       )          )        )        )
Technical Assistance   )          ) _     )          )        )        )
Total                     780       940    1,720       377      454      831
-          m        -__
1/ All costs include contingencies. Costs have been derived from Tables
1, 5, 6, 13, 20 in Annex 2.



ale    we a                -     -        m        sm    -    MMm-                     r         s      n                     W &
g *5W        In~       as's   -             -       m,       WMs    -    mm'    :   -   -   -   re res-           am               4=      W
g  Am     Ine 0          .                  -       tamic'   ame    -    =Ps         I   -   -   -   re  V1-      am                    smmm
r Pi      e a m          sus -                        Wams   mm's   -    ame    t   -   -   -   rem VS  -           anfl uMO
-mq    -              ss     am    swam   -I -    110-41
*    5  0  S    .rS  5   mrs am -       -     m's             -       -                                             mmIINMU
re5     I.m  I   0     gam    -             iee    -        -       -                                      -
a    a  0  an           S     I we          -              A       -       -I -                                          mmmmuv 
U'S:  On        US K       UPSa                         UPI    cm                    I g    -   -   -   re  Vs-       13~=4
a  ae    m    wee        sue:   -      -      -       mm      w so         OK          -                            an-   S      Ji
*  re       a res Il e a       --                   ge'    CA"e          a m'    I   -             s   s-         asw                      n
*  m w  we e.            E                 in a       a-    me                     :   -   -   -   re  Vs           nosmwm
~~  We   .@s  ~~~~~."L         -            -       W-                    E               - -    5IS-             i
*              we5 mu    Iwo                          OK  ms's  sEI   1- un    :   -   -   -   rs  re -             1             WjANhNuAW
*  555        CiSC~~zv   mas -          -     ma'    -                -    ma    :   -   -          -   -   -       I==
*        5     e       is'.    -      -     age     -                      1'            I   -       -   -         13n
*        0    Gn..s      ems'    -      -      ge --                  -    agsm     I  -            - - -            a 
*            Gss        weit   -             re -                   -    weto                                     no - -    - a
*        a    .sr. 0     aS's    -                    mm'.  am'    -        ss              - - ss VSe -            asw m~
*    a  a  5  irs.  en'.    -  -    -       as~~~~~~ow  ks  -    At.    :   -   -   -   re re -           asam
*    5  5  5  sue.    ~~~~as's    -                m'    Mm'            arme'    I   -   -   -   LID VS -        meas    ~
*  ems  wee  as'..         -      -        mu    awe.   -    me.. I~~~~~~go  -   -       I   TsIsI as
*  see      use       im      -      -     -    ~ ~m  a    am      -     n           -       -       t    -O    INSINI                         i
*        5     aS      nas                  - =mm'    m' --t             tee'    I             -   rmg. -O         as              isnmmi
0  Islo   mg  "PC     "Pt          ur      I                 VO  M          IM        n anmumws urn  m
*    s  5      we        ages   -                     re      tr           a m'    :   -        -        re nso-nas
rite    -     -     -        am's  11ORD   -                                                                  mm. W01-41
not re w                me                          tiip"     a' mm      emsa    I   -        - s   sm  -         as               40M us-3
An5         I" ts      m's   -        -     -        ir    tie's         mess   I   -   -   -   se  re  -         noasKBa
Emu 
ua  me.  see       wease:~~~~~~~   saeue'Wn   sem=   seem            41si    m.-:    t   :   I   -            am                    1=101
u  See        see~r   6  41ni wesz      m'uam SC=    um   sugm             41eeam .         I    I  I   I   -       ANmiuri
m    m   es    se~~U'    01010   -     -I      G      s-'   -as    -               Ie'                              IN-   -   - a   I-- 
a e          weeo    essm             iees    - 4-d -K-' eve                         -   I   g         I           AN-                       VW
111000% ML W4   Me   lai Im ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~      ~       T3  -
11m  smom ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~un   an
SARPMAW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~       -      i 
-        -          -       -      -     -       --                    -                - - -             -       
z L   SWL     ix            P    wsai            t      im       i     i   Wust'ese  sam  ai   1    i 



mw34   Wln11 =m  -mt      w a   aa
mXW  in    - as l wa11101 'UoU  3meomWi   in   um  'u111  mum       U  No4
'211 inin  'am    amn 711310RNZS m3 no'mmm mm -a a
'1108  wm9 -a    sma-iiam49anX SLM   a n m  o Zqmn         -M am &          muw NW m RKMmos    qmm     'Kmaim An IN               i
cl   1201OR1111  L-n m      41   M mzn   'm    m   i 'wm nom  uAC 
iniD  *   cmi 41111 Wmama Wm         g 'Un  w    meWms M mf w611111m jIV
cm-10f Wiqe 109e1, fm'34   #WLZI  CDqaU    -                                                               3m          lft
domcaid fros-411
a    e       -. w an          INS?   a.'   mm'  mm'    amm       owl:  --                                     -       a.               u l xm.
a    e  a  we    ice    am'.   OK   OKi  Ale-&   an- -- -                                                -     a.         3MMetU AIM
*      a     0    ii  a       um'    If'   tei'  u.s    ursC  9u.s                    -      -                 -      -            AuBWWIy guU
'AI*           l  seas    au   ime*   auwu   amn   awn                   -    Wn    ,              t       -          AIla
a     e    -0we a'  -      amf~    Sam. gm'  mut-    13'   -          -            a   i      I         - I)AM                        11a~mGN
ZZ11111 am  11-30
a    a  a  a-.  on- a         ue.    usqT  us.   m's   NMl    owt                     - -             -       -          ---IU   3Ma
a    a  a  we   CIOe a        Ia'.  mna'  mane ma'.   -          -                                                                    am oa.      on
a    a  a  we   ic'. 0  05.41~DD  OK'  AK'  OK    OK                                                          Mm-                  A m11i a
anWG cm
a        a  r   a4     um'   "Ms   "M'   "M    if'    ism?                      -     -                  -                     MUMzginsumgm
ImamumU
a     I         Gm w       ITee   m a " 13 "   a"4 UP    4-           -   13       .,  I   I       I    - -        AM             IOfm    u
a     Im  cm.   We         mug    M%   ii'  firs   %Mr        -            gm      P  1   I   I   I         -      AM                       a
a9 0  ci      -.     Ie        "M.   aw   wn nw    Z      aWu   -        -            t       I   I        -          AMu                  anma.
i  3M 2
OMaIT   uvs9  wI'i  am'    13'?   10'?    -mm m  w-sm
isa      ge       e   a       al'?    M    gm    M3      5f M    me           &      as   n   ma          a   -   M uM                wu     AE
a9   e  e  a      e   a      "VP   muq  mrn'  mei   cmt   sau                 a      do  em  e   s w a         -   Mlama        swum mImIII 1111
Is    *     a e   a   a              iui' ot  1W?  awl                        a       at   a   a2  a   - - -   'MIC i3MNaaM  MII
U9 0  se          a   *       inn     on   mn'                                It       IU     a                        no -   -   -   amao
-e9m  r
UP4U   Wu0  1015  mm'   ownf   Ertl   -                                                                      -   PWA-we
U9 0  Ie          e   II       lU    mme  lift  INC%    M"    UP?             one3    m   a   5        I  I    -      AN           saIAMUM 13010z
is   e  g  a      e   a      ame    arm'  mm', Mr"e   amS   uSi          - Mu?    a   I   &   I   I   I   -          AMN       uuuumms1131 
is    I      a  a            ue'sap   wew  am'   Inc    -                -    is'    I   I   I   I-   -              AM              M,gnaus  011
U9 0  CC          e   C       UM"    amt  am'                                 a" - - 1   I    I   -   -   -   -      AA          wamAsinlo"  ma
mums    .
911113 l1ai111111I
dEW'f -      iU    dLIaU   IU*PI-  W"I'                                                                   $111)31111134 I'Imi
wetvs  -     -      -       wama   mum   -                                                                  'mae0111
-3m    amE 3111 oit
tWA%f   -     -     -       lLh4f   mu'mg  -                                                               - ~ ?'-A.
*        AnL-   ae          m.s    -     -     -       owl?  mg'?       et  -          -I    -     rre -0          as                  iR'miLA
a     &  re    rem         a m'.   -     -     -       a3"    UL'e    -     g' -    so"-           I 5             M                JMISINJRa
*     as  a-c   ani          'tO  -          -      -  ON     an      -                 -      -K    I            no -  ZIU
Ama 3
*     e     -    ug        mm     -      -     -       13 l   la      -   Lau          -   -   -   Csre           I1111macmE
*        C    g        N'            -     -       WiI  on'tl   -    W             -  -         re  Lse       nof
*             -l       te                          10'    "M'    -   1W        I   -   -   -   rea s-i        I fl      nUno ,mms'mUius
*  s        g'g        ane    -      -     -       No*    M"           a"  -                    rele  re -     no-rg          n*MaUiuaa
*  g we   weau                             -       1        a      -   mu      t       - -  s-era-             AMM lUa  3v  3
U  e        a-e           a    -                   EL I  U-i    -    wo    I                    reare-         Lis           a,in      ugo
minim311
*  sac       a'e       UIa.                        be      aW          trn     I                    c         no fIu wusmm
U           % -aC                    - to"sa               135                             -                           du Du MuI
*    a            e        .i's0 n-    -               WI   art!    -    W         I               r - - -i res n- fluANO
*     agee      as -c      M-[   -      -      -       a.     a.      -   am':    I  -   -   -   Zs.rc-           amlom 
a*     a e         W e' a    Ul     -  -                "MiP    Cun         Kw'l    I                re s-a         am         au -UA  Innmm
*        C  U.*ca      an'    -      -     -       mam      o M"        am    I   -   -   -   rf V# -         fluIIN moi m                asua
a     saca         ala       LI',,     -         -        1CM   ea'a         asL-se   I  -   -   -   rare-o          am                  MinNie
*  eec        ag       'gt   -       -     -        U'   354           rn-a    I                ra re         amim                      u
U            W ue      aLI', -                     4ff'   dela    -    Wh    I                 re-   -        in            in AU1A11MINN mi
a    m  a  C       u-5C      as'.   -             -       w'a   mooa          Ds'U    I         -     rareO          am                 N L m1 U
-TCF%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



lmna
11_mv         _X10ti nofCTns
7d1. 2. 304n6111  FU .E MMl Z  M                                                               Table 2
341.1140 rast Tdl_
W1t W5 W W7 VM lf nS*X1                           ldtu  bs Clla                A..w .b h.            sm1
CUt.. For.  am"t  WA. TMx S4f
3.41   349M 1 MM   P KM 6 WM  WAN Ml" t T maOt lest MM/   WUl  KUM    WAR  MM13   WM/9  1.42   lOAe j. Tw late lia lit amp"
1. I11ElllBN WS
2.~
I. 62DMO
4EJ.-OMN                       IUT        -    I    I   -    -         -    2    W0.0  - 3.9   M.AN         -      -     -1 013          0.95      a0            1 a    i
_AC.-tE.                        WT        -   -    -   -    I    1   2   207         -1   -              -  -3.76 2.740   41.4         a   a       0 e0    ee
Sib-TAMi 181.46                                                                          -   2.        4310    - 2 -6 . 2007.14M
2. WIL0 E
PUIT T     5                     go       -    I              I          --  -  -   2 41    .    25.-2      -      -      -  39        : .n    OX          t    a
NDE-C       W                   wit       -  0.5  *S    -        -     -    I   3.7    -  iu.    4.4        -      -     -  2m         * GM    DY  e 0           ra
he-t" n-2-I                                                                              -  0421  .4b7         -     -      -   4-n4        en
1op 123                         an        -   2    2   -   -    -   4          211    -      422  *2r       -      -     -    34       I 0.95      e a e       e  E
KMTIWNeRD S121                            -    I   I   -    -    -   2    4.44         -  4.44   4.54       -      -     -   0.907     4 * .1    *          11
31131.wzUiM  OWM                Du        -  0.5  0.5    -    -    -   I    347    -   4.54   4.0           -      -     -   lw7    0*0.1          I  a   I    1
a JT. WUIU1m                    WUT       -  0.540.5    -   -    -    1    4.348    -   2.120  2.102        -      -     -   4.34M     0 0.72      0 Li2.1?    El
FIELDBLO         la           sET       -   .5 e.5    -   -    -   1   17.04        -   303   I.7         -     -      - e.4        00.95        I o *         U
ixA.laou                        unf       -  0.s0.s    -   -    -    I         34      -    in      i       -      -     -    3646  *s.a    0.D2   go            a
M1M131A1                        WIT -T.50.5    -   -    -    1                 71 -    us    Ds             -      -     - zn            0 G      .32       a
I.EbT0LE          0mT           W         -   2   2   -    -   -   4. -    4"                        6      -      -     -   1.3       03.       042   0   3    a
3h1MMINS UFUA35Th               UT        -  0.3  0.5   -    -   -    I    4.544       -   3.i?3   i.m      -      -     -   4.34      00.95       0   0   0    a
sub-rewl iRNzW-  24.75  24.70                                                                                  -               4%Sff
3.4-I11l   con01                                                                               U113.7  12334         20.76 3.769 211.072
A.. n   -
01WIFCER                          I T      -   -   -    I   I    I   3    2.4           -       -      - 2         z2.      a2e  7MA    0   0        03 e0         IL
2 er m lE 1AXWCD                 Ur        -    I   1   2   2    2   3    7.26          -   7.0   7.20 14.73 14.734 24    3.6           0   0        0   0   0    3e
2 1DXO411I340I                   Km        -    I 1  2  2  2 3    440   - 4. 3  4.M W262.24                                   9 4bW 0   @0    00 a   IL
5*-ota 334123                                                                              -  UAW41   It.01 3.46  24.44  264.60 1319
3     . -~  zL  
NEIMCO wn                       PR mu      -   -        -     e2                  13 - -  -              1.441 .43.4U    4.24    a   0    e 0                     3 IL
rWUTNANOU                       PR in      -   40  60  121       3 220  46        is    -    m       m   134  1.3   1.4   4.34          3 0      0    0*       e e*
EDm.L Many=I                    "a no      -   36   a   a    S   a   24           9    -    264    24    W1   7            5  2.112 *        0       0   0   0    sL
he-Tatl ml  a m                                                                            -   1ld51   1.5   27   2.7    .71  1272
C. 331113NO mA3IOM 101
40_1             IT _                     -         I   I    1    2   4    1.422               -  11.322   42  11.4211.6n 2  4e.4      0 c.7s    0.15   0   0  ec
92                               WI        -    -   I   1    I    1   4    9.315            -  -  %VS   %=   %V15 9.16   30             00.75    0.150            6 m
T1IU 111 3T                       _        -        -     -_- _         -    -                43  I02  102  10.44  H0A4D  3246          0  0.        I   0   I    IC
11 EtT 63N -                                    -     -    -    -     -    -                -    24  WIN74  0IR4 10,174  44 9         04.75   D6   0   0    eo
F20 mI                           m u                                                   -   240- - - 2-6  2.46  2.0              AW 1       0.43   0.*12  0   0    DC
5*-TadilPNI 3 13     1U      143                                                           -  22.422  44.31n 4t4  444W   4man 1.74
I.l       T  11                                                                               -  2344   WA0  74Neu 74431  74NMI  M  4ADSU
Tol                                                                                               14      225.1 74       7 9471 m12.4
is CZl1  UT      ICE  _01. T263Inb UP COD                    11E VIt 3l , 23.3 NO1 SP1NE. 2 N    F2ARM 1 2311261.L rA Iu  X  NTUl. Cl1311         2 f2UTZ            nab
It  3K  1126. 23W18 ITE JTU   313- IC 
Al C51T ITI 11 N   UM  2 VAL   5m1UU  2 151_L   . EA IIIJI UK 623IF  904l6.1 (              I
IC   7, 190  _.                                                                                                                                           . 



- 50-
cmwu                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AflUx 2
31.1WM.IKN  pUt                                                                       Ya-blo 3
low 3. linmiiwm min mm67K m1KcI
I..4. For. Sues Mv Tax Swy
out   amN mmP mm WIN NW in 31918.  66016 cm           . mm 6 mm       Kw     VAN   no3  391"    Te6a1    be. 1X  Tom be Edo. BAN sea"
z. zwDo   co
Lw~-AIIMWN                NiT            3    3   -    -    -   2   30.33        -3.6m300.30                               MOM10.7   33.A5        0  0          iiu
Mae.-LfM.                         WVT                                 I           2   23.76  -   -       -      -         .32626    41.4U     0    0      0  00          Ic
1. WA  MS OW    FU
low-DO PRW               ICT      -  340.5    - -          -         3.660     -  z..s  10.09        -              - 3.3          0 am5    ov1    6   6    M
42IN 111                        mmT       -  04  043    -    -    -   I   31-111    -  2S.M9  2.992           -                   I- 2.1   0 6.0     OX.3      0      M 
33mmU3                          31!       -    1   2   -   -    -   3    4.092    -    .012   9.3             -      -           14.67     0 0.7      di a03          El
12130                           goT            2    2   -   --          4        3     -     noS   M6                             1.73      337         @0 "501?i     M
18MPI-M0. 4.1.3                                            -            WEDS            *-  46.73  3.43        -                  31.49         .6       I 0 9         E
R  03WM                         goT            I    I0.  -   -   -    1   0-52         -. u.             -                   -  3m31.56     6.0 AM0a 0  a    M
MO SiwZ                         an!       -         -    -   -   -   2    17.613    -37.316741                -      -             .03      @6.9 3        0 6 a       U
mwsu NOAIBW a                     -   s    -   -      - -       s      .1 -15.50 la"                                -    5.50    a00.93         0  00         13
mm     nii WulIg                          -    5 -    -   -    - 10            31-          164 1.4  -W                     -    2.13       66.95        @0 3         1a
MOM TnUEW                                 --0293                                       -   5461   2.613      -                    3.61     6 G.AS       0   a0        a 
333.ILM   In.433                goT       -043  .5                      I    1    192        M 5    95       -                    1.919    0 0.95       a09           U 
3m CILIM000011s                   -         3    -   -   -   6         750         2.20   2.210              -      -    4.53      00.AR   0.31   0   3    U
vuMMiFREPK6    aM*T             MT        -         s    -    -   -   to        M.         I .%6   3.53      -       -            3.010    0 LSD   6.3   3   0    M
luxmuI   is                     soT           M .   0.5    -    -   -    1    12.9     -   092   0.49        -                    2.93   0.   0.3       3   00.19     M
wmm in la                       M         -         3    -   -   -    &    2.66        * 043 44                      -      -GAB12.36      a G0."       0  00         a
on  mNII                        soT       -         1   -   -   -    2    4.017    -4.6174.017               -       -      -      .1      00O."        06a0          in
ODaLIM                          off       -         2    -   -    -    I    4.017    - 4.6170.4              -       -           12.363    03.95         36a0         aU
gm                              som WI        "   es05     -            I    SAS.6     -    12    2.73                            SAW- .6  00.95S       0        03    16
NInUMMI                         soT       -3.04            -            I 3    0.4     -   342 3.6           -              -       43     03.95        0640          lb
FZL NIMS UB                     WIT       -         5    -   -    -120         43          2.660   2.6       -       -            4460    30.4       am 0. 3          10E
innuuM                          muT           n is    s    -   -    -   z      In      -   4.514.11          -       -      -     9.63     00G.9        0  0          13E
sil-fadz -RM                                                                                z 6.on1e .3         -                  264.W1
1810e1d Ru      W inuuim  110100                                                                                                      mum z.o  - - -   53
la"e  nms v.    3  -M33.1  236.7M                                                                                       3266  21.X3   43.91
U. mmrf con
6. Mm
mf  ITlMt b                   WI?         -                 I   1      3    2.03         -              2- 2.12.44 2.446        7.m2     0    3       0  00         0.
2 OMM! IEK           IFWE         in       -    I    1   2    2    2    a    7.240       -   7.200   7.230  14.5   14.5   14.5     3.3       0    6  0  a   G   a 
a RINMLm.  15b1                   IdF      -   2    5    a    a   a   31    4.01         -   9.26   2.,1603&2094   360M9  20.3   143.        0   0         0   0 3    U
gk*-Tai 31323-   030                                                                                  36.3*05%.2  4320  5 44.23I  239.23
3. Ina ALLW
31U91W 3                      P IS..      -   -    -   K         U    3  26     is         -          -   1.433.1 1.403           4,24     3   a6         0  0        IL
INmuWUVXWX UFI                  mO         -   00   40313  2322   INAf            12    -      M9    7M   la3"    1.36   1.36       &.10    6   6        3  3   0    IL
mm.ailm iumiiKRI                           -   31  no  a"  23   26  in             9    -    53   1.73   2.112   2.2   2.112    6.364    6   0           30       0    0.I
we-ga  ULv   ImLaAi'                                                                       -    vZM   2.112   S.16    S.101   5.10    11044
C. wokelIS   INU NNCIt m 1
iniI             amM                        -        -      ---31.-7-   31,172  23.17   31.17   33.I7   1334                                 a  04    0.    0   a    92
w-SWOR  TIink &                   3         --6-               --   0.236   0.234   0.24   &-24   0.26    31.12    0  @4    .6    0   0    IC
C MISK     muAm               SO        - -       -                                      3.82   3.63   3.6    3.6   3 2.       15.34     3 AM7    0.6   a   3    v2
u3      M-o                                 -     - -               - --  36.63   10.43   16.63  MAO6   Ah.                             0  6.9       6   3   0    92
AM VoO                            WYT                 I   1    I   1   4   21412    -           -  31.0123101211.0211.04           40.460    a0.75   0.2    a   0    C2
FmW                               Ut       -   -    I    I    I   1   4    9.66         -       -   VAN959.6.9 gas6 9.w9    3.36             a G 007   0.     3  a    I
4riscim    ~VIT                               13-  3 I      3I 13      1.131    -      -   3.73.1273.             73=  6  13.32     30.75    0.13  0           92a
VAM   I 34mk- .                  NT                   I   I     3   1   4    6.6$    -          -   6.36    van6  6.6I5  Go=1    U311    60.75    0.35   0             a
00Tdol VWDO  3 RO3101316 CM6.1   GA.S   DAN6  5.69  3.6    34.2
lug                                                                    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~246.4  322    06   10.3 143.U6  1..1172
is  mm WIE      a  M116   tmo   is MO W NITWI so a                    3TFM 113 wa
A           .CISI IMM V uWF mzsM M 1211
/C    63L M3 KM 
i7.   36  716



etmim.r  ImI)I3 RawE                                                                         Ammmx 2
Td. 4. imm    W ME 111    31MMj[ XI                                                                     TabI.4
MMN                                                                               Page I
004g2. C.t, TMb.
ft.re.. dUine iiilslm
-   061    IN  IlOLUl PI  319 3/901.41  0IICt SE  Klt    6/    0.4 euU    Uno...                                  a~I.In1             bt  ae.Ie
1. FOUW
MJL-4111111- W                                     -              I     1    2    30.02      -       -       -      -3bm    MM62    16.70           0 0."5      a   0   0      JR
NZ.-tm.                            wV        -    I    I    -    -    -      2    2WO70      -  2170.7 2WO6         -                    41.46      0    a      0  00          la
m*6-r..aumnu                                                                                       20.7W   20.7100         MIN2  JO13.   143.140
nALE-M P1C5                        nuT       -    I    I    -    -    -      2    Xft3       -  113.290  3.20       -                    4.7       5J 11    0G4Y   *   0       a
40 V3M1                             MTI      -  0.3  0.3    -    -    -       I 231.933      -  2SPM9   2.3 -M                           31,962    0 o.4a    027   0   0       M
001I3CILK5                          MIT      -    2    2    -    -    -      3    4.602      -   9.316241016        --                   22.4N     004.7       0.3 00          U 
2. ENTf
me AP u VA=T                                 -  0.3  0.5    -    -    -      1    6.30           WM.3    20.314     -       -       -     .3       00V.5        0   0       0U
U fUK Kmso                                   -  05  la5    -    -    -       1    5.1V7          I 34    2.300                            SA - 5.2  a 0.93      0   0   a      M
MfC MIIMTa                                     -0.30la       -    -    -     2    6134           2.23.0 ZAN                               6351    00.62         000            U 1
4110 V391imamUa 531I    I    -    -    -                                     2     6.02      -60111       .01 3   SAM32.02                         00O."1       000            a
Los PLAPE                 an         -  03  0.5    -    -    -       1    37249         11U.313tI.22        -      -            3269W    I0.3           0   0   0     a
FLAX OW                            an        -  0a   0.3    -    -    -       I1    SO           SWS   &   3.43 -1.6    472 --            3.40      001.92      D   I   a      a
nim                                dBI        -0M30.5        -    -    -     I     632       -    .291 2.291                              &M   0   0 0.93       0  00          a
Ko                        so~~~II    - 0.503    -    -    -          1     2.26     -   I..70   1.470      -       -       -    2.30    06.3            0      0      a
EPM       CNN  LI                Mil       -  05  Ls.3       -           -  I    1.1417   - 4.84   4.AAR                         -     3.        0043T        0   0   0     U
va nLL                             MIAENT    -0M5035              -    -      I    3.00      -2.11SI                -       -  2M          106     0 0.93       0  00          Ell
13l3.IERIR1111 460                migo      -  0.5  03      -               I      6.40     -     " 2.06 205       -                     6.023    0 0.93       0   0   0      El
NM1       -  0.3  0.3     - -    -        I    4.84           2.233   2.2V       -                    o.ao1    00.93         0     0    0U
31n                                anT       -03S0.3    -    -    -          I    JI933      -    .464 9.444        -       -       -     69       0 0.93        00I0          a
Km4fI40III   2TP                 muT       -  ea   0.5    -    -    -      1    4.111      -   4.024   4.454      -       -       -    0.907     00.93        0   0   0      U
1330153 "vMIll                               - 0.303         -    -          1     2.260          SWI.471.33            -           -      .34     00.93         00I0          a
123m vPVS  32E a-                          -  0.3  0S.5         -          I              - 2.217   2.33          -  -           -     4.8       a 00.93      0   0   0    U
uinjiTMwfUUSIiiK Him               m         -    L    I    -    -    -      2     1.ow      -    .W3   1.30        -       -              .33     00S."        0   0   0      U9
KOO A1    TE IIIIIIIIE M           521       -    2    3    -    -    -      3       as          1.319   1.1644         -           -      2.33    a 0.93       0   0   0      El
VAL IJI                          WI tT     -    3    3    -    -   -    10         21M         1.496 .91          -       - -           2.162    00D."        O 00   a       U
V40L   U0UJCi  Mmul                          -    1    2    -    -   -       3       366     -     S6"   1.49       -       -              .627    00I.9"       060 I          U
PL.NINNIS   5 (0M0 in                        -  03  0.3    -    -    -       I    2.470      -   1.313   1.4        -       -             2.01     0 0.43    0.32   0   0      UD
P    00521 PO   RAINA11       WIT       -    S 35    -    -    -    1M         20            30 .0  - W"-m            -             3.I46     0 0L4     0.IZ   a   0    M
NM CAmLsOV                         NMi       -  0.5  OA5    -    -    -      1       23i    -      333   2us            -                  in23    00.41I     0.GM    0   0    a
ugm31.sulmg                        onI       -    3    3    -    -    -    10         a3     -     33      214      -                       in- 2  00La      0.m70  0          to
3iMh1M  inUasI                     MIT       -    1    2    -    -    -       2      Hi     -     211     33       -                       In 3   0 0.93       0   0   0      El
mu so UImm                          WIT            1    2    -    -    -      2      Sp            Sp133.212                              1.470    a0.93           004         to5
12 CU Ff.U111l1112 1               2.1           ea0  0.5    -    -    -     I     2.33          1.714   3.714      -       -                1 2.  a 0I 0.7      #0.0I         U 
L111111=   on               n           W -05 .3    -    -    -      I     2.32          1.0911.0091                             2.112      0.1  004S  I     0        U 
F~    VIIIORmu I                      -0    03    -      - -         1        7 -I 1?64    1to             -       -               37     00.93         0  00         10
MirI. aA     4W 10MM                M-        -    ---       -              -                      00026 32 1  70f   323M  1.700   2C62.0          a 0.43    0.m    0   0      M
~~.lgj  -                                                            -23.99323.620 3.763~~~~~~~~~~~~ -;-m -.7W37W27.7
so-AteBo am                                                                                       - 216.4111 33.b1   3.6 7.07.50   4021
MRfCPCLE                  so         -0 04  -                  -4     1    4.012    -   2.362.306          -       -       -    4.492      0  0.7     0.3   00        UE
sbi-lowa  01132                                                                               2- 3.3        .3         -       -      -     3.
2. 1TPDf
WWI OIIII CN    LNW                        -013 03                         I       0.90   - 4.4   4.8            -       -       -     1.90      0 0.93      a000           U
RAIL   m                           311       -013 0.3    -    -    -         1    31.30      -1676   1670           -       -       -  37.3       a00.92          @0    0      U
12153111                           NW        -03S0.3         -    -    -      2    A.M       -   2.2012.31          -       -       -     4.32     0 0.93       0  00          UN
MaIm                               wT         -03 03         -    -   -      a    2.26       -   1.4701.3           -       -             2.360    00.93        0  00          U
mu   u IM                          g 311     -0      035    -    -     -     I 2     JI 5.106  2.3       .33                -             53.116    0 0.93      0 090          13
0313Z2U636M 410U                   MII           03  03    -    -    -       I     4.0123    -   2.0     3,06 2.6   --                    4.02     0  .0.9      0   0   0      Um
311       -   .3  0.3    -    -    -      1     4.84          2.3    2.32                -            4.054     0 0I32       0   O   0      In
FMlDJiNf WT is                     UT        -   .3  0.5    -    -    -      1    46.30         3269  Z224          -       -            44.30     00.93        0   0   0      to
-  5.17   3.17       -       -           2236941



- 52 -                                                                             Au.z 2
Page 2
C. JV,
1.~
_0 1110                           sor       -   .5  0a    -   -    -        I   sdoi       -  2M     J.2          -       -      -    5.l1      0  .3 *.D7   *   *  D
IIIILIE                            EliT     -6ea0ea    -    -    -          I    4.MQ      -   2.25   2.25        -      -       -  I.         -  06.7    IL _ 2    0      a1
_-TI 'lU                                                                                      -   .233  3213        -       -      -    5.6s
2. UlArl
I      nU                       D         -  0.5 .5    -    -    -       I       W      -   4.4    44          -       -      -     l         0.          0      0  
fLA1L03                           muS       -  0.5  0.5    -    -    -      I   34         - 1  .734  20.7-1      -      -              .       00.9 n         0   0       a
UN.ELVir                                     -0.5  3.5     -   -    -              .101    *     M    2.2n               e6.5                   00.42        0 e0          a
MFM                               NWi        -0.5  L       -   -    -             .36      -   Is      1.6        -      -             2.26     00is          0     0      a
NOm L                   _                       6.5  05 _ _  _    -   -    -  1    5.10    -   2.5    2.5.        -.106                         a  .9        0   a   0     t1
13UM20       N  (AWLI        1 1            - m.5  0 -      -   -    -      I     601          k . 3A.            -                       U     0 L.n        0   0   a    I
o3111N r                                      0. 04         -   -    -      1    4-64      -   2-   m2.7          -      -       -    4.e       04           00 e  a
s_|.|. asaegl                                                        ~~~~~~~- 3.40    D.96   -      -       -    67.18
SW-Tod  US                                                                                      -  92.240                                 124.31
7ub 1N.l'5T COW                                                                                    - 1 6  3M9.717  b73   71.5  n1.5106.1U
I.. init mis
6 SMA4B
UI UFAla  ^Ib                       WI        -    -    -    I   I    2    1    2.6          -      -       - 2.         26  2.61        7.19    0    0        0       *0   a a
2 A 3i7 MEM101 On03                 WY        -    I    I   2    2    2      a    7.20       -   7.20   7.260  14.2   14.230  14.2      ZHU       a    0       0   0   0    IL
4 T       Mumma /                    11 T     -   2    4    4   4    4    is       46        -   9.26   3640   3.6   MAN  136           U  6      I   0        0   0   0     a
4 gL 3 I61S 16                      UT        -   2    4    4   4    4    to    2.1          -   5.0  263  1DAN   0.20  10510    47.D             0   0        0   O   0     K
Se1-Twul 1 13 -   1.                                                                                      3.2   41.0  4Q.20  43.20   194l.6
L. 1LS EjM
W         S WFI                   to33m       -  W4  1  243 266   24  1.06           se    -   2.1    2.3    44    4.34   4.234    2S3.4              0       0   0   a    K
I       MW FlU3                   4  11so     -  12 I 22 6   274  26   US             13     -   low    1.33   2.12     2.4    2.26     2.7       0    0      0   a   0      I.
IOMXfIS at3 6                     tot         -   9   210  213  n    223   93         I      -    m      1.3    1.3    1.36   1.36      3.214    0    3       @   a   0 e
$1-Tubalow   Mlo                                                                                   5.192     2    92       .26   9.240   3.26
c. SF       to
R mOW  CM1
_00 0              VIT                        -         I    2   3    3    12    U.73        -      -  3.49   3.04   now   3.9    143.37          0 4672    0.    0 e        cc
71J                                 Vl -W               2    2    2    2     a    b.9O       -      -  1VAN   1.9   Iraq   19           7h712    0 am1    OA5   0   0    W
OIEI                                wtT       -   -    7    7    7    7            1.119     -      -   7.84    7.14   7.4   7.4        31.3      0 6.5    045   0   0    IC
--1 IVIMINS                         WY        -    - I   I    I   I    1    4      0.2D      -      -   3.23   $.I2     3.23   0.2    U3          0O .75    045      0   *  0l
FU  in"   _3                                  -     -     -     -     -     -     -          -      -  l0 U  10.41 I2 4U I4           4I.A      0.5 .       0   a   a      cc
EN~   _wnewE                                -    -     -    -     -     -     -   _           _      31-2    1wn   1074  1I10174 43.9          I 675    08   0   0    5c
Us okunl7 ClM_                                -     -     -     -     -     -   -            -  WVA  3          &Itl 3101.174  I.17   10.74    5.3  0 6.75    0.    S   0    5c
Wm                                            -         -    -!             --   2.i3    2.6    2.013   2d.    2.0    1.M                        0 La    0.    0   0        Ec
-         rm m u                                                                             -  .ZbV4    .M  1.M2M2 072 1672   47.3i2
14.                                                                                                 -. 1           1     = 61 12 1 2  6742  21374213.795
,.    -    MIL11 "Al- 3       3. 31b   I .                n_nuuM MUM V=  IM   M     FXn   w.IM
k 2LO1Wfl.IEtI1a 1MP
_7 211R32I lLfFUM.U
___ 7. 1t1 Ir7.7



"gm 0Ka -saw
IUaff   i 11INISIN m A-m        41   9I
JE1 i ON 09I2 AME A  WI MMOMMI %f
IMM   meon-   OM   m. eq     .ing  lal                                                                              ams J-wernV
DCWM   UKu  mOqe  W060     1M   an    X-MI  UARN  MEPWfr
gmw      M.&i  Wat-   MUe  WVP   UK                                                                             am  XNJUIU
M slAl   'Mm0
2       0 C          cis  a    Iewo    seq.  see   Stern  ises                            -       -- --             -          MK             fima sncou
a     0  e   we1      me a    POW    mc   mOK   mUK   'SeC   rn's   -                                                                              um  3uja
20    *  0  ini   a% S    IM'a    KIAK  lam.  earns                                                                           "M    0
30a=M s
2     I  a  we    Scci.    at'o   eM'  ~Ms   tan   an e--c  - --  -                                                            Mxmg    1110
510K -
21    0  a  cg's      L' SM       0KWt    MASe  5rI'R  11106   M    -       -       &.    e      I   I       5 I              An RO                IW-MIN
2  0   0  lii    SLOe~~ 900W     ur li U W'3  lii!   SPIt  -         -      t9f    e   I   I          I                 AM -  RIOS
UIMm  1131I '
5  0  0   C  0   0    ffL'ezu-    't  inn! I'   u. . ;           -                mcw       su   U a,-              -
5  0  0   0  0   0    EI'L    IU*I   BK'~~~~;;;I  ;;I    S                  mg  Ms  us  ass  Kg a,  -             se           Um inSM  zw
UY    0  0  0        a   0    015.1    ON'S  eta'   in's   at  us'.-             U        O    Mt  M   Me  u   U   -          la                   autiai
.3    e  a  *   e~~~ e    suzt    em's  Owls                                a        Mi  a   *   -   -   -   -    I gm11MuAJO1= 1OIS
U  S   0  0  S   0    iftaN~mq  me11                 ;- P  K   O          K.      5   e e e e g -                     a                 ani m
5  0  0   0  0   0    US'0   us'e5    'H~~;W     mm'    m'0   Gust   -    015'S    II  IV   p   lo      a   -     AIn       iNuainuuz3ins
it       ae            0 *    &A*       4M,'   AMM   4Mi'   -       - m     -    OWL'     6   I   I   :         -             am MRI.mm
.3  046        0  ~~~0 mc'.   uSe.  OweS  Use.  use   u              -    us'      s       t     I   -   -   -          AMso
uo    I      .           *     mm'    MMs   is-        -                   -      m'           t   I   -   -   -   -          IAN         to mum m,inu agu
505'0                 ars9m   WmI  mw       -                                                              R       m la  MN   p416
*  0      re cia        seq                               -     -                           -a  -    -  -      -       0Km                               o
53    0  S             i0      We5                     ?'  I  %-                                                      -       0K         Jsulm tm    ItKt
at    e     a     a            b swa                  "M g'u-                                                                            18 JWflan    IaR2
*3    9  .e          Qs  '.    utrn                   lull5  -      -       -    au-.                                                                    a             i  iu mu
*3    0              Qee  4'.  it"      -             Iwo,  -       -      -    me's    s   -   -            -   -   -       Jim                         in
*3    65'0OO   0     re  S    fl5*5    -                      awe   UP    -    35'S    1   -   -   -   re. Se  -              noM                   UWhNom
a*  C           on SCi    ISK      -      -      -      aSlp   owlS         owlS?.    S     -   - -          **         tM                    IMmI
at c     &-    usee       mm'      -                    m'   m:-I            me:    S   -   -   -   re  re n-mnN
*     a  a   e       wee        W0KI    -      -      -        L'   bat'   -    SIM5      I   -   -   -   Lii -0              aS                   unm        sow
*  *  *   S     u-elwo     grta'                        411  sm'   tei    -    Iwa    5      -     -   s re              noiTOW ti           Iim ismm
555'    .       .           .  ae's  npiri  -                                                                     stuom Fwz-W4
a     a  e  ire    in  e    aSs'               -      -      5i*ts -        -    us's    I   -   -   -   V's  Vo  -            M                  dm    1-111
M      eecIn         fr 0 e      ewr.   -       esesetas               -A     wge'    I   -             S - -    -re          am                     33     f
  see        Wee      mt'tel   -      -oq    -      inqcus'u-             U.S    9   -         I -           -   -    ArN
a  a  a  e    Bee        'b5~~OK-    us.ca    e '-          -Mc'    a   S   5                        I   I   -        ANV
vi    e              s   e     M-L'sos91SI -    -    -                                                  -ssz   s  ---     - - 0on                         mumU
OWNCl'5-9      UWm  W ""'s  memo  "me     -                                                                      ftm Riv        I'MLi11
vs    a  a   e       ii  0    0KIMt            ec'  .win  .wi   mwaw              MewM         -   K                  -       ANs                          StEM
at    I  a   o       re  a      W-tall -        Amum  NMw  GMew  mWA             V -eM   .   -   t   I   I   I                AM &urno
mm iMUN~IVS 
-  - -  -   -  -    -    - - - - -   -   -   -  -  -  ----   -~~~~~~~~~gm angA I
(ml
'.et Psia'tec
5 luSUW                                                tsm       m          ALamm a s'u
-cc-



TuTom                                                                             Anne  2
AMzM~~ M[UMMNM                                                                             Table 6
TAOi.6. uiNWRMu u rl)Mi d a  M FA  .M                                                                   raw. I
0.011. gost Tla".
~~~tt.                                 0.., ~~~~~~~~~catst               64v.                  ON.
Cab. For. gruew my 1., "MN
OrdL KM10 MM10SW01VAN0 W      PI" ?l Total 00t Cast MM1   MMk    SW10    WAS0    SW1    Win0   Ostd        MN4 lab. To. Rate   bled  ktat
a. PNETZISTAI
XWR  NTMT                        NV       -    I    I    I    I    -    4   20.92        - 20.92  20.02   20.92  2092           -1.91          0  0.3       a   0   0      Ti
41.0.                                UfT     -    -     1         I    -    2    00.50      -       -  4NNO  4h56049.              -    m34.5      001.5        000 I          T
Mae-40100                  NW       -    I    I               -    2    2.000      -3.0020.00             -       -       -   mos        0O."         0  00          To
A.g.-ifik.                           PT      -    -    -    I    I    -    2    20.110      -       -         20.90020.3           -    4.460      0    0       0  0 0         in
ia1Tst01 .uzgina                                                                               -  urn  106.mo  70,29   30.2           -   290.W0
C. uK MMt .AIw OUAMa  rm
AM lowu  ~      ~         IMT     -  043  043    -    -    -    I   22.92        -  21.32  25.90        -               -    51.41     00.62    0.a?   0   0       UR
MLE-00 fli                      muT      -  043  043    -    -    -    I    23.290      -  26.69   20.49       -       -       -    23.360    0 0.23    0.    0   3       a
3*6-Tote  012D5                                                                                 42.407  42.4        -      -       -     0.2323
2. 37AR
KhW  n.2L mu                      MT       -  as  64.     -    -    -    I    VMS5       -   0.417   0.17        -       -       -    37.31     004.92       0   0   0      a0
,1MP2 VAMMIT                               -  04  045    -    -    -    1    20.44        -  34.32  14.32        -       -       -    23.06     00S."        0   0   a      a
FEImiUT,. KY/aN                            -  la  04.    -    -    -    I    4.23V        -  2.240   22.2if      -       -       -    43.2      008.92       0   0   I      a0
LM   ETIMN                  UIT?     -  043  04    -    -    -    a    17h11        -   B.90    0.90       -       -       -    V7.61     0 0.93       0   0   a      to
VL  NElviU                       mui     -    2    2    -    -    -    4    &.m3        -  12.20   INS"0       -       -       -    23.72     00.92        0   0   0      F10
OD CEAM EMInM                     mui      -  043  045    -    -    -    I    21.55      -   l.90    0.00        -       -       -    17.41     0 0.92       0   0   0      a0
WDIS OM3                        g       -    I    I      -        -       220.0        -  MNMU20.0             -      -       -   41.111      004.3     # . 0  0         U
hiK.2U1.E    *           UT       -   -     -    I   -    -                           6.366 - - - 0.0                         6.540    00.95        0   0   0      a0
I=L FtINRU
FZ  E31WIVIU        le         UT       -  04  043    -    -    -    I    17.60        -   3.2   0.72         -       -            1.40      0 0.15       0   a   a      a
PDTLWUIRW         4 NLl           MT      -  04  04    -    -    -    2    6.012        -   SAN6   2.000        -       -            6.02      0 6.52       a   0   0      a
~~ VRUM                  NMI      -    2    2    -    -    -    4        11I    -    422       40           -                   so04   00.95        00a   I        a
asio. mmoKm               WI      -    -    -    I               I    SAM5       -       -      -5.6                          SAO a.6     0.5       C-  I0         a
BROINK   M UR                     EOT      -    -    -    I          -    2    &.S0       -      -           6.560       -            6u6        00.5        a   0   0      In
auuTWT                            WT1-    -so      -      I               I    2.612                         2.61                     2.613     0 0.5        000  a         U
OUJ1UU3TUZUKIM mu                MT       -    --        I --            1    2.12W                         2.32        -            2.301     0 0.5        0   0   0      a
UTlu 125UW TUTF
NElUTni                        UT       -    -    -    I -             1    2.311-2                        2.31W      -             23       00."5        O 00 0         a
F 33B                             SITM     -    I    I    -    -    -    2    2.40            2.07    2.00       -       -              .140    00.A      0.32   0   0      U
LAIONET i                         munla    -    -    -    2    -     -    2     2.30                         but-6.1     -              .190    00.4      0.32   0  0       U
12 UJT. RNOOTs                             -    -    -                          Z       .420  -          - 2.5                        ZAN0      0.x72         00.0.39       U
MINI UM OWMW                      T     -    -         4          -    4    2.21      -               -12M2           -      -     2200      001.5        0   0   0      a
191OLWS  LOMEm                                                              -        -      - si            -       -      .m     * 0.          0 0 0          U
amm OMMUS                mu   -            --   2  -           - 2  13.20 -    -                -3010           -            21.00u  00.9-5         0 0
vFFFUiMPU                         UT       -    I    1I           -       2    2.3       -   2.2062.3            -  -                 &Al.0     00         0.40 a0         EL.
l 1                               NWT      - 04504        -    -     -    I    2.00      -    .64 1.0K           -       -            2.00      00.  0      .2L 300 I 
flw ~~  id               muI      -  045  04    -                I   l2.90       -    .40    6.42       -                    l -  lU3  0  0.        0   004 1.,     3
-OMRL PK
U.mainS                         MT      -    2    2    -    -          4       30      -      6      in0                                     a  - 1.A004  0.2300 O       a
063MMAW  gm                       K        -    2    2    -    -    -    6                    %K32 - 9  %u.00    -I -                 29=2      0 0.5        0  00          a0
gmus 181Tof                       -       --  -                                                     20.10       -            20.00   00.4l  0.12  0 0   U
Lo  UNMEW                         4W- ---                      -          --  20.35                                    -            20.25      0  04      0.4   0   0      a0
11104      -                                                                                 22.013.90234                  -       -   20.62 1&
3*Td -W  MNTUz    -~ NONA PMm-3707.g20.0                                                                                      -           69
L 0.01  UaAR  PMm
2.Lom
sice-ANOW                IP       -   -    -    I    I    -    2    22.0         -      -       -5.003.0                -10WON         004.95       00 a           U
i.K.-isa.                an~~~~W  -    I    I    -    -    -    2    3.7lO       -  20.03.0             -       -       -    41.400    0    0        0090          10
3*ldd OFlUlM                                                                                -  216730,306536,00, 50.010            -   10.10
2. 00.1
a0loma                            mu       -  44041       -    -    -    I   51.102      -  2%.1m    n39         -       -      -    5132       00.O2    0X    O   0    20
MOL-Oa9                           muirN    -  64  0.5    -                I     ILA0     -  26.65  26.19         -       -      -   3.19        002       0.0e   0   0      a
wl-T ota   mm11                                                                                42.407  42.40        -      -       -    OV



ilhL  lt L 
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ itli  tm w                            mmu  -  -             'IVUU 
ADM       M nu WA  AM AJ IN    1M I O
Ma= -c a-rna .wm m AKW it z 'mm   M=uaN
mmmaamx ziAue  gm  so             .jim t.r      T. -mamar et -mom= mn a 'ma.. satim   c *ituETE    m    naL mmm u nr   'aiwm   mff    mm in  mDa
qum umam su au wmu UN 10 T= 1 Slow= 31 m i coIN U in mm 
130 n'  UX r_'u&     a'su u eo BMS  -                                     Dt 
DvZ1C  u.inz ease,  'sow  auK  ug*a                                                        am-0            sme inn-"
a  a  a   we or*      b 'W    OK    met'  Mwe  ;as's 1 -tit-,-                                       -   -a-t               m         um  ,upi-
a    a  a  Ws   UIS a    mt   aIO   kt*i  ec   -ri   -                  -                                        -nitUl                             m
*     0  a  we   u's .    mug-    mm'  Iwou  mie   mm  -                -                                        -      .s m mai 
2    0  ae  Ve       s   a    r'      mmt   u    tilt  In  W            -                                       -     a.              Fmz. n
S  t    tt    t   itl  tY' -                                                         UAl-%~~~~~~~~~~~~~N i
*    0  0  a's  11' 0    UiLO    mm   usB  ItWIS  S'  tB-T -                                                    -_ -                    I    ru IAn
2    00 1      ,    Ci we     lUon    mmi   oft eoq   SW.  -            - -   o%          I   I   I   1   -   -       AM      -           lDU
*    a *  wre  Ya            UP       ;;;- s   me Ds In ;es -, wl                     - - - - -   -   -    -               -     _     -    - _        m
0 e           O    wOe 0    MM    Klf t US  ZMPM   -                   -             -   -   -   -   -   -   -                            am 1     u  on
we3wo 0    "PK    mm *tYl_ I                 mt  IU                                      _                                    t    t 1
M      * * S  m    U   Sp  U*  _             U_    emu   ".i                         t   I                            A I_ -    
is2         0 6U    TO0    it's    08.3            amPO    W8.31or -                                            -    AN                   suNnm mam U
2     0 *   se sn    0    I           "M                                 - W  nrn  a" 'T -  -                         ig                   1      - -   -   -  a
~~~I_ - 1_11  *
is2    0    a     1.  a    UPtI  inSi  4KL   U             U*   W                              a-- - - -      -        IV                 linAidel SUUM E
2         *ew       lwe       m'    urn @'1  iii's   nib's  ups  *t -                -p   -   -   -   -   -   -    ye                              am1 
1     S          0 *ie        tlPfr   8116  ZIH  lIPS t -        -      - -          a .       I   I   I   -   -       AN                 00       1I1L
:-    *  *  Ie    YS e wee    iti.   is',  irs'   m*:  -i'   -                -m -          - --  1UD                                   l
is    ee              e      on   nme            Ye   - owl  S          -     t'     I   N    U   a   I   I   -    Am                  m U       MUM a
a    e       e c        o    et   OK'   M   n-  m                              - -  t.    a   I t   I   I   -         AM        W       i tmu_      MM
as.U   Zl       &V* TR-    ara 't           -                                                                  s_1      113m    W"
u        *  e    e     e e     e' mc    '.   as.  cc'.  r nt    NI    -    * L          *r  e A        er 1     -      WU           tl NU  SUf
* | | e @~~~ar*                       We' !  ! K   w -tt  aTd    =001                                                     (1t    G w=   LI     W nll-41t 
a re    re  I    I'                  tWC nr  -                           -            .-. .       e   t         .   -   -   - WA
2     iii           6   S    eU'S    wii  N I'C        -      -     -          -          - C   I   -   -   -   -   -    Ma WI 
13   191814 0  al-                 ean"    us'   wit it's  -                                                            cmui uwu-a
A     a  a  I       we  '4 s4              e       e -    -       z-      - 'e        I -    -     IiWI I                          Z
a          0   * *tS   I         st -Ir      -      10 . 3 I  I   -  -          _                                                           LltWIIn1 3
a           0 *  *     00    awe                      K '  CU'!  -  -   -       '    I   -              -   -   -     as                         am
dl    030           WOO       LU'. *   *            LU. -n  -       -        411     A   -        A     I            1 1I
*  SO       1530      LV'    -        ea  LU'.  -t    -         -    Lt'                    1                                                       T    l
a  c o      wo    a           -      e-    aZnC  -       - t   -                                                          tl3111-              _
*  050      TOO         t'S    -     -       tS - -             -t Ot         i -                                                   11 -   t-SI 
el    000               O    mudl    -       -      tI -  -             -       -         -        I   -   -          am                           a
a     0  a 0 e       *  a  *n         -      - D      et. -             - .- Ll   I                I   -   -   -    MU                   3en
U      000         Ulf    -3    -          -      -      Sam      '        Ie    t- r                       -e      t -'                 fhl -m
mum c
*    000            TOO       S U   e'.    -  - we  -  -      - 1         t              -   -             C'o -n -ln    sow
8     0  e  s       16.30    it'U     -      -      -     #5'-S  #4-5          IT -                     re       -    Il        -            -      ia
a  a           w   e a  eNlz              -cq  -                        aft      t   -    -    -   glS re        IS                      3-       JIM-- Bl
**   e  er e       ffe       t's,   -   .-   *e-  *Ui  ss                   it,    :            -       0  i-        Ma
la  e   *  *        21 0    wri    -           -      -    Mbat              urn    t   -    -          -   re S-     IIITM   _t
U        00         ff.3      13e u5    -    -      -      M'      t's  -    lis          -   -   -   P  P   -    Ur                        IWULUO
9 SAE'9L
1                                                                              cc -    -



- 50 -
T.ab i. ufma.. _ wi5
NMuIlb Cnt U.bb
am
bwlfl.                                                 3.snw  hiSs..
but - m K 171                                 -   -a ww e - -                                                             T-  -   -. -   - a-@
1. icp  cu
A. linIIT                     al                   -    -    -    -      3. 24               194.72      -               -       -    9472      0  0.        0     16
a. Frrm
.0                          WT        -    I    I    -    -    -      2    3           -         3.131         -      -       - t               G.7. 00.a5  0 
Im 13  Uo1UB                mm        I    I    I    I    I    I      6    3.e0  mom   2.0   10    1.     16.3    WIN   33.                   0 0.95       0     a
C.   IES
40  rtmw                    NM        -  0.5  0.5    -    -    -      I    53.13       -  2.9   25.M           -              -  _ ,95        0 0.2    S.3D      a
Sat-C   PtW rl                        -  0.5  0.5    -    -    -      I    2.9         -  1445    m5           -      *       -    Ban        0 0.51    0.7      a
uiman                       exT       -    5    5    -    -    -    1U    4.2          - 21.       2           -      - -          46.m9      0.7  *a  D
s-r.   Mn                                                                                 -    34       7        -       -       -    2.2m
9113wflhm                    WIT      -    4    4    -    -    -            2.50       -    .04     04         -      -       -    DdU5       0            0     a
afMJUIfK                    mull      -    a    3    -    -    -    u       I3.        -  10.4    14           -                   241 1       0. 5        0     a
IAII                       NW        -  17     2    -    -    -    24        43       -   440    4            -  -           -      .4    O0LA         0.2      a
my. Lo  nm1   r a 1w.                 -          -                    -                -       -       - 143.30       -       -    4          0  0. e4 o  S
EL.L F4  "1f I[W.                     -          -                    -                -       -       - 1.25         -       -   12             L 0    0.5      D
l2            r       E         -    4    -    -    -    -      4       4        -               -       -      -       -     2         0    5     4.4    EL
U4-" 33 r                                                                                 -  31.20   2        a.24247.3  -       -   236.471
lout1 13ulu1  0111I                                                                     14.03 V0717 150.40  23.92   14.03        po 143 061"24
II. FECRW9 sm
2 030A3    O        Is     WI       0.     1    3   2    2    2   34       9.900   2.9      t3 w  9.33   9.   1 9.0   19.0    s3.1           0    0       0     IL
4 3L.A13140 315            WI        -    -    2    4    4    4    14    2.4          -       -   1.1   10560  s10e    3.53  I6.96           0 *          0*  IL
2?3                        W         -    1   2    2    2    2       9    2.10        -2.03   44              4.0     4.4   4.0    1I.17     0    a       0     a.
T.7.3. IAMO                                                                           2.4   19    9.219  34.9  Zia"  234.9    123
8. To    M1S
wieffAM OC3215    23   43 e                in  in   i2n 551    D                   Z.S    1.66   2.212   2.112   2.112  2.1T         0    0       *     IL
3212                     P3          - s        e0      20 Yo YOY                          Sao -  S  M    2.M    2m    2. 2    2N            a e       O     O  a
SLIP6l A   ALI_m                                                                       93   24a   Z.N    4.34   4.4         4.0    2MA
C. go=at .mo
=111 mm                    WYT       '    '    I    1    I   1       4    sUU2        -       -     U2  11412  11a2  11i12    466            0 0.75    0.I    a
P1w                        WI        -    -    I    I    I    1    4        m         -       -   935    9.05    9.5      9s   2.5           0 0.75     .5      W
-133B                      WI         -    -1 01it10 i              40    1.11        -       -  le3 .   3.IWle  1.10 11.217      44.427     a *0.7    01 *.
luTa   331m1130                                                                          -       -  20434  20.44  22.4  2044   12.5
3L  11  T2U3         V S 1L_  10   2J   -   If   29   21   25   2     1       243        -2.    41.8   s.a   mea   3.062   23.                 0  0.5       0     C
II      I        h         IN        -     -    -    -    -    ----                           -       -  174  114   0.174    320.9           0 0.25    0A5      K
I_w  Min                                       Ta                                         -2- - -      .47 -43   547 W   s .21           0 0.715    0m      a
Ie       1                           -     -     -       -     -     -   -            -   2.0    2.03   2_    201   243             040      0 043i   0.2       K
_h-T.aLs  de mm mm=                                                                      -   2dm   2.2    4.as  427.5  42s745   :3.0
Tsi  amo    ci.1    7.317  snd    _s.0    3s.                                                                                   s.      114N
lowImr311                                                                                4.311  2213119.7231 40.4543468416464   41.31144
/a  -am=- O SM U                 11W I F-FDA
lb w7     n a mS F n   5 u    SM A n rs I' UK UD A. 1M                                                            L1I En
Am 7. 7," 17=3



- 57 -
123163                                                                               Annax 2
1                   mma  K111 "mr                                                                                 Table _
Maid CoIL 1*1
UlE
C.. Far.  Wm        Malt
362t  Om Om Km 0   gmD mm TaI b1it Cat 3M S 3m   K                                     7m am     3 amWe TSUI  a. Lab. Tm latebw ko
1. xowEnsu C3?
A. Fl.L  mVinaP                            KIT        -    1                             I    49.u           -49.000 49.5349.50               -       -141,0         I 00.9"        0      T3
L.  iNA-Pb  Fruj.Am                         MIT        -    I    I    I    -    -    I    21.330              -  21.310  22.340   22.30        -       -  43.900      0 0.95         I      a3
C. Emw.w
2621TME 05     1  &     1                lt          -          -    I            -    I    14             -       -        -   l 4         -1000
nANE IU EI                               MIT         -    -    -    2    -    -    I    32.532             -        -       -   22.53               -               *2232  00.9   0      ED
ATOMIC 6030110 vmwUIIUUT
we      U18                           mIT         -     -         -    I    -    -    I    a,100        -   a,           -  73.           -      -  720          00 .9         0      U
CUG TN      e MU e am  NMI               ullT        -    -    -    I    -    -    I          9.13         -       -        -     .131      -       -   9,233      0 0.9          0      to
fWtnu         A11   (maul nl                         -         -     -    I    -    -    I    thDI         -       -        -   217 S        -      -    W2M       0 0.9          0      El
PHlll Kill    # IL II         EIt
f2lKlnf                               gm                                       -    1      2.5 -  -  -                        2.259       -            ,5          0.95        0      a3
PMKm W. )                                lUllV       -    -    -    1    -    -    2            63         -       -        - in             -      -      is      0 0.95         0      El
sinMI      U                              MT         -         -      1           - -    I  1   436        -        -       -   1436        -         -   1.436     0 0.9         0      U
MCTI   FMP                                NW         -         -     -    I    -  -           2.30         -        -       -   2.3W         -      -   20          00 ."         I      El
0VE  (l.. F        m        I             N?         -    -      -                -           1.566        -        -       -    .6t                                                     a -  -   2.6  3 0.9  e   EX
TW?r FMP91Sm6151                         MIT         .-    -          I    -    -    1    10               -        -       -    0           -      -     30.2      00 .9         0      nD
.LTtCUL  ICE                             Mit         -    -          -                        13.54        -        -       -   134          - -         3.4        0 0.95        0      to
ML  NBll                                             -          -20               -1            I"                               low         -      -   1. a0     - -   95        0       l3
311T1l- fun  SL                           lMt         -      -        I                 2     2.9                                 W M -   2.  -     -   2.25?      0 0.95         0      El
K-lnIN'                                  Ult                    -                      I 2     .75         -       -        -   1.175       -       -   21.275        0.95        0 e    E
SUWA                                     lIT         -    -    -    I    -            -       1  1.3n --                        -       -   1.36.                   00 .95        0      E
31SImhD3E Le1232 6                                   -    -          -     I-    -I                 -         -       -  22n0          -      -  21.23        0 0."         0      El
OIE-n 3                                              -ASM  - -   - .-  -.    .     .     . .-                      -        -  2,2165        -      -  21.113      0  0.t         0      El
LOS f1311W                               S           '-   -        -   -      -      -                    -        -        -  20.271        -      -  23.275      0  0.5       0.4      El
bTetal CIOM1                                                                                                  -       -        - 22142         -       -  11.342
10.1 i3lun    I aTs                                                                                             -  7110.0   71.10  M5.142         -       -    742
1A.    t 0m
SI2I  NEE6O  IFIO          a            WY          -    -    -    -    1    1    2          3.3          - -     --  3.300  3.310   6.600                        0    0         0      L
_ 3IN OFFIC3                            Wt          -    1    1    1    1    1    5          9.0          -   Yom      9,o0   tow   9900  9.0    49t0             0    0         0      IL
2 NWWr  FI  w4   niS                     WY f            2    2    2    2    2    It         7,2.0        -  14.S0  140 4      14.90 l34.9   14.90  72.0             0 *            *   L
3   IEon. LOIaTSI                       mm          -    3    z    3    3    3   15          4.620        -  13ONIA    3.860   13. 1311 .0   13".06      300     0    0         0      sL
2 FIBE  III3T                           WV          -    2    2    2    2    2   le    23.4               -   5S.N     52       5.20  5.20   5.M   260            a    0         0      SL
td-Tatda  3J931                                                                                              -  43.t5    43.50    43.50 46.36  46110  24.t0
L. TWAM  LiANS
MUMIU IE            VFlU                331 DID     -          - .     .  0    0   1i           20        -       - -                   1 3.34   1.34   3.113     0    a         0      IL
R    #IErnOFlO I                          go3       -      0 0    a     00 e     0  460         1         -   1.0         0     2.400   1.40   1.3    7.4         0    0         0      IL
A1Slit EEt  lFFI3                      1 KEN        -  in   i2    0   TV  1in   in              13        -   1.34    1234    I2.t4  14   1.3114  71.e            0    0         0      IL
TEOUINLAiSTANIP 93so0                              l-909            TO TO393 450                 9        -     7        7        792    m       m m7239          0    0         0     IL
KM i                                      Dun 3        in   in   inI e 0    2       m 1                   -   1u31X   1n31e   1.31I  1.33    1.23u    63.9        0    0         0      IL
S*a-ital tm.L 4LaWCE                                                                                        -   5.173   3.170  35.70  6.754  *6754  29t,02
C. WeIAINSA
410 l110U1IC                            WY          I    I    I    I    1    1    6    2U.612    1A,62   21.612    1.612  21.62  11612 12.612  49.67t             0 0.71      0.15      X
LAtUI  E e26                                                              -     -     -     -     -     -     --  -       -   20.174  10.174  10.174  30.5       0 0.75    0.05        K
W 108itDS UM  I                                     -         -     -                                             -        -   20.206 It20U.  13201  30.19         00 .75        0      K
FI       10                                         -         -     -     -     -     -     -            -    2.0    2.         2.      2.00    2.00    l.d000     0 0."      0.32      tt
9FTOI itiATC 49
mZNMtflt  O5M5                                                                                       u.a2   13.62   11.612  33912 33.2  1.9   140.310
TStUI E2Eli  8311                                                                                           1. 2 3           U326232  63 2 327137.    17."  324.22
lath                                                                                                         11.612  12D1142  23.142  34.34    .606  V7.0%  317.V
/CPOIDDO              rta    P R ,.
Jv. 7. 1N   17153



510 
_IIE_II_=                                                                                      =. -N   2
Ta 9. _tDV L5 U                   I                                                                  Table 9
Is6.1su   Ct Two
haUt                                                         _.  ted                          96.                     _.
C... 9-.  11        ado Tag  _
ibt   KM  MM   KW    V7E    617  OM  T06.    simit. CM   OM  OM    MM    VAN   MM    EM                         TSUI    MO L1d. Tax        3d. Rha  3td7
T. TWMN    CM
A. RKI. C69      Is              3                                                   -               - -                     -       -       - _            .   6.4    6.31   6   6 *
*. 3 _a        U.ea              VT        -   I1        I             -     --2 1  -  -                         3110        -       -       -   11)"        a 6.3        0  n
C. NW       ,wu         - ar     m                       -                    - I    2   32.93       -  m.,      2.1210                      - -  -aa        a  OA        *   e * 7       o
*.   612                         lENoT     -      2      2      -       -     -      4    511.11     -1212,900 1                             - -2.           0 0.42    .5    0 5          ED
ow ican                       wIr        -  I          2      -      -a                  4.        -   4db 01- 46          -               - -242*           eA      o.p    g          El
rim                           OUT        -      1      2      -                           45       -     4-  I             -       -       -     1-b       0 Li.m 4   .2 .       a     CI
mSWa  m1 1a 1  9*I            an         - 106  MAdb  115.416    5 db   .3                  I      -  10db 1.6   2sdb   2564 6   5db            MAN       S  6.6    6.2 s        a     ED
i DIT. 41 ET                  MY         -  -          2      -      -     -      2      4.211     -   4.34    .5         -        -      -    32.-4      a  672        6 e.n 2.9      ED
a s1   IU                     no1        -    6.3   6.5       -      -     -       I      23.5     -sU m    D7m           -        -      -    23342        90 .6   6   a s             I
FMREIU   ENlII/ t 7           IC         -    6.2    6.S      -            _ -     a    4622 -    .2    3.3               -       -        -    4h697      66.9         6   0   a      [a
0111311                       an                1      2      -      -     -   -        16aa       - w16 a1 222U          -        -      -          .25    6 *.9       I *       *   to
VA1111                                   -             2      -      .     -      I    24.1        -32411U  4.22           -       -       -    72.51        O e6.9         a   a      a
eiuiem I                              -      2      2      -      -     -       4 J 1.31                                                                s OA        M -     *0      El
,            r F.7 -    6.5    6.5                            -      -          -  I    ads        - 49         .4A2       -       -       -    323   6.2  0.1   *          a 6.29     a
nuVM                       on                I I    a      -      -      -      2     SAO       -   2642.2              -       -       -  *.23            O."        600           C U
llwamm                        3                                                   -       -           S3.6    5           -        -                -   - --.666  6 6._    0.5   0   6 *
91l2              t           3          -    6.2    6.    6.2    7.2   6.1        1    15.4          "an 12_    25.6   25.6     1.560   17.7.5                A        12
SdP-7e1 t3APT1                                                                                       - U109 21014   7.6    31h 21 12.36   462
7dd. I^SIO! ES? 13                                                                                      - 06563  740.34   2d   20.6   22.62.14.
11.  -I)D  um
A. 191043
2     9FICIN i              IT        -      -      -      I      I      I      1     220       -       -       -   2.       2.     2.        7.6       6    a       a   *   *      IL
41 _6U4366369mW725           WIY        -      2      1      4      4     4      V      7.246     -  24.236  23.21  2h9         29.66   2.64    12.43     6    a       a   6   6      6
2   T30U      1u146i         WT         -      -      2      2      2     I      is     4.6       -       -   9.246 12db   ado   2246          31         6    6       6   a   0      L
4     5                      WI/a       -      2  1          4      4     4      17     2.9       -   4,1         4m *  *     1s1**.4211.621 *%32           6              6  Is       .
146-5.1.2291*33                                                                                      -  11.3?  D1.619  52.416 D  .4      . -   D417    22.4911
6. 7L. Nj
mCD" Wvlw1-11             -             -      -            a       _    3      246       2       -                   low.61_462:               4.24      a    a   0   6         *     1.I
dI3!1    11  1tRI   FI Ki    -    200    AN                5O    726   M    2.7M          1       -   4.W2    5IIS    7.23   94J      94.14    26.11      G    6       6   a   a      IS.
1'rA  6923.2               Po3a         -     00    1      2I6    26    24      VD         9      -     IS     1.321   2.3     2.112   2.212    7U        6    *       6   *   6      IL
to s             20              s           2236I              6   -   7722. 9 4                 5- 27 %     U 5.24   SU.J9      6            0  a   IL
S.bu1_ lam  MLt                                                                                     -   649   34.72  i2s.           6  2          716.9
C. 3711. #A
l         ooT -    -                                               4       4IA    2D2            -       -  4bW   461t   46.4   N41          1fi7o       6 1.71      6.25 *          K
TRC        a 1171DMl lEf    4                                                           IA                    Ga      Iw          161_  011   Ga  WIS        .71  $*                   I C
*33c, PrIE -,s
01 mIEn                              -    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2   4.2       2    5          -  10.416  2066   16.6   3661   1.           10db   -     6.7    6.2   *   6        K
UI         1                 NM-  -             -      -    -      -     -      -                    26    2.6   21.6        2db    2.1       266        0  .6    OM   *    a         C
T_btdu IFIDFII #A-
MIIS  13t                                                                                         - Co21   6            4.94 40 .4    u.9O     220
7u    mu  t  ii                                                                                         -  261 1542   126.1  220.72  2272    SS4.761
low                                                                                                      - 127J4.          1S2S  U1:711  151.2d2  2   b215
to 1 Wis. Sw _1 M1M 
lb 14(  4JL         911 M 1    IMC _.  7TO -162l3it,9VIN TAM              .11   3 .F Cl1TOR
CI. 3AI.S 1 WIL1A11. _  tVT    7C MU1l   IT49 T> f                 0 _       ILn
1l9 3    m1N IS 6 T .07679  62163 nm  35
Am 7. :9112:MM



jII  ,*i11            ell     a .......... ... ...              .. ... ..
h.,II   **      0*     ***... ..   * O.....0                     0              ...*.. * ...0 *.
j  ! j  *e   2        *o         ;n    ~          . '. 0...  ....  ..*                                    5
jill   sz                                         ddd d4BEt5S                                        4J-,J do. .   . . .
iiS I~  ..I,. *----- ------  *--*I  *I**! ..5iI  -- *- *I *-J
hi1l    i A              -    Sl^2    -Xw||              U 2|R       ^^Xt             XRli|                eE:||
~~IIiI    II    '... '0 ' '                                                                        B             aa1                             !  t1lf    fi1  s2910ll
A
I    i      Ala
|i11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -J                                                     - .  ~0 ,5^fl
i I    *-" "SS---                                                                                 ^l,,N  . .
.~~~~~~l    II! *_  ---ge-3-"                      ,3eee- 
ddd ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~2
. S} ' ' ' ' ' ''' ' '' ' ' ''' ' ' '' ' ' l @ l | @ @ @ *- - . .AI
i1   i5  Si    iliiii   iiiiE     ili          i                Ss}       l-l       'SXS J  J



mo
-~~~~~~~~~~h   -mt                                                   -                 3.                     be. l  
z  wz h~~~~~~~btld cx m  vw __
~~~~~~N                            66663   6336   69   IS 143                    N    a    63 bO              W     03      6W      616      143      34   6.1 M    6.b. ben6
xo_-  - - --s    -   *  -. -   --- -    -. -   -   *-  -  -- 
*. numV
sm.m.                         an          -           a      a   -        -      i        "   zs.   *4.966s66             . z- -   *   ses                    06.n1       6*    *
A 1.63.    1I                                          I     I      3            4    nk            -  =I. I56.USSkSk666   I                    I.66          66 .          6       0  _
_* n             a      _       w          .     I                   -     .               IP        -  4 .3a    4111    19                          N               1.      a   I u 
c. iw mao
I L  -            -O                                  a      I     a      -           Ti            -  38111 1*.   110ll    lbi   ww    *         3"A         I 0.9         a   an
_ " _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  -;I- -  - _    31__ _ 
loallsol                       to         .     .     .      .      .            .               3.11   3.6   * 6         3.6                -  -S            0    * a      a   I   0 
UISNW an                                 -   .    .      .     .          .      I ..1  6-.                      4666 -      -   6-6  2.6          n.m        I    I    *       6   6      D
k0-ta    LEN. 1Tam26                                                                               W.6    9.46     9.66     7.96    64066   SAW6      AM66
60 SPATES  311112 n4I                           a                                      16.n6   2.2l.66  Mal.9        -                        -   3-km        6 6.6       .42 63 LO
cm3                            SIT        -     2     .-      2    5414                             -13.41           -                             53.466     66       7 .566              U
6._"
-6   flS g                                  *         -                       *   -                    s.3  -             - -         -DAN6 166           6.a         *.4   *          5 6
K3a111                         SIT        -     3            *     -         -            I 13      . -   2          -       - law.666                        6.6         L  I.    1       M6
Km cm _                       met    - *              -   -              - -                       *  1.            -          -  - -                        sA    am             7    * a
u2 u       n
_X O>W   _ __ __ 
id        mtw       m                                                                               sswsM   7V.=    43bM   4MM         %7*    3         2-MdJ
H.          Cm"
1111 1 0         wf    to     WV         -     -      -   -        I     I      2      2.9111                               - -.3        2-30      6.        6    6        6   I   6      It
1Mo         flO  1I                     -     -      -            2 S                 2.. .I      -        -           2.602.66 26 6o            7?         1P   6        a* 6           ILt
O    gm   W111       112511   WY         2          6      6     4      6     a       74l    34.9    4.96   142        4.9    4246 6     "       M.         I *           0   6   6      a
3 1 2                          n 1I  I                2            3     2     36      6.2     4.4    now s.6 663.6632               1.62.6       73 .3 729  66                   6       f IL
Is ovagm                      am        46    3      3 6         12        36  16     2.6    Ck6    474.    a.30   0.91   4.96   47.96   5 11.6              6    a        6   6   I      It
sitmI                         WV         2     2     5      5      I     5     26      2.626 a.WD.66626.6962. MANW2 loom                           6469      6    0        00  66         IL
-Id NA2                                                                                           1930-  t6                  .  It2    l            4t116176
1VUI.     rimW       l  no        -      -     -      -    a     6*     2          2         -       -       -        -     .       2111    NIPS            I       a *      6      IL
inW111                      VD63         -     -      -    de _0    4o         -         2         -        -            JAM    3.-1    low1       1.141    6 *        *       6 *        IL
1336161 WOOrn m             to   o 3        SAM  SA2N  1.61 6.14611.1111 if=   1.7616    U   22 6. 324.16k  1664.23 W           *2516  36.23    7-4.2        6    6        6   6   6      IL
l"1" 32         2           ID    _    as    Uab    1    2u  0   266   2    imp 12        9 *    .6 *-ZI        3.6 1    11111 2.11 2.10   16.t66                          IS 0 *         I Lt
foootm               Po la23    in6  3la    266   266   266   so6  2.92           v9      4      3.        111166 2.6    $d16    2.314   2.266    16646  61    I    9   6S   I     f
colmin               PO NO33    726 N.66  2.4d  2.3U6 2.216 NM*3 II31.96           9    6.Da   39.w   26%66   19.6    39.46   29.66    263.5          6    6       6   6   I       IL
1.-tald la. 41AWw                                                                                37I.3  44.96   4.96   47.3    4.716   4&714    MIR5
C. BIPAtI me
601511 Pl    ow               WV         2     4     6                               33.61    5I.5     66.6     44.44   44.446  6466f  4466M    MAN6         6  .11    6.,35   6          6
an3                           WV1        *                               2     a2     53           -261.66          11k2blo193 636.266            52.4       06.110t.35 6
WM3102s3                                             - -    -                   -               low-246     6.66     4.1666   6.66     6.66    4.46  5.666   6 6.66    0.I:      0 a 
ko-Tad 3113136660
uiiia  c31m                                                                                    23.22   44.76   d%746  d6.4   16.3   46.7          MISS5
lad                                                                                                  262.726 926.66  as%=   ia4m2  426.26  n645  2.224.5
to 11141111111111af 61113F   W V        OVM   no  12
AOW7. 316 366



Ah m2
132323                                                       f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~able 12
bile n migum i am AM mm
Mdlii bit Iab
cm. For. Osm oft4T lasomrn.
bit   weD am mmU/  OmE NW5093 mm .   bi t cast mm1  am     Kuw    win    NW/3    WMN    1.2   laow  EO6Tin. las              ode WA.0.4.
I. DIEMNcu
A. 110010 IF POSEMf,E
1. cmVl Om                                    -  O    0.4  0.2  3.2    -     2   43. 2      - 11a.n  3240   6.25   .23 "Ms5.2    0.1  6.4                      0   0   a      U
2.  F5 . JMSSIN                    so         -  DJ1  OA   0.2  0.2    -     2   220.2      -  92.13  mm.3   40.315  44.35         -   30.30      0  64        0   0   0      a3
2L. sim-T                          2         -  050.4   0.2  0.    -         I   224.3      -  94.100  33.6   417.6   47.61        -   X30.12     a0.77        0   a   3    a
mIN-rn Pow                       off       -    1    2    -    -    -    3    22.39       -  32.36  40.713       -       -      - 2023m        0 01    0.4?   0   *        ai
cis                     an~WI      -  0630.5      -   -    -      I   2k7J        -  n.m    n.m          -      -       -    3.30      0 0.47    Om2   a   a       a
Sd3-1.6. MM SUM1                                                                             -  40.24   21.01           -      -       125.600
2. muI*1IW
wanm                             Nom       -    S    5    -    -    -    la       4n      -   2.052.322              -      -         4.29     010.71       00.150419      a
kmb-Ma! iniaii                                                                                   2.115   2.03       -      -       -     4.49
kmb-Tai low3f1                                                                                     AT4.=2  66.7       -       -            mm3.2
C. m-"ri
Z. oxa SW
0 W VACMt               No         -  0.5  03.    -    .    -     2   43.53      -  23.3   2%0.3         -      -       -    4.53      00.95        a   0   0      to
UIinIIETI                       Er K       -  LS  LS    -   -    .        A    46.SV     -  22.2    1.23         -      -       -    44.1?     00.5I        0   a   A    13
30 W VACMit               W        -0.5 0.4          -      -     I   29.009          gd 14 35 4.53          -      -        29439     00D."        000  * 
P2uiMDWU                         mIllof    - 0.5  0.      -    -    -    I    UAW1        - &W.67 .13            -       -      -    141        30.9m       000  A         U
3b224166OaN                              -0. 3.         -                     36             .6    4.64                                      a    03  0.11  0  00       a
MITLUABEIIIEW                    WITm         0.5  0.3    -    -    -     1    097        - 4.66   4.64          -              -     3.0       00G."        0   0   0    a
Puff INKM               0311          0.5  0.    -   -    -    I    15.30         -   7.24   7X49                            ism-255   0 0.91       0   0   A    'a
6El                              Eigo           1    2    -    -    -    2    1.123       -   1.113 2.2V                              3 - -  .2 0 3.91       000  a        3l
FW  MM 1S B In  2                NW             I    I    -    -    -    2        400    -      69      an       -       -              m       oo*Al    0.22   0   0      a3
SL 311103CO1s                   so             I    I    -    -    -    2       5so     -     366   5Su        -                      .49     0 0.15       0   0   0    a
03ocpom  b                       NW             I 1  I    -    -    -    2    125.9       -  12.9   12.6         -       -      -    2.940   6.1  0.         0   60029     a
so C301iMI NWS0. 0.5                                       .   .    .    I    4.21        -   2.1002.20          -       -      -    4.227      00.92J       30    0       a
kmo-Til E 12310 S WU                                                                         -     46 266923        -              -   210.749
2.  bI  1
PLO STEP 2111                                   2    Z    -    -    -    S    1741        -  21.40  1.49         -       -      -    ohm07      004.91      0   0   0    U
ftEUnc6B                        onT             2    3    -    -    -    5    mm.5        -  3.V6  46.764        -       -      -    77.93     0.91    0         0 a    0    U
11153503ls G                     NW mu          2    3    -   -    -    5         4a6     -    03    1.200       -       -      -    24N,60     00.6    6.2    0   a    to
VL RI1OSU2 G)                  off            2    2    -    -    -    5        54u     - i1.0n    2.41?       -       -       -    23 02 a0.95            0   0   D    U9
mum ANSWIT                                 -  50  30    -    -    - 1.03           it    -   5.327   .32V        -      -       -    20.6      00.6         a   0   A    a
OWW= a                  soT             2    3    -    -    -    5        21t    -     422    du         -      -       -    low       a 00.1        00a0          a
iM101     NAS                    muT            2    3    -    -    -    S      2.322     - A0.4    9.w3         -       -      -   24.17       00.91       0   0   0    U
PAMIm-  POO C4413I1             "aT        -    5         -    -    -    11       300    -   1.300  law6         -      -       .    SIM0      00.4       0.32   6   0     El
I          I For I             NWI           LS 0. 0     -    -    -     I    2.346     -   1470   1.430       -       -       -    2.530     0 0.93       0   0   6     a
VRW2U15WIM                       13SFt2     d I  -    2    3    -    -    -    S          -   2.32    2.2V       -      -       -    4.64      a 00.1       0   0   0      so
031301d   P0lAT                                                                             .  3.19  32.1          -       -           2W0.23
kmb-Tail Em-l                                                                                  -    ,00.3   =M.12     -                   410.930
TOW. DIESUW   CBS                                                                                   419.d531.43F 112.3  391.3           -  .W.2



- 62 -                                                                                        2
Table 12
Pag. 2
II. mr an
A. IITR
21I11,M                          WY        -   2   2   2   2   2    It    9.t4          -  39u   3I.I3  19m         .    36 Ib_ ^ I  I                  0   0   * 0  0
u imn m.m        s i             WV,       -   s   s   s   a             21    4.u      -  inDs  mft 2m11   maw   2m1            ast        0   a       a   6   *    t
5FIBIUJ 11TM                     w I   -   5   5   5    5   5    Zs    2.4              -  2U,2   23.       210  13.2   532       4615      0   0       S   0   6    a
gIm                              W         -   I   I          I   I    5    2.1        -   2.0I  i.e    id       2,0262,t  10.0           0   0       066           5 a
STotl ar                                                                                   - usaur  hurn D.W.ua   itlDs
ti. _ ai
mSU II                       MR  s      -   i   me  in  111  3o1   S          U      -   2.3     21136   2.36   2.12t   2.3    HS4    0   0          S   0   6    I
Tswu       N13u1uIS             M w        -  I.  a   1D    D   no   79           t    -    1.f   Is.m    1.a   i.e        i  I. 1          *0          *   0   6    S
sEnt                            PogR       -    m        m   I s    1   e         a                 I -  1s 16  Uu     1a1.s   zas  &a      *     0     *   0
S-TM.!T eSS                                                                                - 5.2  SIR2 5.   sa SD2              . S27.436
C. &MT15 S Oxmaw -l
FEW                              WI        -         I   I    I   1    4    9.35                -   has5959.359.095to             U.S11    00.75    0.30 60           K 
m                                unWT                I   I    I   1    4        .1m     -      -   5.3    5. 33I  5D    3.3    23NI    0 0.75    0.506                K 
INCMII I WEs                     WT -V               2   2    2   2    t        W3t             -  I- VA  I6. 2    l1 I. IS    44.9         6 0.75   L.35   0   0    K
FIBU TS IIT                                - - - - - -  - -- 3.453 3.,42 10.4 26.42 0,4IU 1 563  0 0.5    a  a 0  K
EUIpIO      _                  "1        -       -    -    -     -   -    -           -      -  2147  20   347 20.3     24    3.3        0 0.75   0.5         t *    C
FFS 1 S-Ll            --   4  -  4.613  4.1   4.0    4.63    2*0.3                                                                           @43   *.2   0  0    K
S-Tai 116111_ NE 0* II5 322                                                                -  34.422  8.96   8.0   6591   8.4    33.52
Towl Kam                                                                                      - Wm.64 229 I.5  12.ail   -    224    34.4
fT.                                                                                                     "NM799.4  .l  311.916 129.40  2.4565
is   M            u*i.' IM ISD flU  OM iSg. lLS 11111113J- 3  3 mu  _l  FIU n nt IE
lb Dom mamase  e To uax mu na    mss u                                au m   n
It FE Si 534113I
It F t SI 55T185
id FI   UOM5      W
16 CK FM EADI SOAT
At a. SW xa          .
h 7. 2 IUI30



- 63 -
ini     1.           mm,                                                              Table 1
TM. it. flpmmcium Liam /a
CeO. For. govis 1i
bit   OMN  MM4 Ijff VAE KW3  MM Tota  bI"Ct    MM343    NM13    KW16    RAN   SW1    91                 Tota    lab  134. TMK be. 31m
1. n 0193
1. 430  1E                      mu1        3    3    -     - -    -        6     5.3 15491.9-- &                              -       -   31MM.03    0 0.a3   0.v        a
IL UFFIX 9w11M                  U.T        4    5    -    -    -    -      9      3.244   12.974  14.7        -               -       -     9.        0  0.5    UA    EL
C. NK. ff3A13                   Su         3    3    -    -    -    -       6     2.=1    7.562   7.15                                                I       1.    0.9  S  a
u. mr mrs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vuwm2
U. uaiisef u
3 NEW#=  51103               WY        I    3    3    3    3    3    14       9.090    9.94   23.70   5,70    29.70   NO.W   29.30    13.16       0    0       0     U.
3   5T3!f    .   own         WY        2    3    3    3    3    3    17       7.20    14.51   21.30  2173  21.0  21.13  21.71   122.42            0    0       0      a.
6 TEiinr   demon             WYt       3    A    6    6    6    &    27       4.62    12.61   5,72   V1.720  7.31   V7.73    A 27. 3b1143         0    0       0     3.
6 TIPIS                      WV        3               A.    a    6    31     2.973      M    VA90 =7.601.7     17217 .600P  17.0       "PM01     0    0       0      IL
21-1"stu1 311                                                                            47.109  97.62  91.020  97.    97.60   "An0    ~29
3. VAI  ALN I
flm     WWIME              PER XE3    3   260  243  260  261  260 1.20           13    1.43    4.274   4.73   4.73   4.74   4.224    7hm          0    0       0     U.L
1SU         NKY    u      PR1 5123 93 It    in   13   13  16   1n   11  10      13    1.34   2.26   2.276   2.27'  2.276   2.36    13.464        0    0       0     IL
~IEC06. IY1015             PER no1    N    3   13  10  13   13   990              9      7M    1.54   1.504   1.34   1.36   1.34        3.7       0    0       0      a.
510-TA1  ?.U 611                                                                          2.20 3. 104s   0.306   3.30    solo   3.13      46.34
C. 40 IBM  inM3ID              VI?        I    6    6    6    6    A    31    11.30   33.M   73.13  7.3191  7013l  38.1    73.13   31.09             0 0.75    0.A6     K
Tow al        131co                                                                         91,47132.460IS. 1      IU 19.419.431I34601.IAN=6
TOWa                                                                                        271.53  273.1   19.460  192U6  13.46  192.46  1.42&3.2
is 1 15ETTI 10ZM. mua. iv&              33me  31313
AM. 7. 194 10.3



"<~     J iI    " a . 8Q Q       UEEUhUUSUftt!UUUU               !!UUhU L                        SQ0dd
* 5   e                                          cws  qYo  SYo4si  ;ease ae e.c  A
Ii                                          * - 5JJJJJJJ"X:^lsi 0Xs=llll^Z| 3|
s s1   ti l1                       1    ^!2"5lelel~~'         if^^1          11nSP
I sNNNIRIu   alm '5  ''''''''''1                       f-tR     1s *rfi1    -115
|l    iR  l   | |I  h!'Ah!|||                                                     IfIwI 1 
.    I I      Itt........... '  tnt tit                                        a
11                           SKR'n-~                                   I  ...............-.n--  a .
ja s S | ~~~....   ||0................||XX|z        |@"|"ar@ " "_f 
3 !1    - ' *  a                ti,..' t fi t fit i  i*i hut|*   RRRR8 11^   ~ 
I~~~:                                         3
i  ! IQI                                        e
If|1ib  diI   iAAAAlBlg       it                 j:   i                            I1
I ~~I:I                                          L                  h.1 h.~~~~  ;::III~~~iihI   ha  d
I%Rsk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-65-
_Nia                                                                             Aan.  2
inWa        UK 110011  O                                                                  Table 15
T*ale 2  SwU M   U   3                31123
nOInM mu
big""d Cret 711
baUt.                         3... barn                         9k.~~~~~~~~~forru
ba.   r.  _aIN   Mv Ia  MAW,
gat   MM MM81k MM            UIS, OM 9 WI"    3.1Vei Cut OM*   OM1     MM*1   WMS    31*8    WM*9      16al    bte  [. TanU Ma loaf 8* m ot
-    ___ W I   -- I---                             -    -  -_ _ _ _ _ _                                            - -    _  -                  -_
a. OjaC1U
minT-u        iitan              i         -    -       I -    -    -    I        24.64      -      - loi           -       -       -    24.1       0  *J0        0 *      0  T
Lois-     12ux 132C10            PIVT      -    -    -  0.5    I    1  2.5         2.2       -      -    _    1.43  3192   32bM          W.2         I  0.0       a   0   0       1*
Sub-Ted   SKTI                                                                                 -       - 2     440    31.9203M.9           50.3
. _K                               an         -    I    I    -    -    -    2    10.            - 53.53.50            -        -       -  Ill.-TI      40 .9         0 0          0 
. t_T
1        3 A                     MT              -    -    -    I    -    I   411.091        -      -      -        - 4318          -   43.11   .2 0L14           0   0    *.1    [ 0
PiOmA mVTAU MM          im      mm PU- S                       I       -    2        20      -      -      -  I0          In        -   2        -     *.i     0.2   *   *        [3
Sob-TOW al inimo                                                                               -  -           -      Jl432.2               432.41
TOWa I 3T       SS                                                                                - 53 2S 75.690 26d74  M2 M .29           12.2653
II.        T elm
IlMile                          PA         -    -          I       1 I     3      9         -      -       -   V.AN  *    N    %M       2WM6       0    0        903  *    IL
AMSMTI KIIIU81C                 an        -    -    -  8         I    1  2.5      7.2J0     -      -       -   3.630   7.2J0   7.21    1Mt         0    a          0      0 a    I
T4               11                  1 1 -    -    - 9.5         1      2.        5.544     -      -       -   2272  3.54 4 544          15.1U0    0    a        a 00     a 
-Toa S 113                                                                                     -      -      -  2.312  T7f   22.78         03.70
16VI T_ L   1CE Jb
RI0e8RIIA                     F  up3      -    -    -   4    4    40m W              8      -      -      -      70t     1       744     2.132     0         0     00 0          IL
825#T313 111                  Po3         -    -     -      4 -   2- A    40                                 2M                   MO     1.-5       0    0       0 0 a            .
*-ToW TAl  t    L C  lb                                                                       -             - -          I.2   1M          3432
C. 8 tD91 in _iN12m   381s
Mm        NU1E (131             gm                         - -     -     -     -     -      - -                    -  -6   S. 115       20116      0 015    0.1    0   0         IC
15M_1                       9310 loin    -  -  -  -22  1  247  70                                   - -    -    -  BANBAN              62.1    00.5   LS     a   C
WM 5  s9    lS2   -                                        -          -     - -     -     -  -                 2.71    SAM    5.1  J2.             0 0.       0.3 2     0 *      
:5W.U     S                     Su3       -         -     -     --            -      -     -                   2.3    0        5.440    2250       a 0.0      0.22   0   a       IC
-Ta 5         D3 S OAin D4 MI                                                                 -       -      -CISA       72.311  71.303     7.6 146
Toal        T [I01                                                                                -      -       -  22.23    129              722740
Tot7                                                                                               -                 -too.=.  s;0     4114 ,5   I.W&3.
la  IIMM  INS3710J        1  M2iST  iTm   U IE T    JWN I1s         M     in _ STmIALINN
lb  C5fL2A111 TIE WM    540 MlSfLTM
Ai 7, 1994 1322



134994                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~Au.x 2
in,m.lin. 30cm         w                                                               r.iabl. 16
litUV- 1 FU   a               E so
Milad Cod 1*3
par-wtm'
bastli                                               hi. Cots                        VISa.
_it   1414 am BS am  SW am  Toa  wit Cas  am  am    Sl   am   mm   NMI   da_    au                                 . To _dt _ _
1. BMMffCE
A. I.E  i1tm  KAMM                      WY         -    I    I    -    -    -    2    3-435        -   30    3                   -      - IS * e.7U   S  .95        B 
cm                                    NIT       -    I    -               -    -    -    I  7   -2n             -      -      -      -2. 261       00.7 e      .D 
-TGId WnW                                                                                          - 271          -      -      -       -  2716
C. mmFINi                   r                      -    I    I    -    -    -    2       2244      -   34  31M           -            -  - - 4        0  0a 4.    S.4     3
Tdd lael mtSITS,                                                                                   -  17.t no .09        -      -      - ID.6
-  -12 -   -4   -                 -   - lt
zz. -7 mul
IKIn M IS eITnm  is                 ST         -    -    -    1    I    I    1        2.MO     -        -      -  2,4   20  2.0   7.no             0    5       a     3.
2 AM. MEI   ANm  WfCS               an         -    I    2    2    2    2    9        7260     -   7.210 16.52  14.29, 34.52  M4M   d6.326        5    0        0     L
mit                                  Wt        -    I    I    I    I    I             4.6      -   4.Ma   *204    4.M      *2  4. 6       -l2.     D    a   0         R f
2iNI                               NP          -    I    I    I    I    I    5        2.0      -   2.10  2.12n 25   2M0 25 -          10.1S       S    0        5     a.
1*-TtI SUAS                                                                                       -  13.1  2not"  2        2.6   23.0   leh
1. 1.l  L^A    .b
NW. UEi MISIWF2S               5F3 P           -   46   09   U    U    U    10           2     -              1   1JAM    low   13.6  2  4.152       0   *            IL
RISE                               PER Nm      -    *95           90         43    5    a       -     09     H3      92    An  a 3          5      B    0       B     fR
SUlIP-lLI  1.  615  lb                                                                            -   1.31  1.749  1.749  1.749  1.74    362C7
C. Wtml1 SI iNBIM cmu
m                                   WT         -    I          1             1        5.13s    -     ,      2323 15       M 3     .1311  Z S  741   *. 7 5 Ln         
FE  SUPUn- I                                   -        -     -     -     -     -     -        -    sow   3.m   t        3.6   l.o      M5S       0 04       02 
91411tall rwin2 me    U           1                                                                     .13 3.33m3.23   3.250      3.13 W1  40,76
Tsui Flam m  coo                                                                                      -   2. n 21.431 2349   3.9    .693  23.43
istal                                                                                                  - 143.0  60.12 33.13 53.M  32.M f.21h7
to ItmIm        5*  or USTIF  *1n 56    U LIIN
lb MflLS1   1 If WI    UF 40 WOMAN.
JaW 7. 19M4 1M14



- 67 -
-rmi uNEI "ami
Tdl, V. 2118910=  V i_AmWm  Man                                                              Anm    2
FM=r 1131111121                                                                Table 17
MBu       Cod 1T*e
film
belib                                                 las. fsts                       PC   r.
&At    Mf NM   NM10AN U     MTO  tal bAt Coat  MM    CM     SlW   71    Mru 1M W                   Toal    ad# E.  Ta adr 11t
1. IaESIO lmU
A. M M                                                                                   44M  -  -  444.1--                       -   44.0       I  0.3        0    1
3. MlnES
CM                             IWT        I    --    I                         5.7U    25.716                                  -    77.126     S 0.47    .Om     D
_ l mT                                    I    I    -    -    -    -    2    51-       51.    31t,9       -      -      -      -   US2.AU      0 0.a    07        [N
S_-1tad  ES                                                                               77.                -      _      _      -   129.4
C. M2NT
OFICE F_UME                    SEt        3    2    -        -     -     - :   I4J        M    63411      -      -      -      -    W2 2      0 *   .50  .4 6
KI   T105T           I         lltT   I     7        -        5                  7A     2.22f  I-M0       -      -      -      -      .710    II  48    0OJ2 11
TlloIm                         no        2    -    --    2                     2.111   41          -      -      -      -      -     4.01     0*0. O      .V      a
S.i4all EfIDM                                                                             35.L       7.11    -      -      -      -    2-96
iTal IW IMII mu                                                                                ,  w.7         -      -      -      -   so.
A. SN.421
slo 111I  WT0IA               Wi         I    I    I    I    I    I    6      t.tt     9.M      .3  9*    9,3  9M0  9.0    59PAN              0    a       I    ft
613 13111  3 _                VT         I    I    I    I    I    I   a       9.31    .1"    *.D1  9.6   9.1   9.3  9.3            5.4        0    0       a O O
11413 E   6t DOM=             siT        -    I    I    I    I    I    5      9.3          -   19.3   9.90   M0  %9111 9.30_ *     49.50      0    0       0     II1
La VI. MZ3!m   -w-              IT       -    1 I    I    I        I I    5   7.240            7.20   7.2   7.20   7.20  7.20       6.2111    0    a       0    f
l1t1 rD E mD                   ItIIEI              I I   I    a  I I    I    a  7.29    7.20   7.20  7.20  7.20  7.20   7.20    0.16          0    0       a    ft
2 ?VPlS=                       PT        2    2    2    2    2    2  2        2-.      595   S2 .HS.M %5W1  3.05.40    3440                   I    a       a     It
S.iTaI S1LI315                                                                           13    59.3401, .1 ShM  5U0 50.130 58.160   2 J2.1
0. 212 a1         It
3339591D                    P MENo   40e 4             4    Al 4 24              to      704    104   714    104   734    0"        4.24      0    0       a  *x
4D110   1a13                     NO 1   *    41  1 4      0*           240      1to    71        Al 7 07   70    714         0      4.4       0e 0         a o   s
FIfU EM IDMI                NONmL        -40 Al40  4 40 20                       23       -     no    04    M        74 104    704   2S-      0    a       0     a
LAD 11. rAIU   UFE6          M ID        - 41 4    4    40  41  2                13       -  D      D      D      D         20      2.6       0    0       4     ft
t4014T1 D_1113                MI        40  4   4040 04    2  240                II      2      20  D    D           so  D          2 .143    0    a       0     Re
sXT lwt Ol    -    -                                                                      MA1  11.113 Ia  1.2  .10   . 3*.   O.13    37.7
C. *12 ISOWai0WU cmu
orin   0115                   0W                                                   .4   3 24     2.131  246   2.43  3.34      23.46      0  .4     077
CAt                           VT         I      I I    I-    1                5.150    5.23     35.O3S0I .235.-35.10               539?        07.15    0.15    aK
43 3l005                      WIT        1    2    2    2    2    2   U       a141 11Ul2  2777  222322    W- 22.71 7.3  323       227.73        0.15    0.15    IC
SmI44lW _11t admsua  M                                                                   I9.741  211.71 3.321.3m  21.m13 z.7    174.477
--t mar mss                                                                                 s4.at7  0410O   11            4.11 R        4110.2111
TotAl                                                                                       32.74  -146.472 0.101 04.-10 -9-.104.10! 3.06.29
Is CML..lC3 Of 11 3N1  W9 40 6611611
Am17. 204 1I3



- 68 -
UhtLL  1EKO ISlT                                                                          Annex 2
T71 U. CUh STlM3U                                                                     Table 18
htilud Cut Tile
boUnUb                                                         lam  Cats                             lb.
Cm&. For. 6m 9_w1
Iiut W4OIM   W VI/llE KMEl" o    tkit CokvM                              M             WAS  WO   Pi"   TOW   %d  E1 Tax Ibbe km"l
a. INMN.   COSTS
A. CONSTRUTION ll1
IFFIC  hILhMlB           11       -  43   40  411  240    - 1I60             19103         - 52T445  529S445 529.445  264.5           -  1.353.02     @l  0.4    0.11        3
LIMW/tdUflllhIW
BMW FM 13113NG.       12       -  200  230   200   93       -   63          70          - 157.m3  157P.73   5.5m      7.121        -   5699        0.1  0.4       .I1     3
IUW/SWSEf  RIG           3        -   195  1m1   195   90    -   675           53          - 112265  112635 112.6         51I9        -   393         0.1  0.4    0.11        n
SITE  ELNT              S         -         -     -     -     -   -   -              31146   .796            -        -       -       -   414942    0.1  0.         0.11      U
SiTtal CONIITNRTION                                                                     315.146 099479  m M.3  793   39M                 -  3.203,934
3. PFFESSIUU. FEES /a                -             -       -     - -09  53969  47.M    471   23.400                                      -    19.239   0.1  0.1          0 W
C. FiNIlE
OEVIC  MUDS             SW        -    -    -    -                    1    2.245           -        -        -        - 23P9245       -   259t245       0  0.5       0.4    EQ
LIDWAtI/t311W
punS FM   KM           3       -    -      -    - s                      113.3          -        -        -        -  I1.3w3       -      1.303      0  0.5       0.4    EU.
VwK      STOES Kc    SUN          -        -        -     I    -      1    2.9             -        -        -        -  29.19        -    29.l1        0 0.5        0.4   EM
S.*-Tetal FIAU                                                                                -        -        -        - 349744        -   39.744
Ttl INwSTNE  CIES                                                                          314.O55   448 847 664  14764  763                - 3.7497
mm~m am-
11. RECUPWI CUT
A.  uLI           e rIIOMM   2Z    -    -    -    -    -             -  --                                            -32.51           6N 9.53           0  0.2        0      ec
Tot  E            T                                                                              -       -        -        - CM32.3  6526    97.539
Teol                                                                                        3D4905   95334     347.664  847.U4  794        65.02   335
la FE5   E    IDUORI 1INIT1LU 7Z W  0STUT    CTS    Iff IZ M  FIUMI   1m3  WV
Ame 7. 10   18:16



iii1     ]l t                    mm      maimli U        It it it X
sIl  2    ;342        a;      za;za; 3 3             33 3   
siz ~   ~~~   n   . . f_l-4                                   *-    -  -
i~      -    ld7J~ I                                                 d1  d e t 1 #    l 0 - X # 1 g 13   -   Iti
ill         ' ''''   'I-'' '''    1''                           '' '   11
EiI       '    ''''I  -I ''I             ''''   '11'           '1' ' 11
i       ~       ~ ~ ~~~:1  *  S. SSji1* *j   555 *1|14~ IISI
S i|i|Xg   |   |    5XX1  |}  31   i9-flflt ;|2|2   l   l S
I~~~~~~~~~~~~ S1   '                                                 . .
II      '    '~u '              5      9iA                   --      -- -
3 1  *I                                  IS   *  * @59 i A
I                              R      u   t   g   N          3  w'  *. 
_ _* xqu                                           ItfR^'    
i1   |   tlEs   tt       wt"9u    w     "    ~    ~5  II    fi
g | gK l gWli |1 i |l l  ett0l8lXGi  l !g  tX  



AN   0 XM_U Mm    s1111   '     N1W 1111w    A J  :TI   mmllllm m m  DU. Ju
-arIL]E 1  I qX3 DNO@ ii AWI     a   j
IuUt 3m   zm nm a"     Ni suc UUv ni 
Mi  mmii ml K's15 'flU 3U21    istumi  NMUUZN MKmI  I.
an* 15 In 133OK SIW Ul LWW LWIg IM5 MUm V35 I WI mP I ISUSS nMi ru v
usi va a on mumu  uu..cusuw I mirinIS vis mu uW a wi am   v E
W         w     XSfa ]U   * w1IFM0
&WS'  S'LYI 4U9t sig-I. iiqel Wn M   Ds'WCIl                                                  DI 
ai'w    Wasv   eves no w    us',    us'.:                                                                               g m  llmia
re  s    zw                   w         e          -        -       -                          - -    -    -    -    -    -  -                    s1D1
21ISINIS AinSl WMN 51" 
a     s    Xe  s    awu-       WWI 0u          'wS   ns'    u:                         -         -   -             -            -uw -WIM IV
amur m is
-  -  i106u'  m'sg': ucqmq DOMIK't                                                                     1411 jKIIMui i's
em-       -     USS L=f   iu'ta_EUA ..AII    I MU il1~
i     WI   Cre  5    ZUL-                   EW    -          -       -        S l-   I    -   -   I   -   -   -          Ws     o     K U M  AM MUM 
5           I's  r*  SI       -     - Z-uz   I              W       lI                -         -    -    -    -    -   -              1 au  11 l M       l
US'U   -       -      1gW4    uli    la*= 8z                                                                    Pi   1u1tin 115
*  n-z    rs 1s   LEr  -              -      mS    mwe       mw      itis      EC      on   -   -   I   el *i  *         a             SU=             C
a     file   re  I's  53    -        -     ne3't   E'U    plu       Wo       WI    UK -   -      N   K    l    zi                            1
*     ti's   VI  I's  "w6i     -      -     Om       MOM   fiEr    W'         fst    O    -          -   C    a   9 n                       311115a4U 11
*     u's  rse -sl'   5511   -        -     "Silt  n'uI u MM            W     65         t       e          - -   -    1    n N  Zll  V m       1111p Z
P/ imao *1
US-Im                                                                                       ID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZS   u u IOM tyu -
eva@1   -      -     IZam -           -       -                                                                           _u    m
a     re    S's *      nt   -         -     L        -       -       -          it          -   -   I   -   -   -        _                    U    _n
a  c' s   *Ls        *sue    -       -     ow:    -         -       -         sui'    :    -   -   :   -   -   -        _                    UZAUU
u's  M-      -      -       ml'I   - ---                                                                                    ]-   P514
*   r'S    1155    lU'S    -          -     NE'S    -        -       -         25'     I    -        -   I   -   -   - _                    AM.N..
*   r'    lIS          *'      -      -     U-I    -         -       -      *    i          -   -   i   -   -   -                      mio SUSi-
Gl *w11                                                                      - OL -
Z  .ur



-71-
mn
mb im. =ML 71 s _                           _                                                         2
ra .a -   cuum. u                                                              Table 20
CAMl Fur. are S3m
bit am4m1GW    winUP31311 no       S an 4. ido     3 CM&m m I   am11    KW    V AN1   131    winS    1.6        MP DELe TmMe Mfemi
-  ----  -  -  -   -~ -                            - --                                                               
1. zRIMrus
A. gmn-ma c1Aan             NM       4   It1      11   U    11    0   24    24.61   2430  2.261  M3261 21.123 21.261  MM14   1.161123              0.3
1. gin-li  TeamI /a           s   5   15   15   15  '5 S   12     5    24.36   320.21  UZSS  712.41  V232M1  71245   MM.3  1.341              a 0.55        a     a
2.    1.BO      WSM       13            -     -    -               -             si.m5  11621  l24.21   MM42   124.2   71.41    43.11         I I."         0     U
WI".6a3 Too=                                                                       MAN 4VWM 5       t4. 1W  4W3  4M  VW0 2.616.1
1.6. UIgeiis  1151                                                                    m.a.mou7133  1.6 731,061; 77;;    -M      533.2  2.954.
1.4.3                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~713.21  713.0   73.161 12366  =3.6  2933 1.924713
is AT 7JD      1. N.    13l31
A 7 14 y    MI



19491                                                                              *n..u 2
1d*   1.. 11=M, V             r M  I%U                                                                PagO  I
~~jtU                                               3m 0.31.a"                            u.
3m.6 Fm. OeM  3m To lowt
PAt OMI NM46SW0 WME SW OM WMta  IL StiO MM14  SO43    so   WMS  am5  am9  Tauta  36  t". laM 3m Bob    3m.viv
40lor                   il  -  -. --                    -             -       -       - -   -   - I-mo-   -   -- -11
0. AMif
40  12A.C                     NMI         0.5  BA5    -  LS                  sa. RM     -    2.10       25M         -      M         -b   lzoad      a oa       67    o   o       a
to .1gm                       MTf      - 4 BA          -    -    -    I    3.2*6        -    24.15   664.31         -                -      33       0SA4       0.42   6   0      13
2. EnU
101 mat                       WVT      - 4 A   B       -    -    -    I   13.56         -    44.2*     4425012      -                - 3.5           e 0.5    6.2        0        U 
In                            WIT      -  B    0.5    -    -    -    I   212.49         -    24.0      54.01        -                - 11.3          0 .7          D  .02 
WTlSjj AN                                                                                  -   lug=    1lu.3           -  322m   1214903 59.97
4. sIRMA
miOlSm                       En      -   .5  L.5    -  LS5  6.!    2    MASS6         -    23.92    23.92         -  3.992 3.992   II9.I44         0 La4      0*    0   a       CI
Eit      -  6.5 0.5      -  Di 0.5       2    3.714       -    122d      12dl         -2513122dm            3l.4       06.4A?     0.M    I   6      CI
122112K               E~~~~n   -  BA   0.5    -    -    -    1    3.116          -    16.331    14.331       -       -       -     3.124      0  .4      041    I   a      C
31-5 gm                       Enu      -  0.5  CA3    -    -    -    1   323.549        -    4m!       4 -          - V-                 13 .569     0 LO       0.22  LO   I      El
l                             ENM      -  L 0.5  C     -    -    -    I   222.31        -    54.427    5401-N                            112.131        00.7       6 624.1        CU
131-1.4.2 sf11                                                                             -   1*.15 1*0.19                3dm     31dm    43.9124
S. 523V NM
do VW=2.1                     En       -  6.5  CA3    -  0.5  0.5    2    51da3         -    3.99       2%M         -  3.99    2.9M       03.1.94    0 0.42    0.37   0   0       to
2C1                           Elaio    -  L 0.5  C     -    -    -    I   23.549        *    4.22      44.V5            -            -   33.549      0 Lo4    6.12   0   0        toC
El                            En       -  16.   0.5    -    -    -    I   112.53        -    54.0      514.0                 - -         22.131      0  IA7        6 0.2 0.19     Ci
NM-co PZmu                    En       -  0.5  0.5    -  IA3  0.5    2    3.34          -    1.49       24.49       -  1.4    1kI.   4".5            0 0.3    6.4    0   0        CU
SI-bila " 65  amu                                                                               4        24331-         4- 0       42.617   41&.36
4052632                       En           BA4  4.5    -    -    -    I    5199              3.992    31.991        -       -             52.13      90623   O.X                  le
to                            Eno      -   AB.!    -    -    -    I    35.71                  INSI.ST    12.131                            WU  33    604 ex306                    to
10IlET                        EnC  g   -  0.5  6.5    -    -    -    I   13.49               44.2*5    44.21        -       -       -     1254       0 so4    6.12   0            go1
El                    E~~~~~~No  -  0.5  0.5    -    -    -    1   132.31             54.0      1b4.0        *                    132.3       0  0.7       0 0.6LIP    CU
1*4-..  MinI                                                                                   1614.511   141.331      -       -       - 32301
7. hESmuUI
26KID3C                       ul MT      .5 LS   A    -    -    -    I    53.9          -    399       3.992        -                      15.1313   00.43    6.37   6   0        13
11122K                El?~~~wr  -  CA5  *.g    -          -            .1 - I nuW11    24.331                                     3 . 3.121   0  .54    0.916       0     C
MTy      -  0.5  0.5    -  0.5  0.5    2    MM71          -    1.3        Ulm3            lbI2.l  12.1    51.4         0 6.47    0.9    a   0a      C
201IN1TRW                    ElI       -  BA   e.g    -  CA   0.5    2    3.549         -    Sum21     644.1            "a4n21   d4.V    21.0913     0 0.o    6.20   6 a          10
El                       T~~~~~~O  -  4.5 0.5   ..          .    I   1122.3      .    su.0      564.0                             112.131    064.7         60.2L.1       3l
Iw-l82IfIllld                                                                                  113.199 1*3.24  ---   -- 9.33  *9.M    524.43
i.*eaI so301                                                                               *   992WT.. . .9.93..1      - 7 119.52   I' 1.5 1 2.113.2940 0                            E
min sawIf                     En       -  LSAC.!    -    -    -    I    20.713                 .319     5319        .                -    23.13      04.95        0 0 0           1
SINE    KM  131311            En       -  6.5  6.5    -    -    -    I        4.44      -     2.217     2.2V                         -     4.44       .00.2       0 S 0            0
am                    a~~~n    -LSAC.!            -              - .  I 2344     .     5.0       5451       -                -    30.44       @6I.97       0 0a0          10
aMM  13111319                 En           BA   0.5    -    -    -    I       9.2*            4.44      4.444       -                      9.1W      0 6.92       0   0   0       a3
N3MNFM                      Eon      - A   BA    -    -    -    1            5.01            2.21      2.91        -               -      5.4       00.5         0   0   S       a
am "A4                         En      - -    -        -60.50.!         1     5.IV           -   -                        .3aa   2.536     5.1V      06.92          @0    0       13
am3                           EnSM     -    -    -    -  LS  LS    1          4.256                                      1.0*03.0*0        4.136     00. Ga            30         U
iNOM          uI              En       .    1    2    -ALS    2S                212 2211n                  ni       -      0       14        43      00D."15           06
LNOWN                 o~n      - 0.50.5        -  LS OA         2     2.113      .       2        37        -        7     S?       2.27     00G.15        0 690          U
~~~~~~gg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~-                                            - 2.59     0.49           -1.21   15.21      71.549



Lid f lm ma  -sus awe    sam   In  wI
-use-s sue  arm   tiro  ta-rn': as-oi.t-
rn-mn ut-w  "'s. an-cs tgn'im- senti -gma j stnw  Wm
3u"p   is'   m-o          w n e-n    at':cc
o  *  0  0     6-0~a'  0    LAPS   Ut-O  ;3041  gO's  04!;   up,"S    -                                        -     111                 lZJm   WI
*  6  0  0  ro  S    50041~KP  m"t-  UP's  100   tam'    as"1  --                                         -    -                     196m11u  mui
35405  its's  1*51  Id%0  54wK:   EL    -mamast on Psi-cu
*         o      ai        m's       's   ss's  t;;.t 10.-  m's-i  --                                            -     Ws                   'Mra -C
*  *  .  0  aree  owen   -  -  mu  on-os   wosis   -        ~    ~         -    -       -     - -   do    el      m zimrwsam-t
lscum WI2
*  5  5  S~c   15-00    95-ott  ff0-W     Ur-n ;;;t- it tS    '1                                                 ae muW m -L
*  0         u's I    IO        3M0-        -      -       --            Pt..      VI -ci-    -   - -                                    wai
*  te          Ulfs    s q       as      a            a       s;       - Itin':        cl roe         VIos-.-    ao                      WaRm
*  ess           "-es      ItMpg'   -     -      -      sn'sI   cars         go-II'I   I   -   -   -   r  evs-    LO.    taiso samIduuam
a  I e1.g        I-s      wan      sn-s  tsir           Dirat:   PIt-i    -    a'     t      I      -   sIO re-        Lam            $a111111 amm
*   SIC          we-S      05       W     Utm Su         t       3      -    Itit     S    It    - I   I   *    Ls                     minivm aI
a i       a      UV tre    OS'    iLL's,  IWOg                                DM C'    I   re  P'o  -   -   -   -    no                   mImAl 
*      o         u-seV      an'    -      -             eo'go    on's         in's         -   -        s -os's-       am                   mm  i
*  0  *0         "sc-s     sot-st   to t mo'   -        to'    tOO'S          M's    t   s-s  -O   res  C's            Lowm                 maxi
I 0    0       Ulf0    ILIt'U    M'    SS - od    M's10    05'S    -          'It I   CID'OcO         s-ore-         us               SmonuNW
*  6  0  5     5*5 5       N     - Ws                 50-it%S'S    -    Owl-        t      -   - -         C's c-     m               sataKNU
*   I   we   fl  I    iS'S    -         -      -      s-t   ou9   -    swa    s   -   -   -                    -    us        flfoiUai3ULmfa
*            us-so     str     Ms   tort  -Cm--                             "ir        n   s-s -V                   UN -    am  gloat ew  uaeu
*  0006            l 105    at     -K-                  m       lta           aC      :   -   -   - rsre-              us               w mumzas
*   .            si        usc    -       -      -KI    'i'tn    own    -    coce          -   -   -    -0n re         us                   ouan
*     000           i '0      to'    tin    Cs-9           -I -                  no'     :    nre    -     -   -          noa                    SIO
a*    ic            s-est     am      a      ai-s          at              -    zn-c          VInn-    s-on-              nomo
*     e  o  o       unse      msm's          sot-c -onso's    me-s    -    os-ul    I    nre o-  re            r Po  -    amX m Imi mUs MU re
*       a0   a      u's0      WL      -ED-                 3               -    13t      t        -        C   S   -    JIMMoans's
*     e            e       us's    -      -      -O     owe4    mc-    -    oww            -   -        Ws-  S-s  -    amu
I  a o  o         11-es    am'   ttrs   w't 1-0         ;       -       -    ss'    m   nre  -I         -   -   -       m                ua7m  auo
*      c         tro        ns            -      -      KSS      s's    -      us              -   -    y  en-    U.s                       muan
*  eso         is-so~a   a o-s-DM-                    an am     ntA    -    Dte'    a   -               -o -         a
*  cci  tree  as-'   -  -     -     nt'o    ne's    -    arc       a~~~~           ~ ~~~~~~~ -r-e-C'n-  us           NWats
*  e  e  i     treeu'    ers     m'    os -           ms      n'      -    toan     I   -nn    - s-onVI-    am                      SMUaA=
a  05          "I Ie  emole  11W%    t-s   -          mm'    s'        - "I'DM      s   rene-    n'sre -    amlo
a*      00          soc a              a6   aM W    -aa            ag       -    tim':    C    vonre-    nreVs-           aomom
U     s  o          sc-es    itt-s-s MM    Ms'   -         -               -    na's     9   r :   Inn-    -   -   -    am                       gm"n
a*        se        see       soa     -      -              - It   a        -    itt     I   -   -   -   :   a   -    us                 $UV"     on
*     e  c  e       Urs s    S'U    111-s  st-s   *        s-'   GMe'    -    is'::           res  ne  -   vs0  re  -    am         sunmiusams-, V
*     s      0      % a e  oei  ot'U                       UtLL'    la-LI   -    Cs'S         -   -   -   VS  re  -    am                   irs"ao
in-a   swAm1  w'ait  -      nc-    tot'    -                                                                   ctr moans-0
a*        is        u's       s ot    a       m     -       3      a        -    ni-it        nre se       reCs- i-on               ame
a co             Icco  to     N    -             -      I       mug    -      Mi      I    -        - VS  re  -    am                 uzinms L
*  see           Ul 16s    instt   -      -      -                            W0UO  ss    I   -S  VS    -       n -    us sLimm
*  e             we c-c    UPS    Is's  so's -          -                     to's         si Vs-    -   -   -    In                          amn
*  ii.        ~~~~1655    sos    Sc' W                i-0    -        -     uss          csn          - -                                      W
*     e  5  0       u's 5    MP&    050'.  SOt's  -I                               '          5O  VsI      -   -   -    UN               swVUM  tAM
*  ce e      tis      tot   -         -      -       o-s    no's    - n[gam                -   -    von-          am-
Ut? -t
o-WM    an'es  Its-s        twos   mono                                                                        an5 mona.c
S     0 00:srit'o                            -      -      ow       a's    -    itt's    I                                am              Sniao t  
*          ci       rn-se    a'                   a                 a m  B  -     t-c          1  res-on    s-sn          Iamm
*     s   ci        ti          '     eat  os't   -        -       -I -Mma's                   nn- r       -   -   -       m                     eisa
a*     *i           rns        t      -      -      -I     Ut 0     at     -     li      S   -   -   -       -re-C'       am              sain1c1e1
a*        es        rn-s      s Ciro  *                    amt   isW'    -    se         I   -   -   -   Cs-Css -         aS        im sie
*     s  e       's-i o    woqt  as'm      o' -M    tss'sm    mu's:   -        s-     :   :   a   - C's  ne  -          mso m aaa
I sI              -s        o'                   -      ta's a's    -    cot' -m                   - -   s-s  ne  -     ouam
a     oe   o        (toe%    am's    -       -      -       us     Us's          at's   tI             -    nn-s          am                   WU  e
a     e              ti       a'sUf0  0  WMi-   on-p   -   -       *        -    a'0     t   C'  nV -   -   -   -    am                  HmUTa SIMON
a     a  aO         a'is I     o'    ID'S o  Us'   -         'i   DO'a    -         o    C    yen-    a   i   -    ama
*     5  5  0       c-ce      so'.   az-s   ar    -MI-                     -      o'     I   nI  nO  -          -   -    am          oa zU" a
*     c              woeu'    uss                   -RO"      's-   ca`s    -    utcta   -   -   -              re n      u                 sauna.
*     s  s       b-co      rn's;       -         -      A's-    A"'     -     bnrs    t   -   -   -   n   re  -        Ua              -tucn
aIt
t 1ni4
ti s"qfl
C -,                                                                   Cs-



- 74 -
ETHIPIA                                   Annex 2
0AiR.LTOL RESEARCH PRJLECT                            Table 22
ProJct Ceuanunts by Yiri
(BRR '000)
Base Costs                          Total
84/85  8586   S V37   37J89    8/NM?   89/90    BIRR  (US0 '000)
A. STRElNGHENING (F FOOD GRAINS
AND PULSES RESEARCH                          - 3,'59.2 4.063,9 3,252.6 2,756.0  948.8 14,610.5   7,S0.2
B. STRENBTHENINB OF SPECIFIC RESEARCH LINES  32.9   541.1   411.9   M.*4   271.1  271.1  24319.4   1,120.5
C. STROENITHENIN OF LIVESTOCK RESEARCH          - 19322.3 1,503.2   330.8   387.4  372.9  3,917.1   10982.3
D. IELOPI'EPT OF FARHJNG SYSTENS RESEARCH   201.7   959.7   654.6   656.8   610.3  233.5  3,316.5   1,602.2
E. ASSISTANCE TO ALEN NAYA COLLEGE              -   697.1   949.1   321.9   321.9  129.6  2,419.6   1168U.9
F. RESEARC(/EXTENSION LIAISN                271.6   373.1   193.4   193.4   193.4  193.4  1418.3         68s.2
6. STRENGHEINING Of HEAUARTERS SERVIMES     945.7   432.2   379.1   394.5 1,17?.8  603.6  39933.9   19900.4
N. CNSTRICTION                            1890.5 29,51.8 29460.0 2,723.3  963.1  232.5 10.325.1   54229.5
I. SHDRT-TERR TECHNICAL AsSTUIcE
AND TRAINING                              275.3   770.0   770.0   770.0   770.0  569.3  39924.7   1,896.0
J. REM flAENIT OF EUIPHfENT N  SUPPLIES        - 1,444.8 19532.6   142.7   433.0  428.2  3,931.3   1923.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                        39607.7 129695.3 12,916.3  9,S77.4 7,36.0 3.982.3  50,666.5  249476.6
Phtsical Continmnius                        36.7   293.1   279.0   254.4   137.4        -  1,040.6      502.7
Price Continipncius                         142.5 1,746.1 3,137.6 3,53193 3M3.5 29335.7 14,621.7   7,063.4
Total PRDJECT COSTS                         3,936.9 14M724.9 16,333.5 13,363.1 11,751.9 6h313.6  66329.9  32,042.9
~~ mm~~~   mu  ~~~-   --                    -----
Tamns                                      355.7 1,338.3 1.317.2   705.5   697.1  309.3  4M,.1   2.305.4
Foreign Exrhmnu                           1,953.4 9.3U.1 10t443.5 7,703.1  7,367.0 3,329.0 40,162.0  19,491.9
ham 8, 1984 10:19



-75 -                                 Annex 3
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ illl1oze)
Disbursement Profile
Z Dimburmed
Fiscal Year/               Disbursements          Cumulative       Cumulative  Agric. Sector
Quarter             Quarterly   Cuaulative      Z Dlsbursed       Ethiopia     E. Africa
1985
First Quarter            -             -
Second Quarter           -             -
Third Quarter            -             -                              1.0
Fourth Quarter            0.2          0.2              0.9
1986
First Quarter             0.5          0.7              3.2           3.0             3.0
Second Quarter           0.8           1.5              6.8
Third Quarter             1.0          2.5             11.4           7.0             6.0
Fourth Quarter            1.0          3.5            15.9
1987
First Quarter             1.0          4.5            20.5           12.0            12.0
Second Quarter            1.0          5.5            25.0
Third Quarter            1.5           7.0            31.8           18.0           18.0
Fourth Quarter           1.5           8.5            38.6
1988
First Quarter            1.5          10.0            45.5           25.0            25.0
Second Quarter           1.5          11.5            52.3
Thi-d Quarter            1.5          13.0             59.1          33.0           33.0
fourth Quarter           1.0          14.0            63.6
1989
First Quarter            1.0          15.0            68.2           40.0           41.0
Second Quarter           1.0          16.0            72.7
Third Quarter            1.0          17.0            77.2           48.0           48.0
FourLh Quarter           1.0          18.0            81.8
1990
First Quarter            0.5          18.5            84.1           55.0           56.0
Second Quarter           0.5          19.0            86.4
Third quarter            0.5          19.5            88.6           62.0           64.0
Fourth Quarter           0.5          20.0            90.9
1991.
First Quarter            0.5          20.5            93.2           69.0           71.0
Second Quarter           0.5          21.0            95.5
Third Quarter            0.5          21.5            97.7           75.0 I/        78.0 21
Fourth Quarter           0.5          22.0           100.0
Siguing date expected to be about. October 1984.
Projected completion - September 30, 1990.
Closlng date - June 30. 1991.
1/ Fully disbursed end of Year 10.
2/ Fully disbursed first half of Year 10.



Annex 4
-76-                         Page   of 7
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Guidelines for Consultants Terms of Reference
A. Wheat/Barley Pathoilogist
1.       The consultant should have a higher degree in plant pathology and
considerable experience in small cereal disease work. Working language
would be English.
2.        He would be responsible to wheat and barley team leaders of the
Institute of Agricultural Research for developing a plant pathology program
to support the wheat and barley improvement research programs.
Specifically, his duties would include:
(a)  equipping ths laboratory and ensuring that the greenhouse,
environmental chambers and other equipment financed by the
project for this component are functional;
(b) survey, isolate and identify races of most iWportant wheat and
barley diseases and provide adequate screening and other research
back-up for the breeding program aiming to incorporate adequate
disease resistance into wheat and barley varieties;
(c) draw up a wheat/barley pathology research program to continue
when the consultancy terminates;
Cd) help to train Ethiopian scientists and technicians for the
program, including operation and maintenance and simple repairs
of laboratory, and field equipment provided for the program and
assist as required to select candidates for higher degree and
short-term training - the latter particularly at international
research institutes;
(e) if called upon to do so, provide thesis supervision for IAR staff
taking higher degree training locally and undertake limited
lecturing duties at the Agricultural College; and
(f) liaise with relevant international research institutes, particu-
larly with respect to collaboration in the Eth'iopian crop
improvement program by way of germ plasm supplies, training, and
advisory visits by their scientists.
3.        The consultancy period would be for four years.



77~ -Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
B. Wheat/Barley Agronomist
4.        The consultant should have a higher degree in agronomy and
considerable experience in small cereals agronomy research. Working
language would be English.
5.        He would be responsible for collaborating with the wheat and
barley research team leaders in intensifying the ongoing agronomy research
work. Specifically, his duties would include:
(a) evaluating the agronomy program to date and in collaboration with
other team members develop a program of intensive research into
agronomical factors determining the performance of wheat/barley
v_.rieties considered for testing in Ethiopia. In particular, the
consultant should help to develop widespread testing to cover
ecological variations of important wheat/barley areas in Ethiopia
and to develop a widespread on-farm testing program;
(b) develop, in collaboration with the team, a long-term research
program to continue beyond the consultancy period; and
gc) as for '2c' through "2f"
6.        The consultancy period would be four years.
C. Sorghum Weed Control Specialist
7.        The consultant should have a higher degree in weed control
science and should have had considerable experience in weed control
research, including work on parasitic weeds. Experience with work on the
parasitic weed, striga, would be an advantage.
8.        The consultant would be responsible to the sorghum team leader to
plan and initiate a striga control research program that can be executed by
Ethiopian scientists on return from studies abroad. Specifically, he
would:
(a) review work on striga conducted in Ethiopia to date and judge the
relevance of work in other countries to Ethiopian conditions;
(b) evaluate the seriousness of the striga problem in Ethiopia and to
a lesser degree evaluate the problem posed by other weed species;
(c) initiate a striga control research program that should include
collaboration with the sorghum breeders in developing resistant
varieties and, if time and resources permit, initiate research
that should be sustainable after the end of the consultancy
period on other important weed species damaging sorghum;
(d) prepare Ethiopian research scientists to take over the program
fully; and
(e) as for '2c" through '2f".



- 78 -                          Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
9.        The consultancy period would be for one year.
D. Pulses Breeder/Pathologist
10.       The Consultant should have a higher qualification in plant
breeding an:4 an associated qualification in plant pathology. He should
have considerable experience in grain legume plant breeding, oriented
towards incorporating disease resistance and higher yield potential in the
plant.
11.       The consultant would be responsib1: to the highland pulses team
leader and his broad objective would be in cooperation with Ethiopian team
members to draw up a plan and initiate a program of accelerated selection
and plant breeding to provide high-yielding, disease resistant highland
pulses varieties to farmers. The main varieties would be fava bean, field
peas, chick peas and lentils. Specifically, the consultant would:
(a) collaborate with the Ethiopia breeder in reviewing the highland
pulses improvement program to date and draw up plans for
accelerating the momentum of the program;
(b) collaborate with other team members to ensure that the fullest
range practical of germ plasm both local and from abroad is
available for the program;
c) in collaboration with other team members, draw up breeding
programs to extend beyond the period of the consultancy to
increase yield potential of the main highland pulses species with
particular reference to incorporating disease resistance, and
participate actively in conducting the breeding and related
pathology research program; and
(d) as for '2c" through '2f".
12.       The consultancy period would be for four years.
E. Tef Breeder
F. Tef Cytogeneticist
13.       The consultants should have a higher degree in their specific
disciplines -- plant breeding and cytogeneti-.s -- and considerable
experience in effecting genetic improvement preferably in small seeded
grasses.
14.       The consultants wcald be responsible to the leader of the tef
team. Their objective would be to develop a dynamic and self-sustaining
tef breeding program that would include, if necessary, the making and
working with intra- and inter-specikfic crosses. The two consultants would
be expected to collaborate closely. Specifically, they would:



- 79 -                           Annex 4_
Page 4 of 7
(a) initiate more intensive efforts to collect, evaluate, classify
and preserve indigenous germ plasm;
(b) equip and operate laboratory facilities and train Ethiopian staff
to do so;
(c) evaluate tef improvement work to date and draw up a future work
program taking account of available resources and if these should
prove inadequate, recommend additional resources that should be
considered;
(d) initiate and participate in breeding programs that would, unless
shown to be unnecessary include inter-specific breeding. In this
respect the consultants would be expected to develop relevant
techniques and advise IAR on basic research that may need to be
conducted abroad. The consultants would be expected to use their
good offices to have such work initiated.
(e) train Ethiopian staff to continue the work initiated by
consultants after the end of the consultancy period; and
(f) as for -2c' through "2f" as applicable.
15.       The consultancy period would be four years for the cytogeneticist
and for two years initially for the breeder which could be extended if
necessary.
G. Farmzng Systems Research Specialist
16.       The consultant should have a higher qualification in agricultural
economics or related subject and should have considerable experience in
establishing and conducting farming systems survey programs in developing
countries.
17.       He would work in close collaboration with the Head,
Socio-economics and Farm Management Department to draw up a detailed
five-year program of Farming Systems Research (FSR) and to conduct a
training program on the principles, methodology and practical aspects of
farming systems research for the FSR teams. He would also draw up a draft
handbook of instructions for each FSR team, detailing all the activities it
would have to engage in, listing the observations to be made and
instructions to be given by the team members on their regular visits to the
farms. Sample questionnaires for the surveys and directions for data
collection, interviews, etc. should also be given.
18.       The consultant would participate in surveys and studies of the
determinants of farm production, and definition of the main production
complexes. He would also advise on the formulation of modified farming
systems by incorporating new technologies into existing systems, design of
trials needed, selection of trial farms and controls, baseline surveys (if
needed), monitoring of the trials, data collection, data analysis and



- 80 -                          Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
evaluation, and the commanication of the findings to extension and research
needs to research services. He would give high priority to investigating
why promising research recommendations, for instance, maize growing
technology, are not adopted by peasant farmers and guide research workers
in problems to be investigated to achieve widespread adoption. He would
organize seminars, workshops and conferences to explain the concept of FSR
to research workers and extension workers and to discuss the results
obtained.
19.       The duration of the consultancy would be four years.
H. Sheep Research Specialist
20.       The consultant should have a higher degree in livestock
improvement and should have had considerable experience in sheep
improvement, preferably in improving indigenous breeds in developing
countries.
21.       The consultant would be responsible to the Head of the Animal
Science Forage and Range Management Department and, in collaboration with
the Ethiopian sheep improvement specialist, draw up a longer term sheep
improvement program. The objective would be improvement of promising
indigenous breeds and would not, at this time, include cross-breeding
indigenous and exotic breeds. He would collborate in:
(a) reviewing results to date and planning a longer term program
including the compilation of a detailed work plan;
(b) initiating and participating in conducting trials to improve
productivity by improving health, breeding control, nutrition,
and flock improvement by selection of superior types;
(c)  initiating an on-farm testing program of station findings,
(d) improving/developing station facilities for sheep research; and
(e)  as for "2c  through "2f" as applicable.
22.       The consultancy period would be for two years.
1. Fodder/Forage Improvement Specialist
23.       The consultant should have a higher degree in an appropriate
agricultural subject concerned with pasture/fodder/forage improvement. He
should have considerable experience in conducting appropriate research in
developing countries dealing with improvement of indigenous pasture and
fodder crops and introduction of exotic species. Experience in an ecology
similar to the Ethiopian highlands would be an advantage.
24.       He would be responsible to the team leader of the pasture/forage
section of the Department of Animal Science, Forage and Range Management



Annex 4
- 81 -                         Page 6 of 7
and would assist him in expanding and accelerating the tempo of ongoing
pasture/fodder forage improvement research. Specifically, he would:
(a) help to plan an expanded program over the project period;
(b) help to intensify and improve ongoing work on screening local and
imported pasture/fodder species, with special reference to local
and introduced legume species; evaluate pasture and forage
species that would be needed in soil and water conservation
schemes; intensify screening of temperate zone pasture/fodder
species for higher altitudes; conduct trials to improve
indigenous pastures; evaluate perennials including leucaena spy;
and conduct trials to identify improved species for seasonally
waterlogged highland pastures or to find other methods of
improving such pastures. He should also devote attention to
designing and advising on pasture/fodder species' seed production
locally. The above list is not all-embracing and the consultant
should assist the team leader and department head in drawing up
priorities to suit available resources and prepare a plan showing
additional resources needed for expanding the work program;
(c) participate in the research work; and
(d) as for '2c" through "2f-.
25.       The consultancy period would be for two years.
J. Biometrician
26.       The consultant should have higher qualifications in biometrics
and considerable experience in providing biometric services to agricultural
research organizations. He must be completely conversant with relevant
computer technology. Training experience would be an advantage.
27.       The consultant would be responsible to the General Manager of IAR1
or an IAR staff member designated by the Gene:-al Manager. His broad duties
would be to introduce and provide biometric services to IAR and establish
and develop a biometrics unit for the Institute.  Training Ethiopian staf
to manage the service after the end of the consultancy period would be
important. Specifically, he would:
(a) provide advice, training and assistance to researchers in
experimental design, and the analysis and presentation of
experimental results;
(b) assist researchers in presenting new proposals to ensure that the
experimental methods and designs are appropriate to the
experimental objectives and likely to yield data of acceptable
reliability;



- 82 -                           Annex 4
- 82 -                ~~~~Page 7 of 7
(c) examine existing data collected both by IAR and collaborating
agencies in the course of research trials, adaptive and
demonstration trials, to determine the possibility of undertaking
analyses of results from particular sites over periods of time
and/or from groups of sites which might yield additional
information of value for the development of Ethiopian agricul-
ture. Where feasible, undertake such analyses, and assist in the
interpretation of the results obtained;
(d) assist in the interpretation of past research results and carry
out such supplementary analyses of data as may assist researchers
in preparing reviews summarizing the state of knowledge in
particular fields;
(e) train research staff in techniques of using mini and micro
computers to be supplied by the project;
(f) advise collaborating agencies on their programs for, and designs
of, collaborative trials to ensure the maxima yield of useful
information from their trials and demonstrations; and
Cg) carry out such other studies as may be directed or agreed with
the General Manager of IAR.
2H.       The consultancy period would be for 2* years.
K. Coffee Taxonomist
29.       The consultant -'iould hold a higher degree in Botany and should
have specialized in Taxonomy. He should have considerable field experience
in the latter subject.
30.       le would be responsible to the Head of the Coffee Research team
and his duties would include:
(a) the definition of criteria and the establishment of a met'iodology
for the systematic botanical classification of all indlgenous
Arabica coffee types into varieties or strains;
(b) following this methodology describe and classify the Ethiopian
Arabica coffee types including those of the national collections
and collections established at Jima, Gora and other locations;
(c) train Ethiopian counterpart staff and prepare them to pursue the
classification work after the completion of the consultant's
mission; and
(d) prepare and submit a report describing the classification
criteria and methodology and the coffee types identified.
31.       The consultancy period would be for 8 months.



- 83 -                        Annex 5
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Documents Available in the Projects File
A. Documents Relating to the Project
1. Ethiopia Agricultural Research Project Provisional Preparation Report
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Report No. 16/82 CP-W!H II, August 1982.
2. Ethiopia Agricultural Research Project Preparation Report FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Program Report No. 16/82 CP-ETH, April 12, 1983.
3. Institute of Agricultural Research Ethiopia Project Findings and
Recommenda.tions United Nations Development Program Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, Rome, 1982.
4. Grant for Improving the Production of Maize, Wheat, Barley and Tef
submitted by Government of Ethiopia to Dipartlmento Cooperazione Allo
Suiluppo of the Republic of Italy.
B. Selected Working Papers
1. Civil Works
2. Report on Sorghum and Tef
3. Report on Wheat, Barley and Maize
4. Report on Pulses
5. Strengthening the Food Grain Research Base of the Institute for
Agricultural Research



-84 -
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURL RESEARCH PROEO
InrMlue ofAgdCulri ReseoarCh Propoed Oganzon Chait
Hw
E-                                 bW.m-4 
cowwwv~~.......... ...........,,......... ld
E_
A                                       A
D
O                                                         Oupj?CUe
Q
A
R
T
E
R               ___
S                    I
=~~~~~~~~~~~~"o s cWDwuh
I P--a'I 1
3- - - -  -  -                            a iki1C ;''
. _' .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ... Uo D
s*dtI            |             L|o lb        0                                          1Ihwhntc~cmt~n1'tn u d Immhsb
9d m ..m............                                                                                         bImn* WaCducbItimdf0 hwCy In
iof*wu.... WIMhity f Ott pwtDtctaSu In f a attoll
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oau  aet e IgICs rte ,aI W*ItdAQOW.
i                                    'IgcIwtiCat wnOsoammnt. COW, ai dmmmn1.moic & IUn   dft for1
I                                           DgtcuWwa 1          ethlaoed by  - I  1t    vIAR
r - - - - . -      - -    - -   - -   - - - ---------
m  -----.-------
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii                                                             lw*-25M 
am
__          _     _    _     _    _    _     _    _     _    _    



AGU     J  RSU/!CH PROXC1
3k* cit9lANfti kesach
Sctu Po    n d Ri k     lors. MbONOM
j *a fte mid Coapmakg hiUIOfl
*|||*svv*~~jvao~"    1.                                                        AVAM@
jQ2Asa3q"ftT4j                                       WAM IAAx
*  OS(i4    *_    _         &AX; U S
saa:mI j.mm on sm r                      inn..J  L:mmuU 1 Uimm   1m6    m    meeS,
.:~~~ :::HwSN         in    m       1m                                       *   L       
-Isuzewtwl~m              I  a      I    I        mecua    guesxem             15.551                *nl^o ---s^s||n^; *    |           rx _
memeeemeeeeeem    rmmemeeeyeeeeel  Ieee      |ueeBee  le ........ JI .... .......              ...... 1Ml   t       .....I    e me  em1 -
A 441eee=ue,i11      asesmsjmeas                                                               Iemeeem      :em,emsu:   :138fmes  I 
*eeeeeeeeee,     rae..tmye*e SUCHI1e%                                                                                       Immmmmm.*s    hts|X|"g  ||l||d 7e""eZZ; *_*    r _
eegegeeeseeesel   eeeeemmsgemeemj                                                            hse,membe.em SA                      men_
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-4..........         ............._L _                                                                                                        __                    _
"00 uw I I                                              _b J J
s@eseemees*eee    1@e{e@eeme 5_555.1                                                          leseeeemees                      mm mel
i|eeeeeeeeees@i    Ism,,e, seem,,                                                                                                           __el_ mm me5e
geegmeem P         cecemee  ceece" i |                                            l m . .  _ ,,
eeeeceemeceseses                                  *~Wlos   -dArA6.MSOM
fllool   I ellzs''
Nmce ePe i-



- 86 -
_o                                                                  .  
o-                                                       
- -          -                                               '    * 
a~~~. _5________
Z              ______=_=
~~~- 1--- ---- ---
o __ _=__ '~  o =_  ___ _ - =_.
_   __   _  ___ _   _   _  . _              _  _~~~~~ .uc 
T    I  I :I -j _   _                                   ll. 



- 87 -
a 
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ ____________
a _ _ _ _ ___  __ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_   __  __   ___ _  .   
o __. __  .  _ __
_              _________ _____ ___,______ ____   __    _ 
T   _ _ _ __ __ .  _ _ ___ _ _ _I
_ __    _. _ _    _ ___    _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(.



_IBRD 17592
!A.R;OF EGYPT.         SAUDI                       40                          i4-                     OCTOBER 1983
V                _2  ARABIA          j ty                                ETHIOPIA
>    *PDR1*&          AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ME    D.R
SUDAN               AR.                   X                IAR  RESEARCH  FACILITIES AND
1 -           ,              o   \ COOPERATING  INSTITUTIONS
{   sAb  *SOM'AL IA/      
ETHIOPA    -7                                                          Notional Capital / IAR Headquorters
o   ,^   /                                          9 \  P   Research Stations
Indian                                       6   Substations                   20
r-->     -7            /noon        _               .20                IAR/MOA Joint Sites
ZAIRE                             OoKENYA  O on                     N          *   Projected Now Resoarci Station
*F;                                                               .      \ I  0   Cooperating Research Institutions
A\   Phytopathological Loboratory
XtwIAUNO                                          - swc3eis Vs -3o   l ohyot, mm.
TANZANIA         ,                                                         1500 emter contour line
.1W _0 MM been Preowed by  3W  -:00                        Administrative Region Boundories
flU VMa a" t bn  ew.d                                                     -   International Boundaries
to, VW cwjwUftWC of Nw
1_ d. TOW NWbf _M-                                                        0     0    200   300 KILOMETERS
mWE mu  tmffrmm Fm__u
Cww.6W.     w|_                            \      a  .              l    0         llt0      200 MILIi
- co few bw1 .fu  am V 'u                                                                                    16-
VW D@dWW d  n if No ; <s! 
16'                                                                      YEM   NP.  D* tR
ARABE                   YEMENc 
S  U   D  A  N N Mr
.t / - \1 5 R A Y                              RD  R.
12*Wed                                                       A                       0'             12
"A \  :    J   A v   o  tz ^           I... M . *
4    ' ; '           .-X. 0,V9S                    ,    ^ Ar"  *<,,, A
A%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
UGA DA           /         /m                                                Ad_ 
36,  - s,KENY   / A                              ,/    S O M A L I A
_-A                                                                                                               4   Z\_. .-
UGANDA t        3fr ~~~~K E N Y A            40         /440



