Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C k-        'Ae7 
Report No. P-3872-ET
REPORT AND RECC24EN-DATION
OF TEE
PRESIDENhT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 21.1 MILLION
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
August 15, 1984
lhis document has a restricted distribution d may be used by recipienbts only in the performance of
their oflicial duLies. Its contents may not oderwise be disclosed without World Bank   thetio I.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 11
USS1.00              Birr 2.07
Birr              = US$0.483
Birr 2.07         = US$1.00
ABBREVIATIONS
CIMMYT              International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
IAR                Institute for Agricultural Research
ICARDA             International Center for Agricultural Research in the
Dry Areas
ICRISAT            International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid
Tropics
IDRC               International Development Research Center
ILCA             : International Livestock Center in Africa
MOA              : Ministry of Agriculture
PADEP            : Peasant Agricultural Development Program
SAFGPRAD         : Semi-Arid Food Grain Development
WEf'EHTS AXND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                        2.205 pounds (lb)
I frescula (fr)                                        17 kg
100 kilograms (kg)                                     I quintal (qt)
1 metric ton (mt)                                      2,205 pounds (lb)
I hectare (ha)                                         2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)                                       0.62 miles (mi)
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
1/ The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian birr
has been constant from 1973 to the date of this report.



ETEIOPIA                  FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDrr AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          EthiopiL
Amount:             SDR 21.1 mill-ion (US$22.0 million equivalent)
Terms!              Standard
Project
Objectives:         The proposed project will help to improve the quality of
research staff, rehabilitate existing research
facilities, and provide the necessary technology and
additional facilities to strengthen research efforts and
their focus on identifying improved input packages
suitable for smallholders and adaptable to varyiag
farming conditions. The project will complement the
Government's proposed peasant agricultural development
progran which will strengthen agrictltural extension
work and thereby the capacity to impart the findings of
the research to the farmers. It vill also build upon
past achievements and address existing constraints to an
expanded research program.
Project
Description:
Over five years the project will: (i) strengthen field
crop and coffee research; (ii) strengthen
irrigation/salinity research and animai husbandry and
pasture research; (iii) improve adaptive research to
translate findings into messages suitable for farmers;
(iv) rehabilitate research station plant and equipment;
(v) improve headquarters support services to the
stations; and (vi) provide technical assistance and
strengthen training programs. The primary focus of the
project will be on field crop and coffee research in
high potential areas, since this research offers
oppportunities for quicker returns than would be
obtainable from research in other subsectors. Increased
crop production in high potential areas would help
stimulate economy-wide growth and also to generate
surplus food to cope with frequent shortages in
drought-prone areas. The project mainly faces risks of
delays In project implementation, of disappointing
research results, and of diversions of research efforts
avay from priority subject areas. To help minimize
these risks and to recognize potential problems early,
the project provides for substantial technical
assistance to strengthen and assist the implementing
agencies, improvements to planning mechanisms, and a
monitoring and evaluation progran. There is also a risk
of potential losses of research staff to other
employment, but this risk is not considered high for
this type of project.
is doument hs a_ estrictd distnbution and may be used by recpiens only in the performance of|
their orici duties. Its contents may not otherwie be dicosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                   USS Million
Local     Foreign     Total
Items
Grain and Pulses Research                  1.96        5.10        7.06
Coffee and Irrigation/
Drainage Research                         0.40        0.72        1.12
Livestock/Pasture Research                 0.68         1.21       1.89
Farming Systems Research                   0.71        0.89        1.60
Alem Maya College Programs                 0.51         0.66       1.17
Research/Extension Liaison                 0.41        0.28        0.69
Headquarters Services                      0.57         1.33       1.90
Construction Program                       3.39        1.84        5.23
Short-term Technical
Assistance and Training                   0.20        1.70        1.90
Replacing Equipment and Supplies           0.40         1.52       1.92
Contingencies:
Physical                                  0.30        0.20        0.50
Price                                     3.11        3.95        7.06
Total Project Cost                        12.64        19.40      32.04
Total Project Cost
(net of taxes and duties)               10.34       19.40      29.74
Financing Plan:
USS Million
Local     Foreign     Total
IDA                                        2.60       19.40       22.00
Government                                10.04        -          10.04
Total                                     12.64        19.40      32.04
Estimated Disbursementr:
USS Million
IDAFY         85    86   87    88   89    90    91
Annual                                  0.2   3.3   5.0   5.5   4.0   2.0   2.0
Cumulative                              0.2   3.5   8.5  14.0  18.0  20.0  22.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 4937a-ET, dated August 8, 1984.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 21.1 million (US$22.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an agricultural research
project. The Government will make avaslable as grants about US$21.5
milliou of the IDA credit to the Institute of Agricultural Research and
about US$500,000 to the University of Addis Ababa.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Ethiopia (No. 4683a-ET) entitled Ethiopia,
Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospects, was circulated to the
Executive Directors on May 31, 1984. The report's findings are reflected in the
following paragraphs. A summary of social and economic data is included in
Annex I.
Structural Chtracteristics
3.        Ethiopia, with a population estimated at about 33 million in
1982, is the third most populous country in Africa (after Nigeria and
Egypt). About 85 percent of the total population is rural. The country's
land area extends over 1.2 million square kilometers and may be broadly
divided into two main geographical zones, namely: the highland plateau of
central Ethiopia, and the surrounding lowlands. Its capital city, Addis
Ababa, located in the central highlands, has a population estimated at
around 1.4 million.
4.        Agriculture is the mainstay of the country's economy, accounting
for about 50 percent of GDP, 90 percent of exports, and 85 percent of total
employment. The major food crops are tef (a locally consumed cereal),
maize, barley, sorghum, wheat, pulses, and oilseeds. Coffee, the principal
export crop, generates over 60 percent of the country's export earnings.
Other export crops include oilseeds, pulses, cotton, sugarcane, fruits and
vegetables. The country's livestock herd is the largest in Africa; the
export of live animals has begun to increase in recent years.   Ethiopia's
known natural resources include gold, platinum, copper and potash. Some
petroleum exploration has taken place in the past, but no petroleum



- 2 -
reserves have yet been proven. None of these minerals has been exploited
on a large scale, and in most cases the potential for commercial
exploitation remains to be established. There are prospects for the
exploitation of geothermal energy. The country's main potential lies in
agriculture, for which the natural conditions of several areas are
favorable. Nearly 95 percent of the land under cultivation is operated by
individual farmers who have user rights to landholdings averaging two
hectares or less.  Manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 10
percent of GDP, is heavily dependent on agriculture; agro-based industry
constitutes around 70 percent of large- and medium-scale industry.
Handicrafts and small industry are operated by private owners. Domestic
trade, especially retail trade, and roai transport are still largely in
private hands. Public sector control and ownership covers all of banking
and insurance, shipping, railway, airways, utilities, almost all of
large-scale manufacturing, and a large proportion of construction.
5.        With an estimated GNP per capita of around US$140 (1982) and with
a vast proportion of the population (estimated at around 60 percent) living
below the absolute poverty level, Ethiopia remains amongst the poorest
countries in the world. Over the past decade, value added in agriculture
grew at only around 1.1 percent per annum, compared with a population
growth rate of 2.5 percent per annum. Problems are bound to be aggravated
by the projected population growth rate of 2.8 percent per annum. An
estimated three million people displaced by military conflicts and
persistent droughts call for relief and rehabilitation. Health services in
Ethiopia are limited and require major improvements to combat high rates of
morbidity, and infant and maternal mortality. Life expectancy is still at
a low level of about 46 years. Housing and sanitation facilities,
especially in the towns, are poor and need urgent attention.
Notwithstanding the country's rich endowment of fertile land and
substantial agricultural potential, its wide variation in topography and
extremely rugged terrain have been serious obstacles to internal
transportation and economic development in general. Nearly three-quarters
of Ethiopia's farms are more than half-a-day's walk from all-weather roads.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        Since the 1974 revolution, Ethiopia has made considerable social
progress, as reflected by significant increases in literacy and school
enrollment aad a modest rise in life expectancy. The literacy rate rose
from 7 percent in 1973 to over 40 percent in 1981 and the primary school
enrollment rate increased from 19 percent to 47 percent over the same
period. Agrarian reforms, in aedition, have led to increased food
consumption in rural areas and to a more egalitarian distribution of
incomes. These achievements have not, however, been accompanied by
commensurate economic growth. Durlng the decade ending 1982/83, the gross
domestic product grew at an average annual rate of only 2.2 percent in real
terms.
7.        The years 1974/75 through 1977/78 were marked by internal
political upheaval and armed conflicts which resulted in stagnation and in
some cases even declines of production in the commodity producing sectors.
The economy recovered thereafter, with GDP growth averaging 5.4 percent per



annum during 1978/79 and 1979/80. Annual development campaigns (or
Zemetchas) paved the way for this recovery through a target-setting and
monitoring process, combined with increased budgetary allocations to
agriculture and industry. Growth occurred mainly in agriculture, which
benefited from good weather, and from industry, through a greater
utilization of industrial capacity. The economy, however, witnessed a
set-back during the following three years ending 1982/83, with GDP growth
declining to around 2.9 percent per annum; the decline would have been
more severe but for a moderate recovery in 1982/83. The principal causes
for this set-back were droughts which affected agriculture, and capacity
constraints (notably in industry), owing to low rates of investment in the
past. The ratio of total investment to GDP has remained for many years
below 11 percent, due largely to constraints on domestic as well as
external resources. Domestic savings, which had averaged around 4 percent
of GDP in the recent past, fell belov 3 percent during 1981/82 and
1982/83. In addition, inflows of official development assistance have
rema.ned low in recent years, averaging only around US$6 per capita as
compared to over US$20 per capita for developing countries in Africa.
8.        Ethiopia also experienced a sharp deterioration in the terms of
trade in recent years. The terms of trade index (1979/80 base) declined by
about 27 percent during the three-year period ending 1982/83, reflecting
mainly the decline in coffee prices and increased import prices. The value
of imports rose significantly in recent years while the value of exports
declined (see Annex I). Consequently, the current account deficit widened
to about 7 percent of GDP in 1981/82 and 1982/83. These external account
deficits were financed by significant Increases in long-term capital,
reflecting in large part disbursements of concessional loans from various
sources, and also by a moderate increase in grant aid. Ethiopia's external
debt service ratio, which had been of the order of 6 percent of export
earnings in the late 1970s, increased sharply to about 11 percent in
1982/83, as export earnings declined and more debt service payments fell
due.
9.        Notwithstanding these adverse trends, government fiscal and
monetary management has been prudent.   The country has a relatively
competent public service and in general, its ministries, departments and
public enterprises are well managed. There has been little evidence of
luxury consumption, and public investment levels were manageable up to
1981/82. The overall budget deficits remained below 5 percent of GDP for
the period 1978/79 to 1981/82 and modest current account surpluses were
achieved in these years. But during 1982/83, the overall budget deficit
rose to a level equivalent to about 13 percent of GDP, principally due to a
near doubling of capital expenditure and an increase in current
expenditure, reflecting in large part a government decision to settle
arrears due to parastatals in one year. The trend was similar in regard to
money supply. During the three-year period ending June 1982, money supply
increased by around 8.5 percent per year. But during the year 1982/83,
money supply increased by over 15 percent. Net credit to the Government



expanded by 68 percent in 1982/83 owing to the massive increase in
government financing requirements. Meanwhile, net credit to the private
sector declined by about 10 percent in 1982/83. The inflation rate (as
measured by the Addis Ababa retail price index) dropped from an average of
13 percent during 1978/79 and 1979/80 to about 4 percent during the three
year period ending 1982/83.
10.       The Govern ment has taken a number of decisions since late 1982 to
reverse these deteriorating trends. With a view to introducing a
short-term focus, the Government's ten-year plan is to be phased into three
sub-plans - a two-year plan, a three-year plan and a five-year plan.
Official pronouncements have stressed the importance of revitalizing
agriculture through guaranteed producer prices and diffusion of improved
technology to farmers; the need to restore confidence amongst entrepreneurs
engaged in small scale industry; and the need to attract foreign investment
and technology to develop the country's resources.
11.       Senior government officials were reassigned in April 1983, with
the intent of strengthening the key ministries concerned with economic
development. Other noteworthy steps include a Joint Venture Code
introduced in January 1983 to promote joint ventures between foreign
investors (public or private) and Ethiopian public enterprises, and the
formulation of proposals to simplify and rationalize the system of direct
and indirect taxes and to make the tax system more income-elastic. Since
1978, a Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC) chaired by the Head of
State has been responsible for the preparation, approval, and oversight of
economic plans, while a Council of Ministers has been responsible for
implementation. In April 1983, the Government introduced measures that
reduced the degree of centralized planning and the authority of the CPSC,
and streamlined government institutions and authority relationships along
more traditional lines.
12.       Although the above-mentioned initiatives by the Government are
steps in the right direction, there are several issues which require
attention. In regard to macroeconomic planning and management, it is yet
unclear as to how the projected levels of investment are to be financed,
given the low domestic savings rate and limited inflow of official
development assistance (para 7). While overall budgetary deficits reflect
prudent financial management, they also indicate limited success in
attracting external concessionary assistance. Likewise, with the value of
merchandise imports running at double the value of merchandise exports, a
major expansion in exports and restraints on imports and/or import
substitution are called for, in order to reach a more sustainable external
current account deficit. According to the IMF, Ethiopia's real effective
exchange rate appreciated by about 37.5 percent against the currency of
major trading partners during the period January 1975 to December 1982.
The overvalued exchange rate and the lack of an effective package of export
incentives have tended to reduce producer margins in local currency and
have inhibited the growth of exports.



- 5 -
13.       As regards sectoral issues, several other factors apart from the
drought appear to have impeded agricultural growth. Although some
initiatives have been made towards improving the Government's agricultural
and marketing policies, to date these have not been translated into
incentives for farmers to expand production and mafketed surplus. Other
constraints include the low use of improved seeds and fertilizer,
inadequate agricultural extension and research, and restrictions on
inter-regional grain movement by private operators. The precise role of
the private sector is yet unclear - the business climate does not appear to
be conducive to savings and investment, particularly in industry. All
sectors are also affected by the shortage of skilled manpower.
Medium-Term Prospects
14.       The Ethiopian economy remains hampered by its weak infrastructure
(notably roads), low productivity in agriculture, heavy dependence on one
export commodity (coffee), a small industrial base, and shortages of
skilled manpower. Apart from this set of unfavorable initial conditions,
the availability of domestic resources for investment is constrained by the
Government's outlays on internal security, while import capacity is
constrained by the continuing deterioration in the terms of trade and by
low levels of external resource transfers. Moreover, the recent recession
in industrialized countries has inter alia inhibited the exparnsion of
non-coffee exports. Further, production growth in industry is running up
against capacity constraints due to the low levels of investment in the
past.
15.       The need now is for a medium-term approach to development, and
for actions to accelerate the pace of economic growth. With a record of
generally satisfactory demand management, Ethiopia needs to orient economic
policy towards expanding the directly productive sectors, particularly
agriculture and industry, and to increase economic efficiency in the use of
resources. There is a need to develop a more realistic macroeconomic
framework for the Government's forthcoming two and three year plans and to
present well balanced portfolios of viable projects, within these plans.
The financing of increased public investment would call for greater efforts
in domestic as well as external resource mobilization. The marketing
framework and incentive structure in the agzicultural sector need to be
improved in order to step up agricultural growth, and the business climate
for private small-scale enterprises, particularly in Lndustry, should be
made more favorable for increased investment, output and exports. In
general, the authorities should consider making greater and more flexible
use of macro-level policy instruments (e.g. exchange rate and wage
policies) and less use of direct, administrative controls. The attainment
of higher growth rates will also depend on raising the operational
efficiency of public enterprises and on alleviating skilled manpower
shortages. Despite several constraints and limited room for
maneuverability on the part of Ethiopia's economic policy-makers,
conditions exist for a GDP growth rate of 3-4 percent per annum over the



- 6 -
medium-term and for gradually improving the living standards of the
population provided the Government makes a concerted effort to increase
investment and to pursue policies which foster growth and development.
External Assistance
16.       Unlike many other African countries, Ethiopia has no major
traditional source of technical and financial assistance. The Bank Group
was for some years the largest source of loans and credits, but in recent
years the European Economic Community, the African Development Bank, the
Soviet Union, the German Democratic Republic, and Czechoslovakia have
expanded their support, while development assistance is continuing from
Sweden, the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy. The level of
concessionary aid to Ethiopia has been very low (para.7). Ethiopia,
however, is in need of substantial resource transfers to support
investments that will enable a reasonable rate of growth to be achieved,
particularly in view of the country's poverty, low level of savings and
weak balance of payments position. Within the limits imposed by its
perceived security needs over the past few years, the Government has
directed available resources towards economic and social development; it
has restrained salaries, squeezed the import of non-essentials, and
increased taxes significantly.
17.    According to debt information provided by the Government to the
Bank's Debt Reporting Systerl, the total debt outstanding and disbursed was
about US$1.1 billion as of June 30, 1983. The ratio of Ethiopia's debt
service to export earnings remained low (para 8) because of the relatively
low level of external loan commitments, and the tendency of some donors to
shift to support on grant terms. In addition, Italy, Finland, Sweden and
Japan have concluded debt forgiveness arrangements with Ethiopia. The
U.S. Exim-bank made a loan in 1979 for aircraft purchases. The IMF has
provided Trust Fund loans and assistance under the Compensatory Financing
Facility (CFF). By July 1982, Ethiopia's net borrowings under the Trust
Fund stood at SDR 26 million equivalent and drawings under the CFF stood at
about SDR 54 million. In May 1981, an IMF stand-by arrangement for
Ethiopia in an amount equivalent to SDR 67.5 million was approved to
support an 18-month program designed to strengthen overall fiscal
performance and help improve the balance of payments. This standby was
fully disbOrsed and its performance criteria were met.  No formal request
for further IMF assistance has been made to date.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
18.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totalled about US$702
million (less cancellations) as of March 31, 1984, consisting of 31 IDA
credits totalling about US$577 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about
US$109 million, and five IFC commitments totalling US$15.7 million. Much
of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and



- 7 -
1978.  Subsequently, the compensation issue led to a two-year interruption
in new lending (para. 23). Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms
only. IBRD's share of total public debt outstanding and disbursed as of
June 30, 1983 is estimated at about 4 percent, and IDA's at 31 percent.
Their shares of total debt service in FY1983 are estimated at about 9
percent and 4 percent, respectively.
19.       Bank lending focussed on the construction of trunk roads, power
and telecommunications facilities until the late l9EOs, when its emphasis
shifted to agriculture and education. Since 1973, eleven credits totalling
US$208 million have supported agricultural production and marketing, and
some attracted co-financing or other complementary assistance. Credit
1088-ET of February 2, 1981, together with co-financing from Sweden and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development, is assisting the
agricultural minimum package program, which represents the core of the
Government's efforts to assist peasant agriculture. A recent credit
(Credit 1429-ET of March 23, 1984) is assisting the Government to increase
the country's foreign exchange earnings from coffee exports through
improvements to coffee processing and marketing.In addition, the last four
credits for roads have placed emphasis on meeting agricultural needs.
Since 1973, three credits totalling US$68 million have supported
educational development. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA
credits, and IFC investments.
20.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally satisfactory. Ethiopia's overall record
compares favorably with other countries in the Eastern Africa Region. In
recent years, security problems affected three of our agricultural
projects, but two of them eventually made satisfactory progress. Projects
sometimes suffer from management problems, but those in the highways and
education sectors particularly continue to have strong mana-poeaLt.
Financial problems, rising labor costs and occasional shortages of
construction materials have also detracted from efficient project
implementation on occasion. However, our experience has been that the
Government and the project managements have generally been successful in
resolving these problems. In addition, the economic and social reforms
introduced since 1974 necessitated structural and operational changes in a
number of projects. In some cases, the changes were beneficial and in
others detrimental. For example, the scope of the first Coffee Processing
Project was widened as a result of the land reform and the take-over of
washing stations, whereas the Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project
experienced production losses following the take-over of some farms by
peasant associations.
21.       Ethiopia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has also been reasonably satisfactory. The ratio of
disbursements to undisbursed funds in Ethiopia over the past five years was
about equal to the Bank-wide average and above the average for the Eastern
Africa Region.



22.       We propose to continue to assist the Government to devise and
implement policies and programs to improve the efficiency of both the
public and private sectors, to improve the macroeconomic framework for
resource mobilization and allocation, and to increase production and
expo-ts. In our economic and sector work, we have been carrying out
studies of the agricultural sector, including a joint study with the
Government on farmers' incentives and marketing efficiency, and also
studies of the energy, industry, education, and health and nutrition
sectors. In our lending work, we plan to continue emphasizing the
productive sectors and essential infrastructure to help address the
country's capacity constraints and deteriorating terms of trade. A second
road sector project and a second coffee processing and marketing project
were approved in FY1984, and a sixth telecommunications project was
approved in July 1984. A sixth education project has been negotiated and
will support the Government's efforts to improve the quality, quantity and
relevance of the country's education programs. A technical assistance
project to help strengthen the Government's macroeconomic planning
capabilities has also been negotiated. In addition, a third power project
is being prepared to help develop domestic energy resources to meet the
needs of Ethiopia's growing economy, and a peasant agricultural development
project to help increase the productivity and incomes of small farmers. We
are making concerted efforts to arrange co-financing for proposed projects.
Compensation
23.       In recent years, the Government has made good progress in
resolving compensation claims for assets nationalized in 1975. Over half
of the claims by value have been settled. The Ethiopian Government has
negotiated a share-purchase agreement with IFC in respect of its shares in
the Metahara Sugar Company and in the Textile Mills of Dire Dawa. The
Government's Compensation Commission has settled with IFC's partner in
Metahara, a Dutch firm which had a large claim, and with IFC's major
partner in the Textile Mills, a Japanese company. A settlement with one of
IFC's smaller partners in the Textile Mills is in the process of being
accepted by the parties. The Commission has recently settled with a major
British claimant, and has made an offer to a major American claimant. The
Commission has also settled with five or more smaller German, Japanese and
American claimants, and has entered into negotiations with a number of
others. In addition, the Ethiopian Government and the Italian Government
have agreed on an arrangement to settle all Italian claims.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       Ethiopia is predominantly rural.  About 85 percent of the
population (about 28 million) live in rural areas and about 85 percent of
the total labor force is employed in agriculture. About half of GDP is
contributed by agriculture, and agricultural products comprise about 90
percent of Ethiopia's total exports. Crops account for about 80 percent of
of the gross value of agricultural production with livestock and livestock



products accounting for the remainder. Coffee is the most important export
crop:  it contributed about 60 percent of export earnings in 1981182.
Agricultural growth has been inadequate in the past decade. Since 1974/75,
production has grown at an average rate of about 1.8 percent annually while
the population has grown at about 2.5 percent annually. The sector has
therefore not been able to support economy-wide growth, to forestall
lncreases in consumer food prices , or to improve food supplies and reduce
malnutrition.
25_       About 5.5 million hectares in Ethiopia are being cultivated for
field crops including cereals (about 85 percent of the total), pulses
(about 12 percent), and oil crops (about 3 percent). The main cereals are
tef, maaze, sorghum, barley and wheat. Tef is the most widely sown and is
the preferred foodgrain in Ethiopia, but the potential for increasing
yields from tef is unknown because of the absence of research. However, it
grows well in poor soils and has generally good nutritional and storage
qualities. Significant potential exists for increasing the yields of the
other cereals. In addition, about one-half million hectares is cultivated
for coffee, about 50,000 hectares for cotton and about 20,000 hectares for
sugarcane. Cotton and sugarcane are grown mainly under Irrigation for
douestic consumption. Livestock also plays an important role in most
Ethiopian farms:  the country has the largest livestock population in
Africa, including about 27 million head of cattle. Smallholdings, most of
which are two hectares or less in size, account for about 95 percent of the
country's cultivated land and produce about the same proportion of total
agricultural production. But production methods are generally primitive.
State farms produce most of the rezainder of production and cooperative
farms less than one percent.
26.       Virtually all crop production and some 75 percent of livestock
production originate in Ethiopia's highlands which form a 50 million
hectare plateau at an altitude generally exceeding 1,500 meters. About
two-thirds of the highlands have rainfall over 800 mm and high potential
for agricultural production, but have widely varying topography. This area
currently supports about 70 percent of the population. The remainder of
the highlands has degenerated soils and lov rainfall. The rest of
Ethiopia consists of hot and dry lowlands populated by nomadic pastoralists
who practice little crop production.
27.       The Government attaches paramount importance to agricultural
development, and its primary economic objectlves are to increase the
production of foodgrains, mainly by smallholders, and to expand and
diversify export cron production by both suallholders and the state farms.
Increased smallholder production has been supported in recent years
primarily by increased application of fertilizers, improved seeds,
pesticides, farm implements and planting practices under an agricultural
minimum package program. The Association has assisted two projects in
support of the prJgram (Credit 416-ET of July 5, 1973 and Credit 1088-ET of
February 2, 1981). A mid-term review of the second project, however,
concluded that agricultural growth has been disappointing because of



- 10 -
unfavorable weather, inadequate producer pricing uargins, inefficient use
of agricultural field staff, poor liaison among agricultural institutions
in Ethiopia, and inadequate budgetary support. A revised program for
intensifying services to the peasant sector is now being prepared and is
referred to as the Peasant Agricultural Development Program (PADEP). In
addition, during the past two years, the Association has carried out
missions jointly with the Government to study farmers' iucentives and
marketing issues, and the Association is providing assistance under ongoing
projects for in-depth reviews of the livestock and highland rehabilitation
subsectors that are currently underway. To improve agricultural
performance, the Association is assisting the Government to address several
issues during the preparation of PADEP, including agricultural pricing and
marketing policies, input distribution mechanisms, agricultural extension
methods, and institutional arrangements. Output prices, for example, need
to be restructured to improve incentives to help speed the spread of
improved seeds and fertilizer, and restrictions on inter-regional movement
of grains need to be relaxed to encourage increased production aad marketed
surplus.
28.       In recent years the Government has been streamlining and
strengthening institutions in the agricultural sector. The Ministry of
Agriculture is responsible for smallholder production, soil and water
conservation, and forestry activities. It provides farmer extension
services, organizes and assists peasant associations and cooperatives, and
advises and assists farmers on livestock production and protection. The
Ministry of State Farms is responsible for developing and managing state
farms, and the Ministry of Domestic Trade is responsible for domestic
agricultural price regulation, licensing, market analysis, trade
regulation, and improving market infrastructure. Similar functions
relating to foreign markets are vested in the Ministry of Foreign trade.
The Agrlcultural Marketing Corporation markets cereals, oilseeds and pulses
purchased locally to stabilize prices and assure proper food distribution,
and procures and distributes fertilizer, seeds and pesticides to peasant
farmers under the minimum package program. The Ethiopian Seed Corporation
is responsible for implementing a national seed multiplication program.
The Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development has primary responsibility for
the coffee subsector, including improvement in coffee production,
harvesting, and processing. The principal entity for providing medium and
long-term finAncing for agricultural projects as well as short-term
production credit to peasant associations and cooperatives is the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank. The plans of the
Institutions are all subject to approval by the Central Planning Supreme
Council (CPSC).
29.       The Association has committed about US$173 million durir, the
last de.de to help finance nine agricultural projects in Ethiopia. Four
are still being implemented. The projects have focussed on peasant
agriculture (the minimum package program and other more intensive schemes),
drought-affected areas (forestry, soil and water conservation, and
settlement), export or industrial crops (coffee, livestock and irrigated
crops), and grain storage and marketing. Many of these projects attracted
other external donors in view of the importance of agriculture to the
economy as a whole. Project implementation has been generally satisfactory



- 11 -
and objectives largely met (para 20). The objectives of the Association's
assistance to the agricultural sector in Ethiopia are to increase the
production of domestic food primarily in the peasant sector, to improve the
financial and marketing conditions and the general economic environment for
agricultural development, and to increase foreign exchange earnings and
savings. Although the Government has not yet fully defined its program in
agriculture and rural development, its stated emphasis on the peasant
sector accords with our own assessment of priorities.
Agricultural Research
30.       Agriculture dominates the Ethiopian economy, but production
increases in recent years have been limited. The opportunities for
expanding productioa by increasing the area under cultivation are fast
diminishing, and therefore the Government's efforts to accelerate
production are being focussed on intensifying the cultivation of the
existing cropped area. For such intensification, several factors have to
be addressed, such as effective advisory, inputs, and marketing services
and adequate production incentives (para. 27). But suitable technology is
also a prerequisite for stimulating production increases and it must be
provided by research. In this respect, the proposed project will support
the Government's priority of improving research on the main food and export
crops of Ethiopia, with the objective of making a breakthrough in yield
levels that have shown little change in recent years (para. 43).
31.       Ethiopia's Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) is the
Government's principal agency for carrying out agricultural research. IAR
was established in 1966 and, in 1979, the Government also delegated
authority to IAR to coordinate all public agricultural research tn
Ethiopia, excluding research related to forestry, fisberies, and food
technology. In 1983, the Government amended IAR's reporting relationships
and made the Minister of Agriculture the chairman of its Board of
Directors, which comprises representation from the three agricultural
ainistries, the Relief and Rehabilitation Commission, the Central Planning
Supreme Council, and the Ethiopian Science and Technology Commission. This
change was designed to improve coordination between the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Institute, and to encourage closer working
relationships between research and extension activities.
32.       IAR has received much support from UNDP in the past. and it now
comprises a headquarters, seven research stations and 24 associated
substations serving the regions of Shewa, Sidamo, Kefa, Welega, Arsi, and
Tigrai.  It has a staff of about 1,800 permanent employees, of which about
145 are professionals (graduate and post-graduate), 210 are technical
staff, 200 are support staff, and the rest are laborers. Of the
professional staff, about 44 hold post-graduate degrees and about 35 are
currently abroad £or post-graduate training.  The number of professional
staff is insufficient (para. 39), but the number of technical staff is
adequate and would be increased with the growth in professional staff.
Half of the technical staff have junior college diplomas and the other half
are field staff who have received certificates or on-the-job training.



- 12 -
There is an adequate supply of graduates and diploma holders in Ethiopia to
meet IAR's future requirements for technical staff.
33.       IAR is headed by a General Manager who is assisted by a Deputy
General Manager. Reporting to them are officers-in-charge of research
stations, who are usually senior research workers, and the heads of
technical departments for field crops, horticulture, crop protection,
animal science, soil science, coffee, agricultural engineering and
socio-economics. Over 60 percent of the professional staff are employed in
research on field crops, horticulture and plant protection. Virtually all
research staff work at the research stations. For crops and horticulture
research, multi-disciplinary crop improvement teams were established in
1979, each headed by a team coordinator who reports to the head of either
the field crops department or the horticulture department. Staff for the
teams is allocated by the various technical departments. There are
currently five teams conducting research on cereals, two on pulses, two on
oil crops, four on horticulture, and one on coffee. The organizational
structure is satisfactory but steps will be taken under the proposed
project to strengthen the Institute's overall technical direction and
research station management (paras. 45 and 46).
34.       IAR has established strong links with international research
Institutes conducting work relevant to Ethiopia and which are members of
the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR).
These institutes provide germ plasm for crop screening and breeding
programs and Ethiopian researchers benefit from training programs offered
by the institutes. Scientists from the institutes visit Ethiopia
frequently and IAR participates in several important international trials.
35.       Proposals for lAR's research programs originate primarily within
IAR and are consolidated in a report prepared for consideration at an
annual conference attended by representatives from throughout the
agricultural industry. Following revisions to reflect the views received,
the report is reviewed again by IAR's Board. Final budgetary approval is
then sought from the CPSC. Each research subproject is planned on a
three-year basis and is reviewed annually. The program planning process,
however, is in need of strengthening to ensure that the needs of the
agencies utilizing the research are adequately addressed, and steps will be
taken under the proposed project towards this objective (paras. 52 and 63).
36.       In 1982/83, IAR received a budget allocation of about US$6.6
million equivalent, of which about US$5.3 million was met from domestic
resources and the remainder from external sources, primarily UNDP and the
International Development Research Center (IDRC). The total budget
represented about 0.34 percent of the 1981/82 agricultural GDP, and is
below the 1985 target of 0.5 percent suggested by the UN World Food
Conference for developing countries, and also below that allocated for
research by several other countries in Eastern Africa.
37.       IAR has achieved a number of successes since its establishment.
It has identified strains of coffee bushes resistant to coffee berry
disease, which are being distributed on a large scale and are helping to
control this serious disease. IAR has also found controls for many other



- 13 -
economically important plant diseases and pests through plant protection
research. Livestock and forage and pasture research have also produced
useful results. A detailed screening program of local and imported field
crop strains has been carried out as well as substantial crop agronomy
research. Crop breeding programs are of recent origin but a number of new
wheat, maize, sorghum and malting barley varieties have already been shown
to outyield local entries during national trials. In general, however,
crop research has not contributed much in recent years in terms of new
varieties or practices that were an improvement on older recommendations.
To achieve more productive results, IAR has introduced plant breeding into
its research efforts to help overcome local ecological, pest and disease
problems, and has also established multi-disciplinary crop research teams.
38.       A number of constraints, however, continue to hamper the research
effort and, in recent years, the pace of research work has lagged behind
that needed to support the minimum package program and the proposed peasant
agricultural development program. Wheat and barley research, for example,
lack plant pathology facilities and expertise, and barley and highland
pulses have weak breeding programs. The existing sorghum improvement
program requires rehabilitation, and tef research needs substantial
strengthening. The economic analysis of various research recommendations
also requires strengthening to promote their adoption by Ethiopian
farmers. The proposed project will help to address the constraints and to
expand research in high priority areas (paras. 46 and 50).
39.       Insufficient numbers of qualified professional staff, partly a
result of inadequate incentives, and inadequate equipment and vehicles,
have led to the stagnation in research efforts, and have particularly
constrained IAR's ability to carry out adaptive trial work in farmers'
fields, off-station ecological testing of research results, and off-station
investigations into local problems. All crop teams lack depth of qualified
staff and their work is often seriously hazpered when team members leave
for further training. The overall direction of the research effort, as
well as the dissemination and application of research findings and
recommendations, have also been unsatisfactory primarily because of weak
linkages between IAR and the Ministry of Agriculture at both the managerial
level and the field level. The recent establishment of the Minister of
Agriculture as the Chairman of IAR's Board (para. 31) will improve linkages
particularly at the managerial level. Steps also will be taken under the
proposed project to improve linkages at the field level (paras. 50 and 52).
40.       Other important agencies conducting agricultural research in
Ethiopia include the University of Addis Ababa, the Hinistry of State
Farms, the Arsi Rural Development Unit and the Ministry of Agriculture.
Their work is coordinated through representation at the annual research
conference (para. 35) and through collaboration with IAR. The University
has research facilities at Alem Maya in the Harerge Region, Debre Zeyit in
Shewa Region, and Awasa in Sidamo Region. The first two stations form part
of the national research station network, and staff from all three stations
collaborate with and form part of IAR crop research teams. In recent years
this collaboration has weakened, and steps will be taken under the proposed
project to renew the linkages between IAR and the University (para. 51).



- 14 -
The Ministry of State Farms employs 40 research staff and has a strong
horticultural program which complements IAR work. The Arsi Unit operates a
large main station, eight substations, and numerous testing plots. The
Ministry of Agriculture conducts widespread adap'ive trials and
demonstrations on its own and farmers' plots. In addition, a plant genetic
resources center and a scientific phytopathological laboratory are linked
to IAR. The center is assisted by the Federal Republic of Germany and the
laboratory by the Soviet Union.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       A report entitled -Ethiopia - Agricultural Research Project;
Staff Appraisal Report-, No. 4397a-ET dated August 8, 1984, is being
distributed separately. The proposed project was prepared by the Ethiopian
Government with the assistance of the FAOIBank Cooperative Program. The
project was appraised in June/July 1983, and post-appraised in December
1983. Negotiations were held in Washington from May 21 to 31, 1984. The
Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Bekele Tamirat, Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Finance, and included Ato Gebre Hariam Shekue, Acting General
Manager, IAR.
Project Rationale, Objectives, and Description
42.       Ethiopia's many varied environmental and climatic conditions
dictate the need for a high priority to be placed on agricultural
research. A research effort that delivers practical results to
smallholders in such a way that they can translate them into increased
production and/or profit is a prerequisite for effective agricultural
development in Ethiopia. Within Ethiopia there is a need for a greatly
expanded program of coordinated applied research, both to increase yields
and production, and to help diversify the country's exports away from
coffee. The varying ecological conditions in often inaccessible areas pose
a complex set of research problems. Despite considerable agricultural
research already underway, research efforts need to be expanded, the
coordination of research activities and their linkages to extension work
need to be strengthened, and research priorities and strategies must be
adjusted to focus on the most urgent national needs. In general, stronger
efforts are needed to develop improved smallholder packages including tef
and other food crops, both for rural subsistence and for marketed food
production, as well as export crops and varieties that could be grown
profitably by smallholders. Our proposed support for agricultural research
accords with our overall strategy to assist the Government to increase
production in the agricultural sector, which accounts for the bulk of
production and employment in Ethiopia and offers the most opportunity for
generating further economy-vide growth.
43.       The proposed project will help to improve the quality of research
staff, rehabilitate existing research facilities, and provide the necessary
technology and additional facilities to strengthen research efforts to
identify improved input packages suitable for smallholders and adaptable to



- 15 -
varying farming conditions. The project will complement the proposed
peasant agricultural development program which will strengthen agricultural
extension work and thereby the capacity to impart the findings of the
research to the farmers. The project will build upon past achievements and
address existing constraints to an expanded research program. In
particular, over five years the project will: (i) strengthen field crop and
coffee research and establish competent and dynamic crop research teams;
(ii) strengthen irrigation/salinity research and animal husbandry and
pasture research; (iii) improve adaptive research so that research station
findings can be translated into messages suitable for farmers; (iv)
rehabilitate plant and equiDment to ensure the proper functioning of
research statioas; (v) improve headquarters support services to the
stations; and (vi) provide technical assistance and strengthen training
programs. The focus on field crops and coffee in high potential farming
areas offers opportunities for quicker returns than would be obtainable
from research in other subsectors. Increased crop production in these
areas would help to stimulate economy-wide growth and to generate surplus
food to cope with frequent shortages in drought-prone areas. Subsequently,
the research focus could broaden to include other subsectors. The proposed
project, however, also includes a component for both sheep and pasture
improvement which have been identified as priority gaps in livestock
research.
Project Implementation
44.       The Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) will have overall
responsibility for project implementation. IAR will implement all
components of the project except for the strengthening of post-graduate
training at Alem Maya College and the research at the Debre Zeyit and Alem
Maya research stations (para. 51). These componenLs will be implemented by
the University of Addis Ababa under terms and conditions agreed with IAR
(para. 51). IAR will also provide technical assistance, training, and
incremental staff for the Debre Zeyit research and any necessary assistance
to the University for procurement and the design and supervision of civil
works.
45.       A technical advisory committee has been established comprising
senior technical representatives of the four user agencies (the three
agricultural ministries and the Relief and Rehabilitation Commission), the
main collaborating research agencies, and IAR. The committee will advise
the IAR Board on the research needs of each agency, will evaluate research
proposals and will help plan collaboration by other reaearch agencies in
the national research program (Section 3.08, draft Development Credit
Agreement). IAR will continue to employ a project manager and a deputy
manager to be responsible for project implementation. They will provide
assistance to the Board in technical planning and in evaluation of research
programs, and technical guidance to research staff in the field. IAR will
also employ a senior engineer to strengthen its construction department.
The appointments of n:hese three senior staff members will be satisfactory
to the Association (Section 3.02 (b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Research station management will be strengthened also through training
programs-In addition, IAR will employ civil works consultants in accordance
with Bank Group guldelines to help supervise IAR's construction program



- 16 -
(about 60 staff months) (Section 3.02(a) (ii) and Schedule 1, para. 4,
draft Development Credit Agreement). The appointment of the consultants
will be a condition for disbursement (para. 60).
Detailed Features of the Project
(a) Field Crop Research
46.       Research on wheat, barley, sorghum, maize, tef and pulses at IAR
research stations will be strengthened through: (i) technical assistance
(about 21 staff-years) to be obtained primarily from international research
institutes; (ii) post-graduate degree training (about 37 staff-years) and
other short-term training at international research institutes and
workshops; (iii) the construction of laboratories and associated
facilities and the provision of equipment and vehicles. Except for a
biometrics specialist, IAR will employ all long-term consultants for the
technical assistance by June 30, 1985 (Section 3.02(a), draft Development
Credit Agreement). The project will also finance incremental staff
salaries and operating costs of the research stations, although on a
declining basis (para. 60). IAR has drawn up a plan and a timetable for
the training programs satisfactory to the Association, and will vise its
best efforts to make arrangements for the placing of candidates for higher
degree fellowships not later than March 31, 1985 (Section 3.07, draft
Development Agreement). FAO is expected to assist IAR in implementing the
training component.
(b) Coffee Research
47.       Coffee research will be strengthened at IAR stations by
constructing additional laboratory and greenhouse facilities, by providing
related equipment and vehicles for physiology, entomology, liquoring and
soils investigations, and by providing technical assistance (about eight
staff-months) to classify the taxonomy of Ethiopia's many strains of
coffee.
(c) Irrigacion/Salinity Research
48.       A laboratory will be constructed and equipped at IAR's Melkawerer
station to investigate potentially serious salinity and alkalinity problems
that have been emerging in some irrigated areas in the dry lowlands of
Ethiopia where sugar and cotton are grown.
(d) Animal Husbandry and Fodder/Forage Research
49.       Technical assistance (about four staff-years) and training, and
equipment and vehicles will be provided to initiete sheep research and to
strengthen fodder and forage research at IAR stations. The sheep research
vill focus on increasing meat production from seasonal breeding, improving
animal health through better husbandry practices, and selecting superior
animal strains. The fodder and forage research will help to increase
animal products for either consumption or sale and to improve animal draft
power for crop production. IAR will collaborate with the International
Livestock Center in Africa (ILCA) in carrying out this research.



- 17 -
(e) rarming Systems Research
50.       Three multi-disciplinary teams will be established to investigate
existing farming systems in terms of natural resources, farming activities,
and socio-economic factors. Depending upon the specific research task,
each team could include, inter alia, a farm management economist, an
agronomist, a livestock specialist, and an extension subject matter
specialist, some of whom will be provided by the Ministry of Agriculture.
The Government will establish the teams with staff and responsibilities
acceptable to the Association. The first team will be established by June
30, 1985 and the remaining two by June 30, 1986 (Section 3.02 (d), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The research will help to determine how
farming practices can be improved and what further research may be
necessary to resolve various farming problems. The project will finance
technical assistance (about 48 staff-months), support staff, vehicles and
equipment, and training for this purpose. Both ILCA and the International
Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) are expected to assist IAR in
implementing this component of the project.
Cg) Alem Maya College
51.       The University of Addis Ababa's Alem Maya College is Ethiopia's
primary agricultural college, and is the only institution offering
agricultural degrees and post-graduate training in Ethiopia. The College
also operates an agricultural research station in the important Harerge
Region, where IAR does not have a research station, and a crop research
station at Debre Zeyit. The project will strengthen the College's capacity
for post-graduate degree training of IAR staff by constructing additional
laboratory and classroom space, by providing related equipment and
vehicles, and by providing technical assistance (about twelve
staff-months). The University h&3 prepared a detailed plan, satisfactory
to the Association, for strengthening the College. The project will also
finance support staff and facilities to strengthen the College's research
station in Harerge, which is an important testing site for IAR crop
research. IAR and the University will enter into an agreement for the
carrying out of research at Debre Zeyit and for the strengthening of the
crop testing program carried out at the Alem Maya College station in
Harerge. The terms and conditions of this agreement will be satisfactory
to the Association and will include research work programs for the two
stations (Section 3.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Association's approval of this agreement will be a condition for
disbursement of IDA funds for the Debre Zeyit station and the Alem Maya
College research station (para. 60.)
Research/Extension Linkages
52.       Facilities and staff will be provided to establish
research/extension liaison teams at six IAR research stations to be
responsible for multilocational testing, coordination of farm trials, and
formulation of extension recommendations. Each team will be headed by a
research/extension officer who will organize monthly workshops for IAR and
Ministry of Agriculture staff in the area of influence of the station. The



- 18 -
workshops will be designed to disseminate information, provide training,
and reviev farming problems. The coordinator vill also develop proposals
for, and assist in establishing, joint activities and field trials. IAR
will establish three of the teams by December 31, 1984 and the remaining
three teams by December 31, 1985 (Section 3.02(c), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
(i) IAR Headquarters Services
53.       IAR's library will be expanded and reorganized, its publications
unit strengthened through the provision of printing and audio-visual
equipment, and a biometrics unit established and equipped. The biometrics
unit will also be provided with consultant services (about 30
staff-months), a mini-computer, and training to assist its establishment.
IAR's plann'ug unit and project implementation capability will also be
strengthened through the provision of additional staff, training, office
equipment, and vehicles.
Cost Estimates and Financing
54.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$32.0 million,
including taxes and duties of about US$2.3 million. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$19.4 million, or 65 percent of the total
project cost, net of taxes and duties, of US$29.7 million. A detailed
breakdown of costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
55.       The cost estimates are based on July 1983 prices adjusted to
May 1984, and have been derived from recent quotations and appraisal
estimates. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been applied to civil
works. Price contingencies total 28.3 percent of the base cost plus
physical contingencies. For foreign costs, excluding the costs of civil
works, the price contingencies have been estimated at 3.5 percent for 1984,
8 percent for 1985, 9 percent for 1986-88, 7.5 percent for 1989 and 6
percent for 1990. For civil works, price contingencies for foreign costs
have been estimated at 10 percent annually. For local costs, price
contingencies have been estimated at 9 percent annually.
56.       An advance of US$300,000 from the Project Preparation Facility
has been approved to help expedite project start-up, and is being used to
finance consultants' services to prepare site plans, designs, and tender
documents, to assist in prequalification of contractors, and to construct
six houses at the research stations for research consultants.
57.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 21.1 million (US$22.0 million
equivalent) will finance about 74 percent of the total project cost, net of
taxes and duties, including the foreign exchange costs and about US$2.6
million equivalent (25 percent) of the local costs. The Government will
finance USS7.7 million equivalent of the local costs, plus taxes and
duties. In addition, the Government will need to fund additional IAR staff
and operating costs after the project has been completed. In the final
year of the project, these are estimated to total about US$1.9 million
equivalent, an increase of about 30 percent over IAR's budget for 1982/83.



- 19 -
The financing of local costs by the Association is justified in view of the
country's poverty and low level of savings (para. 16), and its generally
efficient use of resources in implementing and operating project
investments. Additional justification is provided by the substantial
recurrent costs which the Government will have to meet.
58.       The Government will make available as grants about US$21.5
million of the IDA credit to IAR and about US$500,000 to the University of
Addis Ababa (Section 3.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement). The
University will use the IDA proceeds to help expand agricultural
post-graduate training at Alem Maya College. IAR will also make available
to the University, as a grant, about US$ 1.7 million of the proceeds of the
IDA credit to carry out research at its Debre Zeyit station and to
strengthen the crop testing program at its Alem Maya College station.
(Section 3.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       Contracts for civil works aggregating about US$2.4 million
equivalent will be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Small civil works
contracts totalling about US$4.0 million will be procured through local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association and in which
foreign contractors may participate. Contracts for the supply of vehicles
and equipment, totalling about US$6.8 million, will be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. The items will be aggregated to the extent practicable in
order to attract major suppliers. All contracts for equipment and vehicles
valued above $100,000 will be procured through international competitive
bidding.   Small contracts for furniture and equipment totalling about
US$400,000 will be procured through local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Association and in which foreign contractors may
participate. Minor items such as spare parts and specific scientific
instruments aggregating about US$300,000 may be procured by limited
international tender. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$20,000 each, and aggregating not more than US$300,000, may be purchased
by prudent shopping after at least three price quotations have been
obtained. Consultant services totalling about US$7.7 million will be
procured in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, and will have
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. When international competitive bidding is used, domestic
manufacturers will be allowed a preference of 15 percent, or the existing
rate of customs duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of
competing foreign suppliers. In addition, local civil works contractors
will be allowed a preferential margin of 7i percent over bid prices of
competing foreign contractors.
60.       The Association will disburse against: (i) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures for civil works; (ii) 100
percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures for
items procured locally (ex-factory cost) and 60 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured locally, for vehicles, equipment,
spare parts and chemicals; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80



- 20 -
percent of local expenditures for training; (iv) 80 percent of local
expenditures for services of consultants domiciled in Ethiopia and 100
percent of foreign expenditures for services of other consultants; and (v)
60 percent of total expenditures for incremental staff salaries and
operating costs up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million in costs,
declining to 40 percent of total expenditures for the next US$2.0 million
in costs, and to 20 percent for the remaining costs. No disbursements will
be made for: (i) the Debre Zeyit station and the Alem Maya College station,
until the agreement between IAR and the University for research work at
these stations has been approved by the Association; (ii) IAR's
construction program, until architectural consultants, satisfactory to the
Association, have been employed to supervise the program (Schedule 1,
para. 4, draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Disbursements for civil works, vehicles, equipment, chemicals,
training and consultant services will be fully documented. Disbursements
for incremental staff salaries and operating costs and for goods and
services contracts valued below US$10,000 equivalent will be made against
statements of expenditure with documentation retained for inspection by IDA
missions. An audit report on these documents will be submitted to the
Association within six months of the end of each fiscal year. On the basis
of the project implementation schedule and general IDA disbursement
experience on agricultural projects in Eastern Africa, disbursements are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.
62.       To facilitate timely disbursements, the Government will open a
Special Account in the National Bank of Ethiopia on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. The Association, at the request of the
Government, will deposit into the account an initial sum of US$500,000
equivalent which will be used to advance IDA disbursements in respect of
eligible expenditures under the project. The account will be replenished
by the Association on the basis of documentation evidencing the eligible
expenditures (Section 2.02(c) and Schedule 4, draft Development Credit
Agreement). The opening of the special account will be a condition for
effectiveness (Section 6.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation of Research
63.       The existing research planning and monitoring process (para. 35)
will be strengthened by the addition of the technical committee to advise
IAR's management and Board (para. 45), the multi-disciplinary teams for
farming systems research (para. 50), and the research/extension liaison
units (para. 52). In addition, IAR will furnish to the Association: (i)
by March 31 of each year, a preliminary report, for comment, on its planned
research program for the next crop year; and (ii) by July 31 of each year,
the final research program for the next crop year (Sections 3.05 (a) and
(b), draft Development Credit agreement).



- 21 -
Accounts and Audits
64.       Project accounts will be maintained by IAR and the University of
Addis Ababa with separate accounts for project expenditures. IAR's full
accounts up to and including fiscal year 1984 will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and then submitted to
the Association by April 30, 1986. Thereafter, the full accounts of IAR
will be audited and submitted to the Association not later than nine months
after the end of FY1985 and not later than six months after the end of each
subsequent fiscal year (Section 4.01(d) (iv), draft Development Credit
Agreement). The project accounts of the University will also be audited
and submitted to the Association not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year (Section 4.01(b)(iv), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Environmental Impact
65.       The project will have a purely beneficial impact on the
environment. The research components are expected to lead to greater
agricultural productivity and improved utilization of land. The research
component on salinity, in particular, will test alternative methods of
preventing salinity from harming irrigated land and also methods of
rehabilitating areas having salinity or alkalinity problems.
Benefits and Justification
66.       The project will strongly support the Government's efforts to
raise agricultural productivity through the development and use of improved
technology. The main beneficiaries of the project will be approximately
seven million peasant farmers in Ethiopia whose average per capita income
is well below the poverty threshhold estimated at about US$120 per capita
per annum. The project will focus on the development of improved
technology for both food and export crops, and the application of that
technology towards raising the productivity and incomes of smallholders.
Increased crop production would help to stimulate economy-wide growth and
also to generate surplus food to cope with Ethiopia's frequent droughts.
The project will strengthen the primary institutions carrying out
agricultural research, improve the focus and quality of research, expand
research programs, and improve the delivery of research messages to
farmers.
67.       Benefits cannot be quantified accurately because of the
difficulty in forecasting the degree of success or failure of research
programs, and in separating the relative impact of extension and inputs on



- 22 -
increased production.  Based on experience gained from other countries,
however, only a one percent increase in crop production in Ethiopia after
five years as a result of the project would be required to produce an
economic rate of return of about 25 percent.
68.       The project mainly faces risks of delays in project
implementation, of disappointing research results, and of diversions of
research efforts away from priority subject areas. To help minimize these
risks and to recognize potential problems early, the project provides for
substantial technical assistance to strengthen and assist the implementing
agencies, collaboration between the agencies and international research
institutes, improvements to planning mechanisms, and a monitoring and
evaluation program. There is also a risk of potential IAR staff losses to
other employment, but this risk is not considered abnormally high for this
type of project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of the Association, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
listed in Section III of Annex III to this report.
71.       No disbursements will be made for:
(i) the Debre Zeyit research station and the Alem Maya College
research station until an agreement for these components
between IAR and the University of Addis Ababa has been
approved by the Association (Schedule 1, draft Development
Credit Agreement); and
(ii) IAR's construction program until IAR has employed civil works
consultants, satisfactory to the Association, to supervise
the program (Schedule 1, draft Development Credit Agreement).
72.       The opening of a Special Account by the Government under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association will be an additional
condition for effectiveness (Section 6.01, draft Development Credit
Agreement).



- 23 -
73.       1 am satisfied that the proposed credit vill comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI -_EC      DATON
74.       I reconmend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August L5, 1984



- 24 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
ETHIOPIA               - SOCIAL INDICATRS DATA  T
ETHIOPIA                             R S  Q   CGROUPS (E ICE IED A1A;AES) In
UOST                    (MOST RECEr ESTUqATE) lb
REcErT         LOJ tUCM  APRICA          MIDDQ IC
:Sbdb      197aLj   ETATE/b           SOCSN or SAIAUA      ARICA S. OF SAMARA
A CDA  So- M)
IOTAL                               1221.9      1221.9   1221.9
AQICI:-TtMtAL                        5746.9      S91.5    S93.1
_w __    CAPT  (I)                       30.0        60.0    :40.0                    1_             9_1 :112.9
~T~PI6m  cCAPIT
(KrEWC tS Of OtL FQt7::VALEV)          l.0        23.0     24.0               62.0                     29*O
roIU.ATI  Am vITAL STATISTICS
PiPLATIOS.!I--EAR (TUL'SADSO)    20093.0    2S4S0.0  32933.0
CKW3% P-rCPArION CZ OF TOTAL)          ,_          9.7      14.1              19.2                      29.1
PO:LATIOH PrOJCaLM S
P0P1.ATIOY 11 NEAR 2C00 (1tZLL)                           57.3
SArTIOIRI VOPTLATIOS ("ILL)                              230.S                  .
PuJP:LAT,1(A NIPE3a'L                                      1.9-
,KPLA:IO2 DOeSTn
PER  _. i.                          1.%4        20._      26.2              32.3                      5 .8
me S.J. 131 AQI. LAW                35.0        43.0      53.9             119-2                     111.5
POPLLATIOR ACE SIRUCTULE (I}
0-I1 ThS                           31-t        446       45.1               5'..                     43.4
15-6  Yf6S                          51.5        52.6      52.3              51.5                      51.7
SS ASO ASV                           2_6         2.6       2.S               2.9                       Z.9
?OQtLATIOt  Q06-I RATE (Z)
TO0AL                                2_1         2.4       2.1               2_6                       2.8
0636                                 3.5         6.5      5_36       S _ 2                             3.2
C.t   BIRIT RA.TE (PER THOES)         50_6        '9.9      47.2              48.6                      47.0
CRl0E YATH RATE (PER ToCS)            2S.3        25.7     1U.1               17.7                      15.2
CHOSS REP6O00TILON RATE                3.3         3.3       3.3               3.2                       3.2
FAMILY PLASNTSc
& .CEPIS ASL (TN76  -S __                         _
;ss (: or F     CAIED  -)                         ..       ..                 ..
9006D AM InrZTEKIO
1SNE or PC:D "1M0. PER CAPITA
(19b9-71-.00)                        103.0       101.0      *2.0 Ic           35-.
PR CArI.A  1L7LY oF
CALItIES CL OF RI4C1EMZNTS)         91.0        67.0      76.0               6.4                      96*.2
P=ROEINS (CRAMS  K2 DAY)            72.0       49.0       ".0               49.9                      36.7
OF hu IC" ARRAL ^lu POLSE         29.0        23.0      22.G le           18.3                      17.0
01L. (AGES 1-4) DEATh RATE            42.0        33.0     25.0               23.6                      16.1
LIFE EXPCT. AT Blrt (TEAMS)          36.5       41.0      44.6               46.'                      51.7
INFAW   MORT. MATZ (MR TM00S)        172.0      151.0    122.0               117_5                     102.1
ACESS To SAVE WAR  ( rOO?)
-OTAL                                            6.0       6.0 /a           2t.6                      353.
4                                     ._         ._       32.0 /-           61.5                      54.1
RLWAL                                             - -      2_0 oT           14.2                      27.3
ARSS TO ECJTA DISroSAL
(ZOF POPUtAT10W)
TOTAL                                           14.0      14.0 If           32.0                        .-
035                                   ..        67.0      56.0 /f           69.2
RAL                                   .          6.0        _07T            24.8                         -
POPLLATO MA PUnSICIAs             100470.0    73740 0   5 6J96 0 /  1/    27477.6                    119&6.3
POF. rU  NZ$10 PERSON1             14920.0    7130.0   54"0.o7              3396.2                    2248.9
For. MR HOSPTVAL aD
TOTAL                             3000.0      3060.0  3I6O0_0             1069.0                     966.9
LIR6A                              220.0       390.0    790.0 I1           395.2                     344.7
RURAL                                  _    15960. 0   10is0.07-          3094.0                    4012.1
AMISS IONS rEA HOSPITAL RED             ..       10.6         .
AlERAcE SIE oF RSOrSLD
TOTAL                                 ..         4.3
tR:A                                 3.5         4.2
RURAL                                 ..  4.5
AWERAZ Do. OF PE3SOMS/ROom
TOMAL                                       ..         ..
1:36                                 2.           ..        _
RAL                                   ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OP UMLLcs)
TOTAL                                                                                                   * -
1Ams                                56.2 lb                --
RURAL                                 ..          ..



- 25 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
E;IoInA                - SOCIAL  ILUADI DATA SWET
ETHIOPIA                             3EIK-ENcL GROZPS (UK1OItZD AUEM=) /I
MOST                    CHOST RiOT ESrTMATE) /b
R    r           LOW INOE AFLICA         M        ItCOE
1i95       1970fo  ESTItPATL.b        SOU   oF SASARA     AFRICA s. OF SAHARA
ADJ!STED E30LLUIir RArIOS
P3-LARY:  TOTAL                       7.0        16.0     £6.0  1            69.2                      91_0
MALE                     11_0        23.0      60b0               78.8                      90.5
FLJILE                     3.0        10.0      33-0              57.6                      73.6
SECOsnAIT: TOTAL                     0.4         *.0      12-0               13.1                      17.6
ItALE                      1.0         6.0      16.0              17.6                      23.7
FEMALE                    0.1          2.0      8.0                8.3                      14-.
'.CA10MAL (C OF SECOSDARY)           20.3         6.5         .                7.2                       5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRJUIY                              37.0        68.0      63.0               *6.1                      38.6
SECOSQAZY                           :3.0        28.0      "60                25.9                      24.3
A0CLa L=EACY  ZE (Z)                    ._        12.e      53-0 61/             .3                      35.6
PASSEZ CARS/THOCSAXD POP               0.8          1.6       1_B I.            3.8                      20.7
R*ADflIO ECEQrERS/THOCSA    PDP        6.9         6.3       8_0               61.9                     100.6
fl 3EEIfERSISTHOSASS  POP               --          0.3       1.0               2.0                      18.5
SF-dSPAP  (DAILY GESRAAL
tSTEREST-) CIROC.tAToS
PER TH0CDA0 POPCIATIOD               2-1          1.1      1.7  .             5.4                      17.2
C1iQA ASKAL ATTEA-CE/CAPITA                                    -                1.                        0.3
TOTAL LAW& FORt /CmOS)              8975.0      10957.0  13523.0
FERAIZ (PEREST)                     35.7        35.2      33-2               36.5                      33._
AGRIC=1L.    (PEXCET                86.0        86.0      00.0               77.4                      57.1
TSDiS  (PfERCE;r)                   5.0         6.0       7.0                9.8                      17.6
?ARf-CIPAo10% LATE (PERCENT)
=,AL                                J467        43.1      *1.1               *1.0                      36.3
HALT                                58.6        56.9      54.3               52.1                      67.6
FEMALE                              31.3        29.7      27.6               30.2
EC=cnC DEPEL5CY RATIO                  1.0        1_1       1.2                1.2                       1.4
too    DZS~TELWaT
PlERS?% OF PRIVAME IJCOIK
RECKITIS By
,umR S  52 or .ozWs .v
IG;EST 25S 0W  UZUS                   _.          ..        ......
L06ST 20 OF EOCENOLDS
LOWEST 60Z OF SOCSOLDS
ESTDMTED ABSOLOTE POVERTY ISCOMK
LEV. CUSS PER CAPITA)
GM"                                                      190.0              168.3                     525.'
RVAL                                   .     .            65.0 to            90.8                    Z29.0
L=DIATED mTZVz POVESY  ICOM
LEZL (USS PMR CAPITA)
L                                      .JA                77.0 /a           107.7                     677.4
AL                                    ..          ..      37_0 7w            65.0                     186.0
ZSTDAME   POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVErTy ISCOIm LEVEL C()
UBAN                                  .                   60.0 I4            34.7
Rm"L                                  _.           .      65.0 7;            65.4
SW AVAILAE.E
OTr APPLICABL
r O       SC 
/a   he ,group awragas for each Indcator Sr pepulatioR-Mghbtsd artl_Ctc _o.  Cora   of coustrle. a  g the
indcator. depend on aaI-blity of data ad L. not maor.
fb  Unleo otbhrwise noted. -ta for 1960  refer to any year betwee  l59 and  1961; -Data for 1970- betwee  1969 and
1971; ed data for RIedt R1cant btlit - between 1180  Wd 1962.
/c  FAD data differ somewat from    -sts y of Agricultwr  data;  d 197; L. 1976; If  1975; L&  1978; nb Addle
Aabs only;  1 Agso 10  a    d ow;            79.
- Estimates differ from those in the text of the report since the Latter
refLect the findings of the Latest economic mission.
JUN. 1966



fll 11i                             P1                                                                                                                                          I                                                 O
1-h i                                                                                                                                                                                                             It    )I
II S
x                                                                  t                                                                                    4P
tu
cni                                                                                                                                                                                            t       i-
dc  IL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t
-1.1    .06                                                                          '81-
a                                                                                      I EA              .14I 1
is
I J
SI
r
1 1    74,
jj
SS
S S I
tiq%.:                                           Sl
1%r
Jt
tr



- 27 -
- 27  -                      ~~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
Econom1c Indccators
Annual Rate of Crowth of CDP
Gross X-tlonal Product In FY 1983 I/                                  at Constant Factor Coat (:)
USS Mln      2                         1977-81    1981    1982    1983
CDP at Itarket Prices            4731.3      100.0                         3.2        3.0     1.5      4.2
Investment                        497.3       10.5
Cross Domestic Savings             87.4        1.8
Resourc  B alance                -409.9        8.7
Export of Goods and %TS           551.7       11_7
Import of Goods and  FS           961.5       20.3
Output in FY1983 I/
Value Added
GSS Mln         2
Agriculture          2068.1        48.4
Industry              668.7        15.7
Services             1535.2        35.9
4- 2T2 0.O  IOOTo
Government Finance                     Central Governamat
(Bratln)           S of CDP
FY 19__ __   FT 1983      F71980-82
Current Recepita                     1980.6         20.2          19.3
Current Expenditures                 2186.7         22.3          18.5
Current Surplus                      -206.1         -2.1           0.8
CaoizaL Expenditures                 1127.2         11.5           5.3
!!2my Credt and Prices
(FS-cal Ysears)    -                               1979       1980      1981       1982       1983 '/
(Million Br. outstandiug end of period)
money and quasi-money                             2063.6    2332.1    2377.6    2643.7    3040.4
Bonk Credit to Central Government                  862.3      968.1    1107.9    1180.9    1979.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Financial Institutiona                          1222.7    1644.2    1721.8    1944.2    1741.4
(Percentages or Index Nutmbers)
Money as : of CDP                                   25.8       27.4       26.9      28.8       31.0
Anrual percentage changes in:
GCeral Price Index                                 12.9       12.5        1.9       7.3        3.8
lank Credit to Public Sector                       12.5       12.3       14..       6.6       67.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                      34.1       34.5       4.7       12.9     -10.4
Note:  All conversIons to dollars ln this table are at the average exchange rate during the period
covered.
All Fiscal Years are from July 8 to July 7.
if     Provslional Data for 1983.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BalanCe of P      ts
(Fiscal Yeasnt                             1981      1982     19B3 1/        Merchandise Exports
(Nllion USS5)                   (Flscal Year Average 1981-83)
USS ?ln.
Exports of Goods, NFS                      554.8    519.9    551.7           Coffee              241.4        61.0
Imports of Goods, NTS                      793.4    881.3    961.5           Pulses                13.3        3.4
Resource Cap (deficit - -7 -238.6  -361.4  -409.8                            Otlseeds              10.2        2.6
Rides & Skins        43.1        10.9
Investment Income (net)                     -6.5      -2.3     -2.1          Oilseed cake          3-4         3.9
Private Transfers (net)                     24.7      45.3     84.9          Other                84.5        21.3
Balance on Current Acct.                  -22C .        -318.   -327.0       Total               395.9       100 9
Official Transfers (nect)                   59.9      67.6    115.5          External Debt. June 30 1983  1/
Private MLT Capital (ner)                    0.0       0.0      0.0                                     USS ;;an
Public MLT Borrowing (net)                 110.4    245.4    181.6
Disbursements                           (132.S)  (278.0)  (225.8)
Amortization                             (22. 1)   (32.6)   (44.3)         Total outstanding &
Short-term Capital                          -6.0      18.9     -9.5            Disbursed                 1115.0
Change In reserves                                                           Debt Service Ratio for PY1983 1/
I-- Increase)                              59.7   -57.7       71.8
Minor Itemo
(£ncl_ errors)                             -3.6     44.2   -32.4            Total Outstanding &        11.0
Net Foreign Assets                                                             Disbursed
(end year)                                118.6    178.6    107.3
Petroleum Imports                         138.7    159.1
Petroleum Product                                                           IBRDfIDP Lending (March 31. 1984)
imports                                  27.0     14.0
(USS Min)
IBRD     IDA
Rate of Exchange Since 1973
USS 1.00 - Br. 2.07                                                        Outstanding &
Rr.1.00 - USSO.48                                                           Disbursed           42.5    368.9
-Udisbursed           -      203.6
Outstanding Incl.
Undisbursed         42.5    572.5
- not applicable
- not available
1, Provisional
April 1984



- 29                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEIENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount
Loan or                                                                (USS Million)
Credit                                                             (less cancellations)  Undis-
Number         Year       Borrower    Purpose                       Bank      IDA       bursed
Twelve loans and tventy credits fully disbursed.                    108.6    233.2
Cr. 603-ET      1976      Ethiopia      Rangelands Dev.                       27.0          4.7
Cr. 708-Er      1977       Ethiopia     Road Sector                           32.0           3.5
Cr. 707-ET      1977      Ethiopia 1I  Revised Asibara                        25.0          5.9
Cr. 789-Er      197P      Ethiopla      Grain Storage & Hkg.                  24.0          8.1
Cr.1088-ET      1981      Ethiopla      Agricul. Minimm Pkg. II               39.2 2/      11.7
Cr.1141-ET      1981      Ethiopia      Education V                           35.0 7,      12.8
Cr.1275-Er      1982      Ethlopia      Agric. & Indust. Dev. Bank            30.0 2/      27.1
Cr.1366-ET      1983      Ethiopla      Urban Development                     20.0 Z/      19.2
Cr.1386-Er -   1983       Ethiopia      Petroleum Exploration                  7.0 7/       6.5
Cr.14014-ET     1983      Ethiopla      Second Road Sector                    70.0 7/      69.1
Cr.1429-ET      1984      Ethiopla      Coffee Processing & Marketing         35.0 /       35.0
Total                                               108.6   577.4         203.63
of which has been repaid                           66.1     4.9
Total now  outstanding                               42.5n  572.5
Amount sold                          6.0
of which has been repaid          6.0                -         -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prlor to exchange adjustments)                    42.50  572.50
Total Undisbursed                                      -       -          203.6
LI USS1.7 million dlsbursed under former Cr.418-ET, Amibara Irrigation, has
been repaid out of the proceeds of the nev Credit.
2/ Credits 1088-ET, 1141-ET, 1275-ET, 1366-ET, 1386-ET, and 1404-ET and 1429-ET are denominated
in SDRs (SDR 31.4 million, 28.2 million, 27.0 million, 18.0 million, 6.5 million, 64.9
*Illilon, and 33.2 milllon, respectlvely):
3; Not yet effective.



- 30- -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1984)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                          Type of               Amount
Year       Obligor                              Business     Loan    Equity       Total
1965       Textile Hills of Dire Dawa I         Textiles      1.5      1.0         2.5
1966       Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.          Paper          -       1.9         1.9
1968       HVA Metahara, S.C.                   Sugar        5.5       3.5         9.0
1970       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II        Textiles     0.4       0.2         0.6
1973       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III       Textiles      1.5      0.2         1.7
Total Gross Commitments                           8.9       6.8        15.7
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and Sales                   8.9       6.0        14.9
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   -       0.8         0.8
Total Undisbursed



- 31 -
ANNEX IIT
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: About 20 months
(b) Preparation by: The Government of Ethiopia with the assistance
of the FAO/Bank Cooperative Program.
(c) Initial discussions with IDA: Continuous sector dialogue since
1971.
(d)  First FAO/Bank mission:   Late 1981.
(e)  Appraisal mission:  June/July 1983.
(f)  Post-appraisal mission:  December 1983.
(g)  Negotiations: May 21 to 31, 1984
(h)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  January 15, 1985
II.   Special IDA Implementation Action
A PPF advance of US$300,000 was approved to expedite project
start-up (para. 56).
III.  Special Conditions
Condition for Effectiveness:
(a) The Government will open a Special Account under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association (paras. 62 and 72).
Other Conditions:
(a) The Government will establish a technical committee reporting to
the IAR Board (para. 45).
(b) IAR will continue to employ a manager, a deputy manager and a
senior engineer whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory
to the Association (para. 45).



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
(c) IAR will employ civil works consultants to supervise its
construction program as a condition for disbursement (paras. 45 and
60).
(d) IAR will use its best efforts to make arrangements for the
placing of candidates for higher degree fellowships not later than
March 31, 1985 (para. 46).
(e) The Government will establish three multi-disciplinary teams to
carry out farming systems research (para. 50).
(f) IAR and the University will enter into an agreement for research
work at the Debre Zeyit station and for the crop testing program
at the Alem Maya College station(para. 51).
(g) IAR will establish six teams for multilocational testing and the
formulation of extension recommendations (para. 52).
Ch) IAR will furnish the Association with reports on its research
program (para. 63).



iBRD 17592
!A R. OF EGYPT                                       A' SUI4-44-                                            OCTOBER 1983
ARABIA        _  v -                                 ETHIOPIA
'<   ' 0-               AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SUDAN   (    YEMEY                                            IAR RESEARCH FACILITIES AND
'ITI MD        --COOPERATING INSTITUTIONS
( !   OA *ebsa  SOMAL IA,
ETHIOPIA         7  /                                                 @   National Capitol / IAR HeadQuarters
/1'                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Sueseatihonsiri
0   Research Statsons20
? ow i  T  /  ¢   _      -20                     1          3   IAR /MOA Joint Sites
ZAIRE          KENYA   /            '                                   N          *   Proiected New Research Station
IW f   7   °0   Cooperating Research Institutions
T Zth   NI  C                 S      E                                    I.   Phyropathological Laboratory
~~~~~~~~~SEY $ HE'LLE                                -                    sohyet, mm.
CZ TANZANIA __                                                                   1500 meter contour line
-        -0 07F'd 07  36                                                  Administrative Region Boundcaries
To*h ww SW s s0.                                                            --- International Boundaries
bOw VW C.--wc or V*
of 7h. VW." 8_                                                        0    100   200   300 KILOMETERS
--   p. a_ar                                                                 0         100       200 MILES
16- Dor d0  *a llr 51 ,V_
.W      Fvr_C  e VW   IIt"a
orf on f,-   mUI ;W:V
-i M0-lt CSV'Ii£ /g - 15
. waun  0. aCC¢wlCE 0£    -               
YEAA N       Y      P.D. R.
AR~0^AB   <YEMEN
S U D A N               j -<                   -rr5  t <-;  
w-   / >~<         >                   K                            . <REPe/
-12'                                                  f                   0--  t     -- -  DJlsouTI  r,               12
&--,S AAd6bA
2~~~~ ~~~ ,- -vo                      i- e
*9  -~       - 7 r-                      v      - :jO/> r -t  V/, .r:0I.o.l/
l ~~~(, ,j~.                 /               /
/~~~~~~  7     J/                                              S O M ALI|A 4.
UGANDA t(LK                  t                                                        4
36~~~  KENY~~~A.£






