Docuimaentof
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqept No. 13760
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1521 - ET)
DECEMBER 1, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
At appraisal:    1 Birr     =     US$0.483
US$1      =     Birr 2.07
At completion:    1 Birr    =     US$ 0.161
US$1      =     Birr 6.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric)
ABBREVIATIONS
AF2AE    Eastern Africa Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
ARP       Agricultural Research Project
AUA       Alemaya University of Agriculture
CIMMYT  International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre
EC        European Commission (European Union)
FSR       Farming Systems Research
HEMD      Higher Education Main Department
IAR       Institute of Agricultural Research
ICARDA   International Centre for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ICRISAT  International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IDA       International Development Association
IDRC      International Development Research Centre
ILCA      International Livestock Centre for Africa
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
PADEP    Peasant Agricultural Development Program
SAFGRAD Semi-Arid Food Grain Development
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
TA        Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Ethiopia   =   July 8 - July 7
IDA                     =   July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1521 - ET)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .....................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY .....................................................                             ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                              1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ...................................I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ......................................................2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ......................................................9
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .....................................................               10
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE .....................................................                   10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .....................................................                 11
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .....................................................                11
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .....................................................                   12
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNT ...................                    .................................. 12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .....................................................                    13
APPENDICES: Aide Memoire
Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1521 - ET)
PREFACE
1.          This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Research
Project in Ethiopia, for which IDA Credit 1521-ET, in the amount of SDR 21 million (US$ 22
million equivalent) was approved on December 14, 1984, and made effective on March 12, 1985.
2.           The Credit closed on June 30, 1994, compared with the original closing date of
June 30, 1991. Some SDR 3 million of the Credit was canceled in 1993. Final disbursement took
place on November 8, 1994 (on the basis of withdrawal applications received in October 1994).
A balance of about SDR 1 million is being canceled.
3.           The ICR was prepared by the staff of FAO/CP on behalf of Agriculture and
Environment Operations Division (AF2AE), Eastern Africa Department and was reviewed by Ms.
S. Ganguly, Division Chief, AF2AE, and Mr. S. Agarwal, Project Adviser, AF2. The report is
based on material in the project files, as well as findings of the Bank's final supervision /
completion mission to Ethiopia. The Borrower's comments on the ICR have not been received.
The project authorities contributed by providing views, reflected in the mission's aide-memoire,
and preparing their own evaluation of project performance. The Borrower's evaluation report is
available in project files.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1521 - ET)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
I.          Between 1973 and 1984, IDA extended eleven Credits, totaling US$ 208 million,
to the agricultural sector in Ethiopia. The Credits covered a wide scope, including agricultural
production, processing and marketing. Some attracted bilateral and multilateral co-financing or
other complementary assistance. Project implementation, although subject to some difficulties,
had been generally satisfactory and compared favorably with other countries in the East Africa
region. The country's disbursement performance on IDA-assisted projects was also considered
reasonably satisfactory and above average, compared to neighboring countries.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.          The Agricultural Research Project (ARP) was designed to strengthen Ethiopia's
agricultural research effort, with the objective of improving the generation of practical results
that could be used by farmers to attain increased production and/or reduce production costs,
under a wide range of farming situations and agroclimatic conditions. Thus, in order to reinforce
and consolidate the country's agricultural research services, ARP sought to link the dispersed
research efforts made by the previous projects in the sector. The project also aimed to
complement the Government's proposed Peasant Agricultural Development Program (PADEP),
which was designed to strengthen agricultural extension services, and thereby enhance the
sectoral capacity to disseminate the findings of agricultural research to farrmers. ARP's main
objectives were to help improve the quality of research staff, rehabilitate existing research
facilities, and provide the necessary technology and additional facilities to strengthen research
efforts and sharpen the focus on identifying improved input packages, which were suitable for
smallholders and adaptable to varying farming conditions.
3.          These objectives were clear to the implementing agencies and were attainable
within the country context. The objectives fitted well into IDA's assistance strategy for the
agricultural sector in Ethiopia, which aimed to: increase the production of domestic food primarily
in the peasant sector; improve farmers' incentive framework, ameliorate marketing efficiency and
conditions, as well as improve the general economic environment for agricultural development;
and increase foreign exchange earnings of the sector. However, not enough emphasis had been



- 111 -
placed on research into secondary drought-resistant crops, such as roots and tubers. In a famine-
prone country like Ethiopia, research in this area is essential.
4.           In order to help achieve project objectives, and in view of Institute of Agricultural
Research's (IAR) weaknesses at the time, several institutional and project implementation
covenants were included in the Credit Agreement. These included requirements for staff training
and the employment of technical assistance in specific areas where IAR did not have adequate
expertise, and a covenant obliging the Borrower to recruit qualified senior management for IAR.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
5.           The project was to be implemented over a six year period through June 1991.
However, initial implementation was slow due to delays in procurement, recruitment of TA, and
in finalizing the training program, as well as disagreements between IAR and Alemaya University
of Agriculture (AUA) over program and financial control of the AUA support component. Later,
the civil war disrupted operations at most research centers and resulted in substantial physical
losses or destruction of project-fuinded property. Time lost at the beginning of the project was
never regained, and coupled with the interruptions of the war, necessitated the extension of the
project twice (involving a period of 3 years) up to June 30, 1994. The pace of physical
implementation picked up dramatically after mid- 1991, and particularly over the last one and a
half years under new IAR management, with the result that almost a third of the total planned
physical program of the project and the bulk of the training were achieved during that period.
6.           The project achieved most of its objectives. The overall project outcome may be
deemed satisfactory, particularly when viewed against the backdrop of the protracted civil strife,
breakdown in socio-economic infrastructure and weakened sectoral institutions, it was in this
unfavorable environment that much of the project was implemented. Although ARP cannot claim
the entire credit for the research achievements during its implementation because some of the
programs had started earlier, the project was an essential facilitator of their successful completion.
The breeding programs funded by the project were generally successful. One new variety of tef
and 8 cultivars of maize were released to the farmers, and further 5 wheat varieties were also
released. A total of 7 cultivars for sorghum were developed and one has been recently released.
The program also released 3 barley varieties and started work on the development of cultivars
which would require low input use. One variety for lentil and one for field pea were released and
3 more are scheduled to be released in 1995. The coffee breeding program released 10 new
varieties and major progress was made in controlling coffee berry disease. Other research
activities also yielded benefits. For example, the dryland farming research program came up with
recommendations on dryland cultivation techniques. Farm implements research made
recommendations on the improvement of traditional farm implements used on vertisols.
7.           The project's construction program was satisfactorily implemented. The project
supported the construction of headquarters accommodation for IAR consisting of offices, an



- IV -
auditorium, library, cafeteria, stores and workshops. At the research stations, the project financed
the construction of 27 staff houses (against an appraisal target of 28), 11 office rooms (appraisal
13), 8 laboratories and stores (appraisal 7), and 8 greenhouses and other buildings. At AUA, the
project supported the construction of 4 laboratory buildings, a seed store, a greenhouse and
renovated the library. These were in line with appraisal targets. The workshop included at
appraisal was however not constructed. The civil works undertaken have greatly improved the
quality of office, residential laboratory and library facilities at IAR and AUA.
8.           Other institutional support consisted of providing research equipment and 1 18
motor vehicles to IAR headquarters and field stations as well as to AUA. The equipment has
greatly improved the quality and scope of research, while the vehicles have facilitated mobility,
particularly for field work. The project also provided extensive training to IAR staff locally and
abroad, including 10 Ph.D. and 59 M.Sc degrees. Over 200 staff received short term training.
The benefits from training, under ARP, would certainly have been greater if more focused and
detailed training programs had been drawn up at appraisal; the training programs prepared at
appraisal (and in particular, the short-term training program), were rather general. These did not
provide an in-depth assessment of the specific areas wherein existing institutional capacities were
inadequate, and needed strengthening. Most of the training and study tour opportunities were
only used during the last two years, thanks to active IDA supervision. Most of the staff who were
trained have returned to IAR, while some have moved on to join other government agencies in the
agriculture sector. The project also provided technical assistance to IAR and AUA. About 410
person/m of consultancies, mostly long term assignments covering a wide range of expertise, were
provided. Consultant input was generally considered satisfactory.
9.           Project costs are estimated to be around US$28 million, some 13% lower than the
appraisal estimate. This shortfall resulted from savings on TA, and later, the devaluation of the
local currency against the US$ and other major currencies. SDR 3 million, equivalent to about
US$4 million was canceled in June 1993. At the time of final credit disbursements (November
1994), a total of about SDR 17 million of the Credit had been utilized; a balance of some SDR I
million is in the process of being canceled.
10.         IDA performed satisfactorily throughout the project cycle. Active supervision,
particularly over the last 2 years, contributed significantly to the final result of the project.
However, the Borrower experienced initial difficulties and delays in procurement, the recruitment
of TA and in commencing training activities. There was also a general delay in complying with
some of the covenants. Other than these, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory; its
consistent funding of the project provided a good indication of commitment to the project.
11.         It appears likely that the major initiatives supported under the project will be
sustained due to Government's commitment to agricultural research and extension. Govemment's
past record in funding its share of project costs provides a strong indication that the project will
continue to enjoy adequate counter-part funding. Sustainability of local currency related costs



- v -
may therefore not be a problem. There will, however, be a need for external support - largely for
activities requiring foreign exchange, e.g. to finance further external training, or to purchase new
vehicles and equipment, etc.
12.          To sustain research efforts supported by the project, IAR will also have to take
steps to maintain its key research personnel. In this regard, IAR management has submitted a
proposal to higher authorities to improve the remuneration and career prospects of its staff. On
the technical side, the breeding programs will have to ensure that the cultivars they produce will
continually be agronomically superior to the current ones. It must also be ensured that a system is
devised to enable the new varieties to be released more quickly than is being done at present.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
13.              The buildings, equipment, training and transport facilities provided to IAR and
AUA by the project have given the two institutions a head-start and greatly strengthened their
research programs' potential. Provided Government continues its funding commitment to
research as it has done hitherto, the primary constraint to the project's sustainability would related
to obtaining foreign exchange to finance further external training as and when required, and the
acquisition and replacement of vehicles and equipment. IAR did not make available to the ICR
mission its plan for future operations, preferring instead, to take stock of its present position
before defining a program for future action. It is however, likely that the Government of
Ethiopia (after further elaborating the research strategy) would be interested in a follow-on
Agricultural Support Services (research and extension) Project, which is presently included in the
Bank's lending pipeline for FY98.
14.   The main lessons derived from this project are institutional: to optimize the results of
institutional development measures such as staff training, a well designed and detailed training
plan, with clearly articulated training needs and priorities should be prepared and agreed with IDA
during appraisal. However, the institutional development gains realized, for example, through
extensive training and development of a cadre of local experts, can easily be negated by political
events which result in removal or transfer of incumbents of key offices. If as a consequence of
force majeure, the project management team is overhauled, assurances should be obtained
.egarding adequate project implementation arrangements, failing which, the project should be
renegotiated or even canceled. The key operational particulars, e.g., work program, budget,
training plan and procurement schedules should also be reevaluated and revised, as appropriate.
Implementing institutions should be cognizant of IDA's procurement/disbursement procedures;
up-front training of implementing agency staff and back-up personnel (to address the problem of
staff turnover) in Bank procedures would pay off, by way of increased efficacy in project
implementation. In order to enhance the benefits from technical assistance, the arrival of
consultants should be synchronized with the availability of equipment and vehicles, which they
require to complete their assignments, and full-time counterparts should be assigned.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1521-ET)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.           The Agricultural Research Project (ARP) was designed to strengthen Ethiopia's
agricultural research effort, with the objective of improving the generation of practical results
that could be used by farmers to attain increased production and/or reduce production costs,
under a wide range of farming situations and agroclimatic conditions. Thus, in order to reinforce
and consolidate the country's agricultural research services, ARP sought to link the dispersed
research efforts made by the previous projects in the sector. The project also aimed to
complement the Government's proposed Peasant Agricultural Development Program (PADEP),
which was designed to strengthen agricultural extension services, and thereby enhance the
sectoral capacity to disseminate the findings of agricultural research to farmers. ARP's main
objectives were to help improve the quality of research staff, rehabilitate existing research
facilities, and provide the necessary technology and additional facilities to strengthen research
efforts and sharpen the focus on identifying improved input packages, which were suitable for
smallholders and adaptable to varying farming conditions.
2.          In order to achieve the above objectives, the project comprised ten components,
including: i) strengthening food grain, pulses and coffee research (US$ 7 million);
ii) strengthening of specific research lines (US$ I million); iii) strengthening of livestock research
(US$ 2 million), iv) development of farming systems research (US$ 1.6 million); v) assistance to
Alemaya College (US$ I million); vi) research/extension liaison (US$ 0.7 million);
vii) strengthening of headquarters services (US$ 2 million); viii) construction (US$ 5 million);
ix) technical assistance and training (US$ 2 million); and x) replacement of equipment and
supplies (US$ 2 million) Following the mid-term review of the project in 1989, support was
extended to cotton research, soil and pasture forage research, water conservation and food
science, seed health testing /quarantine, and agro-meteorology. From 1992 onwards, when
FAO/UNDP support ceased, the project also provided support to research in dryland agriculture,
horticulture and farm implements Enset research was funded (when PADEP support ceased) as
well as vertisol technology and soil salinity management.
3.         Although the project had many comlponents, they all focused on the central objective
of strengthening agricultural research in important national priorities. The project objectives were
clear to the implementing agencies and were attainable within the country context. The objectives
fitted well into IDA's assistance strategy for the agricultural sector in Ethiopia, which aimed to:
increase the production of domestic food primarily in the peasant sector, improve farmers'
incentive framework, ameliorate marketing efficiency and conditions, as well as improve the



- 2 -
general economic environment for agricultural development; and increase foreign exchange
earnings of the sector. However, not enough emphasis had been placed on research into
secondary drought-resistant crops, such as roots and tubers. In a famine-prone country like
Ethiopia, research in this area is essential. Sufficient emphasis was also not put on soil and water
conservation; this latter component, added only in 1992 as part of the dryland agriculture
program, represents one of the new opportunities to improve the productivity of small, rainfed
farms Additionally, project risks were not adequately recognized, particularly the fact that
project implementation could be slower than anticipated due to the escalation in the civil war.
The dismissal of senior management of IAR and their belated replacement also hampered smooth
project implementation. These setbacks resulted in the project running for nine years, instead of
six years, as anticipated at appraisal.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Research Objectives
4.         The project was quite successful in achieving many of its research objectives. Much
progress has been made in strengthening the research centers and the quantity and quality of their
programs. The research outputs consist of new and improved crop and breeds, and improved
production technologies. Efforts have been made to disseminate the improved agricultural
varieties and production packages to the farming community. However, the full benefits have not
been realized due to still inadequate research/extension linkages and a break-down of a once
effective extension system. While ARP cannot claim the entire credit for these achievements,
because some of the research programs had been initiated earlier, the project played an essential
role in facilitating their successful completion, and release and adoption of improved technologies.
The results achieved by the individual research programs are discussed below.
Strengthening Foodgrain, Pulses and Coffee Research
5.        Tef Breeding: During the period of the project one variety was released (DZ-Cr-255
or Ghibe). The program provided training for one Ph.D. in agronomy and one M.Sc. in plant
breeding/cytogenetics. The program was successful in characterizing the tef germplasm collection
which is essential for plant breeding work. Inter-specific hybriding was also started, however, this
effort seems to be incomplete because within-species germplasm has not yet been fully utilized.
6.        Maize Breeding: Eight cultivars were released by the program from 1986 to 1994,
covering all the growing areas. The maize breeding program is one of the most prolific cultivar
development programs of IAR. The recently released variety BH660 should answer the need for a
locally developed hybrid to replace the Kenyan Hybrid H625. However, it is important for this
program to develop a comprehensive breeding system to attain efficiency and sustainability in the
face of possible breakdown of resistance to blight and rust. It should incorporate stability indices



- 3 -
in its selection and evaluation trials. The program should also use artificial disease screening of
breeding populations for economically important diseases such as leaf blight.
7.         Wheat Breeding: This program has two components; durum in Debre Zeit and
bread wheat in Holetta which was later moved to Kulumsa. During the project period, the durum
program released two varieties and has eight more in the pipeline. The bread wheat program
released two cultivars and, according to IAR, a further three cultivars have been released. In
addition, a number of cultivars are in the national evaluation trials. At the start of the project, both
programs had weak inputs from plant pathology. In bread wheat, this has been improved by IAR
and further strengthened by CIMMYT's establishment of an international wheat nursery.
However, in durum no artificial disease screening is incorporated in the selection program because
of lack of laboratory facilities. There is a need to closely examine the bread wheat program
because there seems to be a high dependence on CIMMYT for source of parental genotypes. Also
the program has not been able to avert the adverse consequences of the breakdown of stem rust
resistance in the variety Enkoy.
8.         Sorghum Breeding: This program has two main breeding stations, one in Nazareth
under IAR and another in Alemaya under the AUA. The Nazareth station was looted during the
1991 upheaval and has lost a lot of its facilities. A total of eight cultivars were developed with one
recent release for the lowland areas. The program needs to evaluate its cultivar development
strategy because of the growing importance of diseases in the high and mid-altitude areas and of
Striga in the lowlands.
9.         Barley Breeding: At the start of the project in 1986, the breeding and pathology
components were weak but improved with time. Lately, natural disease screening procedures have
been put in place in both segregating populations and cultivars for release. The program also
released three varieties (2 food and I malting types) during the project period. Work began on the
development of cultivars for Low Input Sustainable Agriculture (LISA) which is an important
strategy in supplying the varietal needs of peasant farmers. However, it might be desirable to
monitor closely genetic advance with the use of natural disease screening to make sure that
varietal development would be sustained.
10.       Pulse Breeding: This program has two components, namely: the Faba bean and field
pea work coordinated in Holleta, and the chick pea and lentil work in Debre Zeit. All the varieties
of Faba bean released so far are for highland environments. Cultivars for other environments are
presently being tested. One variety each was released for lentil and field pea in 1994, and three
more are scheduled to be released in 1995. There is an urgent need for chick pea and lentil work
in order to disseminate the newly released cultivars to the farmers. Commendable work on
tropical/lowland pulses was done in Nazareth and focused on the evaluation of local and imported
germplasm in haricot, mung, lima beans and cowpeas.



- 4 -
11.       Enset Program: A modest effort to characterize the diseases affecting enset was
initiated with funding under PADEP, and was followed-up later under ARP. The laboratory
equipment and vehicles earmarked for the enset program were not made available on time, but it
is to the credit of the program based at Awassa Research Centre that considerable basic
information on enset pathogens was collected. The project also supported holding an International
Conference on enset which brought together local and overseas scientists to share their
knowledge on this unique plant.
12.       Coffee: Initial support to the Jima Coffee Research Centre, particularly to laboratory
development and equipment, was later taken over by the Govemment and EC. About 10 new
varieties were released, processing techniques were refined and major progress was achieved in
controlling Coffee Berry Disease (CBD). Shading was found to decrease Crinkle Leaf incidence.
Fertilizer recommendations were developed, according to soils and/or zone. Inter-cropping coffee
with enset is producing higher coffee yields.
13.       Horticulture: As from December 1992, the horticulture research previously
supported by FAO, was taken over by the project, including the provision of technical assistance
by FAO. One Ph.D. training, as well as four short term training fellowships and one study tour
were funded under this sub-component. The research program concentrated mainly on varietal
development and agro-techniques for fruits (citrus, banana, viticulture, mango, avocado, papaya
and deciduous fruit crops), vegetables (onions, hot pepper, tomato, etc.) and root/tuber crops
(enset, Irish and sweet potatoes). A number of improved varieties have been distributed to
farmers through NGOs.
Irrigation/Drainage Research
14.       Following the cessation of FAO/UNDP funding in 1992, ARP strengthened research
efforts and physical facilities at Melka Werer. Later, soil salinity management became a point of
concern. Starting in 1992, ARP provided some equipment and training and built a soil chemistry
laboratory. However, the laboratory is still to be completed and equipped. Provision for longer
term technical assistance of 18 months was converted into short-term consultancies.
Sheep Improvement and Pasture/Forage Research
15.       Sheep improvement benefited from TA and equipment provided to Sheno station.
Several research stations involved in pasture and animal nutrition research were also given
equipment. No concrete results are yet available from this component. The component should
however have paid more attention to adaptive research, integrating animals into the cropping
systems and soil fertility management activities.



- 5 -
Farming Systems Research (FSR)
16.       Under the project, IAR was to establish three multi-disciplinary teams, including a
subject matter specialist from Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to carry out multi-locational testing,
coordination of farm trials and formulation of extension recommendations. According to IAR,
Farming Systems Research teams have been set up at key IAR research stations. These FSR
teams have been trained and have carried out significant work in terms of diagnostic surveys and
on-farm experiments, which have helped to better focus research on addressing farmers' problems.
However, the teams are not fully operational yet. It was not evident that IAR was pursuing a well
coordinated FSR program. The project did not provide support to the FSR program of AUA.
Dryland Farming Research
17.       A consultant for dryland farming research was provided by the project from
December 1992 at Nazareth. He also covered regional stations of Kobo, Mekele and Meiso. Soil
moisture conservation practices were improved by tie-ridging. Soil fertility management in the
drylands was investigated (e.g. inclusion of legume crop in rotation). The program has come up
with recommendations on improved dryland cultivation techniques and drought tolerant cultivars.
On-farm demonstrations allowed the farmers to compare different dryland technologies.
However, more farmer participation, i.e., through small scale pilot projects around given research
stations, would have been very beneficial to the researchers and the farmers.
Farm Implements Research
18.       Commencing in 1992, the project supported on-going research in farm implements at
the Agricultural Implements Research and Improvement Centre (AIRIC) in Nazareth which was
previously funded by UNDP. A TA consultant joined the project in January 1994 for six months.
However, most of the testing equipment ordered under IDA support has not yet arrived in the
country. Research was shifted towards improving traditional farm implements, e.g., the "Marasha"
plough which was improved to a moldboard plough using construction techniques from the village
blacksmith; a tie-ridger was developed and was found four times faster than the manual method,
while better conserving moisture and increasing yields by 30-50%; a more efficient donkey cart
was designed; a very promising seeder/planter is under development; and finally an eight HP
multi-crop thresher will soon be released to farmers. In future more attention should be paid to
designing practical tools which are easy to fabricate and, whenever possible, introduce
appropriate tools from other developing countries. It was only during the last year that the
project made belated attempts to demonstrate the improved field implements developed under this
sub-component; this resulted in curtailing the program's impact.



-6 -
Institutional Objectives
19.       IAR Headquarters: The construction of a new, modern and spacious IAR
Headquarters complex has been supported by the project. The complex contains office
accommodation, an auditorium, convention facilities, a library and a cafeteria. The project also
provided a vehicle maintenance building and a new access road making it easier to reach IAR. An
efficient biometrics service has recently been set up, with a well trained biometrician. A Food
Science Laboratory and a Green House complex are also under construction and will be
completed soon. The excellent facilities developed here, augmented by the project-provided
vehicles to facilitate mobility, will be an asset to the Ethiopian agricultural research system,
providing the much-needed back-up and support to the research centers.
20.        The library and support services have been strengthened. Information, documentation
and retrieval facilities have been improved through computerization and electronic mail and the
acquisition of CD-ROMs of international databases etc. Researchers can now search various
literature more easily through CD-ROM and SDI. This has helped to considerably enhance
research quality, focus and output.
21.        Research Stations: Research and support facilities at the various research centers
have been installed/enhanced. Office accommodation, laboratories, cold storage facilities and staff
housing have been developed at six research centers, viz., Holetta, Melko (Jimma), Melkassa,
Kulumsa, Bako and Melka Werer. Greenhouses have been installed at Melka Werer, Kulumsa,
Bako, Adet, Sinana, and Jimma. Field facilities have been strengthened, not only by the
development of land and irrigation facilities, but also by provision of modern field equipment and
laboratories, analytical facilities, and other physical infrastructure. The laboratories have been
provided with modern equipment, and the infrastructure for sophisticated research has been
created and strengthened. Computer facilities have been enhanced and capabilities for statistical
analysis of field data improved. Provision of residential housing at the research centers has greatly
assisted in recruitment of qualified staff, and in improving the performance of research staff.
22.        Research/Extension Linkages: The project also made efforts to reduce the gap
between research and extension, but with little success because of inadequate cooperation
between IAR and the Ministry of Agriculture. At a few research centers, extension staff have been
posted and first-line extension activities strengthened. At key IAR research centers
(e.g., Holetta, Nazareth) liaison officers were appointed and Research-Extension Liaison
Committees (RELCs) organized. These committees not only help to establish a rapport between
research and extension agencies, but also serve as a feedback mechanism for the researchers to
understand field problems and the effectiveness of the technologies developed by them. The
feedback is, however, limited by the separation of FSR and Research/Extension staff Lately, the
regionalization of extension has had an initial adverse impact on the activities of the RELCs and
the researchers have had to await final re-deployment of extension workers.



- 7 -
23.        Technical Assistance: Internationally recruited consultants provided about
410 person /months of service (appraisal estimate 430 p/m). The consultants covered a wide
range of expertise including animal husbandry, breed improvement of tef, maize, enset, wheat and
horticulture, dry land farming as well as project planning. Their input was generally considered
satisfactory by the Borrower but the usefulness of some was reduced by a miss-match between
their stay in the country and delays in the availability of facilities they were supposed to use. In
some instances the facilities, particularly equipment, arrived much later after the consultants had
already initiated their assignments. Some consultants also did not have full-time counterparts (the
latter being away on training or assigned to other pressing duties), with the result that they were
not able to adequately pass on the benefit of their expertise to the Ethiopians.
24.        Training: According to IAR, this was one of the biggest achievements and the most
beneficial result of the project. Although training activities had a slow start, the human resources
capacity building under the project has been fairly impressive. The initial delays in training
activities were primarily due to the fact that the training programs prepared at appraisal was rather
general. These did not provide an in-depth assessment of the shortcomings in agricultural
institutional capacity, which needed to be addressed. Specific disciplines wherein existing
institutional capacities were inadequate, and needed to be built-up through longer term fellowship
programs or short-term training were also not identified. The short-term training program, in
particular, failed to define even basic subject-matter areas, and a significant amount of resources
were left uncommitted under the broad heading of unallocated. This translated into practical
difficulties during the implementation of the project. Most of the training and study tour
opportunities were only used during the last two years, thanks to active IDA supervision. As
shown in Table 5, the SAR targets were greatly exceeded.
25.        The project provided 27 fellowships for IAR staff to undertake higher studies, both
overseas and in Ethiopia (Alemaya and Addis Ababa Universities). By 1990, nine fellows had
completed an M.Sc. degree and seven had completed the Ph.D. degree abroad. Also by 1990, 21
had completed their M. Sc. degree from local universities, and four had still to complete their
studies. Three Ph.D. participants studying abroad are overdue and have not received project
support since 30 June, 1994. Of these participants, four M.Sc. and two Ph.D. graduates did not
re-join IAR although they are reportedly in the country. During the last year of the project, with
the agreement of IDA, 21 additional participants were sent for M. Sc. training in Europe since a
substantial amount of training funds were still available.
26.        The project also provided short term training for 75 staff members of IAR at
international research centers and participation in seminars and workshops outside Ethiopia. By
1993, some forty-eight IAR staff were sent on short term training, while another nine participated
in international conferences and/or workshops. In 1994, short-term training was made available
to an additional 20 participants; 28 IAR staff participated in international workshops and study
tours. As in the degree training program, IAR would need to make an assessment of the short-
term training program, particularly the 6-months skills upgrading program provided to M.Sc.



- 8 -
graduates from local universities. The lessons learned would be invaluable in designing more
efficient and cost-effective short-term training programs in the future.
27.        Alemaya University: The project assisted AUA in strengthening its agricultural
research training facilities both at its main campus and at Debre Zeit. Physical works were
undertaken and equipment was provided. The project supported the construction of a new library
and stores at the main campus, and financed the provision of related equipment; laboratories, a
seed store and a green house were also constructed at Debre Zeit. Additionally, the project
procured pick-up trucks and a 10 ton lorry for AUA. These facilities have substantially improved
AUA's research capabilities. Unfortunately, the training of AUA staff which was envisaged at
appraisal did not take place . This was primarily a result of the shifting of funds earmarked for
training of AUA staff to technical assistance (funding of technical facility for AUA).
Physical Objectives
28.        As shown in Table 5, the project achieved, and in many respects exceeded, the
appraisal physical targets and therefore project achievement in this regard was substantial. The
project procured 116 vehicles for IAR compared to 98 estimated at appraisal. A further 4 vehicles
have been ordered. The project also acquired 10 vehicles for AUA, which is one less than the
appraisal estimate. A total of 8 vehicles acquired by the project for IAR and 2 for AUA have
however been either destroyed or stolen. The vehicles have greatly facilitated mobility by research
personnel in the course of their work. The project also bought a large number of scientific
research, office and field equipment for IAR and AUA. In most cases, the quantities of equipment
bought either met or exceeded appraisal targets. Although IAR indicated that IDA's procurement
procedures were too cumbersome, no concrete steps were taken (despite suggestion from IDA)
to train staff for this function. This situation was further aggravated by the rapid turnover of
IAR's procurement staff
29.        The project's implementation of the civil works component is commendable, in spite
of serious problems in availability of construction materials in the local market. With the
exception of the food science building and greenhouse at IAR-HQ, all other major construction
works agreed at appraisal for both IAR and AUA were completed, The completed works
included the IAR Headquarters complex, stores and workshops and a tarmac access road
connecting IAR-HQ to the main road. At the research stations, the project supported the
construction of 27 staff houses (against an appraisal target of 28), 1 1 office rooms (appraisal 13),
8 laboratories and stores (appraisal 7) and 8 greenhouses and other buildings. At AUA, the
project supported the construction of 4 laboratory buildings, a seed store and a greenhouse, a
library extension wing and stores, all in accordance with SAR targets. However the temperature
regulation of greenhouses is deficient or inadequate. In some cases, screenhouses (instead of
greenhouses) would have been a cheaper and more appropriate choice. The workshop included at
appraisal was not constructed at the main campus of AUA and the funds were used instead to
construct a second floor for the laboratory/office building. However, lack of consultation between



- 9 -
AUA and the Higher Education Main Department (HEMD) which was responsible for the
architectural design and construction of the buildings, resulted in structures which were not
designed to AUA's intended purposes or harmonized with existing buildings.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
30,       ARP was appraised by IDA in July 1983 and became effective in March 1985. The
project was to be implemented over a six year period through June 1991. However, initial project
implementation was slow, due to delays in procurement, recruitment of TA and finalizing the
training arrangements, as well as disagreements between IAR and AUA over the content and
financial control of the AUA support component. These issues, however, were eventually
resolved, and, with the exception of the IAR/AUA disagreements which persisted for some time,
and later the civil war which disrupted operations at most research centers and resulted in
substantial physical loss or destruction of project-funded property, project implementation was
generally satisfactory. Time lost at the beginning of the project was never regained, and coupled
with the interruptions of the war, necessitated the extension of the project twice, initially for two
years, and subsequently for another year to 30 June, 1994.
31.       Project implementation was also adversely affected by lack of adequate knowledge
about IDA procurement procedures by IAR's new management. This resulted in inordinate delays
in finalizing procurement documentation. IAR staff reportedly found IDA's procedures lengthy
and cumbersome. However, this could have been mitigated if the staff involved in procurement
had been given advance training in IDA's procurement procedures. IAR was unable to hire a
procurement consultant. There was rapid turnover of procurement staff, and the most senior and
experienced staff involved in procurement left IAR at the most critical stage.
32.       The implementation of the training component was curtailed by lack of an advance
Training plan which would have identified skill gaps and thus prioritized the Institute's training
needs and phased the provision of actual training in an orderly manner. As it turned out, staff
training was determined largely in an ad hoc manner, and the key criterion was the availability of
project funds. A number of participants were sent on training without prior approval of the Bank.
When this was discovered upon review of Statements of Expenditures, project management
brought up the issue of lack of adequate familiarity with Bank procedures.
33.       The civil works program was regularly interrupted by shortages of basic building
materials on the local market. At AUA, some of the buildings constructed exhibited design flaws
in the context of their intended use, largely because there was inadequate consultation between
AUA and HEMD.



- 10-
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
34.       It appears likely that the major initiatives under the project will be sustained due to
Government's commitment to agricultural research and extension. Government's past record in
funding its share of project costs, provides a strong indication that the project will continue to
enjoy adequate counter-part funding. Sustainability of local currency related costs may therefore
not be a problem. There will, however, be a need for external support - largely for activities
requiring foreign exchange - for example, to finance: further external training as and when
required, to purchase new and replace old vehicles and equipment, TA for specialized skills, and
documents, journals and books which are essential to maintain the academic integrity of IAR and
AUA as centers of excellence in the country. However, in order to attract more external funding,
IAR will have to clear up its accounting records which, in their present state, have large balances
of items not properly allocated or reconciled. The end result has been to understate the aggregate
cost of research, to which the bulk of these items should have been charged.
3 5.      To sustain research efforts supported by the project, IAR will also have to take steps
to maintain its key research personnel who, because of lack of competitive conditions of service,
are likely to be lured into more lucrative jobs in the country or outside, thus robbing IAR of its
most precious asset. In this regard, IAR management has submitted a proposal to higher
authorities to improve the remuneration and career prospects of its staff
36.        On the technical side, the breeding programs will have to ensure that the cultivars
they produce will continually be agronomically superior to the current ones. It must also be
ensured that a system is devised to enable the new varieties to be released more quickly than is
being done at present. The key areas on which IAR would need to focus attention in order to
attain sustainability, in its crop breeding programs, are: (i) collection, characterization and
utilization of the crops germplasm pool (GP), (ii) development of a wide genetic-based breeding
population with high level of horizontal resistance to the major diseases, (iii) development of
parental materials using a comprehensive breeding system for cross fertilizing crops, and
(iv) improvement of the efficiency and effectiveness of the variety testing and release scheme.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
37.       IDA's performance throughout the project cycle may be deemed satisfactory, with
one exception at the appraisal stage, when there was a delay in Government and IDA reaching
agreement regarding the extent to which technical assistance could be used. During
implementation, IDA actively supervised the project at regular intervals except during the height
of insecurity, when missions could not be mounted. In all, 14 supervision missions visited the
project. Government found their input useful, both technically and administratively. The skill mix
of the supervision missions was fairly balanced. However, project supervision would have
benefited from inclusion of financial analysts, in light of the partial compliance with some of the



- 11 -
financial/audit covenants. The initiatives taken by Bank missions to train procurement staff were
negated by rapid turnover of staff who had received some procurement training. However, the
use of standard bidding documents, contributed to speeding up the procurement process in the
later stage. Supervision over the last two years of project life contributed much to the progress
of physical implementation and training during that period.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.       Except for initial delays in procurement, construction, recruitment of TA and in
commencing training activities, Government's performance was satisfactory over much of the
project life. The Government ensured that the project received adequate counterpart funds. It
generally complied with the major covenants of the Development Credit Agreement, the
exception being those relating to audit ( reports were invariably submitted late to IDA and the
1992/93 audit report on the Project Account is currently overdue). There were also delays in
filling senior management posts, particularly at the Deputy General Manager (DGM) level, which
resulted in over burdening the chief executive. After the war ended in 1991, there were changes
in senior management level but again there were lengthy delays in filling the DGM posts. This
adversely affected the management capabilities of the institute, and delayed the execution of the
training component and the procurement of equipment and vehicles. The Government's
performance in implementing the civil works component was commendable, particularly in view
of the civil strife that was raging at that time.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.   The project was implemented against a backdrop of protracted civil strife, and a virtual
breakdown of the country's socio-economic infrastructure; not surprisingly, the institutional
capacity in the sector had been significantly decimated by the war. When the hostilities finally
ceased in 1991, the top management of the implementing agency (IAR) was overhauled; however,
there were considerable delays in the appointment of the new senior management cadre. Despite
these constraints, ARP's implementation performance was adequate and good progress was made
in achieving a number of key project objectives. In light of the foregoing, on balance, project
performance may be deemed satisfactory. The project has given IAR and AUA improved physical
infrastructure and equipment, training and transportation. In most cases, quantifiable appraisal
targets were met or exceeded. On the technical side, significant progress has been made in the
development of technologies for increasing the productivity of various crops, commodities, and
livestock. Constraints to production and critical gaps in research in major areas of agriculture and
livestock production have been identified, and future research programs are being designed to
concentrate on these problems.



- 12 -
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
40.       Neither the National Research Policy and Strategy, nor a medium or long term
financial plan of IAR, were made available to the ICR mission, with IAR preferring instead, to
take stock of its present position before defining a program for future action. It is however, likely
that the Government of Ethiopia (after further elaborating the research strategy) would be
interested in a follow-on Agricultural Support Services (research and extension) Project, which is
presently included in the Bank's lending pipeline for FY98.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNT
41.        The main lessons derived from this project are institutional: (i) in order to optimize
the results of institutional development measures such as staff training, a well designed and
detailed training plan, with clearly articulated training needs and priorities should be prepared and
agreed with IDA during appraisal; (ii) however, the capacity building and institutional
development gains realized, for example, through extensive training and development of a cadre
of local experts, can easily be negated by political events which result in removal or transfer of
incumbents of key offices. If as a consequence of force majeure, the project management team is
overhauled, the implementation capacity of the new appointees should be reviewed. Assurances
should be obtained from the Borrower regarding adequate project implementation arrangements,
failing which, the project should be renegotiated or even cancelled. The key operational
particulars, e.g., work program, budget, training plan and procurement schedules should also be
reevaluated and revised as appropriate; (iii) implementing institutions should be cognizant of
IDA's procurement and disbursement procedures; up-front training of implementing agency staff
in Bank procedures would pay off handsomely by way of increased efficacy in project
implementation; arrangements should be made to train back-up staff to address the problem of
staff turnover; (iv) to minimize implementation delays, bid documents for procurement of goods,
works and services should be discussed and finalized during the project's appraisal, (v)
institutions involved in the implementation of the project, e.g., research centers, should be given
financial authority to manage the resources allocated for the components they are assigned to
implement; (vi) to enhance the benefits from technical assistance, the arrival of consultants should
be synchronized with the availability of equipment and vehicles, etc. which they require to
complete their assignments, and full-time counterparts should be assigned; and (vii) the availability
of adequate systems/resources for financial recording, reporting and accounting are an essential
ingredient, for the efficient and transparent functioning of an institution, such as IAR.



- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial   Partial   Negligible  Not
(v')       (1)       (1')     Applicable
(1
Macro-economic policies       =      
Sector policies                          _
Financial objectives                     _
Institutional development     =
Physical objectives                                 _
Poverty reduction                                              1
Gender concerns               =
Other social objectives       __
Environmental objectives     X
Public sector management      _
Private sector development   |
Other - research              L
B. Project sustainability      Likely    Unlikely  Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank performance        satisfactory  Satisfactorv  Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
Highly
D. Borrower performance      satisfactory  Satisfactory Deficient
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                               Highly
E. Assessment of outcome    satisfactory Satisfactory Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
(t l   e



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Purpose           Year of      Status
Loans/credit Title                                          Approval
Preceding Operations
Rangeland Development (Cr 603-ET)  ILivestock Development     1976      Completed
Grain Storage and Mkg.(Cr.789-ET)   Agricultural Marketing    1978      Completed
Agricultural Minimum Pkg. II       Agricultural Development   1981      Completed
(Cr. 1088-ET)
Coffee Processing and Marketing    Support to Coffee Sub-     1984      Completed
(Cr. 1429-ET)                      sector
Following Operations
Livestock IV (Cr. 1782-ET)         Livestock Development      1987      On-going
Peasant Agricultural Development   Strengthening Sectoral     1988      On-going
Project (Cr. 1956-ET)             Capacity
Table 3: Project Timetable
=T  Date p          Date actual/
Steps in project cycle          Date planned    latest estimate
Identification                                                  12/81
Preparation                                      -              6/82
Appraisal                                      7/83             7/83
Negotiations                                   5/84             6/84
Board presentation                             9/84             9/84
Signing                                                        12/84
Effectiveness                                                   3/85
Midterm review                                                  7/89
Project completion                             6/91             6/94
Credit closing                                 10/91           10/94



- 15 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY 85 | FY 86 | FY 87 | FY 88 | FY 89 | FY 90 | FY 91   F FY 92 | FY 93 | FY 94 | FY 95
Appraisal Estimate       200    3,500   8,500   14,000  18,000  20,000  22,000        -       -        -       -
Actual                   16       713    1,624   4,854   8,565   10,531   12,735   13,749  15,651  21,082  22,380
Actual as % of estimate   0        20      19       35      47       53       58      62       71      96      102
N B: SDR3.0 million equivalent to about US$4.0 million of the credit was canceled in June 1993. The credit is therefore,
over-disbursed in US dollar terms, by US$4 4 million, but is under-disbursed in SDR terms due to the appreciation of SDR,
against the US$ (actual SDR disbursements stand at about SDR 16.6 million, compared with the revised credit amount of
SDR18 1 million)



- 16-
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Civil Works
(i) IAR
Planned (SAR)          Revisions               Actual              Comments
Research Stations
Staff houses 2 bdr        No.                21                                         24
3 bdr             No                 6                                          3
4 bdr             No                  1
Offices (rooms)           No                 13                                         11
Laboratories              No.                 5                                         4
Seed Stores               No                  3                                         3
Green houses              No.             1,050m2                                       6
Other buildings           No                560m2                                       2
Headquarters!'
Offices     m2                              1,680                                    1,463.24
Auditorium  m2                                -                                       284.44
Library     m2                              788                                       378.66
Cafeteria    m2                               -                                       173.26
Stores      m2                              578                                       339.11
Workshops  m2                                 -                                       339.92
Others      m2                                                                        481.25
Floor Area



- 17 -
(ii) AUA
Planned (SAR)           Revised        |      Actual        |         Comments
Research Stations
Laboratories  No.                3                     4                    4            One floor added to SGS Blds.
Seed Stores   No.                1                     1                    1
Green houses  No.                 1                    1                     1
Headquarters
Library      m2                 650                                        650
Stores        m                  85                                         85
Workshops    No.                  I                                          -           Not constructed
Others (Lab.)  m2               8,399                                      8,399



- 18-
B. Vehicles
(i) IAR
Planned           Revised                        Actual                   Destroyed or      Comments
(SAR)                                                                       Stolen
Procured           Available
............................ (N um ber)
4 WD Vehicles                    31                                    44                 40                  4
4 WD Station wagons               4
Cars                             12                                    7
Double-cab pickups               11                                    25                 23                  2
Minibuses                        2                                     4                   4
Buses                             5                                    11                  11
10-ton trucks                    7                                     7                   7
Motorcycles                      22                                    22                 20                  2
Bicycles                          4
(ii) AUA
Planned           Revised                 Actual                Destroyed or            Comments
(SAR)                                        l                     Stolen
Procured   l Available
............................ (N um ber)
Double-cab pickups                                                 9               7                2          Fair to poor condition
I 0-ton trucks                  I                                  I               I                           In good condition
Bicycles                        10                               none            none



- 19 -
C. Farm Equipment
(i) IAR
Planned (SAR)    |    Revised         I Actual procured  |                            |   Comments
....................... (Number)
Tractors   80 HP                         2                                         16
50-60 HP                         9
Plot combines                            2                                         5
Forage harvesters                        3                                         9
Hay balers                               7
Seeders (all types)                      4                                         10
Threshers (all types)                    16                                        12
Plows (all types)                        8                                         14
Harrows (all types)                      8                                         12
Cultivators (all types)                  6                                         29
Ridgers/bed farmers                      6                                         3
Trailers and tanks                       7                                         10
Maize shellers                           2                                         7
Seed cleaning equipment                  5                                         3
Fertilizer spreaders                     5                                         10
Tractor-mounted sprayers                 6                                         15
Garden tractors                          1                                         18
Lawn mowers                              12                                        n.a.
Depulpers/decorticators                  24                                        n.a.
Scales                                  47                                         n.a.
Irrigation sets                          4                                         n. a.
Generators                               5                                         3



- 20 -
Farm Equipment
(ii) AUA
Planned (SAR)          Revised           Actual procured        Destroyed or stolen         Comments
..................  (Num ber)
Tractors    80 HP                     4                     4                   4                                       3 are in poor
50-60 HP                  -                     -                   -                                       condition
Plot combines                         2                     2                   2                                       Some parts are
missing
Seeders (all types)                   8                     8                   8                                       Some parts are
missing
Threshers (all types)                 4                     4                   4                                       Some parts are
missing
Plows (all types)                     6                     6                   6
Harrows (all types)                   3                     3                    3
Cultivators (all types)               4                     4                    1
Seed cleaning equipment               2                     2                   2
Fertilizer spreaders                  4                     4                    3                                      Some parts are
missing



- 21 -
D. Training
(i) IAR
Planned (SAR)                 Revised (MTR)                   Total Actual                    of which Local                  Comments
Training
M.Sc.            M.Sc.           .Sc.   Ph.D.    M.Sc.   Ph.D.                               M.Sc.    I Ph.D.
A. Higher Degree Fellowships
I. Wheat                                                       2                1                                          2              1                 2                              one M.Sc. quit
2 Barley                                                       2                -                                                           -                         -
3. Sorghum                                                     2                                                           2                                2
4 Maize                                                        2                -                                          2              -                  2                 -
5. Tef'Cytogenetics                                            2                1                                          3              1                  2                 -
6. Highland Pulses                                             2                1                                          -              --
7. Lowland Pulses                                              2                -                                          2              -                  I                 -
8. Coffee                                                      I                1                                                                            I 1               -
9. Cotton                                                                                                                  -
10. Crop Science/Applied Plant Science/Sustainable             --                                                                         -                  -                 -
Agriculture/Tropical
Agriculture Development
11. Plant Breeding                                                                                                         2              -                  1                 -
12. Agronomy/Crop Physiology                                                    -                                                         -
13. Pathology                                                  -                -                                          6                                 I                 -           one passed away
14. Entomology                                                                                                             4              1                 4
15. Weed Science                                               -                -I 
16. Irrigation/Drainage                                        -                                                                  1                          -
17. Soil Conservation/Soil Chemistry                           -                -                                          2              -                  -
18. Sheep                                                      I                -                                          3              -                  3                 -
19. Pasture/Forage                                             I                -                                          3              3                  3
20. Animal Science                                              -               -                                          2              -                  1                 -
21. Farming System Research                                     I                                                          1                                 I
22. Agricultural Economics/Crop Market Technology               -               -                                          3                                 -
23. Library/Information Science                                 I               -                                          2              -                  I                 -
24. Biometrics                                                 I                                                           I
25. Resource Planning/Research Planning                         1               -                                          2              -                  -                 -
26. Human Resource Development                                  -               -                                          I              -                  -
TOTAL                                   22               5                                         59             10                 26                 -



- 22 -
D. Training
(i) IAR
Planned (SAR)                 Revised (MTR)                  Total Actual                   of which Local                  Comments
Traimmn
No.   | mm                   No.  | mm                    No.    - mm                      No.               mm
B. short-tenn Training
1. Coffee                                                     6               18                                         2             11
2. Irrigation/Drainage/Water Management                       3               12                                         3              3
3. Seminar & Workshops                                        -              225                                        57            41.25
3.1 Abroad                                                                                                            46             38.5
3.2 Local                                                                                                             11            2.75
4. Unallocated                                                75             675
4.1 Sorghum                                                                                                            6             15                                              not yet completed
4.2 Soyabean                                                                                                           1             2
4.3 Nutrition                                                                                                          4             24
4.4 Agricultural Extension                                                                                             2             3
4.5 Agriculture Infornation                                                                                            1             2
4.6 Crop Improvement                                                                                                   2             12
4.7 Climatology                                                                                                        2             8
4.8 Entomology                                                                                                         3             16
4.9 Graphics                                                                                                           1             6
4.10 Maize                                                                                                             2             10
4.11 Agricultural Development                                                                                          1             9
4.12 Crop Modeling                                                                                                     1             2
4.13 Pathology                                                                                                         5             22
4.14 Weed Science                                                                                                      2             10
4.15 Animal Breeding                                                                                                   2             12
4.16 Rural Development Policy and Project Planning                                                                     1             6
4.17 Crop Management Research Training                                                                                 1             6
4.18 Instrumentation                                                                                                   1             12
4.19 Soil Sciences                                                                                                     1             6
4.20 Computing, Auditing & Financial Management                                                                        1            2.5
in Public Sector
4.21 Fibre Quality Evaluation and Testing                                                                              2             5
4.22 Engineering for Rice Agriculture                                                                                  I             I
4.23 Plant Virology                                                                                                    1             3
4.24 Agronomy                                                                                                          1             5
4.25 Seed Technology                                                                                                   1             3
4.26 Ernst Serology                                                                                                    1             5



- 23 -
D. Training
(i) IAR
Planned (SAR)                 Revised (MTR)                   Total Actual                    of which Local                   Comments
Training
No.             mm    No.    mm                            No. T  mm                         NO.               mm
4.27 Plant Breeding                                                                                                      1              5
428 Soil and Water Conservation                                                                                          1              5
4.29 Management Informnation Systern                                                                                     1              3
4.30 Farming Systems                                                                                                     1              4
4.31 Dry Land Agriculture                                                                                                I              I                                               not yet completed
4.32 Bio-Technology                                                                                                      1              3                                               not yet completed
4.33 Engine Specialization                                                                                               5              7
4.34 Automechanics                                                                                                      44             63
4.35 Auto Electricity                                                                                                    2              4
4.36 General Management                                                                                                 10              3
4.37 Human Resource Management                                                                                           9              5
4.38 Financial Management                                                                                                3              2
4.39 Financial Accounting                                                                                               I1              6
4.40 Office Operation Management                                                                                        19             10
4.41 Materials Management                                                                                                9              5
4.42 Farn Management                                                                                                     19             4
4.43 Record Management & Archives Administration                                                                         1              l
4.44 Auditing                                                                                                            4              1
4.45 Basic Financial Accounting                                                                                         12              6
4.46 Management Development Program                                                                                      1              4
4.47 Managerial Control and Management                                                                                   1              3
Information System
4.48 Agricultural Project Analysis and Management                                                                        1              4
4.49 Supervisory Management                                                                                              1              l
Total:                                                                                            205            356



- 24 -
E. Technical Assistance
(i) IAR
Planned (SAR)              Revised (MTR)                    Actual                           Comments
Type             years     Type      Years              Type           | Months
A. long-term Consultants
I WheatlBarley                        Pathologist                4                            Small Grain Pathologist      26
Agronomist                 4                           Wheat Specialist              7      Evacuated for health reasons
2. Sorghum                            Weed Scientist              I                           Weed Specialist              25
3. Tef                                Cytogeneticist             4                            Cytogeneticist               52
Breeding                   4                                                         -
4. Highland Pulses                    Breeder/Pathologist         4
5 Sheep                               Sheep Specialist           2                            Sheep Specialist             48
Sheep Specialist
6. Pasture,Forage                     PiF Specialist              2                           P/F Specialist               24
7 Farming System Res                  FSR Specialist             4                            FSR Specialist               49
8. Biometrics                         Biometrician               2                                                          -      Post canceled (non-availabilitv)
9. Maize                                                          -                           Maize Breeder                21      Deceased
Maize Breeder                12      T'erminated
10. Publications and Documentation                -               -                           P/D Specialist               74
11. Enset                                        -                -                           Pathologist                  9
12. Dryland Agriculture                          -                -                           Agronomist                   18
13. Hlorticulture                                -                -                           Horticulturist               18
14. Planning& Project Preparation                -                -                           Specialist                   I1
15. Cotton Fibre Testing                         -                -                                                         -      Selected but could not join
16. Beef Cattle Expert                           -                -                                                        -       Selected but did not join
17. Agricultural Engineer                        -                -                           Agricultural Engineer        6
18. Irrigation Engineer                          -                                                                          -      Selected but did not join
19. Finance and Procurement Officer              -                -         -         -                  -                 -       No suitable candidate
B. Short Term Consultancies                                     Man
Months
1 Coffee                              Taxonomist                 8                                                                 Canceled (not available)
2. Biometrics                         Computer Specialist         I                                                                Canceled
3. Unallocated                                                   46
Food Science                                 -                -                           Food Technologist             3
Res. Farm Development                        -                -                           Specialist                    I
Cotton Fibre                                 -                -                           Specialist                    3



- 25 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key Operating Indicators
in SAR/President's Report             Estimated                     Actual
N.A.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study         Purpose as Defined at
AppraisaURedefined         Status           Impact of study
No studies were envisaged at appraisal or undertaken during project implementation.



- 26 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                 Actual Costs (US$M)
Item                    __.___
Local    Foreign         Total         Local        Foreign        Total
Costs        Costs                     Costs          Costs
A. StrengtheningofFoodGrains and              1.96        5.10        7.06          n.a.           n.a.         9.93
Pulse Research
|B. StrengtheningofSpecific                  0.40        0.72          1.12         n.a.           n.a.         0.18
Research  Lines
C. Strengthening of Livestock                0.68         1.21         1.89         n.a.           n.a.         0.19
Research
D. Development of Farming Systems            0.72        0.89         1.61          n.a.           n.a.         0.09
Research
E. Assistance to Alemaya College             0.51        0.66         1.17          n.a.           n.a.         2.48
F. Research/Extension Liaison                0.41        0.28         0.69          n.a.           n.a.         0.11
G. Strengthening of Headquarters             0.57         1.33         1.90         n.a.           n.a.          7.15  '
Services
H. Construction                              3.38         1.85        5.23          n.a.           n.a.         4.56
I. Technical Assistance and Training         0.20         1.70        1.90          n.a.           n.a.         2.98
J. Replacement of Equipment and              0.40         1.53        1.92          n.a.           n.a.         0.44
Supplies
Total BASELINE COSTS                         9.23        15.25       24.48          n.a.           n.a.
Physical Contingencies        0.30         0.20        0,50          n.a.           n.a.
Price Contingencies           3.11         3.95        7.06          n.a.           n.a.
Total PROJECT COSTS                         12.64        19.40       32.04          n.a.           n.a.         28.11
1'     The actual total cost for item G is only US$0 58 million The remainder relates to unallocated items, including Letters of Credit
(USS0 23 million), Sundry Debtors (US$1 87 million); Prepayments (US$2.88 million), incremental operating costs (USS0 9 million),
and Goods in Transit (USS0 7 million) Without the proper allocation ofthese items, the project costs, as shown above, are materially
distoned



- 27 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$           Actual/Latest Estimate (US$Mj
Source                Local     Foreign       Total      Local      Foreign       Total
Costs      Costs                   Costs       Costs
IDA                             2.6         19.4       22.O'       n.a.        n.a.        22.41'
Co-financing institutions         -          -           -           -           -            -
Other external sources            -           -          -           -           -            -
Domestic contribution           10.0          -         10.0        5.7          -            5.7
TOTAL                 12.6        19.4        32.0        n.a.        n.a.         28.1
Equivalent SDR 21. 1 million
2/   From World Bank disbursment data as of 10/20/94. Equivalent to SDR 16.6 million. SDR 3 million, eqivalent to about
US$4 million of the credit, was cancelled in June 1993.



- 28 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No ERR or NPV calculations were done at appraisal due to the difficulty associated with
forecasting and quantifying the benefits from research programs. However, it can be stated with
confidence that ARP has saved the country foreign exchange which would have been spent on
importing improved varieties. The new and improved varieties released by ARP have increased
food production and thus improved food security and consequently reduced the level of food
imports than would otherwise have been the case. Intangible benefits have also accrued from the
training program while the physical facilities (buildings, vehicles, equipment etc.) have
institutionally enhanced the capabilities of IAR and AUA thus improving their research potential
and ability to deliver research messages to the farmers.



- 29 -
Table 10. Status of Covenant-11
Agreement    Covenant Type         Present
Section                           Status                                                         Description of Covenant                                                                          Comments
3 01 (b)              3               C        The Borrower shall make available (i) to IAR as a grant the proceeds ofthe Credit allocated for the carrying out of Parts A and B
of the Project, and (ii) to AAU as a grant the proceeds of the Credit allocated for the carrying out of Part C of the Project.
(c)                5              CD        The Borrower shall cause IAR and AAU to enter into an agreement for the arrangements to be made for the carrying out of Parts     Agreement reached after lengthy delay.
A4 (vi), B.2 and B.6 ofthe Project.
3.02 (a)             10               CP       In order to assist IAR in canrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause IAR to employ (i) not later than June 30, 1985, a    Coffee taxonomist was not recruited.
wheat/barley/tef pathologist, a wheat/barley/tef agronomist, a sorghum weed control specialist, a pulses breeder/pathologist, a tef
breeder, a tefcytogeneticist, a farming systems research specialist, a sheep research specialist, a fodder/forage improvement
specialist and a coffee taxonomist; and (ii) a biometrician, architects and other consultants.
(b)                5              CD        The Borrower shall cause IAR to employ, during execution of the Project, a manager, a deputy manager and a senior engineer        There were delays in appointing Deputy General
whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Association.                                                       Manager.
(c)               10               CP       The Borrower shall cause IAR to establish six teams consisting of three specialists each, or such other number of specialists as the
Borrower and the Association may agree, to be responsible for multilocational testing, coordination of farm trials and formulation
of extension recommendations; three of such teams to be established not later than December 31, 1984 and three ofsuch teams to
be established not later than December 31, 1985.
1/    Convenant types                                                                                           Present status:
I     =   Accounts/audits                                8      =   Indigenous people                         C      =   covenant complied with
2      =   Financial performance/revenue                  9     =   Monmtorngn review, and                    CD    =   complied with after delay
generation from bencficiaries                            reporting                                 CP         complied with partially
3          Flow and utiliation ofproject                 10    =   Project implementation not                 NC         not complied with
funds                                                    covered by categones 1-9
4          Counterpart funding                           I I        Sectoral or cross-sectoral
5     =   Management aspects of the                                 budgetary or other resource
project or executing agency                              allocation
6          Environmental covenants                       12         Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7      =   Involuntaiy resettlement                                 regulatory/gintutional action
13         Other



- 30 -
Agreement    Covenant Type        Present
Section                          Status                                              Description of Covenant                                                    Comments
(d)                 10            CD       The Borrower shall establish three multidisciplinarv teams to conduct farning systems research with statfing and
responsibilities acceptable to the Association the first of such teams to be established not later than June 30, 1985
and two additional teams to be established not later than June 30, 1986.
3.03 (a)               10             C       Section 3.03 (a) The BorTower shall cause IAR and AAU to insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of
the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation.
(b)                 3              C       The Borrowxer shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusivelI
for the purposes of the Project.
3.04 (a)               9             CD)    TIhe Borrover shall cause IAR and AAU to funsish to the Association, promptlI upoII their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
mnaterial modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)                 9              CP      The Borrower: (i) shall cause tAR and AAUJ to maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the P'roject, and (iii) shall cause IAR and
AAU to furnish to the Association quarterly progress reports containing all such infonnation as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it.
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.



-31 -
Agreement    Covenant Type    Present
Section                        Status                                         Description of Covenant                                                   Comments
(d)                 9            C      Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or   JAR presented a review report to the
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower    ICR mission. It promised to send a
shall cause IAR to prepare and to furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the    confidential report to IDA on the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project.        project.
3.05 (a)              10           CD      By March 31 of each year during execution of the Project, the Borrower shall cause LAR to furmsh to the  Lately research programming was
Association for comment a preliminary report on its planned research program for the next Crop Year.  significantly improved, although
documentation flow is at times
erratic.
(b)                10            CD     By July 31 of each year during execution of the Project, the Borrower shall cause LAR to furnish to the
Association the final research program for the next Crop Year.
3.06                  10            C      The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project.
3.07                  13           CD      The Borrower shall cause LAR to undertake its best efforts to make arrangements for the placing of candidates  Numbers trained are impressive but
for higher degree fellowships not later than March 31, 1985 or such later date as the Association may agree.   the bulk of the training took place
only in the last 2 years.



- 32 -
Agreement      Covenant Type    Present
Section                         Status                                           Description of Covenant                                                    Comments
4.01 (a) (b)            I          CP/CD   The Borrower shall cause JAR and AUA: (i) to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordanec with    Accounting records were kept but
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial condition, including,    were heavily qualified by the
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which  external auditors. Certified copies
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; (ii) to retain,   of audited accounts have been
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other  invariably submitted late
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit  throughout. IDA supervision was
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure and to enable the Association's representatives to examine  not strong in this area.
such records; (iii) to have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iv) JAR to furnish to
the Association, by April 30, 1986 all the documents referred to below under (A) and (B) of this
subparagraph relating to lAR's fiscal year 1984 and, thereafter, as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of the fiscal year 1985 and for both JAR and AUA, not later than six months
after the end of the subsequent fiscal years: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested.
4.02 (a)               2              C      The Borrower shall cause JAR: to make provision for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice,
(b)                 5             CD      to carry out on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, and    There were delays in filling top
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent  management posts, particularly at
staff in adequate numbers, and                                                                        deputy General Manager level.
(c)                 10             C      at all times to operate and to maintain its facilities, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and engineering practices.



- 33 -
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable
Bank Operational Manual Statements
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised                Actual
Stage of Project Cycle
Weeks      US$       Weeks        US$       Weeks       US$
1. Through appraisal                                                      116.2
2. Appraisal - Board                                                       5.7
3. Board - effectiveness                                  .     ...       3.0 I/
4. Supervision            l          l                                    160.5
5. Completion                                       11.0       30.0       11.01'
TOTAL              I               = I                             296.4
Estimate



- 34 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project cycle  Month/    Number of    Days in          Specialized staff                                       Types of
year       persons        field         skills represented 1'   Performance ratin               problems3J
Implementation   Development
objectives 2'
Identification            12/81
Preparation               6/82
Appraisal                6-7/83         44/
Supervision 1             10/84         3             18               A, P, F                S                              I
Supervision 2             6/85          2             14                M, C                  U                              I
Supervision 3             4/86         n.a.           n.a.               n.a.                 U                              I
Supervision 4             12/86         3             15               A, R, M                U                             I, P
Supervision 5             10/87         4              8               A, E, P                S                              P
Supervision 6             2/88          2             17                A, C                  S              HS              P
Supervision 7             7/89          6             15            A, L, M, E, R             S              HS              P
Supervision 8             11/90         4             15               M, E, A                S               S             F,P
Supervision 9             2/92          6             14           E, A, P, M, T, S           S               S              F
Supervision 10            9/92          3             10               A, P, E                S               S            M, F, I
Supervision 11           2-3/93         4             14               A, E, R                S               S             I, M
Supervision 12            7/93          2             10                A, R                  S               S             I, M
Supervision 13            3/94          2             15                A, R                  S               S            I, M, F
Supervision 14            6/94           1             15                 A                   S               S              M
Project Completion        6/94           3             15              F, A, M
R = Rescarch. F = Extension. I = Institutional Development, C  Economics. M = Management; A  Agriculture; P = Procurement; F = Finance.
S  Satisfactory: U = Unsatisfactorn HS - HighlN Satisfactory
3   F  Funding. M = Management. P = Procurement; I = Institutional.
4   Assisted bv staff from CIMMYT, ICARDA, ICRISAT/SAFGRAD and ILCA.



Appendix A
Ethiopia
Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1521-ET)
Final Supervision and Implementation Completion Report Mission
Aide Mlemoire
June 14-24. 1994
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Mr. E Quisumbing, agriculturist of the World Bank, and
NMessrs. F. Bitanihirwe. L. Empig and NI. Janssens of the FAO Investment Center visited Ethiopia for the
final supervision of the project and preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The
mission made field visits to various research centers of the Institute of Agnrcultural Research (IAR) at
Holetta, Melkasa (Nazreth), Sheno, and the Alemava University of Agriculture (AUA) campus at
Alemava and its research center at Debre Zeit. Discussions wvere held on vanrous aspects of the project's
implementation, accomplishments and future plans with Dr. Tadesse Gebre Medhin and Getinet
Gebeyehu, General Manager and Deputy General Manager, department heads and research program
coordinators of IAR, Dr. Beyene Kebede, Science and Technology Commission, Ato Andualam Abebe,
MEEC Coordination Office for World Bank Projects, and Dr. Ephraim  Mamo and Dr. Mengistu
Hulluka, President and Academic Vice-President of AUA, Dr. Goshu Mekonnen, Research Vice
President, AUA, Dr. Ephraim Bechere, Director, AUA research station at Debre Zeit and their staff
2.     This aide memoire, which is subject to confirmation bv World Bank management, presents the
mission's final supervision findings. The aide memoire is also an Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) summarv. The ICR will be finalized upon receipt of additional information requested by the ICR
mission from IAR and AUA. The ICR *will provide a more detailed report of the accomplishments of the
various project components, including some indication of benefits and impacts which have resulted from
the project's activities. The highlights of the mission's findings and recommendations presented in this
aide memoire were discussed at a wvrap-up meeting chaired by Dr. Getinet Gebeyehu, Deputy General
Manager of IAR on June 24, 1994. The mission also informally debnrefed the FAO Resident mission on
its main observations and recommendations.
Summary of Findings and Recommendations
Crop Research Prop-rams
3.     Tef Breeding - During the period of the project one variety was released (DZ-Cr-255 or Ghibe).
The program provided training for one Ph.D. in agronomy and one M.Sc. in plant breedinglcvtogenetics.
The program also did a good job of characterizing the tef germplasm collection which is essential for
plant breeding work. Inter-specific hybridization was also started, however, this effort seems to be pre-
mature because wsithin-species germplasm has not yet been fully utilized.
4.     Maize Breeding - Eight cultivars were released by the program from 1986 to 1994 covering all
the growing areas. The maize breeding program, is one of the most prolific cultivar development
programs of IAR. The recently released variety BH660 should answer the need for a locally developed
hybrid to replace the Kenvan Hybrid H625. However, it is important for this program to develop a
"Comprehensive Breeding Sy stem" to attain efficiency and sustainability in the face of possible
breakdo,wn of resistance to blight and rust. It should incorporate stability indices in its selection and
evaluation trials. The program should also use artificial disease screening of breeding populations for
economically important diseases such as leaf blight.



2
S      Wheat Breeding. - This program has two components, durum in Debre Zeit and bread wheat in
Holetta which was later moved to Kulumsa. During the project period, the durum program released two
varieties and have eight more in the pipeline. The bread wheat program released two cultivars but IAR
informed the mission that a further three cultivars have been released. In addition, a number of cultivars
are in the national evaluation trials.  The mission would like to be provided with the names and
characteristics of these newly released cultivars, specially in respect to stem rust resistance. At the start
of the project, both programs had weak inputs from plant pathology. In bread wheat, this has been
improved by IAR and further strcngthened by CIMMYT's establishment of an international wheat
nursery.  However, in durum no artificial disease screening is incorporated in the selection program
because of lack of laboratorn facilities. There is a need to closely examine the bread wheat program
because there seems to be a high dependence on CIMMYT for source of parental genotypes. Also the
program was not able to avert the adverse consequences of the breakdow-n of stem rust resistance in the
variety Enkoy.
6.     Sorghum Breeding.- This program has two main breeding stations, one in Nazret under IAR and
another in Alemava under the AUA. The Nazret station was looted during the 1991 upheaval and has
lost a lot of its facilities. A total of eight cultivars was developed with one recent release for the lowland
areas.  The program  needs to evaluate its cultivar development strategy because of the growing
importance of diseases in the high and mid- altitude areas; and of Stnga in the lowvlands.
7.     Barlev Breeding. -  During the start of the project in 1986, the breeding and pathology
components were weak. Lately, natural disease screening procedures have been put in place in both
segregating populations and cultivars for release. The program also released three varieties (2 food and I
malting types) during the project period. The program also started work on the development of cultivars
for low input sustainable agnrculture (LISA) which is an important strategy in supplying the vanretal
needs of peasant farmers. However, it might be desirable to monitor closely genetic advance wVith the use
of natural disease screening to make sure that varietal development would be sustained.
8.     Pulse Breeding. - This program has t-wo components namely: the Faba bean and field pea work
coordinated in Holleta, and the chick pea and lentil work in Debre Zeit. Both crops in Holleta are headed
by breeders with Ph.D. degrees. The same is the case with the breeding program at Debre Zeit. All the
varieties of Faba bean released so far are for the highland environments.  Cultivars for the other
environments are presently being tested. One variety each was released for lentil and field pea in 1994,
and three more are scheduled to be released in 1995. There is an urgent need for the chick pea and lentil
work to disseminate of the newly released cultivars to the farmers. Work on tropical/lowland pulses was
done in Nazret and focused on the evaluation of local and imported germplasm in haricot, mung, and lima
beans; and cowpeas.
9.     Enset Program. - A modest effort to characterize the diseases affecting enset was initiated With
funding under PADEP and later on by ARP. The laboratory equipment and vehicles earmarked for the
enset program was not made available on time but it is to the credit of the program based at Awassa
Research Center that considerable basic information on enset pathogens was collected. The project also
supported the holding of an International Conference on Enset which brought together local scientists and
those from abroad to share their knowledge on this unique plant. The Minister of Agriculture , who is
chairman of IAR's Board has identified enset as a pnority crop for research. In this regard, IAR, MOA,
and other concerned institutions should start preparation of a research and development proposal on enset
for consideration by the World Bank and/or other multilateral and bilateral donors.



3
10.    Coffec -  Initial support to Jimnma coffee research center. particularlI to the laboratory
development and equipment, was later on taken over by the Government and EEC. About 10 new
varieties \%ere released,  processing techniques were refined and  major progress was achieved in
controlling Coffee Berry Disease.
11.    Horticulture - As from  1992, the horticulture research previously supported by FAO, was
supported by the project, including the provision of one FAO-TA. The program is centered at Nazret and
is a good example of the use of TA in capacity building of counterpart staff Improved varieties of
tomato. Irish potato, sweet potato and onions were introduced- two Capsicum vaneties were released. A
number of varicities of banana, mango, citrus, grapes, papavas and deciduous fruits (apples, peach and
plum) were introduced. Results are promising but further testing is still necessary.
Farming Systems Research (FSR)
12.    Under the project, IAR was to establish six teams of three specialists each or such other number
of specialists as would be agreed upon between IAR and IDA to carry out multilocational testung,
coordination of farm trials and formulation of extension recommendations. In addition, LAR and AUA
Nvere to establish three multidisciplinary teams to conduct farming systems research.  It seems that
farming systems research teams have been established at key LAR research stations. It was not clear
whether similar FSR teams have been established at AUA. The mission was informed that FSR teams
comprising members from various disciplines exist but their activities, with respect to on-farm testing
and venrfication of improved technologies which is carried out with counterparts from the extension
service, have been somewhat affected by the current regionalization and redeployment of extension staff.
It was not clear to the mission whether the all the nine teams were established and operational and
whether all of them performed FSR research as wvell as conduct multilocation trials, coordinated the on-
farm trials and formulated extension recommendations. It would be necessary for JAR and AUA to
provide IDA and the ICR preparation team With a full report on activities and accomplishments of this
particular activity.
Dryland Farming Research
13     Drvland farming research was supported under the project, including the provision of one FAO-
TA, as from 1992 at Nazret. The program has come up with recommendations as to dryland cultivation
techniques.
Farm Implements Research
14.    As from 1992, the project supported the ongoing research on farm implements at the Agricultural
Implements Research and Improvement Center (AIRIC) in Nazret which was earlier funded by UNDP.
Research was shifted towards improving traditional available farm implements e.g. the "Marasha" plough
was improved to a moldboard plough using construction techniques ready available to the village
blacksmith.
Irrigation/Drainage Research
15.    The project strengthened research efforts and physical facilities at Melka Werer mandated for
irrigation research after the FAO/UNDP project supporting the Soils & Water Management Division at
Melka Werer was discontinued in 1992. ARP provided some equipment and training to the division and
built a soil chemistry laboratory, although it is still to be completed and equipped. Technical assistance



4
of 18 months was converted into short-term consultancy. A full report on the accomplishments of this
componcnt should be submitted to IDA and the ICR mission for inclusion in the ICR
Improvement of Sheep Husbandry and Forage Production
16     Under this project, the Sheno station underwent major constructions and appropriate equipment
was provided. All construction was implemented with local counterpart funds. To a lesser degree
support was given to other stations involved with sheep research. The project provided 48 m/m of
technical assistance in support of this component. The project also provided support for improving
forage production. This work was carried out in Sheno and other research centers dealing with livestock.
The mission was unable to obtain much information on the accomplishments of both the sheep and forage
improvement program and wvould require this information from the ICR..
Technical Assistance
17.    About 430 rn/m of consultancies, mostly long term assignments, were provided under the project
out of the 433 n/rn projected at appraisal. The consultancies covered a wide range of expertise including
animal husbandry, improvement of tef, maize, enset, wheat and horticulture as well as dryland farming
and planning. Technical assistance (TA) was considered generally verv satisfactory. Most researchers
want some form of technical assistance to continue. The benefit of TA was however reduced because of
lack of appropnrate counterparts. In future, the need for counterparts though should be stressed in order
to make TA more profitable for the institution.
Research/Extension Linkages
18.    Under the project, research/extension liaison units (committees) or RELCs were to be created
and operationalized at Holleta, Nazret, Awasa, Jima, Bako and Gojam/Gonder.  LAR informed the
mission that such RELCs have been established and have operated well.. Mixed reports have been
received wvith regard to the effectiveness of RELCs. Some seem to function better than others. The
mission was further informed by research center staff that lately, the regionalization of extension has had
adverse impact on the activities of the RELCs. The research centers are awaiting completion of the
redeployment of extension workers to their areas so that the appropriate representatives of extension to
the RELCs can be identified. These reports should be verified. It would be important for IAR to assess
the operations of RELCs so that the necessary steps can be taken to improve their effectiveness. This
assessment would determine whether the concept of RELCs as a mechanism for facilitating effective RJE
linkages is appropriate for Ethiopia, and if not, what would be more appropnate.  A report on the
expenences of the IAR and AUA in the operations of the RELCs and any recommendations for their
improvement should be submitted to IDA and the ICR preparation mission so that this activity and
lessons learned can be properly and adequately reflected in the final ICR of the project.
Training
19.    Higher degree studies. The project provided for 27 fellowships for higher degree studies of
IAR's staff overseas and in Ethiopia (Alemaya and Addis Ababa University). By 1990, nine had
completed M.Sc. degree and seven have completed the Ph.D. degree abroad. Also by 1990, 21 have
completed their M.SC. degree from local universities, and four still to complete their studies. Three
Ph.D. participants studying abroad are overdue and will not be receiving project support after June 30,
1994. Of these participants, four M.SC. and two Ph.D. graduates did not join LAR although they are
reportedly in the country.  During the last year of the project, with the agreement of the IDA, 21



3
additional participants were sent for NI.Sc. training in Europe since a substantial amount of training
ftinds \%as still available.  However, since IAR did not have time to prepare a training plan, and
considering the limited time left in the project, IDA had to rely heavily on the assurances of IAR that
such training werc urgently needed. It is, therefore, extremely necessary for IAR to determine whether
the training was appropriate, adequate, beneficial (to national research programs), and cost effective.
Unless this information is provided, it would be difficult for IDA to support future training.
20.    Short-terrn training. workshops and study tours.  The project also provided for short term
training of 75 staff members of IAR at international research centers and participation in seninars and
workshops. By 1993, 48 IAR staff have been provided short term training * hile 9 have been able to
participate in international conferences and/or workshops. In 1994, an additional 20 participants were
provided short-terrn training and 28 IAR staff participated in international workshops and study tours.
As in the degree training program, IAR should make an assessment of the short-term training program,
particularly the 6-months skills upgrading program provided to M.Sc. graduates from local universities.
The lessons learned would be invaluable in designing more efficient and cost-effective short-term training
programs in the future.
Strengthening Alemaya University
21.    The project provided support for post-graduate training, including the construction of laboratory
and classroom space, ard acquisition of equipment at the Alemaya campus and at the research center in
Debre Zeit. This component vas adversely affected by the lack of control by Alemaya University over
the civil works component of the project. The responsibility was given to the Higher Education Main
Department of the Ministry of Education. Lack of adequate consultation between Alemaya officials and
HEMD on the intended use of the facilities being constructed resulted in buildings which had countless
flaws. Twenty eight IAR staff were trained to the MSc. level at AUA. Alemaya reported that the
training seriously strained the financial and human resources of the university since the project did not
did not provide funding support to Alemava for this training. The delay in acquiring the laboratory
equipment also adversely affected the implementation of research programs.
Financial Mana2ement
22.    Project Costs and Financing. Actual project costs are estimated to be in the region of US 24.5
million. This is 24% lower than the appraisal estimate of US$ 32 million because of savings on TA, and
later, the devaluation of the local currency against the US dollar and other major currencies. IDA's
contrbution to date is estimated to be US$21.5 million (including US$0.7 million of withdrawal
applications submitted by LJR but not yet paid and excluding around UD$0.9 million, for which
applications are still to be submitted) compared to US$ 22 million originally agreed. The Government's
contribution is expected to be about US$3 million as compared to US$10 million agreed at negotiations.
In all likelihood, Government's contribution X as higher than this but has been understated due to
erroneous accounting figures which also reported IDA's contribution to be only US$ 17 million instead of
US$2 1.5 million as indicated above. IAR should, therefore, revisit its financial records to give IDA and
the ICR mission an accurate picture on project costs and financing. It was noted that about $7.5 rnillion
or 30% of total IDA disbursements took place in the last two years of the project.
23.    Audit Reports. The project is in default of the covenants relating to the audit of financial
accounts. The Project Accounts (included but separately identified in the main LAR accounts) for
1992/93 are overdue by about 6 months. It is understood that they have been submitted to the external



6
auditor but his report is not expected until after one month at the earliest. The audited accounts of the
Special Account, due by end December 1993, were handed to the mission during it's current visit.
24.    The IAR accounts for 1991/92 were substantially qualified by the external auditor in key areas
including debtors (receivables), creditors (payables), stocks (inventories) and cash. According to the
auditor's report, the goods in transit account had not been reconciled and the debtors' figure wvas
overstated bv about Br 9.0 million w%hile that of the creditors was overstated bv about Br 2.4 million.
Furthermore, the creditors ledger did not reconcile by about Br 0.4 million. The cash balances did not
reconcile by almost Br 1.0 million while a further Br 0.4 million credit balance could not be explained.
IAR's current management, which is fairly new, said these matters relate to a period before they took
office and, according to the accounts department, were not rectified in the course of 1992/93 and 1993/94
because of staff shortages and other pressing duties.
25.    It is, therefore, highly likely that the subsequent years' audited accounts wIll also be qualified for
similar reasons. IAR management will, however, have to urgently take on this problem and clear up the
books so as not to continue being saddled by the errors of the past. This will involve a thorough scrutiny
of the balances involved so as to identify those which require write off or those which require further
pursuit or legal action. Given that this is likely to be a lengthy task for which TAR currently has no
human resources, it may be advisable to engage a local firm of accountants to carry out the task speedilv.
TAR could also use the opportunity to ask the consultants to review its current accounting system, in
particular, whether the existing internal controls are adequate and whether the system is able to give
management timely and well ordered management information for decision making.
Procurement
26.   IAR indicated that IDA's procurement procedures were too cumbersome. Nevertheless, the
project procured 116 vehicles for TAR as compared to 98 estimated at appraisal. A further 4 vehicles
have been ordered. The project also acquired 10 vehicles for AUA which is one less than the appraisal
estimate. A total of 8 vehicles acquired by the project for [AR and 2 for AUA have been either destroyed
or stolen. The vehicles have greatly facilitated mobility by research personnel in the course of their work.
The project also bought a large number of scientific research, office and field equipment for IAR and
AUA. In most cases the quantities bought were either equal or in excess of appraisal targets. The
equipment has greatly assisted researchers in improving the quality and horizons of their work. Further
equipment has been ordered, but like vehicles, payment is awaited before deliveries can be made. The
IAR and AUA should prepare an inventory of these equipment and vehicles, showing their distribution by
research center and program to IDA/FAO by July 15, 1994, for inclusion in the Project's ICR. The
mission noted that TAR had significantly improved the volume of procurement during the last years of the
project. The LAR and AUA should prepare an inventory of these equipment and vehicles, showing their
distribution by research center and program to IDA/FAO by July 15, 1994, for inclusion in the Project's
ICR.
Civil Works
27.    The project's implementation of the civil works component is commendable, in spite of serious
problems in availability of construction materials in the local market. With the exception of the food
science building and greenhouse at LAR-HQ, all other major construction works were completed. The
completed works included the TAR Headquarters complex consisting of offices, an auditorium, library,
cafeteria, stores and workshops and a tarmac access road connecting LAR-HQ to the main road. At the
research stations, the project constructed 27 staff houses < appraisal 28>; 11 office rooms <appraisal



7
13>. 8 laboratories and stores <appraisal 7>. and 8 greenhouses and other buildings. At AUA, the
project constructed 4 laboratory buildings. a seed store and a greenhouse: a library extension wing, and
stores, all in accordance xvith targets. The workshop included at appraisal was not constructed at the
main campus of AUA and the funds were used instead to construct a second floor for the
laboratory/office building. The building facilities have greatly improved the quality of office. residential
and laboratory and librarv at IAR and AUA.  IAR informed the mission that the Government is
committed to provide the necessarv funds for the completion of these buildings. The mission requested
IAR and AUA to provide a listing of all civil works carried out under the project classified by center.
Project Sustainability and Future Outlook
28.    The project has given IAR and AUA a head-start in the form of physical infrastructure, training
and transportation. Within the context of Government's continued commitment to agricultural research
and its ability to find local funds to fund it, these activities are sustainable. There will, however, be a
need for external support - largely for activities requiring foreign exchange - to finance further external
training as and when required, acquisition of new and replacement of old vehicles and equipment, TA for
specialized skills, and documents, journals and books which are essential to maintain the academic
integnty of IAR and AUA as centres of excellence in the country. JAR will also have to take steps to
maintain its key research personnel who because of unfavourable conditions of service are or will be
lured to more lucrative jobs in the country or outside thus robbing JAR of its most precious asset. We
understand that management has submitted to higher authorities a proposal to improve the remuneration
and career prospects of JAR staff.
29.    With regard to the breeding programs, the concept of sustainability has to be taken into
consideration in order to ensure that a particular breeding program will continually produce
agronomically superior cultivars than the current ones. The lack of basic information on the components
of genotvpe x environment interactions and stabilitv causes delay in decision for release of varieties. For
IAR the ingredients that are needed to attain sustainability in its crop breeding programs are: (i)
collection, characterization and utilization of the crop's germplasm pool (GP), (ii) development of a wide
genetic-based breeding population with high level of honzontal resistance to economically important
diseases, (iii) development of parental materials using a "Comprehensive Breeding System" for cross
fertilizing crops, and (iv) improvement of the efficiency and effectiveness of the variety testing and
release scheme.
IDA Performance
30.    IDA's performance throughout the life of the project was satisfactory, with the exception of the
appraisal stage when there was a delay in Government and IDA reaching agreement on the extent to
which technical assistance could be used. During implementation, IDA actively supervised the project at
regular intervals except during the climax of the war when missions could not be mounted. In all, 13
supervision missions visited the project and Government found their input useful both technically and
administratively for facilitating procurement, disbursement, training, and the procurement of technical
assistance.
Borrower Performance
3 1.   The Government's performance was creditable during most of the project life, although initially,
project implementation was slow due to delays in procurement, construction, recruitment of TA staff, and
in finalising the training program. The Government ensured that the project received adequate



8
counterpart funds. It generally complied with the major covenants of the Development Credit Agreement,
the exception being those relating to audit (audit reports were invariably submitted late to IDA and the
1992/93 audit report on the Project Account is currently overdue). There were also delays in filling
senior management posts, particularly at the Deputy General Manager (DGM) level, which resulted in an
over-burdened chief executive. After the war in 1991, there were changes in senior management level but
again there were lengthy delays in filling the DGM posts which adversely affected the management's
capabilities of the institute, and delayed the execution of training component, the procurement of
equipment and vehicles. The Government's performance in implementing the civil works component was
commendable and was achieved in spite of the civil strife that was raging at that time.
Lessons Learned
32     The following are the major lessons learned from implementing this project: (i) institutional
strengthening is a long term process which cannot be achieved within a lifetime of a single project, (ii)
implementing institutions should be well informed on the procedures for the disbursement and
procurement (of goods, works and services) being followed by IDA; if this is not the case, appropriate
steps should be taken to train the staff in these procedures; (iii) institutions involved in the
implementation of the project, e.g. research centers, should be given financial authority to manage the
resources allocated for the components they are assigned to implement, (iv) to minimize implementation
delays, bid documents for procurement of goods, works and services should be discussed and finalized
during the project's appraisal, (v) a well designed training plan, based on the needs for implementing
project activities, including support activities like procurement, financial management, project monitoring
and evaluation, should be prepared and agreed with IDA during appraisal, and (vi) procurement of
technical assistance should be synchronized with equipment procurement, and a detailed work program
should be prepared in advance, including the assignrment of full-time counterpart(s) who will be involved.
Next Steps
33.    On return to Rome, the FAO/CP mission will prepare a draft ICR to be submitted to IDA by the
end of July 1994. In the meantime, the Government, through IAR Will submit to IDA its own assessment
of the project. As agreed, [AR will provide IDA and the ICR mission the additional information
requested above not later than July 15, 1994.



9
Ethiopia
Agricultural Research Project
List of Officials Met
Ministry of Agriculture
1     Ato Ghebre Medhin Belayv Head, Planning Department
2.     Ato Debela Dinka, Chairman, Extension Task Force
3.     Ato Belay, Head of Extension
Institute of Agricultural Research
1.     Dr. Tadesse Gebre Medhin, General Manager
2.     Dr. Getenet Gebehevu, Deputy General Manager-Research
3.     Ato Tesfaye Zegeye, Deputy General Manager-Administration
4.     Dr. Seifu Ketema, Tef Research Coordinator
5.     Dr. Aberra Debela, Acting Center Director, Melkasa
6.     Ato Fnrew Kelemu, Coordinator, AIRIC
7.     Dr. Seifu Gebre Mariam, Coordinator, Horticulture Research Program
8.     Wzo. Tegist Rada, Planning Officer, IAR-HQ
9.     Ato Abebe Kirub, Acting Head, Training Department
10.    Ato Solomon Tefera, Head, Engineering Department
11.    Dr. M. S. Reddy, Dryland Agronomist consultant (FAO
12.    Dr. E. Herath, Horticulturist consultant (FAO)
13.    Dr. K. Raman, Planning and Project Preparation Consultant
14.    Mr. C. Padolina, Agricultural Engineer, AIRIC Consultant
15.    Dr. John Twaites, Sheep Breeding Consultant
16.    Ato Lemma Kassaye, Agricultural Engineering Department
17.    Ato Lemma Zewdie, Coordinator, Drvland Farming Research Program
18.    Ato. Yitbarek Semfane, Pathologist, Holleta
19.    Ato. Berhane Awoke, Narlev Breeder, Holetta
20.    Dr. Asfew Telaye, Pulse Breeder & Coordinator-Highland Pulses Program, Holetta
21.    Dr. Yohanes Degago, Pea Breeder, Holleta
22.    Dr. Benti Tolosa, Maize Breeder & Coordinator Maize Program, Bako
23.    Ato. Gurum Emru, Financial Officer, IAR-HQ
24.    Ato Amaha Sebsebe, Center Director, Sheno
25.    Ato Sisay Lemma, Research Officer, Sheno
26.    Wzt. Fetien Abay, Research Officer, Mequele
27.    Ato Amare Belay, Center Director, Mequele
Alemava University of Agriculture
1.     Dr. Ephraim Mamo, President
2.     Dr. Mengistu Hulluka, Academic Vice-President
3.     Dr. Goshu Mekonnen, Research Vice President
4.     Dr. Habtamu Telleke, Alemaya Research Center
5.     Dr. Ephraim Bechere, Director, Debre Zeit Research Center
6.     Ato Tesfaye Beshah, Research Coordinator



l0
7.     Ato Shimelis W/Hawariat, Planning Officer
8      Ato Berhanu Adinew. Assistant Planning Officer
9.     Dr. Geletu Bejiga, Chickpea & Lentil Breeder, Debre Zeit
10.    Dr, Hailu Bechere, Tef Breeder, Debrc Zeit
Other Agencies
I1.    Dr. Bevene Kebede, Food & Agriculture Department, Science &Technology Commision
2.     Dr. Ingo Loerbroks, Country Representative, FAO
3.     Ms. Marjorie Scott-Jones, Program Officer, FAO
4.     Mr. L. Molenaar, Netherlands Embassy
5.     Dr. Joop van Leur, Barley Pathologist, ICARDA
6.     Dr. M. Saleem, Coordinator, Vertisols Research Program, ILCA
7.     Dr. Osman S. Abdalla, Plant Breeder/Pathologist, CIMMYT
8.     Dr. Andualam Abebe, WB Coordination Office, MEEC
9.     Mr. Frank Kent, EU (EC)
10.    Dr. D. Tanner, Agronomist, CIMMYT
I1.    Mr. Martin Hanratty, Agriculture Officer, USAID
amjun94.w2
July 18, 1994



IBRD 17592R1
SAUDI ARABiA               400                            440
p  /                                                    ETHIOPIA
REP. O                             RESEARCH FACILITIES
SUDAN                        YEMEN                      AND COOPERATING INSTITUTIONS
D BOUTI
b.                                                                    National Capital / IAR Headquarters
Research Stations
6    Substations                     200
20                                 Q    IAR /MOA  Joint Sites
a    Projected New Research Station
ZAIRE    J ,9'tr J                                                                    o    Cooperating Research Institutions
g  g   /  KENYA                                                     zl,   Phytopathological Laboratory
Isohyet, mm.
RWA,\tA ]                                                                                  \ .  1500 meter contour line
Administrative Reg on Boundar es
Tlernm --d ..... .36'                                   J                                International Boundaries
4  0     tOO    200    300 KILOMETERS
,,,j,j0    0oo        200 MILES
16'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
I           F t
s  /                            REP. OF
t ttx  s,,,S  @YEMEN
S U D A N                  j   '    
.J     /             4, (CD
120  1                  0                    I,                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120-
-, ebrbo"    0                  DJIBOUTI
I           'I '                      I
.{ 0~douu, $Qk~,    ~-Adds Abab,                 1500
80  G-\,beo         Agqpo                                                          4                                  8
Top i                          O A- N                                                           /t
4:                                                                                                                   4' |D-desso  Grnch/ bA-:10
UGANDA                    360    K  E  N   Y  A            400                               440
DECEMBER 1994



