CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 369 TH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Education Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 11, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 369 TH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Education Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 11, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 1973, between KINGDOM OF THAILAND
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS (B) The Project will be carried out:
(i)        by the Borrower's departments and agencies; and
(ii)        by  Prince  of Songkla University   (hereinafter called  the
University), with the Borrower's assistance.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General.Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "College of Education" means an institution established, pursuant to
the Borrower's Act of September 16, 1954, for the purpose of providing training
for teachers.


﻿4
(b)   "Ministry of Education" means the Borrower's ministry in charge of
education.
(c)   "university" means the Prince of Songkla University established
pursuant to the Borrower's Prince of Songkla University Act B.E. 2511, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
(d)   "Ministry of Education Project" means the part of the Project which
is to be carried out by the Ministry of Education, as described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
(e)   "University Project" means the part of the Project which is to be
carried out by the University, as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(f)   "NCDC"    means the National Curriculum    Development Center,
established within the Ministry of Education for educational research, publication
and distribution of textbooks and the development and evaluation of curricula.
(g)   "IPTST" means the Institute for the Promotion of the Teaching of
Science and Technology, a corporation established pursuant to an announcement
made by the National Executive Council of the Borrower on January 16, 1972.
(h)   "Ministry of Education Project Unit" means the unit referred to in
Section 3.11 of this Agreement.
(i)   "Ministry of Education Project Director" means the project director
referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement and whose specific functions and
responsibilities are described in paragraph 2(a) of Schedue 4 to this Agreement.
(j)   "Ministry of Education Project Architect" means the project architect
referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement and whose specific functions and
responsibilities are described in paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(k)   "Ministry of Education Project Procurement Officer" means the
procurement officer referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement.
(1)   "University Project Unit" means the unit referred to in Section 3.12
of this Agreement.
(m)   "University Project Director" means the project director referred to
in Section 3.12 of this Agreement and whose functions and responsibilities are
described in paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿5
(n)   "Advisor to the University Project Director" means the advisor referred
to in Section 3.12 of this Agreement and whose specific functions and
responsibilities are described in paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(o)   "University Project Architect" means the project architect referred to
in Section 3.12 of this Agreement and whose specific functions and responsibilities
are described in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(p)   "Guidelines for Procurement" means the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972,
as revised in October 1972.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the tens
and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nineteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($19,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed hereunder;
provided, however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for Parts (A)(I, II and III)
and (B)I of the Project and to be tinanced out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿6
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1983 and ending January 1, 2023, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America. is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Ministry of Education Project
through the Ministry of Education and cause the University Project to be carried
out by the University with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, educational, architectural and engineering
practices, and with due regard to economy, and shall provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of the
design of buildings and other facilities included in the Project and in the supervision
of the construction works included in the Project, the Borrower shall employ or
cause to be employed architects and engineers acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall submit or cause to be submitted to the Association
for approval, promptly upon their preparation, the preliminary architectural
drawings and the outline of the specifications for the buildings and facilities
included in the Project.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts (A)I and (B)I of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ or cause to be employed contractors acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿7
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the contract documents, and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of
the facilities included in the Project and shall, if requested by the Association,
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)   within nine months of the date of this Agreement (or such other time
limit as the Borrower and the Association shall mutually agree), (i) prepare and
commence an accelerated training program for teacher trainers in the College of
Education, to provide the elementary teacher training colleges included in the
Ministry of Education Project with an adequate number of qualified teachers and,
concurrently, submit such training program to the Association for comments, and


﻿8
(ii) prepare and commence, in its university faculties of education and the College
of Education, a program of pre-service and in-service courses to train and upgrade
science and practical subjects teachers for the secondary schools included in the
Ministry of Education Project and, concurrently, submit such program to the
Association for comments; and
(b)   cause the University to submit to the Association for comments, within
one year of the date of this Agreement (or such other time limit as the Borrower
and the Association shall agree), a plan for the development of the University.
Section 3.08. (a) Within one year of the date of this Agreement (or such
other time limit as the Borrower and the Association shall agree), the Borrower
shall submit to the Association for its comments (i) a plan of operation for NCDC
(including inter alia (1) proposals for the publication and distribution of textbooks
and (2) a study of the possibility of increasing the number of school days and
shortening the primary cycle) and (ii) a plan for combining NCDC and IPTST
within the framework of one organization.
(b)   Not later than December 31, 1977 (or such other date as the Borrower
and the Association shall agree), the Borrower shall take all necessary action to
combine NCDC and IPTST within the framework of one organization.
Section 3.09. (a) Not later than June 1, 1973 (or such other date as the
Borrower and the Association shall agree), the Borrower shall, in order to carry
out the fellowship programs included in Parts (A)IV and (B)II of the Project, cause
the Ministry of Education Project Unit and the University Project Unit respectively
to prepare detailed plans of implementation for such programs and submit them
to the Association for comments.
(b)   Prior to the award of fellowships under the fellowship program referred
to in the foregoing paragraph, the Borrower shall cause the Ministry of Education
Project Unit and the University Project Unit respectively to agree with the
Association on (i) the proposed recipients for such felliwships, (ii) the institutions
to be used for the training of such recipients and (iii) the timetable for the
implementation of the several phases of such training.
Section 3.10. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts (A)IV
and (B)II of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
specialists acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.


﻿9
(b)   During the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall appoint
or cause to be appointed, on a full-time basis, qualified and experienced
counterparts to the specialists referred to in the foregoing paragraph.
Section 3.11. (a) For the purpose of the Ministry of Education Project the
Borrower shall establish within the Ministry of Education and, thereafter, maintain
a unit whose responsibilities are set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(b)   For the purpose of staffing the Ministry of Education Project Unit
the Borrower shall (i) employ a project director acceptable to the Association,
(ii) employ a project architect and a procurement officer, each on a full-time basis
and acceptable to the Association and (iii) provide such unit with a qualified and
experienced accountant and the technical, administrative and secretarial personnel
required for the satisfactory operation of such unit.
Section 3.12. (a) For the purpose of the University Project the Borrower
shall cause the University to establish and, thereafter, maintain a unit whose
responsibilities are set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)   For the purpose of staffing the University Project Unit the Borrower
shall cause the University to (i) employ a project director, a project architect and
an advisor to such project director acceptable to the Association and upon terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association and (ii) provide such unit with a
qualified and experienced accountant, as and when needed, and the technical,
administrative and secretarial personnel required for the satisfactory operation of
such unit.
(c)   The Borrower shall employ the Advisor to the University Project
Director within six months of the date of this Agreement (or such other time
limit as the Borrower and the Association shall agree).
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the University and the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿10
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings and equipment of
the educational institutions included in the Project to be adequately maintained,
(ii) cause all necessary renewals and repairs to be made thereof and (iii) provide
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the educational institutions included
in the Project to be staffed at all times with experienced and qualified personnel
in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project, of the University and the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, of the University and the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the


﻿accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
(b)   Without any limitation upon the generality of the foregoing the
Borrower shall cause the University to enable the Association's accredited
representatives to examine all sites, works, properties and equipment of the
University and any relevant records and documents for purposes related to the
Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection
with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal, and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.


﻿12
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that the Borrower's Prince of
Songkla University Act B.E. 2511 shall have been materially amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived, or shall cease to be enforced, so as to materially
and adversely affect the carrying out of the University Project.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section
7.02 of this Agreement shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of
the General Conditions, namely, that:
(a)   the Borrower shall have taken all appropriate measures to establish
the Ministry of Education Project Unit;
(b)   the Borrower shall have appointed the Ministry of Education Project
Director, the Ministry of Education Project Achitect and the Ministry of Education
Project Procurement Officer;
(c)   the University shall have taken all appropriate measures to establish
the University Project Unit; and
(d)   the University shall have appointed the University Project Director and
the University Project Architect.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the'
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that:
(a)   the Ministry of Education Project Unit has been duly and validly
established under the laws of the Borrower; and
(b)   the University Project Unit has been duly and validly established under
the laws of the Borrower, including the relevant provisions of the Borrower's Prince
of Songkla University Act B.E. 2511.


﻿13
Section 8.03. The date August 9, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. (a) The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on a date 30
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
(b)  The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.11 and 3.12 of this
Agreement shall case and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall
terminate or on a date 6 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2
Thailand
Cable address:
MINANCE
Bangkok
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿14
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names an6 to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ A. Panyarachun
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mervyn L.. Weiner
Director, Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Civil Works and                     8,650,000        40% of total
Professional Fees                                    expenditures
(a)  Ministry of        8,345,000
Education
Project
(b)  University           305,000
Project
II.  Equipment and                       5,450,000
Furniture
(a)  Ministry of        4,730,000
Education
Project
(i)       imported                              100% of foreign
directly                             expenditures
(ii)       manufactured                         100% of total
locally                              expenditures
ex-factory
(iii)     imported but                         65%- of total
locally                              expenditures
procured
(b)  University           720,000
Project
(i)       imported                              100% of foreign
directly                             expenditures


﻿Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(ii)       manufactured                           100% of total
locally                                expenditures
ex-factory
(iii)      imported but                           65% of total
locally                                expenditures
procured
III.  Specialists' Services                2,650,000         100% of foreign
and Fellowships                                        expenditures
(a)  Ministry of         2,050,000
Education
Project
(b)  University            600,000
Project
IV.   Unallocated                          2,750,000
TOTAL          19,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   term   "foreign  expenditures"   means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from the territories, and in the currency of any
country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term   "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, for goods produced in, or services supplied from the territories of
the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:


﻿17
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
he Association under this Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credi as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following two parts:
Part (A).   Ministry of Education Project
I           The site development for, and the construction, furnishing and
equipping of:
(a)   7   new    elementary   teacher  training  colleges  (including
demonstration schools);
(b)   the National Curriculum    Development Center referred to in
paragraph (f) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement; and
(c)   extensions to 21 secondary schools.
II          The provision of furniture and equipment for the existing part
of the 21 secondary schools referred to in Part (A) I (c) above
and another 11 secondary schools.
III         The provision of equipment for 3 elementary teacher training
colleges.
IV          The provision    of technical assistance to the Ministry     of
Education consisting of (i) specialists' services and (ii)
fellowships, which shall be as set forth in Annex B to this
Schedule, subject to modification by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
Part (B).    University Project
I           The site development for, and the construction, furnishing and
equipping of extensions to the Faculty of Science of the
University.
II          The provision of technical assistance to the University consisting
of (i) specialists services and (ii) fellowships, which shall be as
set forth in Annex B to this Schedule, subject to modification
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿19
The location and the planned capicities of the institutions included in Parts
(A)(I, II and III) and (B)I of this Schedule and the approximate areas of the physical
facilities to be constructed at each of the institutions included in Parts (A)I and
(B)I of this Schedule, shall be as set forth in Annex A to this Schedule, subject
to modification by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
The construction, furnishing and equipping content of the Project is expected
to be completed by June 30, 1977, and the specialists' services and fellowships
content by December 31, 1977.


﻿20
ANNEX A
Physical Facilities in Parts (A)(I, II and III)
and (B)I of the Project
Approximate
Teaching Staff   Gross Areas
Student Places    Boarding Places    Housing Units     of New
Institutions                                                                  Construction
Additional   Total                 Additional    Total   (sq. meters)
Part (A) I Minis-
try of Education
Project
(a)  7 Elementary
Teacher
Training
Colleges
(including
Demonstra-
tion
Schools)
(1)  Chieng Rai       2,000       2,000       1,200           62        62     35,350
(2)  Kam Phang Phet   2,000       2,000       1,200           62        62     35,350
(3)  Loey             2,000       2,000       1,200           62        62     35,350
(4)  Surin            2,000       2,000       1,200           62        62     35,350
(5)  Phetchaboon      2,000       2,000       1,200           62        62     35,350
(6)  Chantaburi       2,000       2,000       1,200           62        62     35,350
(7)  Surat Thani      2,000       2,000       1,200           62        62     35,350
Sub-Total        14,000     14,000       8,400          434       434    247,450
(b)  National
Curriculum
Development
Center             150         150                                         4,900
(c)  Extensions to
21 Secondary
Schools
(1)  Satri
Nonthaburi         400       2,800                       14        18      3,770
(2)  Samutprakarn       880       2,640                       14        17      6,210
(3)  Rayong
Wittayakom         760       2,120                       13        19      5,460
(4)  Chomsurang
Upatham            520       1,680                        3        13      5,360
(5)  Singburi
Wittayakom         520       2,240                        8        17      4,760
(6)  Surat Thani      1,280       2,520                       13        19      4,700
(7)  Sriyaphai          600       2,000                       10        15      5,510
(8)  Tung Song          520       1,280                        4        11      2,510
(9)  Benjamara-
chuthit            920       2,440                       11        18      5,570
(10) Nari Nukun         560       1,680                        8        13      4,130
(11) Mattayom
Bangbaw            600       1,200                       11        11      5,150


﻿21
Approximate
Teaching Staff   Gross Areas
Student Places     Boarding Places    Housing Units      of New
Institutions                                                                    Constuction
Additional    Total                 Additional     Total  (sq. meters)
(12) Benjana-
theputhit          600        2,280                       12        18       6,510
(13) Satri
Kanchanaburi       360         960                         4         8       2,500
(14) Srisongrak
Wittaya            320          720                        2         6       2,440
(15) Rahtborika
Nukroh             800        1,840                       10        14       6,250
(16) Yangtalad
Wittayakom         320          640                        2         6       2,440
(17) Phon Thong
Pattana
Wittaya            560          960                        4         8       3,510
(18) Prasert
Wittayakarn        320          720                        1         6       2,640
(19) Ranode
Wittaya            640        1,440                       11        13       3,450
(20) Photaram           400        1,440                       12         13      3,710
(21) Damnern
Saduak             560        1,440                       10        13       4,120
Sub-Total        12,440      35,040                      177       276      90,700
Part (A) II
Ministry of
Education
Project
The existing
part of the 21
Secondary
Schools listed
above in Part
(A) I (c) and
another 11
Secondary
Schools as
listed below
(1)  Wat Khema
Pirataram          560        2,720
(2)  Bangpakong         280          960
(3)  Chumpae
Suksa              240          560
(4) Tatun
Prachasern
Wittaya            240          680
(5)  Muangphon
Suksa              280          720
(6)  Phanphrao           280         720
(7)  Pua                 280         720
(8)  Mae Taeng           280         960
(9)  Chae Hom
Wittaya            440          960


﻿22
Approximate
Teaching Staff     Gross Areas
Student Places      Boarding Places      Housing Units       of New
Institutions                                                                          Construction
Additional     Total                  Additional      Total    (sq. meters)
(10) Ladyao               200          720
(11) Hoiyod               360          960
Sub-Total          3,440       10,680
Part (A) III
Ministry of
Education
Project
Three
Elementary
Teacher
Training
Colleges
(1)  Lampang                          2,000
(2)  Buriram                          2,000
(3)  Phuket                           2,000
Sub-total                       6,000
Part (B) I
University
Project
Faculty of
Science of
the
University         1,900        2,500                                              9,500


﻿23
ANNEX B
Specialist Services and Fellowships
for Parts (A)IV and (B)II of the Project
Part (A)IV       Ministry of Education Project
Approximate
Man-Years
1.   Specialists' Services
(a)   Support for the Ministry of Education
Project Unit                                              3
(b)   Educational Radio and Television Study                       5-1/2
(c)   Teacher Training Specialists                                  20
(d)   Secondary Education Specialists                                6
(e)   Curriculum Development Group                                10-1/2
Total            45
2.    Fellowships to be administered by the
Ministry of Education for Graduate
Studies Overseas in the fields of
Curriculum Development, Teacher
Training, Secondary Education and
Educational Radio and Television                                   154
Part (B)II       University Project
1.   Specialists' Services
(a)        Development Coordinator for                               4
the University
(b)        Specialists for the Faculty                            12-1/2
of Science of the University
Total          16-1/2
2.    Fellowships to be administered by the
University for Graduate Studies Overseas
in Science                                                          30


﻿24
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, the following supplementary
provisions shall be applied with respect to the procurement of the goods and services
required for the Project:
A.    Contracts for Civil Works included in Category I of the table set out in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
1.    The civil works included in the Project shall be grouped to form economic
bid packages, and only prequalified contractors shall be included on the tender
lists.
2.    Before advertising the procedure for the prequalification of contractors for
the tender list, the Borrower shall forward to the Association for its comments
details of the procedure and advertising coverage proposed, together with the draft
prequalification invitation notices and shall introduce such modifications as the
Association shall reasonably request.
3.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall forward to the Association for its
approval:
(a)   the proposed tender list of prequalified contractors, together with an
evaluation of their qualifications and an explanation for the exclusion of any
applicant and shall make such additions to or deletions from the list as the
Association shall reasonably request;
(b)   a list of all civil works contracts to be let, indicating the grouping
of works proposed, the estimated value of each contract and the forecast timetable
for awards; and
(c)   drafts of bid documents, invitations to bid and contracts.
The invitations to bid should state inter alia that the bidder may submit
bids in respect of any one civil works item in a group, or in respect of all civil
works items, or of any combination thereof, the bids therefor to be opened
simultaneously, and that the Borrower shall have the option of awarding separate
contracts for individual civil works items or any combination thereof, or one
contract for all civil works items in a group.


﻿25
4.    After bids have been received and evaluated, and before a final decision on
the award is made, the Borrower shall inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award and justification for any recommended award to other than the lowest
qualified bidder. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it
has any objection to the intended award and shall state the reasons for any such
objection it may have.
5.    If a contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable objection,
or if it is not consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement or with the provisions
of this Schedule, or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures
thereunder shall be financed out of the Credit.
6.    As soon as a contract has been awarded, and before the submission of the
first application for withdrawal in respect of such contract, the Borrower shall
send a certified copy thereof to the Association.
7.    The Borrower shall request the Association's approval for any proposed
change in a contract involving a price increase of 10% or more of the original
contract price or of US$50,000 equivalent, whichever is less, and shall explain
the reasons for the proposed change.
B.    Contracts for goods included in Category II of the table set out in paragraph
I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    Equipment and furniture items included in the Project shall be grouped so
as to permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with appropriate technical
and procurement practices.
2.    Before inviting bids the Borrower shall forward to the Association for its
approval:
(a)   lists of all equipment and furniture items required for the Project,
incorporating specifications, estimated unit and total prices for each item, coding
to identify institutions and locations for which items are required, and indicating
the grouping of items proposed in order to permit bulk procurement, as shall be
consistent with appropriate technical and procurement practices; and


﻿26
(b)   a description of the advertising procedures proposed for obtaining bids
on an international basis, together with draft bid invitations, draft bid documents
and draft contracts.
3.    Modifications to the equipment and furniture lists (paragraph B.2 (a) above)
made subsequent to the Association's approval which do not exceed the equivalent
of US$1,000 for any one item or in aggregate 10% of the total proceeds of the
Credit allocated to equipment and furniture, and which are in accordance with
appropriate educational practices, may be made without the prior approval of the
Association. All other amendments of the lists should be submitted to the
--Association for approval.
4.    Financing out of the procevU of the Credit will be limited to those items
of equipment and furniture specified in the approved lists mentioned in
paragraph B.2 (a) above and identified in contract documents by the same codes
and numbers as in the lists.
5.    After bids have been received and evaluated:
(a)   in the case of any contract of US$25,000 or higher value, or one
involving an increase of 10% or more above the original estimate submitted in
accordance with paragraph B.2 (a) above, or where it is proposed to award a
contract to other than the lowest bidder, the Borrower shall obtain the Association's
approval before making an award, and to this end shall furnish the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a summary and analysis of the bids received,
together with justification (with due regard to conformity with specifications and
to price) for the proposed award.. The Association shall promptly inform    the
Borrower whether it has any objections to the intended award and shall state the
reasons for any objections it may have; and
(b)   in all other cases, the Borrower may defer submission of bid analyses
and justification to the Association until contracts have been awarded.
6.    If a contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable objection,
or if it is not consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement or with the provisions
of this Schedule, or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
7.    As soon as a contract has been awarded and before the submission of the
first application for withdrawal in respect of such contract, the Borrower shall
send a certified copy thereof to the Association and, in cases where information


﻿27
on bids has not previously been so communicated, the Borrower shall at the same
time also send a summary analysis of the bids received and a justification for the
award decision, together with a certificate signed by the director of the project
unit concerned that the goods covered by the lowest evaluated bid and the contract
awarded conform in specification and quantity to the list approved by the
Association.
8.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (Port of Bangkok) price
for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost
to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
9.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
the territories of the Borrower if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the territories of the Borrower of not less than 20%
of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in the territories of the Borrower.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
10.  A margin of preference may be granted by the Borrower to Preferred
Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by adding to each Foreign Bid,
for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount
(hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such goods.
11.  If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:


﻿28
Stage                   Bids to be Compared                     Preference
I                All Preferred Domestic Bids and Non-          None
preferred Domestic Bids.
II         (a)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I,            Add Domestic
if Preferred Domestic Bid, with all            Preference
Foreign Bids;                                  Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I,           None
if Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with
all Foreign Bids.
III              If lowest evaluated bid under Stage           None
II is not the lowest evaluated bid
under Stage 1, all Foreign Bids
only.
12.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages, that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿29
SCHEDULE 4
Responsibilities of the Ministry of
Education Project Unit
1.    The Ministry of Education Project Unit shall be responsible for the financial
and administrative control of the Ministry of Education Project and its proper
execution, including inter alia:
(a)   coordination with the Borrower's departments or agencies concerned
with the Ministry of Education Project;
(b)   liaison with the Association;
(c)   the preparation of a comprehensive implementation schedule for setting
down the planned timetable of coordinated activities and responsibilities on which
the carrying out of the Ministry of Education Project will be based;
(d)   the  briefing, coordination   and  supervision  of the   Ministry  of
Education's architectural unit with regard to the design and supervision of all
Ministry of Education Project construction work, including the establishment of
their terms of reference, and the review and approval of all architectural design
work;
(e)   the preparation of master lists of furniture and instructional equipment;
(f)   all necessary steps for international competitive bidding for civil works
and for the procurement of furniture and instructional equipment, including the
preparation of bidding and contract documents, the evaluation of bids and making
recommendations regarding the award of contracts;
(g)   the supervision of construction and procurement and installation
procedures for furniture and equipment and the regular inspection of construction
work;
(h)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the specialists
to be employed in carrying out Part (A)IV of the Ministry of Education Project,
including the establishment of their terms of reference, the administration of their
agreements and    arrangements for the review    of their work by appropriate
authorities;
(i)   the organization, coordination and control of the fellowship program
included in Part (A)IV of the Ministry of Education Project;


﻿30
(j)   the maintenance of records, including financial records, and the
furnishing of information under Section 3.05 of this Agreement during the carrying
out of the Ministry of Education Project;
(k)   the preparation   of applications for withdrawal from     the Credit
Account; and
(1)   the evaluation of progress in implementing the Ministry of Education
Project and the preparation and presentation of regular reports to the Association.
2.    The specific responsibilities and functions of the Ministry of Education
Project Director and the Ministry of Education Project Architect shall be
respectively as follows:
(a)   Ministry of Education Project Director: overall guidance, supervision
and execution of the Ministry of Education Project, including all such arrangements
with the Borrower's ministries and agencies as shall be necessary for the Ministry
of Education Project implementation; and
(b)   Ministry of Education Project Architect: guidance, coordination and
supervision of the Ministry of Education Project's civil works and of the architects
responsible for the design of Ministry of Education Project constructions, including
the establishment of effective methods of cost control and implementation progress
schedules, the organization of international competitive bidding procedures and the
evaluation of bids.


﻿31
SCHEDULE 5
Responsibilities of the University Project Unit
1.    The University Project Unit shall be responsible for the financial and
administrative control of the University Project and its proper execution, including
inter alia:
(a)   coordination with the Borrower's departments or agencies concerned
with the University Project;
(b)   liaison with the Association;
(c)   the preparation of a comprehensive implementation schedule for setting
down the planned timetable of coordinated activities and responsibilities on which
the carrying out of the University Project will be based;
(d)   the briefing, coordination, and supervision of the local consultant
architect retained by the Borrower for the physical development of the University,
including (i) the establishment of his terms of reference for the design and
supervision of the University extensions financed under the University Project, (ii)
the administration of his agreement and (iii) the review and approval of his work;
(e)   the preparation of master lists of furniture and instructional equipment;
(f)   all necessary steps for international competitive bidding for civil works
and for the procurement of furniture and instructional equipment, including the
preparation of bidding and contract documents, the evaluation of bids and making
recommendations regarding the award of contract;
(g)   the supervision of construction and procurement and installation
procedures for furniture and equipment and the regular inspection of construction
work;
(h)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the specialists
to be employed in carrying out Part (B)II of the University Project, including the
establishment of their terms of reference, the administration of their agreements
and arrangements for the review of their work by appropriate authorities;
(i)   the organization, coordination and control of the fellowship program
included in Part (B)II of the University Project;


﻿32
(j)   the maintenance of records, including financial records, and the
furnishing of information under Section 3.05 of this Agreement during the carrying
out of the University Project;
(k)   the preparation of applications for withdrawal from       the Credit
Account; and
(1)   the evaluation of progress in implementing the University Project and
the preparation and presentation of regular reports to the Association.
2.    The specific responsibilities and functions of the University Project Director,
the Advisor to the University Project Director and the University Project Architect
shall be respectively as follows:
(a)   University Project Director: overall guidance, supervision and execution
of the University Project including all such arrangements with the Borrower's
ministries and other government agencies as shall be necessary for the University
Project implementation;
(b)   Advisor to the University Project Director: general management of the
University Project activities and day to day supervision of the University Project
implementation on behalf of the University Project Director, organization and
coordination of the preparation of master lists of equipment requirements including
international competitive bidding procedures and bid evaluation and advising the
University Project Director concerning the services of experts and the organization
of the fellowship program; and
(c)   University Project Architect: guidance, coordination and supervision
of the sub-project civil works and of the architects responsible for the design of
the University Project construction, including the establishment of effective
methods of cost control and implementation progress schedules, the organization
of international competitive bidding procedures and the evaluation of bids.


