E209
Volume 10
Guangfo Connecting Road, Guangzhou
Environmental Management Plan
-~~~~~C 
GUANGZHOU ENVIRONMENTAL S'IENflFiC RESFAiCH INSTITUTE
CERTIFICATENO:;L0(Rii a6
Decemb2O2
KS,C,A_,NXNED. ,, .         Fi



THIS ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN HAS BEEN PREPARED BY THE GUANGZHOU
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH INSTrrUTE. THE INSTITUTE HAS BEEN
CERTIFIED BY THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OF CHINA
WITH A CLASS A CERTIFICATION FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT.
CERTIFICATION CREDENTIALS OF THE INSTITUTE ARE SHOWN BELOW:
CERTIFICATE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
CERTIFIED: GUANGZHOU ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE
CATEGORY: CLASS A
CERTIFICATE NO: GHBZ A02802



LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Constructor:
Guangzhou Pub
Author:                                       ,
Guangzhou E   idnmental Scientifc  esearch Institute
Director:
H. Gong                  I -f
Chief Engineer: '
X. Cui
Project Manager:
G P. Xu
Contributors:
G..P Xu
H.Yu
J. H. Zhang
J. Shi
X. S. Huang
X.A. Gu
L. peng



Guangfo Connecting Road, Guangzhou
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
Table of Contents
1.0   Introduction                                                  I
1.1   Project Background                                      I
1.2   Project Overview                                        2
1.3   Objectives of EMP                                       3
1.4   Applicable Regulations and Basis                        3
1.5   Function Zoning                                         4
1.6   Environmental Control Standards                         5
1.7   Primary Environmental Protection Target                 7
2.0   Summary of Environmental Impacts                              8
2.1   Environmental Baseline                                  8
2.2   Construction Phase Impacts                              9
2.3   Operation Phase Impacts                                 9
3.0   Impact Mitigation                                             12
3.1   Design Stage                                            12
3.2   Construction Stage                                      17
3.3   Operation Stage                                         22
4.0   Environmental Management and Monitoring                       29
4.1   Environmental Management Organizations                  29
4.2   Environmental Management                                30
4.3   Personnel Training                                      31
4.4   Environmental Monitoring                                32
4.5   Estimated Cost of Mitigation Measures                   35



List of Tables
Table 1-1    Functional Zoning of Project Area                       4
Table 1-2    Air Quality Standards                                   5
Table 1-3    Vehicle Emission Standards                              5
Table. 1-4   Noise Standards                                         6
Table 1-5    Standards for Noise at Border of Construction Sites     6
Table 1-6    Surface Water Quality Standards                         6
Table [.17   Standards of Wastewater Discharge                       6
Table 1-8    Sunshine Obstruction Standards                          7
Table 3-1    Comparison of Alternative Alignments/Layouts            13
Table 3-2    Comparison of Elevated Viaduct vs Surface Roads         13
Table 3-3    Comparison of Common Road Noise Mitigation Measures     15
Table 4-1    Organizations Involved in Environmental Management      29
Table 4-2    Environmental Monitoring Plan                           33
Table 4-3    Air Quality Monitoring Analytical Costs                 34
Table 4-4    Estimated Costs for Mitigation Measures                 35
List of Figures
Figure 1-1   Location of Guangfo Road and the Two Ring Roads and Radial Road
Figure 3-1   Alternatives of the Project
Figure 4-1   Project Management Organizations
Figure 4-2   Locations of Monitoring Sites



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
For Guangzhou to Foshan (Guangfo) Road Project
1.0 INTRODUCTION
1.1   Project Background
Guangzhou's inner ring road and the affiliated roads development are a key project in the
Guangzhou Urban Center Traffic Improvement Plan (the Plan) to alleviate the highly
congested urban center area. The project is to meet the demands of the rapid economic
development in Guangzhou and will serve as a part of the traffic congestion solution for
the downtown area by providing an undisrupted, high capacity flow for the through
traffic. According to the Plan, the outer ring expressway is to connect Guangzhou with
cities in the surrounding area and long distance inter-city traffic, while inner ring road is
to provide pathways for the through traffic within the city of Guangzhou. The outer and
inner ring roads are to be connected using seven "radial" roads in different directions to
form an integrated fast road transport network surrounding the city.
The proposed Guangzhou to Foshan (Guangfo) road is one of the seven radial roads
connecting the inner and outer ring roads and urban Guangzhou area with Foshan to the
west. Located west of the city toward the west ring expressway, the proposed Guangfo
road will be one of the major trunk roads in the high speed road network in the
Guangzhou area and Pearl River delta. The locations of the inner and outer ring roads and
the seven radial connecting roads including Guangfo, are shown in Figure 1-1.
The preparation for all seven radial roads was completed in 1998. During that process, an
environmental impact assessment (EIA) for all component roads including Guangfo road
had been finished as a single project by Guangzhou Environmental Scientific Research
Institute (GESRI), in accordance with the "Environmental Impact Assessment Technical
Guide" (HJ/T2.1-2.3-93). The EIA had been reviewed and approved by Guangzhou
Environmental Protection Bureau (GEPB) which is the regulatory approval agency for
this project in 1998. Over the past four years, three out of the seven radial roads have
been constructed and opened for traffic. However, Guangfo road has not been ready for
construction until now. The project proponent, Guangzhou City Center Transport Project
Office, is seeking World Bank financing to start the construction of Guangfo road as soon
as possible.
Clearly, many of the data and assessment in the 1998 EIA report may now be out-dated.
In addition, the EIA must also comply and satisfy with relevant World Bank requirements,
in particular, OP4.01 which took effective in 1999 and other safeguards policies. The
original Terms of Reference (TOR) for EA, which was first prepared by GESRI and
approved by GEPB in July 1998, has been updated to reflect the comments from GEPB
GESRI                                I                        Septembet, 2002



- /- .Zengc a Road4 (3, &gYuan Xi Road_ xt -:./ .
4A~~
Road >~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~InerRig'oa
Figure 1-1  Location of Guangfo Road and the Two,Ring Roads and  Radial Roads
4Guangfi6                           ^              Hurip e-
A t                                   r-N '  F d . .......................:.;.-.;. ,
D'ter                   Road .,"O\                        
Figurel-I   Location of Guangfo Road and the Two Ring Roads and Radial Roads



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
as well as World Bank safeguards requirements. The English version of the TOR has
been submitted to the World Bank in April, 2002.
According to the revised TOR, additional EA tasks have been conducted since 2001,
including the following:
*  Field investigation along the project area to understand changes since the last ETA,
particularly changes of sensitive receptors;
*  Additional environmental baseline monitoring for ambien,t air, noise and water at
selected representative sites along the project area to update-the baseline information;
*  Collection and review baseline and forecast data including traffic counts and forecast,
motor vehicle fleet, etc.;
*  Re-run the emission, dispersion and noise models using the updated data;
*  Conduct public consultation; and
*  Revise the EA documentation including the revision of EIA report.
This EIA report is prepared based on the original report as well as the findings of the
above tasks with updated information and additional assessment for Guangfo road. This
English version EIA is the translation of the original Chinese report which has been re-
submitted to GEPB for reference (no review and approval are necessary as it has been
approved in 1998).
On this basis, this Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is developed as an integral
part of the EA documentation for Guangfo project.
1.2   Project Overview
Guangfo road is 5.6 km long starting from Zhongshan Balu interchange on the west inner
ring road, extends west bound in parallel wvith the existing road and a railway line
(Guangsan railway), intersecting with planned Datansha road, Fangeun boulevard, and
ends at the Huangqi interchange on the west outer ring expressway. When completed, it
be a quick speed connecting road between two ring roads with controlled access, no same
level intersections with other roads.
Guangfo road will be built mostly on elevated viaducts. Starting its east end, Guangfo
road will be constructed as two separate, parallel viaducts, one on each side of the
existing road and railway. The two lines, Line A and B, will each have three motor
vehicle lane in one direction. The two lines will be merged and form a single elevated
viaduct at Guocun residential area, approximately two third of the total length from the
east end. The design motor vehicle speed on Guangfo road is 80 km/hr.
Guangfo road will intersect with the inner ring road, proposed Datansha road, Fangcun
boulevard and the outer ring expressway, with an interchange in each of these
intersections. The Zhongshan Balu interchange at the inner ring road and Huangqi
interchange at the outer ring expressway have mostly constructed with engineering and
structural provisions reserved for Guangfo road connections.
GESRI                               2                         September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
The World Bank financing will be applied to fund the Guangfo road section within the
Guangzhou city area, up to the Fangcun boulevard. The other section toward the outer
ring expressway, located within the Nanhai city area, will be funded from different
sources and possibly constructed in a different stage from the Guangzhou section.
However, the EA, with the same standards and requirements, applies to the entire
Guangfo road including the both Guangzhou and Nanhai sections. This EMP is also
developed for mitigation of the impacts for the whole project area.
1.3   Objectives of EMP
Road construction is a major infrastructure development with profound impacts to social,
economic and natural environments. The project EA has identified and assessed major
impacts and the EMMP is to develop measures to minimize impacts during the design,
construction and operation stages and provide a framework for the implementation of
mitigation measures and environmental management and monitoring during project
implementation. More specifically, the objectives of EMP are to:
*  Identify site specific mitigation measures through field investigation at each of the
sensitive receptors and proposed appropriate site specific engineering and
manaGESRial mitigation measures;
o  Provide a single source information during project implementation to project
proponents, contractors, construction supervision and others associated with the
project during construction and operation;
*  Identify institutional roles and responsibilities, as well as proposed lines of
communications and reporting; and
o  Outline environmental monitoring during construction and operation phases to ensure
the effectiveness of mitigation measures and to respond to unanticipated
environmental issues at an early stage and to determine the accuracy of impact
predictions.
1.4   Applicable Regulations and Basis
The EA is conducted based on the following regulations, as well as technical guidelines
and policies of state, provincial and municipal governments and the World Bank:
* Environmental Protection Law of PRC;
*  Air Pollution Prevention Law of PRC;
*  Water Pollution Prevention Law of PRC;
* Noise Pollution Prevention Regulations of PRC;
o  Environmental Protection Management for Construction Projects, State Council,
November 1998;
*  Environmental Protection Guidelines for Construction Projects in Guangdong,
Guangdong People's Congress, No:57, 1994;
*  Environmental Protection Guidelines in Guangzhou, Standing Committee of
Guangzhou People's Congress, June 1997;
GESRI                               3                         Seplember, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
* Air Pollution Prevention Regulations in Guangzhou, Standing Committee of
Guangzhou People's Congress, April, 1997;
* Noise Pollution Prevention Regulations in Guangzhou, Standing Committee of
Guangzhou People's Congress, April 1997;
*  Zoning of Guangzhou Urban Area According to 'Standard of Environmental Noise in
Urban Area', Guangzhou Municipal Government, SF(1995) File No.58;
*  Motor Vehicle Emission Prevention-and Control Regulations in Guangzhou, Standing
Committee of Guangzhou People's Congress, No.84, December 1997;
*  Air quality zoning of Guangzhou urban area according to functional uses, Guangzhou
Municipal Government, No.23, 1999;
*  Guangzhou drinking water sources pollution prevention guidelines, Standing
Committee of Guangzhou People's Congress, No.59, April 1997;
*  Interim Guangdong surface water zoning according to environmental functions,
Guangdong provincial government, No.553, 1999;
o Management Regulation of    Guangzhou Green Area, Standing Committee of
Guangzhou People's Congress, December 1996;
*  Environmental Protection Management for Construction Projects, Decree No. 253,
State Council, November 1998;
o  Guangzhou City Master Plan (1991-2010); Guangzhou Municipal Government;
o  Guangzhou City Transportation Plan, Guangzhou Planning Bureau;
*  Informing to Enhance the EIA Management of Projects Loaded by International
Banking Organisations, HJ (1993) No.324;
o  The World Bank Operational Policies - Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01);
o  Other World Bank safeguards policies, where applicable; and
*  Feasibility study report for the Guangfo Project.
1.5   Function Zoning
The environmental zoning gis based on the functions of the project as determined by the
Guangzhou Municipal Government, based on relevant state and local environmental
regulations. The functional zoning, which will be the basis for selection environmental
standards for this assessment, is as follows:
o The project area will be Class II zone for ambient air quality;
* The project area is located in Guangzhou's drinking water protection area which will
be the basis for surface water quality standard;
*  With regard to noise zoning, areas with schools will be regarded in this EA as
Category I noise zone, and residential areas will be classified as Category 1I noise
zone (mixed residential/commercial zone); other areas which are essentially industrial
and commercial facilities located immediately adjacent to a busy railway line, is
classified as Category IV noise zone (urban trunk road side zone), which is defined as
30 m from the railway and trunk roads.
The functional zoning of the project area applied in this EA, is summarized in Table 1-1.
GESRI                               4                        September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
Table 1-1 Functional Zoning for Project Area
No.     Items                          Functional Zoning
I       Surface water environment      Drinking water protection zone
2       Ambient air quality            Category II zone
3       Noise                          Category I for schools and II for residential
areas and IV for others
4       Any agricultural protection zone  No
5       Scenery protection zone        No
6       Other land zoning              Gas pipelines, etc.
1.6   Environmental Control Standards
Air
The Class It of the ambient air quality standards of the Environmental Air Quality
Standards (GB3095-1006), are applied in the EA according to relevant regulations. The
specifics of the Class II standards are presented in Table 1-2.
Table 1-2 Air Quality Standards unit: mg/Nm3
Pollutants                            Concentration
CO        NO2        Pb ([,g/Nm3)  PM10        TSP
Yearly average             0.08       1.00          0.10        0.20
Seasonal average                      1.5
Daily average    4.00      0.12                     0.15        0.30
Hourly average   10.00     0.24       _
Vehicle emissions
Table 1-3 Vehicle Emission Standards
Type of vehicle                 Standard                Reference
CO (%)         HC (ppm)       GB 1476.5-93
Gasoline vehicle   New          4.5            1200
| in-use      5.0            1500
Diesel vehicle                4.5-5 (FSN)             GB 1476.6-93
Noise
Based on Zoning of Guangzhou Urban Area According to 'Standard of Environmental
Noise in Urban Area' the project area includes both Class IV and Class II zones.
Basically area immediately adjacent to trunk roads and railways are zoned as Class IV
while the mixed residential, education and commercial areas are zoned as Class II, and
the corresponding noise standards will be applied to this zones accordingly. Earlier
environmental assessment has identified seven sensitive receptors including schools and
residential areas some of which are located on the trunk road and railway side. However,
to better protect the sensitive receptors, all schools and residential facilities, regardless
GESRI                                5                          September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
which zones they are located, will all apply Class 11 noise standards, which are the more
stringent standards. The standards are listed in Table 1-4. The construction site noise
standards are listed in Table 1-5.
Table 1-4 Noise Standard unit: dB(A)
Class   Scope -                                   Day           Night
I       Schools and hospitals zone                55            45
II      Residential, commercial and education zones  60         50
IV      Trunk road and railway side               70            55
Table 1-5 Standards for Noise at Border of Construction Site unit: dB(A)
Activity            Main Noise Source                    Limit
Day          Night
Earth and stone  Bulldozer, excavator, fork-lift truck  75         55
Pile Driving              Pile driver                85      use prohibited
Structure    Concrete mixer, vibration pile driver,  70          55
electric saw
Set up               Crane, elevator              65           55
Water
Based on the relevant state and Guangzhou environmental regulations and the location of
the project as well as water bodies likely to be directly affected by the project, applicable
standards are Class 11 in the Surface Water Quality Standards (GHIZBI-1999), as shown
in Table 1-6.
Table 1-6 Surface Water Quality Standards  unit: mg/L(except pH)
Pollutants| PH      CODcr | BODs        O Gilt   Pb    I    P        DO
Standard   6.5-8.5    20       4       0.05     0.05       0.1        >5
Wastewater discharge will apply Class II in the Integrated Wastewater Discharge
Standards, shown in Table 1-7.
Table 1-7 Standard of Wastewater Discharge
Pollutant                     Standard ( mg/I, except pH)
CODcr                                   60
BOD5                                    20
SS                                    20
Mineral oil and grease                         5
Plant and animal oil and grease                    10
Ammonia nitrogen                             10
Total phosphorus                            0.5
PH                                    6-9
GESRI                                6                          September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
Sunshine
Sunshine standards are presented in Table 1-8..
Table 1-8 Sunshine Obstruction Standards
Class                        Applications                       Standards (hrs.)
I           Nursery, kindergarten, sanitarium, greenhouses          5-6
11    Teaching building, office, public building, general workshop  3-4
III   Residential building, office, public building, recreation units  1-2 or full
window sunshine
at noon
1.7   Primary Environmental Protection Target
The primary protection targets in the project area are sensitive to environmental impacts,
or known as sensitive receptors. Typically in urban or suburb areas, sensitive receptors
include schools, hospitals, kindergartens, residential areas, government and professional
institutions, drinking water sources, scenery and cultural relics or historical sites.
In this EA, all sensitive receptors along the project will first be identified through site
investigation and determined as to the nature of these facilities and what types of impacts
they are sensitive to at when. These sensitive receptors will then be a focus throughout
the environmental baseline evaluation and impact assessment. Furthermore, the sensitive
receptors will also be thle primary targets for which preventive and mitigation measures
will be developed. An objective of the EA is to protect these sensitive receptors from
unacceptable adverse impacts  from  project activities in both the construction and
operation phases.
GESRI                                  7                          September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
2.0 SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
2.1   Environmental Baseline
An ambient air quality monitoring program shows that NO2 in the monitored area are
mostly within 0.037-0.342 mg/m range, parts of which exceed the.standard at 0.24
mg/mr. The higher than the standard concentrations were monitored at the Zhongshan
Balu interchange at the Guangzhou end, with monitored data in other areas all within the
standard. The monitored CO concentrations, ranged from 0.34-8.69 mgrm3, for hourly
average and 0.57-7.05 for daily average, met the applicable standards. The monitored
TSP ranged from 0.191-0.438 mg/m3, with the exceedance over the standard occurring
only at Zhongshan Balu interchange. PM,o exceeded the standard at all monitored
locations. The monitoring data show that the existing air quality is poor at the Guangzhou
end and becomes towards the suburb. This is consistent with the gradually decreased
urban activities such as motor vehicle traffic, etc. from urban area to suburb.
The project area acoustic environment mostly meets the Category II standards. When
there is no trains passing, all monitored locations can meet Category II standards both
during the day time and at night, except Jiangzhou primary school, Shuangqiao middle
school and Guangdong Commerce College, where the day time noise exceeded the
standard by up to 6 dB(A) (the applicable slandard is Category I because of higher
sensitivity). When there is passing trains, however, all monitored locations near the
railway are significantly affected by the train noise. For example, at the Jiaobiao primary
school, the instant noise levels from passing trains could reach 87.4 dB(A), even to 91.4
dB(A) when the trains blow their whistles at this location. Therefore, the acoustic
environment is considered generally good except the impact from passing trains.
The water quality monitoring programs carried out in the EA that the Pearl river section
near the project show that the existing water quality exceeded the Class III surface water
quality for COD and petroleum based oils. But heavy metal parameters were all within
the standards. This indicates that the pollution sources causing the existing water quality
deterioration in the Pearl river are primarily domestic based.
There are two well landscaped community and one city parks in the immediately adjacent
area of Guangfo road. Along the project alignment, there are trees, bushes and lawns,
mostly typical species of urban vegetation. Towards the west end of Guangfo road, there
are agricultural land with flower nurseries, pleasure fish, and vegetable gardens.
The site survey indicates there are several receptors which will be highly sensitive to the
construction and operation of Gouangfo rioad. These sensitive receptors include
Jiangzhou primary school, Shuangqiao middle school, Guangdong commerce college,
Fangcun Guocun residential area, Fangcun New World residential area, Jiaobioa village,
Jiaobiao primary school, Li's Family Shrine, and Hengjiao village. Most of these
sensitive receptors are located at the northwest side of the road and about 10-150 m to
GESRI                               8                         September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
Guangfo road. Because of their proximity to the roads and nature, they will be sensitive
to the noise and motor vehicle exhaust pipe emissions.
2.2   Construction Phase Impacts
Guangfo road project will have large scale activities, with a long construction period,
mostly within urban and built up areas with a high population density and congested
traffic on the existing roads. Therefore, construction activities in such areas will impact
the surrounding natural and socio-econo,mic environment. More specifically, the impacts
will include:
* Noise generated from construction activities is expected to exceed both the day and
night time standard limits in the "Construction Site Boundary Noise Standards"
(GB12523-90). Such noise levels will impact the area within the 50 m zone and any
facilities particularly sensitive receptors will be impacted by construction noise.
About 10 residential households and three schools are in these zones which will be
most affected.
* Bridge construction and other construction activities construction equipment and
vehicle machinery washing, surface runoff from the disturbed soil, etc. near water
bodies particularly Pearl river, could result in increased suspended solid and in some
cases oils in the receiving water.
o  Many construction activities such as demolition, loading/unloading, site cleanup and
preparation, vehicle movements, etc. will cause air-borne dust which will affect the
surrounding areas especially those in the leeward direction. Once again, the
households and schools closest to the construction site will be most affected by the air
borne dust.
o The construction will result in a large quantity of spoil and solid waste including
demolition waste, excessive soil and other waste from construction activities. The
storage of the waste on site could pollute the surrounding environment and disturb the
communities. The transportation of the waste, if not properly handled could result in
pollution of the transportation routes. Finally, the disposal of the waste will occupy
land and impact the areas surrounding the disposal sites.
o  Construction activities such as materials storage, loading/unloading, truck movement
and parking, etc will occupy a portion of the existing roads causing traffic jams near
the construction sites. Since the roads near the sites are the major gate ways to the
western Guangzhou area and towards the Foshan municipality (as this connects the
bridge on the Pearl river), and they are narrow and very busy, the occupation of the
roads, even temporarily could cause serious traffic problems.
2.3   Operation Phase Impacts
Air Quality Impact
Based on modeling prediction, on the climate conditions of average wind speed of 1.9
m/s and D atmospheric stability (normal climate conditions), the hourly average NO2
concentrations at the pedestrian roads (about 10 m to the motor vehicles lanes) will be
GESRI                                9                          September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
ranged between 0.103-0.242 mg/mr3 for the short term, 0. 106-0.251 mg/mr3 for the mid
term and 0.189-0.414 mg/mr3 over the long term. Under worse climate conditions, i.e.,
slower wind speed or calm and E atmospheric stability, the NO2 concentrations will be
ranged between 0.190-0.762 mg/m3 up to 80% higher than the standard, according to the
modeling prediction.
Another important air pollutant which can be related to motor vehicle emission, CO, is
predicted to be always below 6 mg/mr3, within the applicable standard (10 mg/mr3). Even
under the worst case conditions (I m/s wind stability and E atmospheric conditions), the
CO concentrations at predicted to be below 9 mg/m3 will still be below the standard.
It is noted that the modeling results show that predicted concentrations of both CO and
NO2 will increase over time, indicating the increase in motor vehicle fleet and traffic
volume on Guangfo road will offset the decrease in individual motor vehicle emission
from the implementation of more stringent emission standards to new motor vehicles.
According to relevant national and local policies, more stringent motor vehicle emission
standards will be enforced to new motor vehicles in Guangzhou, as well as in the rest of
the country, without which the impact of Guangfo road to ambient air quality would be
much higher than currently predicted.
During the operation stage, at various sensitive receptors average hourly NO2
concentrations are expected to be in the range of 0.101-0.206 mg/m3. Compared with the
applicable standard of 0.24 mg/m3, the predicted concentration is below the standard
indicating insignificant impacts. Under the worst climate conditions, however, the NO2
concentrations at these locations will be 0.173-0.412 mg/m3, up to 71% above the
standard. Among the sensitive receptors, Jiaobiao village and Jiaobiao primary school
will be worst affected as both are very closely located to the project road. The highest
concentrations are predicted at these locations.
In general, CO is not going to be a major affecting pollutant even under the worst case
climate conditions, according to the air quality modeling simulation results which show a
maximum CO concentration in the sensitive receptors of 7.439 mg/m3 under the worst
case conditions over the long term which is well below the 10 mg/m3 standard. NO2 on
the other hand will be the primary air pollutant which will impact the project surrounding
area and sensitive receptors, particularly during the slow wind speed and stable climate
conditions.
Noise
According the noise modeling results, at 30 m from the road, the combined road and
railway noise will be 75.8-76.1 dB(A) for day time and 73.5-76.4 dB(A) for the night,
significantly exceeding the applicable noise standards for the both time frames. Within
this distance, there are Jiaobiao primary school and residential housing from Jiaobiao
village. Compared the applicable standards for these sensitive receptors of 55 (day) 45
(night) dB(A) and 60 (day) and 55 (night) dB(A), respectively, the predicted noise levels
exceed the standards by up to 22 dB(A), indicating very serious noise impacts on these
GESRI                               10                        September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
sensitive receptors. At these noise levels, the school will be able to carry classes properly
and the residents sleep and rest will be seriously affected.
Other sensitive receptors which are located outside the 40 m areas include Songjiang
middle school, Jiangzhou primary school, Guangdong commerce school, and New World
residential development. The predicted combined railway and road noise levels will be 70
to 71 dB(A) for day time, exceeding the applicable standards by up to 11 dB(A) for day
time. Jiangzhou primary school, however is expected not to be affected as there is
building between the school and the proposed road which will act as a very effective
noise barrier reducing the noise by 15-25 dB(A).
Water Impact
At the operation stage, the pollutants such as dust, oil, etc. accumulated on the road
surface, could be carried away by the "first flush" of rain water. The contaminated
surface runoff, when drained into the receiving water, could affect the receiving water
quality. The modeling results indicate that at the point where the surface runoff will be
drained into the surface water bodies, COD and oil could increase slightly, up to 0.263
and 0.0006 mg/L, respectively. The affected area is mostly limited within a narrow bend
of 1000 m by 15 m along the river bank. The sensitive points, the water intake for Xicun
Water Purification Plant located 4.7 km up stream from the east bridge on Pearl river,
will not be affected by the road operation. Traffic accidents involving tank trucks
containing hazardous materials over the bridges could seriously affect water quality in
project area. However, the chance of such accident occurrence is extremely small.
According to the estimate, an accident resulting in release of hazardous materials into
Pearl river from Guangfo road occurs about once every 236 years.
GESRI                                11                         September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
3.0 IMPACT MITIGATION
A series measures have been designed to mitigate, reduce and minimize potential adverse
impacts of Guangfo road to the natural and socio-economic environment. These measures
are to be taken during the design, construction and operation stages.
3.1   Design Stage
Mitigation measures at the design stage are those which are considered during and/or
incorporated into the design.
Selection of Alternatives
Many of the adverse impacts of project can be best avoided through the selection of
alignments/designs with the least adverse environmental and socio-economic impacts
during the feasibility study and design stage. In this project, alternative alignments and
alternative design (i.e., elevated viaduct versus ground level roads) have been proposed
and evaluated in terms of potential environmental impacts, as well as transportation,
engineering and cost considerations, before an optimal option is selected for the design of
the project.
Three alternative in alignments for Guangfo road have been proposed and considered
during project feasibility study and design stage. The alternative are (Figure 3-1):
*  Alternative I: The road will be divided into two elevated viaducts, i.e., Line A and B
lines, one on each side of the existing east and west Pearl river bridges; the two lines
continue towards Fangcun boulevard and merged into one line at about the Guocun
residential area; the single line extends towards southwest and connects with the outer
ring expressway at Huangqi interchange;
o  Alternative II: The road will be single elevated viaduct with six motor vehicle lane
in both directions, to be built on the north side of the existing roads/bridges; after
crossing the Pearl river west bridge, the road extends straightly west bound and
finally connects with the outer ring expressway at Surounding interchange north of
Huangqi; and
*  Alternative III: The alignment prior to Wuyangqiao residential area is basically
identical to Alternative 1, i.e. twin elevated viaducts one on each side of the existing
roads/bridges. At about the Guocun, Line A continues along the same alignment as in
Alternative I but only has three lanes and remains as an one way viaduct. Line B
extends around the south side of the Hengjiao village and the two lines are merged in
the open field east of Quangqi interchange before connects with the outer ring
expressway at Huangqi.
The advantages and disadvantages of both alignments/layout are compared in Table 3-1.
GESRI                               12                        September, 2002



1~~~~~kll F4                                                                          ;-K     A
J  ~     r-~    3¶~j~~-4 ; 



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
Table 3-1 Comparison of the Alternative Alignments/Layouts
Item           Alternative I        Alternative II        Alternative II
Resettlement          Less                 High                  High
Traffic             Low                  High                  High
interruption
Land occupied  Mostly on land for road  Occupies green field  More farm land
development;  occupy   land on the west end
part of Shuangqiao park
Impacts to    Low, mostly to shops         Low           On both sides Guocun
residents        and industries                          residential area with
high impacts
Impacts to           Low           High; schools are all on     Low
school                             the north side of the
existing roads
Project         Affect railway    Difficult in Datansha    Less complex
difficulties       upgrading              section
Water impacts    Construction of two   Construction one    Construction of two
bridges in pearl river  bridge on Pearl river  bridges on Pearl river
Cost               Low              -   High                  Low
The impacts of the three alternatives are mixed, each of which has its advantages and
disadvantages in terms of environmental impacts. However on the balance, with all
factors considered, Alternative I in both sections appear to have less environmental and
socio-economic impacts and other engineering and cost advantages. Thus Alternative I
are selected as preferred alignment for Guangfo road project.
With regard to project design, an alternative to the elevated viaduct design is to upgrade
or construct new road at the ground level. The comparison of the two alternatives is
presented in Table 3-2.
Table 3-2 Com parison of Elevated Viaduct vs Surface Road
Item                   Elevated viaduct             Surface road
Resettlement                  9500 m2                    14,000 m2
Land acquisition               12,700 mu                  18,000 mu
Impact to Li's Family Shrine          Low                  Dismantling part of it
Community severance                 No                         Yes
Traffic flow capacity  High (surface road continue to use)    Low
Engineering difficulty        Elevated structure      Soft foundation treatment
Impacts during construction  Relatively low (no occupation of  High (part or all existing
existing roads           roads need to close)
Impacts to local roads             Low                         High
Construction period               Short                       Long
Visual impacts                  High                        Low
Cost                        High                        Low
The table shows that although the surface road design would have low engineering cost
and low visual impacts compared with the elevated viaduct option, in virtually all other
GESRI                                  13                         September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
aspects, the elevated viaduct design will have lower impacts to the natural and socio-
economic environment. With all factors considered, elevated viaduct design is selected
for Guangfo road project.
Noise
The noise standards are established with the consideration of noise impacts on human
health (effects on headaches, annoyance, cardiovascular diseases, etc.) and life activities
(sleeping, reading, listening, etc.), and specially sensitive activities (conducting classes,
concentration on learning, patients recovery, etc.). Noise levels in areas where different
activities are located should meet the applicable standards to protect the environmental
quality required for the activities. As the noise levels of Guangfo road is predicted to
exceed the standards, mitigation measures are needed to reduce or control the noise levels
to meet with the standards.
In addition to the understanding of the general features of major mitigation measures, the
EA team has included the lessens learnt from noise mitigation measures in the inner ring
road project into considerations in designing noise mitigation measures for Guangfo road.
The objective is to capitalize the previous experience, to avoid any mistakes made beofre
and to ensure the mitigation measures are effective for Guangfo road.
Overview of noise mitigation measures. Table 3-3 lists the commonly used noise
mitigation  measures  for  roads  in  urban  areas, including  the  effectiveness,
advantages/disadvantages, and estimated costs.
GESRI                                  14                          September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Mvanagement Plan
Table 3-3 Comparison of Common Road Noise Mitigation Measures
Measure       Noise reduction      Advantage/disadvantage        Estimated
cost
Absorbent noise    2-20 dB(A)    * Effective in open area           RMB800-
barrier                      * Minimum noise reflection         1000 per m'
* Potential sunlight and visual impacts
* Effective only to certain heights
* Limited effectiveness for multiple
layer roads  '
Reflective noise   5-20 dB(A)    * Lower sunlight impact            RMB850
barrier                      * Potentially increase noise intensity  perM2
due to the reflection
* Effective only to certain heights
o Limited effectiveness for multiple
layer roads
Semi-closed light   >20 dB(A)    * Effective noise reduction        RMBIOOO
structure noise                 . Limited impact on road natural light  per m2
barrier                      * Low noise reflection
* Relatively expensive and complex
structure
Closed light     >25 dB(A)     * Very effective noise reduction
structure noise                 * Low noise reflection
barrier                      a Expensive and complex structure
* Not good for motor vehicle exhaust
emission dispersion
Absorbent road      5 dB(A)     . Most effective  for high  speed   RMB240
surface                       vehicles on flat terrain            per M2
* Easy to wear out
* Not suitable for heavy duty trucks
Special asphalt     3 dB(A)
surface
Double glazed     >20 dB(A)     o Very effective for indoor noise  RMB2800
windows                        control                         per household
* Require ventilation
* Difficult to implement as it will
involve individual households or
building owners
Overview of mitigation measures for the inner ring road project. The World Bank
financed inner ring road project has been completed and operational since January 2000
and noise mitigation measures have been gradually implemented along the ring road. The
original Environmental Action Plan (EAP) requires installation of 3.8 km of noise in 6
sections, which have been completed. In fact, the actual noise barrier length is about 12
km, over 3 times of the original requirements. The additional noise barrier has been
installed in response to the strong public reaction on the increased noise from the inner
ring road. The other important noise mitigation measure, installation of double glazed
windows in sensitive receptors, has been gradually implemented.
GESRI                                  15                         September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
A study was conducted in March 2002 to monitor the effectiveness of the noise
mitigation measures. Six locations were selected to determine the noise reduction effect
of noise barrier and two were selected for double glazed windows.
In general, the noise barriers are most effective to three to six floors of the buildings
targeted for protection, with average noise reduction of about 2 to 4.7 dB(A). Higher
floors are generally beyond the noise barrier protected area and have no measurable noise
reduction. The lower floors on the other hand, are mostly impacted by the noise from the
ground level traffic for which the noise barriers mounted on the elevated viaduct have no
effect.
Double 'glazed windows have been installed in a hospital and a school. The monitoring
program at the two locations show that noise can be reduced by 26-27 dB(A) at the
hospital (with a vacuum lawyer between two pieces of glasses) and 17-22 dB(A) at the
school (ordinary design with two layers of windows put together) when the windows are
closed. When the windows are open, the reduction is about 6-10 dB(A) compared with
the noise levels one meter outside the same windows.
The lessens learnt from the inner ring road noise mitigation, which will be included into
the consideration of mitigation measure planning and design for Guangfo road include:
o  For multi stories buildings, the noise barriers should be higher. A noise barrier 5-7 m
tall as originally designed, compared with the current height of 3 m, would
significantly increased the protected area;
*  The lack of seal of noise barriers at the structural expansion joints and the poor design
in alumillum frame of the noise barriers are to blame for the less than desired
effectiveness of noise barriers;
o  The noise barrier installation are not well planned. In some areas noise barriers are
installed where is no sensitive receptors to protect. Such waste of effort should be
avoided and the location of noise barriers should be carefully planned through site
investigation and acoustic study; and
o  Double glazed windows prove to be a very effective measures for noise attenuation
for indoor environment. It seems that to meet the noise standards at the sensitive
receptors, the windows are required to be closed; therefore, the ventilation must be
resolved to ensure the effectiveness of double glazed window as a noise control
measure.
Noise barriers. In the following section of Guangfo road, noise barrier will be built to
protect the sensitive receptors nearby:
* North side at Jiaobiao and Hengjiao villages for 400 m long; on the southeast side,
450 m long. The noise barrier will be 3.5 m high using absorbent materials,
considering the fact there is no high rises in the directly impacted area. As the
buildings in the villages are mostly two stories high at about 10 m to the road for the
closest houses. To this height, the noise barrier will be most effective in noise
GESRI                                16                        September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
reduction, particularly this part of the road will be single elevated viaduct only with
no roads on the ground level. It is expected that the noise level equivalent at the
houses will be reduced from the originally predicted levels by about 15-20 dB(A).
The residual impacts at the village houses following the noise barriers will be about
60 dB(A) during the day time and about 58 dB(A) at night, which meet or slightly
above the applicable Category II standards.
*  Based on the lessens learnt from the inner ring project, the noise barrier to be
installed will be carefully designed using quality materials. In particular, the
aluminum frame of each panel, between panels and between the structural expansion
joints will be well sealed'to enhance the noise reduction function.
Noise absorbent road surface. Guangfo road will use bitumen based noise absorbent
material for its surface in the entire 5.6 km of road. According to experience overseas,
such road surface materials will reduce the noise to the surrounding areas by about 5
dB(A), compared with the concrete road surface.
Double glazed windows. The experience gained from noise mitigation of the inner ring
road project has showed that noise barrier alone may not be adequate in terms of noise
reduction to the acceptable levels while installation of double glazed windows at the
sensitive receptors is the most effective measure to protect indoor environment from
noise impact. Guangfo road will take such measure to noise mitigation at the most
sensitive receptors.
O The Shuangqiao middle school is about 85 nm from the proposed road, with a 4 stories
classroom building. The first and second floor of the building is behind a factory
shop and as such the noise impact is mostly towards the classrooms on the third and
fourth floor. There are a total of 10 classrooms on these two floors with a total
window area of 120 m2.
o Jiangzhou primary school, although located only 65 m from the proposed, is
completed behind a factory shop of the same height. The noise level is expected to be
able to meet the applicable standards. No further mitigation is needed.
*  Guangdong Commerce School is about 85 rn from the proposed Guangfo road. It has
an 8 stories building with classrooms and administrative/teachers offices. The
building side facing the road is 40 m wide. On this side, each floor has eight
windows of 1.5 by 2 m giving a total window area of 24 m2 per floor. Since the first
three floors of the school are hided behind factory shops which act as very effective
noise barrier themselves, the top five floors will be installed with double glazed
2
windows, with a total area of 120 m
3.2   Construction Stage
Noise
Construction noise cannot be avoided and will be generated whenever there are
construction activities. However, it should be mitigated according to relevant regulations
and requirements.
GESRI                               17                        September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
The construction boundary noise levels, as stipulated in the "Noise Limits at Construction
Site Boundary" GB12523-90, will be enforced to minimize the impacts to the
surrounding area. According to Article 23 of "Gaungzhou Environment Noise Pollution
Prevention" of 1994, the operations of construction machinery used in the urban area
which cause noise pollution to the surrounding environment will be limited to 7:00-12:00
and 14:00-22:00, which is the period for a after lunch nap for most residents in
Guangzhou. Any operations extended beyond these timeframe as may be required by the
construction needs must apply and receive approval from relevant authority. This
requirement will be strictly enforced in the Guangfo road construction which will
basically eliminate the noise impacts at night, as well as the after lunch nap time, when
the standards exceedance would be worst.
According to the above assessment, Jiaobiao and Hengjiao villages and Jiaobiao primary
will be the most seriously impacted sensitive receptors during construction. In fact, the
later section of this report will show they are also the most significantly impacted by
noise and motor vehicle exhaust emissions during the operation period of Guangfo road.
Specific mitigation measures have been designed and will be taken at these locations for
reduce or avoid the long term impacts during operation phase. These include relocating
Jiaobiao primary school to an area not to be impacted by the project and install double-
glazed windows to the first row of the residential housing in Jiaobiao and Hengjiao
villages. To mitigate the noise impacts from construction activities, these measures will
be implemented at the beginning of the construction phase. For example, Jiaobiao
primary school will be relocate prior to the construction to completely avoid the impact.
Double-glazed windows at the mostly affected houses will also be installed at the
beginning of the construction for noise impact mitigation.
In addition, the following measures will be taken to further avoid or mitigate the
construction noise impacts:
*  Structural elements for bridges and elevated viaducts will be made in factories to
avoid on-site concrete mixing and compacting;
o  Low noise machinery will be selected where possible. High noise machinery such as
power generators will not be allowed to sue at the site; but if they are necessary for
construction work, noise temporary barriers or silencer will be installed;
o  Appropriately schedule the construction activities to avoid sensitive time and/or
sensitive locations where possible;
* Noise and vibratory activities will be arranged to be completed within the quickest
time possible to reduce the impact length;
*  Construction trucks movement will be arranged to avoid residential areas where
possible;
*  According to relevant laws and regulations, if the construction noise still exceeds
applicable standards, especially night time construction, the contractors will
apologize and compensate the affected residents, students in classrooms and
dormitory, or others affected.
GESRI                               18                        September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
Night time constructioln
The past practices in Guangzhou urban road construction including inner ring road
construction show that night time construction are in-avoidable because the government
wishes to complete the construction in the shortest time possible in the busy and
congested urban areas. In fact, some activities such as materials transportation will likely
take place mostly at the night time to avoid the heavy traffic during the day time. Besides
the general mitigation measures outlined above, the following mitigation measures will
be taken specifically for night time construction:
Public, particularly residents, in areas immediately adjacent to the construction sites
will be consulted prior to the start-of night time construction, to alert therp the noisy
activities at the night time, to explain the reasoning for night construction to obtain
public understanding, and to solicit specific public concerns and suggestions for
mitigation;
* Public billboards will be erected at the construction sites, listing construction
activities, contact persons and telephone numbers for receiving public concerns.,
complaints, and suggestions on a constant basis;
*. The most noisy activities such as piling will not conducted at night where possible;
*  Temporary noise barriers may be erected at the most sensitive areas; Some of the
stationary noise machinery such as generators will be located away from sensitive
receptors and in enclosed structure for noise control;
*  Dedicated and trained staff from contractors and construction supervision will be on
site for traffic management and public safety during night time construction;
o  Proper signage, fencing and lighting will be used to divert the traffic, alert the motor
vehicle and pedestrian traffic of the safety hazards, particularly during the night
construction; and
o  Night time supervision by the environmental monitoring teams will be enhanced
including on-site noise measurement and prompt incidents response.
Air Quality
The following measures will be taken during construction phase to mitigate the impact of
air-borne dust and other air emissions:
*  Excavation and demolition site will be water sprayed to maintain certain moisture
levels, loosed earth and dry backfill materials will also be water sprayed to prevent or
minimize dust from air borne; On dry days, water will be sprayed at least twice a day,
once in the morning and once in the afternoon right after the noon break.
*  Materials will be stored in appropriated places and will be compacted where possible;
for bulk materials which cannot be compacted well, water spray or cover will be
applied to minimize dust;
*  All construction waste will be promptly removed from the sites, daily if possible;
*  Earth and bulk materials transportation will be loaded in such a way they will not leak
during transportation and will be covered.
*  Before leaving construction sites, trucks wheels will be washed to clean the dirt
which would otherwise be carried away to the streets;
GESRI                                 19                         September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
*  Strictly prohibit burning of construction waste at the sites; and
*  Asphalt and concrete mixing plants will be located in the area at least 500 m leeward
from the nearest residential or other sensitive receptors to ensure that the emission
from these facilities will impact the sensitive receptors. The asphalt plants will be
required to equipped with effective emission control facilities to meet the emission
standards in relevant state and provincial air emission standards. All these location
and emission requirements will be included in the tendering documents distributed to
the bidders for the pavement work and eventually in their contracts to become
contractual obligations for the contractors working the Guangfo road project.
Water
The following measures will be taken during construction for water impact mitigation:
*  The contaminated surface runoff and construction wastewater will not be allowed to
discharge to the receiving water directly. Simple and temporary settling ponds will be
constructed near the site to intercept the contaminated runoff or wastewater and
remove suspended solid before allowing the wastewater to discharge;
*  Where possible, domestic wastewater from construction comps will be discharged to
municipal sanitary sewers. The construction sites will be in urban built area, well
served by the municipal utilities throughout the area. Connecting to the municipal
sewer should not limit locating construction camps for Guangfo road;
*  Contractors, particularly those for in-water construction, will be trained for
construction safety, leak/spill prevention and emergency response procedures in case
of leaks and spills. In addition, environmental emergency response kits will be
prepared in the in-water construction sites, which include perms for contain spilled oil,
suction pumps, absorbent, etc., for use in emergency situations;
*  All waste oil from construction machinery will be collected and stored properly and
recycled via qualified vendors;
*  Slurry from bridge construction sites will be treated through settling and filtration
before discharge. Slurry drainage system, and temporary treatment facilities will be
built near the river banks. It is a standard practice to install temporary settling ponds
at the bridge site. Slurry from the bridge foundation will be pumped into the ponds
first to allow separation of solids from liquids through sedimentation, before the
supernatant will be allowed to discharge to the river. This practice will be re-enforced
as contractual requirements to the contractors;
*  Municipal and construction solid waste will, be collected and disposed in designated
disposal sites and dumping in waterways of any waste will be strictly prohibited;
*  All river banks, dams and other flood contrcil facilities will be well protected and any
construction at these places must be reviewed and approved by hydrology and flood
control authorities before construction.
Solid Waste
The following measures will be taken during construction to mitigate the impacts of solid
waste to the environment:
GESRI                                 20                         September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
*  Contractors will be requested to comply strictly with "Interim Management Guides
for Guangzhou Waste Spoil Storage and Disposal" and apply first to Guangzhou
Waste Spoil Storage and Disposal Department, receive appropriate approval and
permits and dispose the waste in designated areas;
*  "Guangzhou Urban Appearance and Environmental Sanitation Administration
Methods" stipulate that trucks loaded with bulk and loose materials and waste must
be loaded properly, covered and washed of their exterior before allowed on the roads.
Such trucks are not allowed to leak or cause air-borne of the materials loaded during
transportation and the transportation can only be made within the designated time
and along the designated routes.
*  Waste materials which can be used again will be recycled;
*  Temporary waste storage areas at the constrjction sites will be carefully selected to
avoid water front or causing traffic congestion, inconvenience to the pedestrians,
residents, and others in the nearby communities; and
o  Transportation of construction waste will avoid peak hours, avoid sensitive areas, and
will use approved routes.
Urban Ecology
The following measures will be taken to minimize the impacts:
o  Where possible, plants including trees, flowers, and bushes will be relocated to other
places or back to the project area following the completion of the construction,
instead cut and wasted;
*  The construction activities will be limited within the red line area and not to occupy
farmland;
o  Buildings under demolition will be surrounded with nylon cloth or metal sheets or
wood boards to minimize the visual impacts to the communities as well as for dust
and safety control;
o  The project area will be landscaped  and planted following the construction. The
green area will be no less than 20% of the total project area. The landscaping plan
will result in a net increase in green space in the project area.
Traffic Management
To mitigate impacts to the traffic on the existing roads, construction activities will be
well planned in consultation with the local traffic police. The specific measures to be
taken include the following:
*  The most traffic affecting activities such as loading/unloading, beam lifting, and bulk
materials transportation will be scheduled for the time when the traffic on the roads
will be the lightest such as weekends, holidays mid-day around the noon time or
eveniiigs.
*  No traffic affecting construction activities will be allowed during the rush hours in the
morning and early evening;
GESRI                                21                         September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
*  Public notices in the form of public boards at the construction sties will be provided
to inform the road users of the time, length and type of traffic affecting construction
activities and possible congestion.
*  The public notice will also advise the road users of possible detoured roads identified
by the traffic police as alternative routes to avoid the congestion on the roads affected
by the project;
* No construction materials and debris will be allowed to store and pile on the roads or
the pedestrian areas;
*  Construction vehicles parking on the roads will not be allowed unless it is absolutely
necessary. Such parking will be kept to the minimum and be removed as soon as it is
possible; and
*  During the loading/unloading, viaduct structural lifting and installation, the
contractors will be requested to contact the traffic police to either have the police on
site or have their own staff on-site to help direct the traffic, to minimize the traffic
congestion and to ensure the safety.
Others
Other measures to be taken during the construction phase include:
* The contractor will be request to halt the all construction activities immediately if any
archaeological or other cultural properties are found (chance finds) during excavation
and to properly protect the site which such finds are uncovered. Cultural authority, as
well as PO and EA team, will be noticed promptly. Only after a thorough
investigation by the cultural authority and specialists and a clearance is provided, will
the contractor be allowed to resume their construction activities at the site.
* The contractor will be request to provide safety shelters at the construction sites,
particularly overhead construction sites, to protect the public from any safety
accidents. Warning signs will be provided to alert the public of potential safety
hazards at and around the construction sites.
o The PO recognizes that contractors working on the Guangfo road site will be a key in
environmental management, pollution control and impact mitigation during
construction. A number of measures will be taken to ensure that the contractors will
be aware of their responsibilities and obligations in environmental protection. All
contractors and construction supervision will be required to participate in a
mandatory environmental training program prior to the start of construction onsite.
The above mitigation measures will be, where appropriate, included in the tendering
documents for contractors and eventually in the construction contracts so that they
will be the contractual requirements for contractors working on Guangfo road.
3.3   Operation Stage
Air quality
During the implementation of the World Bank financed Guangzhou inner ring road
project, a motor vehicle emission control strategy (MVECS) has been developed in
GESRI                                 22                         September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
Guangzhou, involving numerous measures and programs to reduce and control the
emissions. At the time this EA was prepared, many of the measures and programs are
being implemented such as clean fuels and limited inspection and maintenance program,
while others are in the preparation stage for implementation such as a motor vehicle
emission monitoring and research center. Although no data are available to firmly link
the inner ring road project and the various mitigation air quality impact
measures/programs, the ambient air quality in Guangzhou has been improved over the
last two years since the inner ring road has been in operation, compared with the previous
years, according to the routine air quality monitoring data.
Together with the inner ring road, Guangfo road is part of the fast urban transport road
network. Most of the air quality mitigation measures, by nature, require integrated effort
city wide which involves multiple government agencies and non-government
organizations. During the operation stage, Guangfo road will participate in and become
part of the city wide MVECS to mitigate the adverse impacts to the surrounding areas,
particularly the 200 m areas on both sides of the road. These mitigation
measures/programs whichl are currently implemented or to be implemented in Guangzhou
are:
Pollution sources related mitigation measures. The air pollution source in this project
is motor vehicles on the road. Motor vehicles are mobile sources and are not limited to
this road. Motor vehicle emissions control is a city wide or region wide systematic work.
The mitigation measures for air pollution source control is closely related to the motor
vehicles emission control strategies and programs of Guangzhou city, Guangdong
province and the State. There are state and provincial programs for motor vehicles with a
target to reduce emissions. In addition, the city of Guangzhou is developing a Motor
Vehicle Emission Control Strategy (MVECS) through the World Bank financed
Guangzhou Ring Road project. The Guangfo road project will be integrated with the
MVECS and adopt the measures in the state, provincial and municipal programs,
including:
o  Setting up motor vehicle emission standards and ban the motor vehicles which exceed
the standards. In 1995, China released "Light Motor Vehicle Pollutant Emission
Stadnards (GBPBI-1999)", which is based on the emission standards of Europe
Council of Economics (ECE). The standards are equivalent to about 50-70% of the
ECE's motor vehicle emission limits in the 1970's. Guangzhou has road side and
annual inspection programs. Guangfo project will support such programs and ban
motor vehicles which exceed the emission standards. In fact, Guangzhou's air quality
is seriously affected by the increasing motor vehicle emissions with increasing motor
vehicle fleet size which is expected to continue expanding quickly in the coming
years. The fundamental measure to control the total emission volumes and thus to
maintain and improve air quality, is to apply more stringent standards and further
reduce emissions from individual vehicles. Guangzhou will gradually adopt more
stringent standards for new vehicles which will help mitigate the impacts on the
Guangfo road area.
GESRI                               23                        September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
*  Continue implement and upgrade the inspection and maintenance (I/M) programs in
Guangzhou. Practical experience has shown that the amount of exhaust emissions is
largely dependent upon the state of tuning of the motor vehicle engines. High levels
of emissions from vehicles can be largely attributed to poor maintenance and
ineffective repairs. Effective inspection and maintenance programs will be critical to
encourage vehicle operators to properly maintain their vehicles, as well as
discouraging unauthorized tampering with the engine settings and the unauthorized
removal of catalytic converters after conversion to unleaded petroleum. The current
l/M exhaust test program is an idle test, which although adequate for older vehicles,
has been shown to be insufficient with more modern vehicles, and for more stringent
emission standards. With implementation of more stringent emission standards and
exhaust controls, it becomes imperative to improve the existing I/M programs to
include a loaded transient driving cycle test as well as a test of the fuel evaporation
control system.
e  The installation of catalytic converters is necessary to control automotive pollution;
however their introduction must be preceded or accompanied by the distribution of
unleaded gasoline. Once this is achieved, emissions may be significantly reduced if
vehicles are properly maintained and operated. The environmental component,
Guangzhou City Center Transport Project, proposed five strategies for motor vehicle
pollution control:
-  Introduction of unleaded fuel
- Catalytic converters
-  Improvements to existing I/M program
- I/M demonstration projects
-  Automatic monitoring stations
* The main source suspended particulate in the air from roads are the dust on the road
surface. Control the dust on the roads will result in reduction in dust source intensity.
To achieve such a control, Guangfo road wvill be water sprayed/washed daily by local
environmental sanitary bureau.
Measures on Air Pollutant Dispersion. Studies have showed distance between the air
emission sources and receptors would directly affect pollution concentrations at the
receptors. Therefore, future plans for buildings along Guangfo road should consider
increasing distance to the road, provide greater space for dilution and dispersion, and thus
reduce pollutant concentrations at the receptors. The planning department should not
approve any residential housing within 200 m from the road. Instead, the area may be
used for shopping malls, office building, warehouses and other enclosed structures. The
first row of building should retreat as much as possible to avoided the most impacted area.
Particularly in areas near interchanges, the impacted area is larger and the peak air
pollutant concentrations occur in the 50-150 mn and there will be more open space near
the interchanges.
Trees and vegetation have been proven to be able to intercept air dust, and to some extent,
clean up other air pollutanits. The plants along both sides of Guangfo road and in the open
space of the interclhanges will help mitigate impacts on air quality.
GESRI                               24                        September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
Clean Fuels. A proven fleet-wide strategy to reduce the negative environmental and
health impacts of emissions from vehicles is the improvement in fuel quality. With
respect to diesel fuel, the particulate or smoke emissions largely comprise sulphur
compounds. Therefore reducing the sulfur content will contribute to a decrease in the
amount of particulate emitted from diesel engines, while also allowing the introduction of
more stringent standards for diesel engines and more modern engine technologies.
Alternate fuels are also a means of reducing the negative environmental impact of vehicle
emissions. These fuels, such as liquefied propane and compressed natural gas (CNG),
comprise hydrocarbons which have a much lower toxicity than those of gasoline. Also,
the engines may emit lower emissions of CO and NO,, if they are properly adjusted to
take full advantage of the fuel. As an example, CNG fueled vehicles have the potential to
emit 97% less CO, 72% less HC, and 39% less NO,, than conventional gasoline engines.
Sensitive Facility Siting/Planning. To prevent the impact of excessive levels of HC and
NO,, the areas within lOOm of the roadway may be assigned uses such as warehouses,
shopping arcades, and office buildings instead of residential use. Under the most
unfavorable weather conditions, pollutants may exceed the standard at distances of up to
500m. It is recommended that within 500m off the roadway there should be no new
construction of sensitive receptors such as hospitals, schools and government offices.
Noise
Noise mitigation measures to be implemented durinig the operation stage include:
Relocation. Jiaobiao primary school would be immediately adjacent to Guangfo road. In
fact, the road will occupy part of the teaching building and about a quarter of the campus.
The noise level will be very high, predicted to be at 83 dB(A) which is 28 dB(A) above
the applicable standard. Even double glazed windows would not be able to reduce the
noise to the standard. As shown in the previous sections, Jiaobiao primary school will
also be the most impacted receptor from motor vehicle exhaust emission with NO2
exceeding the standard even under normal climate conditions and would be by up to
264% under unfavorable climate conditions. Furthermore, as part of the school will be
occupied and there is no room within its current location to expand, the school will be
unable to function properly for its 760 students and teachers.
Therefore, the best mitigation for the noise, air pollution and campus occupation will be
to relocate the school to a quiet location sufficiently away from Guangfo road. As from
Fangcun interchange to the outer ring expressway will not be funded by the World Bank
but by the Nanhai government and Jiaobiao primary school is located in this section. The
relocation of the school as a mitigation measure and a condition for the project has been
proposed to the Nanhai government and accepted. The relocation and resettlement of
Jiaobiao primary school will be completed in its new location prior to the start of the
Guangfo road constructioll to a new location witliin the village, which is about 600 m
from the proposed Guanigfo road at this location.
GESRI                               25                        September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
Appropriate Land and Development Planning. Along the project area (e.g., southwest
of the Fangcun Interchange) there are still land parcels to be developed. During the
zoning and planning process, the following measures/policies will be taken:
*  The first row of the buildings will be controlled to be no less than 20 m to the red line
of Guangfo road;
*  New development will have landscaped area between the development and the road;
*  Th first row of the buildings will not have any noise sensitive facilities such as
schools, hospitals, kindergartens, but rather non noise sensitive facilities such as
parking garage, commercial complex, etc.
*  The immediately adjacent land will not be used for residential development in general.
If it is used for such purposes, the building should design the building configuration
as much as possible to locate the kitchens, bathrooms, elevator wells, auxiliary
facilities on the side facing the road. In addition, developers will be requested to
include noise control and reduction into the building design through materials
selection, window designs, etc.
* The first row of the buildings may be designed to be in parallel to the road which
would be a noise barrier themselves to the buildings behind.
Road structure and materials selection. will include considerations for noise control
and minimization. SucIh considerations will include:
* As discussed before, the entire Guangfo road surface will use high quality bitumen.
* The design will utilize no expansion joints and continuous large displacement and
multiple span structure, so that the expansion joints can be minimized and thus the
noise resulting from motor vehicle vibration when through the joints.
*  The design will utilize flexible support such as board rubber supports and spherical
rubber support to absorb structural vibration and the noise thus caused.
Management measures will be taken during Guangfo road operations, including:
*  Gradually increase motor vehicle noise emission standards, implement vehicle
inspection system and enforced maintenance for vehicles which exceed the standards.
High noise, old model vehicles will be retired. Guangzhou will establish control plan
and targets for motor vehicle noise. The reduction of noise from vehicles is the most
directly and effective measures to control noise.
o  Strictly enforce motor vehicle speed limits, particularly in the sections where there
are sensitive receptors and at night.
*  Guangfo road will be periodically and regularly maintained for good working
conditions.
Water impacts mitigation
Although the probability of accidental release of hazardous materials into Pearl river is
very low, it will be a high risk and major potential impacts of Guangfo road to the surface
water quality with serious potential consequences. As such, mitigation measures are
planned to minimize such risks. These measures are:
GESRI                                26                        September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
*  Strictly enforce hazardous materials transportation permitting system - Gianigzihou
Hazardous Materials Transportation Regulationis stipulates thiat transportation of
hazardous materials must receive prior approval and receive pennit from road
transportation autilority. The permitting requireinents that the trucks to be used for
such transportation must be in good conditions, equipped with fire extinguishers and
hazardous materials signage. Non-motor vehlicles and motor cycles are banned for
hazardous materials transportation. Transportation of explosives and hazardous
chemicals will further require special pennits from the public security (police)
authority. As part of the Guangzihoti/Guangdong road network, Guangfo road will
implemient these requirements during operation.
*  The road management auithlority whilch will be Guangzhou Road Bureau in thlis
project will establish emergency response procedures and plans together with public
security and environmental protection bureau to respond promptly to any spills, leaks
and other accidents which involve hazardous materials. Necessary equipment and
materials will be available to deal with suchi accidents to contain the spills to the
maximum extent possible to protect the contamination of Pearl river as well as to
protect resident the communities and natural environvment in the area.
*  At the key and sensitive sections of Guangfo road, such as bridges and areas near thle
bridges, warning signs will be erected to set speed limits to vehlicles hazardoLIs
materials. These trucks will be bained to use Guangfo road during rusil hiours.
*  An emergency reporting system will be establishied. Any accidents involvinig spills of
hiazardous materials and release of suchi materials to Pearl river will be required to
report to Guangzhou Environmental Protection Bureau immediately. Procedures will
be established to closed down the Xicun Water Purificationi Planit water intake
following sucih accidents. The intake can only be opened again following detailed
investigation and mitigation/remediation as may be necessary and witil assuranice
that the spills will not reach the intake and have any impacts to water quality at the
intake area.
Relocation of the stature, monument and pavilion
Guangfo road, as elevated viaduct, will run directly above these structure, not only cover
it completely under its shade but seriously affect its surrounding setting and locals'
feeling about them. As a mitigation measure, the stature, monument and pavilion will be
relocated to the southwest side of the Slhrine to a small community park near the village
(see Figure 5-1 in the main Environmental Impact Assessment Report). The particular
new location was in fact suggested by thie local villagers during the public consultation
and would maintain the hanrony and connection of this group of structires.
Land Use Plannintp Measures
Proper land use planninig would be very effective in preventinig air, noise, access, visual
and other potentially adverse impacts to sensitive receptors, if properly impleinenited.
Land use mitigation measures need to be well coordinated among agenicies but will be
primarily implemented by tihe Planniniig Bureaui. Thle following principles will be applied
in fututre development along the Guanigfo road area:
GE.SI?J                              27                        Sepiember, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
*  Areas withinl 100 in of the roadway will not be approved for any new residential
housing;
*  These areas may be assigned tises such as warehouses, shoppling arcades, office
buildings and other enclosed structures;
*  More open space will be created and well landscaped near the interchanges;
*  The first row of the buildings willibe controlled to be no less than 20 m to the red line
of Guangfo road;
e  New development will have landscaped area beltween the development and the road;
o  The first row of the buildings will not have any noise sensitive facilities such as
scilools, hospitals, kindergartens, but less noise sensitive facilities sucil as parking
garage, commercial complex, other closed structures, etc.;
o  The immediately adjacent land will not be used for residential development in general.
If it is used for sucih purposes, the building shiould design the buildinig configuratioln
as much as possible to locate the kitchens, bathrooms, elevator wells, auxiliary
facilities on the side facing the road. In addition, developers will be requested to
include noise control and reduction into the building desigin througil materials
selection, window designs, etc.; and
o The first row of the buildings may be designed to be in parallel to the road wilici
would be a noise barrier themselves to the buildings behlind.
GEk-S'                                 28                         Sepientber, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
4.     ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING
As discussed above, Guangfo road project will generate adverse environmental impacts
in both construction and operation stages. The impacts during construction can be high
and extend to a large area but it mostly limited to the relatively short construction period
(up to two years). While during operation, the impacts will be long lasting. For both
stages, environmental management system including environmental monitoring will be
necessary to control the impacts to the minimum.
4.1    Environmental Management Organizations
The environmental management organizations involve in Guangfo road construction and
operation, and their interrelation are presented in an organizational charge (Figure 4-1).
The functions of each organizations are summarized in Table 4-1.
Table 4-1 Organizations Involved in Environmental Management
Organizations                           Responsibilities
Guangzhou Construction Committee    a The ultimate decision making body for all
lmatters related to Guangfo road including
environmental management
Guangzhou Environmental Protection Bureau  * Law and regulations enforcement
* Environmental            policy/program
implementation
* Setting up and enforcing discharge standards
a Provide guidance on environmental matters
o Review environmental reports
o Flandling environmental emergency
Guangzhou Urban Center Transport Project  * Project proponent and executing agency
Office (PO)               o Day to day operation during construction
including environmental matters
* Will  have two full time environmental
specialists
* Prepare  contractual  requirements  and
specification for environmental performance
fir contractors and construction supervision
. Implement environmental mitigation measures
* Review and respond with new mitigation as
may be necessary to environmental monitoring
reports.
Guangzhou Communication Bureau     . Responsible for all matters once the road is
constructed and open for traffic
* Review   and   respond    environmental
monitoring reports
 Respons to emergenicy situation including
environmental accidents.
GESRI                                  29                         September, 2002



GZ City centre Transport Project Steering
GZ Guangfo Road Project Office
Operation
GZ Construction Commission                        GZ Environmental Protection Bureau
Construction                                  Construction & Operation
Guangfo          Road         GZ   Municipal  Eng.  Bureau   &           GZ   Environmental  Scientific
Management Office             Guangfo Road Construction Office           Research
Guangfo Road Construction and Operation Environment
Figure 4-1 Project Organization



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
Environmental Monitoring Station  . Coniduct environmental monitoring for both
construction and operation stages
. Provide monitoring reports
* Recommend corrective actions
Guanghzou Environmental Research Institute  * Conduct environmental impact assessment
. Prepare environmental management plan
. Respond to environmental monitoring reports
. Provide environmental training to contractors
and construction supervision
Contractor and Construction supervision  . Appoint one to two full time environmental
staff;
. ITiplement construction  stage  mitigation
measures
. Report regularly environmental performance
As the project proponent, the PO will take the ultimate responsibility for environmental
performance and environmental management during construction. During the inner ring
road construction which was competed in 2001, the PO gained substantial experience
with environmental management. The PO has dedicated environmental specialists on
staff who manage the day to day environmental performance of the contractors, maintain
liaison with regulatory agencies and communicate with the affected public including
receiving public complaints.
The environmental staff are also responsible for ensuring the implementation of
mitigation measures identified and designed by the EA. They will work closely with the
design institute and contractors as may be necessary to modify and update the mitigation
design and scale as needed by the actual conditions during project construction and
implementation. An effective working system has been developed with the PO for
environmental management through the ring road construction and such system, as well
as the extensive experience gained during the inner ring road construction will be
capitalized for Guangfo road implementation as well.
4.2   Environmental Management
Construction Stage
In order to effectively control and minimize environmental pollution resulting from
construction activities, the construction site must be assured of an environmental
management system including management people and full time environmental persons
to ensure mitigation measures designed during EA stage are appropriately implemented.
More specifically, the construction stage will:
*  Include environmenital protection requirements, mitigation plans and monitoring plan
into the bid documents and eventually in the contract;
*  Prepare environmental, sanitary measures by contractors and implemented other
mitigation measules identified and described in the EA reports;
GESRI                                30                        September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
*  Request construction supervision to have at least one full time environmental
supervision engineer
*  Request contractors to have full time environmental staff at the site;
*  Explain to the affected residents potential impacts through public notice and
information release; and
*  Continue public consultation through hotline telephone, bill boards at the
construction site.
Operation stage
Environmental management during operation is a long term effort, which requires well
structured environmental management system, and on which to further build supervision,
monitoring and management procedures. The environmental monitoring will be an
effective tool to determine the environmental performance but preventive will also be
needed such as proper maintenance. During the operation, the project operator
(Guangzhou Communication Bureau) will work closely with Guangzhou EPB on city
environmental programs such as motor vehicle emission control strategy, vehicle
inspectionl and forced retirement plan etc.
Continued Public Consultation
It is very - important that public consultation and communications will continue
throughout the project construction stage. The objective is to inform the public of
construction activities to gain their understanding and support, and to listen to any
concerns they may have and suggestions for mitigation. For example, contractors will be
requested to inform and discuss with affected communities prior to construction activities
which could result in high noise. The public opinions and concerns will be taken to full
considerations for properly scheduling noise construction activities.
A bill board will be erected in every construction site. This board will briefly explain the
activities on this site, and indicates specifically that public concerns and opinions on the
enVironment will be welcome. To ensure public concerns, if any, can be received
properly and timely, the board will include specific contact information such as telephone
numbers, email address where possible, and contact persons, which will be the head and
environmental staff of the contractors on that particular site.
Public notice will also be issued in media during the operation stage to inform of the
public with contact information so that they can express their concerns and opinions, if
any, on environmental impacts of Guangfo road operations. Once again telephone
numbers and contact persons will be provided. At this stage, the contact information will
be those of that of the road operating company.
4.3   Personnel Training
Personnel training will be provided in different stages of project implementation. At the
construction stage, heads and environmental staff from  winning contractors and
GESRI                               31                        September, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
construlction supervisionl compan'ies will be requested to participated in a manidatory
environmental training program. This request will be included the construction tendering
documents to be issued to the pre-qualified bidders whio will be invited to bid. This
training program will include, but not limited to, tile following contents:
e  Relevant enviromnental regulations, policies, standards and programs;
* The main findings and recommendations of environmental impacts assessment;
o  Relevant environmental control technologies, processes and procedures;
o  Key contenits of environmental management plan, particularly various mitigation
measures for the construction stage and the implementation;
*  Daily environmental monitoring requirements (see section below), methodology and
procedures,
o  Environmental reporting requiremenits; and
*  Environimenital emergency response and cleanup.
Regarding personnel trainilig, the effort will be focused on tihe contractors who will be
conduct the constrLctioni, because other environmental training for project inanagement,
monitorilig and othier professional staff have been included in the Ininer Ring Road (LRIR)
component. In total, 10 people from the contractors will be requested to participate in the
environmental training for a total of eighit days. Based on tile ullit cost of RMB4000 per
person for the training, the total traininig budget for the Guangfo road will be RMB40,000.
For operation stage, environmental staff from the road operation companiy and relevant
government organilzations wilicil oversee and supervise the road operations will be
provided tile traininlg. T he training programs will be primarily provided by professional
environmenital staff or in local universities.
4.4    Environmental Monitoring
The objective of the environmental monitoring plan is to verify the prediction of
environmental impacts assessment and detemline environmental performance and
impacts to surroundinig area. The monitoring plan will also provide a basis for project
executing agency and road operator to prepare environmental policies, take additional
actions for mitigation as may be necessary and minimize adverse impacts.
Environmenital monitoring plan
Environmental monitoring will be carried out in both the constructioll and operation
stages. In the constl-uctioll stage, the monitorilng will be done in two levels: daily and
regular monitorinig, to be carried out by contractors and constructionl supervision
companiies. Environmental staff will be trained prior to the start of construction for the
monlitoring which will include mostly visual monitorinig of air bornie dust, surface rinoff,
storage and disposal of constructioni waste, traffic impacts, and construction safety issues.
Hand-lhold noise meters will be used to monlitor the noise levels at sensitive receptors
32                         Sepiember, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
dLiring constructioni. The objective of tlis daily monitoring program  is to identify
environmental issues at the same time as the constructioni activities on these sites to that
appropriate mitigation actions, if needed, can be initiated and implemilenited timely to
minimize the impacts.
At the same time, in additional to the daily monitoring by contractors a formal
environmental monitoring program will also be carried out during the construction, as
well as operation phase. This programs will be conducted by professional environmenital
monitoring program with main objective to provide official records on environmental and
regulatory compliance status.
The formal environmental monitoring plan for both construction and operation stages is
presented in Table 4-2 and monitoring locations are shown in Figure 4-2.
Table 4-2 Environmental Monitoring Plan
Environment         ltem                         Contents
Air          Parameter   |              NO2, CO, TSP, PM,,
l____ _  Length    I year for construction and first 2 years in operation
Frequency       Once a quarter and 5 consecutive days each time
Time      |      6:00, 10.00, 1400 18:00 (TSP and NO2)
Location     Datansha middle school, Guangdon- Commerce School,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Jiaobiao primary school
Noise     |   Parameter   |           Noise level equivalent (Leq)
Length        I year for construction and first 2 years in operation
.____ _  Frequency  |      Once a quarter and one day each time
Time      I        One during the day and one at night
Location       Shuangqiao Middle School, Guangdong Conumerce
School, Guocun residential houstng, Jiaobiao primary
I______________  school and Hengyiao village
As the night time construction is unavoidable, night time construction activities will be
closely monitored, besides other mitigation measures. Dedicated and well trained staff
will be stationed at the night time construction sites to monitor the activities with regard
to mitigation measure implementation, necessary actions for reduce excessive impacts
particularly noise and traffic as well as to receive and respond to any public complaints.
Reporting and data management
Environmental monitoring data have higih values in enviromnental management and
pOllutiOIn control. The data will demonstrate whethier the actual environmental
performance and environmental impacts will be as predicted by the EA which will also
provide basis for appropriate and necessary actions. The reports and data will help create
envirolimenital data base for Guangfo road area.
More specifically, the environmental moniitoring reports will contain:
GESRII                               33                         Sepleniber, 2002



Legend
fi  ~~~~~~~~~          ~Scale: ')5u0m
Project:
I* -3,-'3  !            Noise monitoring sites.M
/          -"'~           ;- ~ >: 1t tXAir monitoring sites: A
i  - | Dwainsha Interchange  ;- - N' § ; | {- {  Zhongsha BaIu Inuerchange  t-
iz~~~~~~~ g
Figue 4   Loction of ir Nd
Figure4-2 Loaticns ofnAir hange os  oitrn  ie



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
*  Raw data (coefficients, monitoring location, monitoring/sample collection time,
statistics, environmental quality analysis and recommendations for furtiher actions
where needed;
*  Reporting frequency: once every three months for a quarterly report and once a year
for comprelhensive reports;
Reporting to: Guangzhou EPB and Guangzhou Urban Center Transport Projects
Office (PO).
Th1e reports will be reviewed by the environmental staff of the PO as well as the
regulatory authorities and the World Bank. It is thie PO's responsibility to respond to thle
reports; particularly if the reports identify adverse impacts uLnexpected by the project EA
or impacts which exceed acceptable levels. PO will take prompt actions including
additional mnitigation measures to address the newly identified issues.
Estimated costs for monitorin! plan
The monitoring plan costs consist of fees for analysis, labor cost for the monitorinig wvork
as well as costs for reporting preparation and translation. The estimated costs for the
monitoring plan are as follows:
Air quality whiclh includes analytical cost (Table 4-3) and labor costs.
Table 4-3 Air Qualit Monitoring Analytical Costs (RMIB)
Item    No. of monitoring  Samples  Days per   Times      Unit     Total
points       per dav     time    Per year _ cost       cost
NO2            3             4         5         4         40      9600
CO            3             4         5          4         37      8880
PMUo           3             1          1         4        495      5940
TSP            3             1         1         4        495      5940
Total  _____ ____ ___ ___  ____ ___ ____ _    __ ___ ___I          30,360
For the one year monitoring for construction and two years for operation (the first two
years), the total analytical costs for the air quality will be RMB91,080. In addition, the
labor cost, based on two technical staff and one driver required for thie program at
RMB160/person for technical staff and RMB100/person for the driver, will be estimated
to be RMB22,400 per year or RMB67,200 for three years (one construction and two
operation years). Therefore, the total estimated costs for air quality monitoring program
will be RMB] 58,280.
Noise, which includes primarily labor cost. Assuming one technical staff and one driver
for the program for the five monitoring locations, two days per time and four times per
year at RMB160 per person per day for technical staff and RMMB100 per person per day,
the annual labor cost will be RMB7680/year. For the three years monitoring program
(one year for constructioni and two for operation), the total noise monitorilng cost will be
RMB23,040.
*;E-SRI                              34                        Septenther, 2002



Guangfo Road Environmental Management Plan
Night time construction supervision whiichi includes dedicated and well trained staff
going through all construction sites durinig night time construction. It is estimated that
there will be 90 days wlhen night constructioni are necessary. At RMB160 per nighit, the
total cost for niglht construction supervisioni will be RMB14,400.
Transportation. This is primary the cost of using motor velhicle during conducting the
monitoring program. The basic assumption is that one vehicle is needed for noise and air
quality, respectively. At unit cost of RMB350 per velhicle per day, the annual cost will be
RMB8400 or the total cost for the monitoring program will be RM325,200 for the three
years.
Re'lporting. The estimated cost for report production will be RMB20,000 per year and
the total cost will be RMB60,000 for the three years. The total translation cost will be
RMB45,000 for the three years. Therefore, the total estimated cost for report production
and preparation is RMB105,000.
Adding all the estimated costs listed above, the total cost for the tilree years
environmiental monitoring prograin will be RMB325,920 covering one year for tile
construction phiase (including niglht time supervision cost) and the first two years of the
operation plhase.
4.5   Estimated cost of mitigation measures
The various mitigation measuires for Guangfo road project will be taken durinlg differenlt
stages of project implementation. The costs for these measLIues are estimated and
presented in Table 4-4.
Table 4-4 Estimated Costs for Mitigation Measures
Item            Specific measures    |   Quantity      Estimated costs
Noise                Barrier               850 m          2,550,000
Double glazed windows       240 m2           72,000
Noise absorbent pavement    16,667 m       40,000,000*
Landscaping        Tree planting, lawns    10 m wide on       798,000
|   both sides
Resettlement and  Cash compensation, moving                  388,126,728*
relocation       cost, lost incomes, etc.  I
Environmental        Labor, materials,      One year for      325,920
monitoring     transportation reporting etc.  construction and
two for operation
Personinel training, I__                                        40,000
Direct Total*                           i                    3,785,920
*Noise absorbent pavement is included in the engineerinig work and resettlemenit is
implemented withi the separate group and as suclh the direct environmental mitigation cost
does not include these two items.
G;ESJ?1I                            35                        Septenmher. 2002



