RP45
Volume 2
Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project
r-J
Resettlement Action Plan                      v3J
C;O
Guangzhou City Center Transport Project Office
Guangzhou Road Expansion and Engineering Office
May 2002
IR 



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project
Resettlement Action Plan
Group leader:    Liu Haiteng
Vice leader:     Mai Guozhen         Yang Liangkun
Member of the group:
Full time:       Liang Dacheng      Mo Suilin     Cai Janyu
Liang Shangyu      Huang Geng
Part time:       Huang Jianchang    Mai Yaorong   Guan Zhixiong
Du Muju            Zhou Jian
Written by:      Liang Dacheng      Zhou Jian     Cai Jianyu
Proofread by:    Cai Yueying
Translated by:   Marie Mei



Guangfo Exit Radial Road
Resettlement Action Plan
(Summary)
1. Introduction
Guangfo Exit Radial Road is one of the seven radial roads of the Inner Ring Road
leading to seven directions, which is an urban expressway. Locating in the
southwest of the city the road starts from Zhongshan Road No. 8 Interchange at
the east, nins along the two sides of Guangzhou-Sanshui Railway, crosses the
Pearl River, and then continues to go westwards through Datansha Island and
Fangcun Da Dao and meets finally with the Huangqi Interchange of the Out Ring
Expressway. The road runs throughl two administrational districts of Baiyun
District and Fangcun District in Guangzhou and two administrational districts of
Huangqi District and Yanbu District in Nanhai city with the total length of 5.5km.
The land acquisition needed for the project is 305.67mu, the number of the
households to be affected is 35 with the total floor area of 10958.38m2 to be
demolished, the number of the shops and offices to be demolished is 347 with the
floor area of 11122.9m2, the number of the enterprises to be relocated is 7 with
the floor area of 3593.13m2 and a number of other infrastructures.
Guangfo Exit Radial Roads is an important component of Guangzhou City Center
Transport Project. The provision of this road will play an important role in further
improving the traffic condition and investment environment and will promote the
development of the national economy in Guangzhou.
Guangzhou City Center Transport Project having come into effect in 1998
includes a number of components. The purpose of the project is to improve the
traffic condition in a rapidly developing city with the population of 6.5 million.
To build the Inner Ring Road in the congestive city center involves substantive
land acquisition and resettlement of residents, shops, enterprises and public
facilities. The project established a complete set of resettlement policies and the
policies guided successfully the preparation and implementation of the
Resettlement Action Plan. These resettlement policies approved by the World
Bank in January 1998 are now being used as the guidance for the preparation of
the RAP for Guangfo Exit Radial Road.
During the preparation of this RAP experience and lessons of the involuntary
resettlement of the Inner Ring Road project were drawn. The ways of passively
waiting for the complaints and the post-monitor will be changed into the way of



monitoring in advance and during the course. Solutions for the existing problems
of the resettlement management will also be explored to further improve the level
of management. Based on the objectives of the resettlement set for the Inner Ring
Road project this RAP further puts forward the objectives of the resettlement
management and will implement a fire-new resettlement working pattern and
management means - the integrated municipal land acquisition and resettlement
information management system.
2. Objectives and principles of the resettlement
The objectives are to ensure that the affected people will get the compensations
for all the loss of their assets and share the benefits of the project through the
reasonable resettlement and good rehabilitation, will be compensated for their
temporary difficulties, and their income standard and living level and the
capability of production of enterprises and profit-making will be improved, or at
least be restored at the former level.
3. Policies and legislation's of the resettlement
The resettlement policies of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road project are formed in
accordance with the national laws and regulations and the World Bank guidance
of involuntary resettlement OD4.30.
Guangfo Exit Radial Road is one of the seven radial roads of the Inner Ring Road
leading to seven directions, which is an urban expressway. Therefore, the
resettlement policies of the IRR will be applied to the resettlement work for
Guangfo Exit Radial Road.
4. Institutional arrangement and staffing of the resettlement work
The resettlement work of Guangfo Exit Radial Road project will be organized
and implemented by Guangzhou Road Expansion and Engineering Office
(GREEO). Through the establishment of a strong institutional structure, a good
cooperation with the departments concerned, and the clear definition of the
responsibility of each department, the GREEO will ensure that the resettlement
work will be completed with high quality and high standard.
5. Policies of the resettlement
The resettlement and rehabilitation policies are prepared according to the
classification of different kinds of the PAPs.
The project will minimize the resettlement amount as far as possible. The project
will plan and build the resettlement areas according to the urban development



plan and provide the PAPs with better living condition, improve the public
facilities and traffic conditions, encourage the economically self-dependent
employment, resettle the PAPs originally lived in the same place together to form
a similar. community as that before they moved, pay attention to the vulnerable
group (elders, widows, the single parent families and the handicapped etc.). The
project will make use of the social insurance and unemployment welfare, pay
attention to the environmental and encourage the full participation of the PAPs.
The project will guarantee the interests of the PAPs to the most extent to ensure a
successful resettlement and rehabilitation.
6. Objective, pattern and methodology of the resettlement management
To reduce the resettlement cost, increase the management level and further
improve the work efficiency of the resettlement and thus realizing the objectives
of the involuntary resettlement. To realize the optimum combination of the degree
of the satisfaction of the PAPs, the resettlement cost and the working efficiency.
The responsibility contracting method used for the resettlement work will help to
overcome all sorts of faults in daily resettlement work carried out wvith economic
contracting method. The working mode of cost estimation in advance, controlling
during the process and the after settlement of the responsibility contract enables
the successful monitoring. It will also allow the government functional
departments to proceed overall balance by taking the project as the whole, thus
making the overall coordination and the unified allocation of fund and
resettlement housing possible.
Working jointly of the relevant government functional departments and the
establishment of the Resettlement Disbursement Center will be the effective
measures to speed up the resentment work and improve the work efficiency and
the benefit of the use of funds for urban constructions.
To summarize the experience and lessons of the resettlement management work
in more than 20 years and the implementation of the Inner Ring Road
Resettlement Information Management System; to accelerate the development of
the comprehensive involuntary resettlement information management system; to
introduce the computer network technology into the resettlement management
system and increase the science and technology content in the urban construction;
to strengthen the all-inclusive management, regulation and control of the whole
resettlement operation flow and solve basically the currently unsolvable problems
in manual operation of the resettlement management; to minimize the
resettlement cost and increase the management level and efficiency and thus
realizing the objectives of the involuntary resettlement.



7. Cost estimation and implementation plan
The estimated total cost of land acquisition, resettlement and compensation will
be 388 million yuan RMB.
8. Public participation and consultation
Broad and deep public participation and consultation activities will be carried out.
Opinions and suggestions of the PAPs will be broadly collected and listened to.
Active participation of the PAPs into the planning and implementation of the
resettlement work will release farthest their initial resistance and thus
guaranteeing the smooth implementation of the resettlement work and the whole
project.
After the review and approval by the World Bank, the RAP will be publislhed on
relevant publications according to the requirement of the World Bank for the
public. In addition, the RAP will also be propagandized broadly through all the
government departments concerned, the news media and the resettlement staff. At
the same time, the resettlement management will be strengthened and a scientific
mechanism with the principles of openness, fairness and justice will be
established to ensure the rights and interests of the PAPs and ensure that the
standard of living of the PAPs will be remained or even increased and they will
gain benefits from the project.
9. Grievance and appeal
The project will establish a complete resettlement dispute grievance and
appealing mechanism. The PAPs can complain at any time on the issues relating
to the resettlement and rehabilitation including the payment of the compensation
and the allocation of the resettlement housing. This mechanism will provide the
PAPs with a convenient, transparent, fair and effective channel of grievance.
10. Monitor and assessment
The Project Office will carry out complete interior monitor on the organization of
the resettlement work to ensure that all the responsible agencies will work
according to the schedule and will follow the principles of the RAP.
The independent monitoring institution will be responsible for the evaluation
during the implementation and the measurement of the standard of living of the
PAPs. The independent monitoring institution independent from the Project
Office will be used to evaluate the resettlement activities so as to have an overall
view of the implementation from a broader and farther angle. The independent
monitoring institution will follow Up the resettlement activities to evaluate



thether the resettlement objectives are achieved.



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
Content
Chapter I  Introduction
1.1 Project background
1.2 Brief introduction of the project
1.3 Necessity of the project
1.4 Overview of the project impact
1.5 Explanation of the Resettlement Action Plan
Chapter II Objectives and principles of the resettlement
2.1 Objectives
2.2 Principles
Chapter III        Policies and legislation of the resettlement
3.1 Legal framework of the resettlement policies
3.2 The Guangfo Exit Radial Road project will follow the resettlement policies of the
Inner Ring Road project
Chapter IV Institutional arrangement and staffing of the resettlement work
4.1 Guangzhou City Center Transport Project Office
4.2 City Planning Bureaus of Guangzhou and Nanhai
4.3 Land and Housing Administration Bureaus of Guangzhou and Nanhai
4.4 Labor bureaus of Guangzhou and Nanhai
4.5 Independent monitor institution
4.6 Census surveys unit
4.7 Production teams and street neighborhood committees
4.8 Guangzhou Road Expansion and Engineering Office (GREEO) - the
implementing agency of the resettlement
4.8.1   Brief introduction
4.8.2   Staffing
4.8.3   To meet the requirement of the World Bank and implement well the
resettlement of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road project
4.8.4   Responsibility of the GREEO
4.9 Baiyun and Fangcun District Constniction Bureaus and Huangqi and Yanbu town
Governments
Chapter V Policy of the resettlement
5.1 Farmland acquisition and labor arrangement



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                             Resettlement Action Plan
5.1.1   Introduction of the acquired land
5.1.2Compensation rate of the acquisition of land with the collective community
ownership
5.1.3Compensation rate for the on-the-ground attachments
5.1.4Compensation rate for on-the-ground buildings (structures)
5.1.5Job creation and rehabilitation
5.1 .6Analysis of the resettlement effect
5.2 Resettlement and rehabilitation measures for other types of the PAPs
5.2.1  Affected residential household
5.2.2  Resettlenment policy for the affected resident household
5.2.3  Principle for set up the resettlement sites and areas
5.2.4  Other resettlement policy
5.2.5  Special rehabilitation measures for the vulnerable groups
5.2.6  Analysis of the resettlement effect
5.2.7  Affected shops
5.2.8  The  Inner Ring   Road   Resettlement Policy  - Non-residence   will be
implemented for this project
5.2.9  Principle of slhop resettlement and location of resettlement sites
5.2.10 Other resettlement policies of shops with legal ownership
5.2.11 Principles of resettlement and location of the resettlement areas for the
temporary shops
5.3 Resettlement policies for affected organizations
5.3.1  Resettlement policies for partially affected organizations
5.3.2  Resettlement policy for entire relocation of relatively independent parts
5.3.3  Resettlement policy for affected non-independent parts
5.4 Affected public utilities and cultural facilities (units)
5.5 Resettlement policy for affected infrastructure
Chapter VI Objective, pattern and methodology of the resettlement management
6.1 Objectives of the resettlement
6.1.1  Reasons for raising the objectives
6.1.2  Explanation of the objectives
6.1.3  Specific working objectives
6.2 Management pattern of the resettlement
6.2.1  Responsibility contract system
6.2.2  Work jointly and district, township (street) responsibility system
6.2.3  Establishment of the disbursement center
6.2.4  Requirement of the management mode on the management means
6.2.5  Outline of the infomiation management system
6.3 Ways to increase the degree of the satisfaction of the PAPs
6.3.1  Factors that influence the degree of the satisfaction
6.3.2  Ways to increase the degree of satisfaction
6.4 Ways to control the cost



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
6.4.1  Ways to control the quantity of resettlement
6.4.2  Control of the accuracy of the resettlement census data
6.4.3  Control of the compensation rate
6.4.4  Ways to control the cost of capital of the compensation
6.4.5  Establishment of the internal control system
6.4.6  Control of pipeline relocation
6.4.7  Other ways to reduce the resettlement cost
6.5 Ways to improve the efficiency
6.5.1  To solve the problem of the collection of the resettlement information and to
improve efficiency
6.5.2  To solve the problem of the influence of the efficiency because the working
links are too many
6.5.3  To solve the problem of the influence of the current housing resettlement
method on the efficiency
6.5.4  To solve the problem of the influence of the depth of the resettlement
management on the efficiency
6.5.5  Other ways to improve the efficiency
6.5.6  Supports to the disbursement center
Chapter VII    Cost budgeting and implementation plan
7.1 Cost budgeting for land acquisition and resettlement
7.2 F und plan of land acquisition and resettlement
7.3 Implementation plan of the resettlement
Chapter VIII   Public participation and consultation
8.1 Census
8.2 The standard of living survey (SLS)
8.3 News media
8.4 Public consultation meeting
8.4.1   Official consultation meeting held by the Project Office and the GREEO
jointly
8.4.2  Public consultation meetings and interviews organized by the independent
monitor institution
8.5 Resettlement Information Handbook
8.6 Signing of the "resettlement and compensation agreement"
Chapter IX Grievance and appeal
Chapter X Monitor and evaluation
10. 1 Interior monitor



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                                Resettlement Action Plan
10.1.1  Indicators of the monitor
10.1.2  Working procedure of the implementation of the interior monitor
10.1.3  Submit the internal monitor report
10.2 Independent monitor
10.2.1  Responsibility of the independent monitor institution
10.2.2  The standard of living survey (SLS)
10.2.3  Unofficial visit
10.2.4  Public consultation meeting
10.2.5  Grievance
10.2.6  Other responsibility
10.2.7  Staff of the implementation independent monitor
10.2.8  Submit the independent monitor and evaluation report
10.2.9  Follow-up actions after the submission of the report
I ,



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                        Resettlement Action Plan
Chapter I  Introduction
1.1.  Project background
The city of Guangzhou has used the World Bank loan for the implementation of
Guangzhou City Center Traffic Improvemenit Scheme. The successful completion of
the Inner Ring Road on 28 January 2000 emblematizes that the skeleton of the road
network in Guangzhou has been preliminarily formed, which is of an important
significance in improving basically the traffic condition and speeding Up the
economic development in Guangzhou. Afterwards, Huangpu Da Dao Radial Road,
Dongxiao South Radial Road and Zhengcha Radial Road were built and opened to
traffic and the traffic managenment was partially implemented. These have improved
essentially the traffic condition, increased greatly the traffic speed and improved
apparently the air quality in the city center. However, there is still a tension on the
traffic along the accessing road in the west area of the city. In order to solve entirely
the cuLrTently existing traffic congestion in this area and bring the funlction of
Guangzhou City Center Transport Project (GCCTP) into a full play, it is necessary to
extend the content of the GCCTP project to cover the construction of Guangfo Exit
Radial Road and its relevant auxiliary projects according to the urban transport
planning of Guangzhou.
At the same time, great achievement was made in the implementationi of the
resettlement work of the Inner Ring Road project. Under the leadership of the
Guangzhou Municipal Government and with the assistance of the World Bank the
resettlement work along the main structure of the Inner Ring Road which was planned
to finish in 5 years was completed in only 15 months. It is a resettlement project with
the biggest demolition and resettlement amotnt, fastest resettlement speed and fewest
complaints and dissension and is fully affirmed by the provincial and municipal
governments and the people from all circles. It is also highly appraised by the World
Bank. The Inner Ring Road Project Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) blends the
guideline of the World Bank resettlement docunment OD4.30 and embodied the
principle of "focus on the people" of the resettlement. The implementation of the RAP
protected to a maximum extent the entitlement of the project affected people (PAPs)
and effectively pushed forward the resettlement work of the Inner Ring Road.
1.2.  Brief introduction of the project
Guanigfo Exit Radial Road is located in the southwest part of Guangzhou. It starts
from Zhongshan Road No. 8 Interchange at the east, runs along the two sides of
Guangzhou-Sanshui Railway, crosses the Pearl River, continues to go westwards
througLh Datansha Island and Fangcun Da Dao and meets finally with the Huangqi
Interchange of the Out Ring Expressway. The road runs throughl two administration
districts of BaiyuLn  District and Fangcun  District in Guangzhou  and two
l-l



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                        Resettlement Action Plan
administration districts of Huangqi District and Yanbu District in Nanhai City. The
total length of the road is 5.5km. The road is designed with dual-3 elevated structure
along its whole alignment together with 3 large-scale interchanges (see Figure 1-1 for
the detailed alignment). The ground level road will be widened at the same time. The
area the road runs through is the coupling section of the urban and miral areas where
the industry and sideline production are well developed and there has been gradually a
tend in the rural area towards the urbanization. There are mainly low and one-storey
houses, small shops and temporary structures along the two sides of the proposed road.
While there are mostly flower fields along the road section in Huangqi District of
Nanhai city, which has been already planned as the land-use for development. At the
moment, part of the land has been already acquired and the fanniers have been
transferred gradually into the status of the urban citizens.
1.3.  Necessity of the project
The proposed constntction of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road is to meet the need for
the rapid economic development in Guangzhou and the need to release the increasing
traffic tension along the west accessing road of the city. The proposed road is selected
and determined as a connecting road between the Inner Ring Road and the OLtt Ring
Expressway according to the overall urbani plan and the road network plan of the city
and based on the consideration of thie distribution of the interchanges of both the Inner
Ring Road and the Out Ring Expressway. The road will help to integrate organically
the IRR and ORE together with the primary road network in the southwest part of the
city as a whole and will perform an important function in releasing quickly the traffic
flow accessing the city and rationalize the layout of the man road network so as to
ensure the convenience and immediacy of the traffic diversion. The completion of
Guangfo Exit Radial Road will play an active role in improving the traffic capacity of
the road network in the west part of the city. It will also facilitate the further economic
connection between the two cities of Guangzhou and Nanhai, speed up the
upvaluation of the land in the area, improve the regional investment climate and
expedite the ttrbanization of the rmral area along the alignment of the proposed road.
1.4.  Overview of the project impact
The construction of Guangfo Exit Radial Road will involve four districts in the cities
of Guangzhou and Nanhai. The land acquisition needed for the project is 305.67mu,
the ntimber of the households to be affected is 35 with the total floor area of
10958.38m2 to be demolished, the number of the shops and offices to be demolished
is 347 with the floor area of 11 122.9m2, the number of the enterprises to be relocated
is 7 with the floor area of 3593.13m2 together with a number of other infrastructures.
It is also found during the survey that there are 6 residential buildings (two of them
have 3 turrets attached) along the two sides of the ground level road south to the
Fangcun Interchange which are within the redline of the project withl the total floor
area of 40477.72m2. There are also 48 affected shops and 392 affected 11ouseholds
1-2



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                        Resettlement Action Plan
with the 1022 affected people. As the number of the PAPs in this area is big it is
necessary to consider the possibility of avoiding resettlement in this area according to
the principle of the World Bank resettlement document OD4.30. Through the survey
on site we noticed that the minimum involvement of the building within the reline
among these 6 buildings is only 1.58m and the maximum is less than 9m. The overall
floor area of these buildings inside the redline is 4813.82m2, which is only 11.89% of
the total floor area of the buildings. However, the width of the road at some sections is
more than 60m. Therefore, there is condition for a rational adjustment of the design
by modify the sidewalk, the green belt and the layout of the ground level road so as to
reduce the amount of demolition. With the consideration of this issue we made our
suggestion to the GCCTP Project Office and the designer for a proper modification
and rationalization of the design on the premise of the insurance of the road funlction
so as to reduce the amount of demolition and thus reducing the nLmber of involuntary
resettlement. Therefore, this report will not include the above mentioned 6 residential
buildings in this project.
The design of Guangfo Exit Radial Road is the optimum design scheme compared
and selected based on the master plan of the city and with the consideration of the
topography along its alignment, the purposes to avoid the villages and towns, to
occupy less farmland, not to damage important cultural relics and to reduce as far as
possible the amount of land acquisition and resettlement. The selection is also made
according to the need of the traffic with the consideration of the engineering cost, the
townscape and the economic and social benefit. The engineering feasibility of the
project is also fully considered. Comparison and analysis are made on the selection of
the alignment of the road, the road structure and the construction methodology so as
to minimize the impact of the project on the environment and traffic caused by the
land acquisition. Attention is also paid to the protection of the landscape and the
environment of the city and a number of necessary measures will be taken to prevent
the environmental pollution especially at those environment sensitive spots along the
alignment of the road.
Nevertheless, it is unavoidable to occupy part of the land, demolish a number of
houses and infrastructure facilities and affect the living and production of the citizens
and enterprises dwelling along the alignment of the road. During the preparation of
the policy and compensation standard of this RAP it is fully considered that the
standard of living of the PAPs after the resettlement will be improved to a greater or
less extent or the original standard of living shall be at least maintained. Through the
implementation of this plan the residents who have lost their land and houses and the
enterprises who have been affected will get reasonable economic compensation with
the replacement price and will be satisfactorily resettled and rehabilitated.
1.5.  Explanation of the Resettlement Action Plan
This RAP is prepared based on the Innier Ring Road Resettlement Action Plan. As the
1-3



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
location and the scope of Guangfo Exit Radial Road project differ greatly from the
Inner Ring Road project the emnphasis of the RAP of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road
project is also different from that of the Inner Ring Road Resettlement Action Plan.
The construction of the Inner Ring Road is a large-scale municipal infrastructure
construction carried out in the city center and its resettlement focused mainly on the
urban citizens and the shops. While the Guangfo Exit Radial Road is located at the
coupling section of the urban and rural areas and the resettlement and the
rehabilitation focus mainly on the owner of the land under the rural collective
ownership system and the surplus labors after the land acquisition.
During the preparation of this RAP experience and lessons of the involuntary
resettlement of the Inner Ring Road project are drawn. The ways of passively waiting
for the complaints and the post-monitor will be changed into the way of monitoring in
advance and during the course. The existing problems of the resettlement
management and the solutions will also be basically explored so as to furthler improve
the level of management. Based on the objectives of the resettlement set for the Inner
Ring Road project this RAP further puts forward the objectives of the resettlement
management and will implement a fire-new   resettlement working pattem  and
management means - the integrated municipal land acquisition and resettlement
information management system.
1-4



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                             Resettlement Action Plan
Chapter II Objectives and principles of the resettlement
2.1 Objectives
The objectives are to ensure that the affected persons xvill get the compensations for
all the loss of their assets and share the benefits of the project througlh the reasonable
resettlement and good rehabilitation, will be compensated for their temporary
difficulties, and their income standard and living level and the capability of
production of enterprises and profit-making will be improved, or at least restored to
the former level.
2.2 Principles
1. The design of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road will be modified appropriately to
avoid the densely populated areas or multi-storey buildings, high-rise buildings,
and to reduce the affected range of land acquisition and demolition as far as
possible so as to minimize the involuntary population of the resettlement.
2. While acquiring collective land all the loss will be compensated reasonably. The
compensation fees will be paid to the representative units only for developing
collective economy, but canniot be diverted to any other purposes. The affected
farmers' houses on residential plot will be reconstructed according to the
development plans of the city, the town and the village to ensure that the rebuilt
houses will reach or exceed the original housing standard. The affected farmers
'ill be resettled by the village committee in a unified way according to the
principle of "resettlement on the spot and obtain employment in multiple
channels".
3. The principle of reciprocal compensation will be carried out. Namely, what losses
will get what compensations with equal replacement price.
4. The living space will be enlarged and the necessary facilities will be consuLmmniated.
The houses will be constructed with reinforced concrete structure. All the necessary facilities
will be well consummated at the resettlemiient sites with convenient transport and livitng
environmenlt.
5. The affected shops, enterprises and organizations will maintain the original scale
and function of their houses. The fomier business environment will be
rehabilitated as far as possible. The loss of closing and temporary business in
different place will be compensated.
2-1



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                           Resettlement Action Plan
6. The affected public facilities will be rehabilitated according to the planlling
standard.
7. The resettlement will be planned to create full employment so that the migrants
can adapt themselves to resettlement sites and self-reliance economically in a
short time. The responsibility of the resettlement will be transferred in time from
resettlement organizations to the migrants.
8. The vulnerable groups (such as the elders without any matured children living
together, the widows, the single parent families, the female-leaded families, the
handicapped, th-ose have chronic diseases and the poor households) will be given
special favorable policies suchi as reasonable care for their dwelling houses and
employment.
9. The displacement in the range of demolition and resettlement will be taken in
group to keep the completeness of the original communities.
10 The resettlement, rehabilitation and compensation will be supervised withl the
monitoring in advance and during the course to guarantee the fairness and justness
of the resettlement and minimize the number of the complainits and lawsuits.
11 The affected persons will participate in all the process of the resettlement. There
will be a special mechanism established to respond to the grievance of the affected
persons. The database for grievances integrated with the operational database will
be established to ensure that each complaint will be responded and handled in
time.
12 Resettlement management will be strengthened on the basis of ensuranice of the
reasonable profits of the affected persons so as to reduce the cost of compensation,
land acquisition and resettlement.
2-2



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
Chapter III        Policies and legislation of the resettlement
The resettlement policies of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road project are fonned in
accordance with the national laws and regulations and the World Bank guidance of
involuntary resettlement OD4.30.
3.1  Legal framework of the resettlement policies
The laws and regulations of land acquisition and resettlement have been developed
into 3 levels in China. The first one involves the basic legal frameework and the
national rules as well as the guiding principles issLued by the central government. The
second one includes the regulations of overall or specific project issued by the
provincial government to implement national laws and regulations. The third one is
municipal stipulations applied in specific period or to specific projects issued by the
city or county government.
The current national, provincial and mLtnicipal laws and regulations are as the
follows:
I . Land Management Law of People's Republic of China
2. Implementation Measures of Guangdong Provincial Land Management
3. Regulations of Overseas Chinese Owned Urban Housing Demolition
Affected in Land Acquisition for State Project in Guangdong Province
4. Temporary Measures of Land Acquisition     for Traffic Infrastructure
Construction in Guangdong Province
5. Compensation Standards of Agriculture Land Acquisitioln in Guangzhou
6. Regulations of Urban Housing Resettlement Management
7. Guangzhou City Ordinances of Urban Housing Resettlement Management
8. Implementation  Details of Urban  Housinig  Resettlement Management and
Compensation
9. Regulations  of   Urban   Housing   Resettlement  Management   and
Compensations
3.2 The Guangfo Exit Radial Road project will follow the resettlement policies of
the Inner Ring Road project
3-i



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
Chapter IV Institutional arrangement and staffing of the resettlement work
The main working process and the correlation chart of the resettlement work of the
Guangfo Exit Radial Road can be seen in Figure 4-1.
The responsibility of each relevant agency is be described below:
4.1 Guangzhou City Center Transport Project Office
1. To be responsible for the internal monitoring of the implementation of the
Resettlement Policy and RAP by the GREEO, make definitely job division of the
various institutionis and the needed time. The indicators need to be monitored are
as the follows:
* Payment of the compensations to the affected persons and enterprises
*   Housing allocation
*   Resettlement of the PAPs
*   The rehabilitation of the PAPs and vulnerable groups (ability)
* The replacement of the infrastnicture facilities and public facilities
* The restoration of the affected enterprises
*   Time table for the above activities
*   Consistency of the above activities with the Resettlement Action Plan and
the World Bank document OD4.30
*   The sufficiency and rationality of the public consultation and participate
during the preparation and implementation
*   The sufficiency of the staffing and training, timetable and working efficiency
of the GREEO, the independent monitor institution and other agencies
relating to the resettlement
2. To examine the progress of the implementation of the RAP. It will be carried out
in the following aspects:
*   To examine and discuss the internal monitoring report compiled by the
GREEO and the external monitoring report submitted by the independent
monitor institution.
*   To examine the individual reports compiled by various relative implementing
agencies or related government departments.
3. To make decisions for solving problems found during the implementation of the
RAP and assign a certain institution for the implementation.
4. To review the progress of the implementation of the measures put forward in the
4-1



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                       Resettlemnent Action Plan
previous session.
5. To discuss and coordinate the group's next session, which relates to the report on
the independent monitoring institution and the evaluation agencies, after they
submitted the report.
6. To examine whether the various impacts have been already compensated
rationally and the affected persons restored to tlheir original living level after
relocation.
4.2 City Planning Bureaus of Guangzhou and Nanhai
To confirm the land acquisition range of the project and issue the "License for
Planned Land-use" and inform  Guangzhou and Nanhai Housing and Land
Administration Bureaus, based on the report of "applying for the planning license for
land-use" raised by the Project Office and the approval documeLnt of the preliminary
design of the project.
4.3 Land and Housing Administration Bureaus of Guangzhou and Nanhai
To carry out internal consultation, ratification and confimiation for the scope of land
acquisition, demolition and resettlement, according to the "License for Planned
Land-use" issued by the City Planning Bureau and the report "Applying for planning
license for land-use" raised by the GCCTPO, then issue the "License for Construction
Land-use", the "Notice for Land Acquisition, Demolition and Resettlement", the
"License for Housing Relocation". After the completion of the demolition and
relocation of the project, which will be checked to conform to the regulations of
land-use, the "License for Land-use" will then be issued.
4.4 Labor bureaus of Guangzhou and Nanhai
In accordance with the "License for the Planned Land-use" issued by the City
Planning Bureau and the report of "applying for the job creation for surplus labor"
submitted by the GREEO, to examine, consult, confirm the number of surplus labors
and the guidance of job creation, conduct all procedures of job creation for surplus
labors, then issue the "License of Job Creation for Land Acquisition" to the GREEO,
with which the GREEO will apply to the Municipal Land and Housing
Adminiistration Bureau for the "License of Land-use for Construction".
4.5 Independent monitor institution
In accordance with the World Bank's requirement of land acquisition, demolition and
resettlement for the Guangfo Exit Radial Road project under the GuangzhIou City
Center Transport Project, independent monlitor institution will be invited with the
4-2



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                            Resettlement Action Plan
responsibility of the follows:
1. To monitor the land acquisition for the Guangfo Exit Radial Road project,
including:
*   Implementation of the land acquisition for the resettlement sites of the
project itself
* Situations of job creation foe the rural labors affected by the land acquisition.
*    Implementation of the agreement of the land acquisition
2. To ensure the sufficiency and rationality of the public consultationi and
participation.
3. To carry out the baseline survey of living standard (SLS) durilig the preparation
period of the project, carry out the survey again one year after the completion of
the resettlement and then carry out the follow-up survey after the completion of
the project. Same procedure for each survey.
4. To monitor the production arrangement of the affected enterprises.
5. To monitor the resettlement of the affected households.
6. To monitor the progress and quality of the construction of the resettlement
housings and the relocation and reconstruction of the public facilities.
7. To monitor the affected shops and their profit-making capabilities.
8. To evaluate the plan of fund allocation application and its effect.
The indicators need to be monitored are as the follows:
*   Payment of the compensation to the affected persons and enterprises
according to the negotiated standard of the agreement
*   The rationality of the Housing allocation
*   The timeliness and the degree of plenitude of the preparation of the
resettlement areas
*   The timely resettlement and the rehabilitation of the affected persons
especially the vulnerable groups
*   Relocation and replacement of the infrastructures
*   Rational compensation and resettlement of the affected enterprises
*   Timely  provision  of other negotiated   compensations  such  as  the
transportation and removal subsidy, loss of incomes or wages, location for
businiess during the transition period etc.
*   Sufficiency and rationality of the public consultationi and participation
4-3



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
*   Receiving and handling the grievances of the affected persons
*   Consistency of the resettlement activities and the resettlement policy
4.6 Census surveys unit
To be responsible for the baseline/census surveys of the affected residents, shops and
enterprises of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road project and for the assembling of the
survey data and submit the report of the census survey to the GREEO.
4.7 Production teams and street neighborhood committees
Production teams will be responsible for reporting the property, area and rate of
land/labor of the land to be required, to take part in the land acquisition, demolition
and resettlement activities directly, including inquisition, planning for resettlement
and rehabilitation and treatment of argument etc. and to allocate the compensation fee.
The streets are responsible for assisting the activities of the affected residents and
reporting their complaints.
4.8 Guangzhou Road Expansion and Engineering Office (GREEO) - the
implementing agency of the resettlement
See Figure 4-2 for the institutional structure.
4.8.1   Brief Introduction
The GREEO has been engaged in the resettlement activities for road constriction for
25 years. With abundant experience on land acquisition, demolition and resettlement
of hundreds of municipal projects and tens of key municipal projects such as the
expansion engineering of the Dongfeng Road and Jiefang Road, North Ring
Expressway project, it strictly carries out the specific provisions of national laws and
municipal regulations of land acquisition, demolition and resettlement and enjoys
good prestige.
4.8.2   Staffing
The GREEO boasts over 170 registered staff members and among which 80 are
technical and professional staff. About 50 of them are engaged in the land acquisition,
demolition and resettlement activities directly. A number of over 100 staff can be
organized to deal with the land acquisition, demolition and resettlement activities
directly in case of emergency. Many years working in the field the staff have
possessed good quality and rich working experience. An organization and
management pattern and working procedure suitable for the resettlement has also
been set up.
4-4



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                       Resettlement Action Plan
4.8.3  To meet the requirement of the World Bank and implement vell the
resettlement of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road project
In order to further protect the entitlement of the affected persons the GREEO will
summarize the working experience and, based on its experience, reform the
institutional framework, improve the working procedure and carry out the training to
its staff.
4.8.4  Responsibility of the GREEO
*   Provide guidance on the census sur-vey
*   Prepare the Resettlement Action Plan according to the relevant policy and
the findings of the survey
*   Organize the implementation of the RAP
*   Work out tlle budget of the resettlement according to the data of the survey;
*   Provide advice on minimizes the amount of demolition and resettlement
during the implementation so as to minimize the cost of the resettlement.
Work out the RAP and concrete action schemes and organize the
implementation.
*   To be responsible for the constructioni of the resettlement housinigs and the
rational allocation of the resettlement housings.
*   To be responsible for the pipeline relocation and compensation;
*   To be responsible for the organization, guiding, coordinating, inspecting and
supervising the implementation of thie resettlement work.
4.9 Baiyun and Fangcun District Construction Bureaus and Huangqi and Yanbu
town Governments
To be responsible for the implementation of the land acquisition, resettlement and the
compensation under the guideline of the RAP, such as the demolition of the houses
within the redline of the project, acquisition of the land under the rural collective
ownership system, demolition of the buildings and their attachments, signing of the
compensation agreements, going through the procedures relating to the land
acquisition and hand-over of the land on time for construction.
4-5



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                                   Resettlement Action Plan
Figure 4-1 Main working process and correlation chart of the resettlement
wvork of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road
Fun alcfIo       -        Overall planniing, sLIpervision,               CT
coordiuiatioii aind nmanlagement
Site survey, cost estimate 
_Participate iinto the feasibility sttid  *     tiSrvey ageticy|
Public participation  -     and prepare the working plan
Prepare the RAP                                                        Giatigzllou and Nanllai
Apply for tile penmlit of land-Lis  e -    City Plaiiniiicg BLureaLus |
Resettlemenlt housing       plaioing    for    constmction,
land-Luse   penmlit  anid   iouisility,    GLiaiigzllou aind Naiiliai
deimolitioii peniiit         ___Lanid              &     HoLusii
l                  ~~~~~~~~Admiiiiistratioii B.
Apply for the resettlement of - _
Familand acquisition          surplus   labors   after   land         Guangzou and Nanhai
acquisition                              Labor Bureaus
Copro aSign agreement of resettlemen    t         GREEO (responsible unit)
and compensationi
Houise denmolition an  t      IHousing                                            administration  and
land cleaning           _---                                             resettlement departments of
each district (seconded unit)
Resettlement hoousin
allocation                                                     _       Residents and enterprises
s                 § ~~~~~~to be relocatedl
Hand-over of the land for            Check and acceptance 
constniction                         st   _ar                              Independeint|
imonitoring institution
4-6



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                                Resettlement Action Plan
Figure 4-2 Institutional structure for resettlement work
Authofity       GCCTP Project Leading Group
I
0         -~      -T
|GCCTP Project Office                Itmliiiioii
|Planning, auditing an|             GRE
finanicial departmentss
Gu=     af      xi  lada    Road  Resettlemieiit |  |Coordiulatillgc|
|HeadqLuarter of thie GREE0Oeatiin
_0                          21~~
f      rw        l      _               m         : ~~rD    r
XBaiyun District Constniction Bureau 
X agcuin District Constniction Bureau 
Y Hanbqi Town Govenimeint
4-7



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                   Resettlement Action Plan
Chapter V Policy of the resettlement
5.1 Farmland acquisition and labor arrangement
Fully treasure and rationally use of the land and anxiously protect the farmland is the
fundamental national policy. The design of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road focuses
on the use of periphery wasteland and sloping field available as far as possible so as to
avoid the use of farmland, on the premise of guaranteeing the road functionis. The
road runs through two administrative regions of Baiyun District and Fangcun District
in Guangzhou and two administrative regions of Huangqi District and Yanbu District
in Nanhai City. The road section within Guaingzhou will not occupy any farmland and
the land-use type is mostly the village paths and unLused field. There are two affected
villages: Tanwei village and Wuyanqiao village. According to the decision of the
Guangzhou Municipal Government to reform the villages inside the urban area the
status of the villagers in the city center and the conjoint are will be gradually changed
into that of the urbaniites. While there are mostly flower fields along the road section
in Huangqi District and Yanbu District of Nanhlai city, which has been already
planned as the land-use for development. At the moment, part of the land has been
already acquired and the farmers have transferred gradually into the status of the
urbani citizens.
The area where the proposed road will run through is the coupling section of the
urban and rural areas and the marketing economy has rapidly developed in this area.
Along with the continuous expansion of the urban area of Guangzhou and the great
changes with each passing day the rural area here has basically accomplished the
urbanization during the frequently land acquisition in the past decade. Though there
still a number of farmers remained in the villages they are not living on agriculture
any more and therefore they do not have any apparent difference from the urban
population at all. The towns and villages along the whole alignment of the proposed
road are apparently urbanized and the number of the non-agriculture labors and the
income of the non-agriculture have made a high proportion.
5-1



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                    Resettiement Action Plan
5.1.1  Introduction of the acquired land
Table 5-1  Farmland acquired for the Guangfo Exit Radial Road project
Unit: Mu
Township/   Total area                        Type
vi l lage  acquired  Sundry   Paddy                Flower   Residential
terra   field   Manor Orchard          plot
Tanwel      80          79.96                                  0.17
Village     801
Wulyanqiao 37.67        37.67
V illage__                          _ _  _ _ _
Huatrqi     153.87                                    153.87
District
YanbLi     343
District   I                                          34
Total       305.67      117.63                        187.87   0.17
Table 5-2  Familand acquired for Guangfo Exit Radial Road project and reduction
of farmland after acquisition
Original farmland                      Farmland per capita
and population
Road    Area                       Farmiland N-neBfoe         After
section    (township Faaunlan PopLilatio aiired ofPAPSacqBeisitio acquisitio Reducti
/village)  FmanPpato(mu)            ofPPReut
d (mu)  n                          n(Mu/pers n       on rate
on)    (Mui/perso
on) ~n)
Zhongshan
Road       Tne
No.8-Zhuan Tanwei     668.57     1095        0        0     0.61      0.61      0
gj iang  W. vilage
Bridge
Zhujiang W.
anqiao   WuyWuanqia   276.43     1639        0        0     0.17      0.17      0
industrial  o village
village
Jibiao     Huangqi    1308.1     2225    153.87     261     0.59      0.52  11.8%
ngqi       Ynu10                 2302       34       50     0.9       0.68   1.4%
Pntercmange District
rTotal                3857.1     72611   195.171    2651     0.53~    0.501  5.6%
Note: Numnber of PAPs = area of acquired farmland/average area of farmland per
labor
5-2



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                    Resettlement Action Plan
5.1.2 Compensation rate of the acquisition of land with the collective
community oNvnership
1. Compensation for land:
For acquisition of paddy field, the compensation rate is 8-10 times of the average
annual output value of the land in past three years. For acquisition of other type of
farmland, the compensation rate is 6-8 times of the average annual output value of the
land in past three years. For acquisition of fish pound, the compensation rate is 8-12
times of the average annual output value of the paddy field close to the pounld in past
three years. For acquisition of other type of agricultural land, the compensation rate is
5-7 times of the average annual output value of the land in past three years. For
acquisition of unused land, the compensation rate is 50% of that for other farmland
close to it. For acquisition of non-agriculture land with collective ownerslip the
compensation rate is the same as that for other farmland close to it.
The Ulit of the average year output value shall be determined based on the data from
the annual report of the most basic level unit that is reviewed by the local statistical
department and endorsed by the general price department. The compensation is
mainly used to develop the collective economy and to extent the production. It can
also be used to establish new enterprises and for cooperative development of the real
estate etc. so as to create more employment opportunlity.
The rural collective organization ought to publish the situation of the revenue and
expenditure of the compensation from the confiscation of land to the members of the
collective economy organization for the supervision. It is prohibited to misappropriate
or peculate the compensation and any other payment from the land acquisition.
2. Job creation allowance
The job creation allowance for each famier after the farmland acquisition shall be 4-6
times of the average annual output value of the acquired farmland in the past three
years. However, the maximum allowance per hectare shall not exceed 15 times of the
average annual output value of the land in the past three years. The total value of the
job creation allowance for each farmer after the acquisition of other type of farmland
shall be 3-5 times of the average annual output value of the acquired land in the past
three years.
For those who can not maintain the original living level with the compensation paid
according to the above provisions the amount of the allowance can be increased with
the approval of the provincial government. However, the total amount of the land
compensation and job creation allowance shall not exceed 30 times of the average
annual output value of the acquired land in the past three years.
5-3



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                   Resettlement Action Plan
Resettlement compensation shall not be paid for residential plot and the land acquired
that the tax on agriculture is not imposed on.
The people's government shall stop levying the agriculture tax on the land acquired
from the second year after the acquisition is approved.
This fund shall be used for the economic rehabilitation in a non-agriculture way for
the farmers who are affected by the project.
3. Compensation for the standing crops
For short-term crop, the compensation shall be paid equal to the output value of one
crop and for the perennial crop the compensation shall be paid rationally according to
the length of the planting season and growth period and the compensation shall be
paid to the villagers through the villager committee.
4. Compensation for hydraulic construction
Compensation shall be paid according to the actual quantities of the hydraulic
facilities damaged due to the acquisition of the agriculture land at the replacement
cost.
5.1.3  Compensation rate for the on-the-ground attachments
Table 5-3  Compensation rate for fruit trees, standing crops and fry
Name       Diameter of the fruit  Unit     Unit price (Yuan)   Remark
tree (cm)
5-15                 Piece     1000
Litchi          16-25               Piece     2000
Above 26             Piece     3000
5-15                Piece      500
Longan          16-25               Piece     2000
Above 26             Piece     2500
5-15                Piece     750
Wampee         16-25                Piece     1500               _
Caraimnbola    5-15                 Piece     500
16-25               Piece      1000
P.scidia      5-15                 Piece     500
Piscidia       16-25                Piece     1000
gfruit  5-15                Piece     500
Ginseng frult   16-25               Piece     1000
5-15                Piece     400
16-25              Piece     800
5-4



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                    Resettlement Action Plan
5-15                 Piece     750
Mango           16-25                Piece     1500
Banana                               Piece     100
10-19                Piece     1000
Royal palm      20-30                Piece     2000
30-40                Piece     3000
10-20                Piece     500
Grape           Above 20             Piece     1000
Bamboo                               Piece     100
Frangipani      10-20                Piece     200
_____ ____ ____   ____ ____20-30     Piece     300
Whiteness       5-19                 Piece     500
orchidtrene     20-30                Piece     750
orchid tree     Above 30             Piece     1500
Sapling         2-4                  Piece
Fruit sprout    2-4                  Piece     30
Sapling
(smaller  than  Average height less Mu         3000
above          than I rn
diameter))
Diameter        Averae height   ore M          6000
than Imn
Fruit   sprout
(smaller  than  Average height less Mu         5000
above          than Im
diameter))
Diameter)       Average height more Mu         10000
than Im
Young     crop
( vegetable plot,                    Mu        3000
rice))
Pound           Fry compensation     Mu        8000
5.1.4   Compensation rate for on-the-ground buildings (structures)
1. Rural collective public housing and farmer's private houses with certificate of the
residential plot or certificate of the right of the property shall be rebuilt by the
village according to the requirement of the plan in a unified way. Compensation for
the reconstruction is 1800yuan/m2 including the land acquisition, constnrction cost,
taxes and water and power sLupply etc. Non of any other items shall be further
compensated.
2. Cost compensation or property rig,ht transposition can be used, with reference of
the methodology used for urban housing demolition, for the local farmers wlho
possess the certificate of the property right of their houses and where there is not
any land for reconstruction. For the farmers wlho only possess the certificate of
residential plot and ask for the transposition of the property right, their certificates
5-5



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                    Resettlement Action Plan
shall be reviewed and property right shall be confirmed and they shall pay for the
price of land before they go through the procedure. If they ask for the cost
compensation before the review and confirmation, the compensation can be paid
with the unit price, wvhich is the house property assessment price at the same site
and of the same kind subtracts the land-use fee at the same site and the land
acquisition cost.
3. The housed on the residential plot boughlt illegally by non-local farmers will not be
rebuilt, cost compensated or resettled. Compensation will be paid only according to
the construction cost of 1300yuan/m2.
4. Compensation rate for specific facilities in farmland
*   80yuan/m2 for the fence and simple house;
*   50yuan/m2 for the grain-sunning ground;
*   80yuan/m2 for independent agricultural use manure pit;
*   1 SOOyuan/piece for water well and 2000yuan/piece for pumping well;
*   Relevant compensation can be paid for the breast wall according to specific
circumstances.
5. Compensation rate for relocation of the graves will be calculated as the follows:
*   450yuan/piece for earth tomb;
*   800yuan/piece for brick structured or lime sand structured;
*   I OOyuan/piece for bone demijohn;
* Compensation rate can be raised relevantly according to the practical
situation practical situation for some specific large-scale graves.
(Note: if there is any discrepancy with the pricing rate of the municipal funeral and
interment Company, the charge rate of the company shall be referred to.)
5.1.5  Job creation and rehabilitation
According to the survey, all the PAPs in the above mentioned villages where Guangfo
Exit Radial Road will run through have other non-agriculture sources of income.
The project will not occupy any farmlanld at the section within Guangzhou and there
are currently flower fields at the section within Nanhai, which has already planned as
the land-use for development and the land has already been acquired. Therefore, the
land acquisition will not bring any direct impact on the farmers. A number of options
are worked out for the resettlement of these farmers according to the current
municipal resettlement policy that is the resettlement mainly on spot and
multi-chaninel employment. The PAPs can select different channels for obtaining a job
according to their actual situationi so as to ensure that the income level of the PAPs
will not be reduced or will even be increase after the land acquisition.
5-6



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                    Resettlement Action Plan
Jobs created by the town and village owned enterprises
The cities of Guangzhou and Nanhai are located in the Pearl River Delta area
where the market economy has highly developed. Owing to the high population
and limited farmland a community collaborate system based on the land hias been
executed in the villages along the alignment of the proposed road, where all the
collective assets including land have been diverted into the shares and the villager
committee (economic society) is responsible for the managemenit through the
villager congress and for decision-making on important issues of the villager
committee (economic society). The nature of the village committee is an
economic organization witlh the collective ownership. Farmers, as the member of
the society, enjoy the benefits of the community property through the stock
collaborate system. In addition, the fanmers also enjoy the welfare, suclh as the
medical treatment and pensions. With the property system the farmers can get the
sharing profits according to their contributions and distributioni according to work.
The shares of the farmers can be inherited. It is observed that this is the most
tlhoroughlgoing institutional refomi of the property right unider the current
condition of small rural economy, which has provided a feasible way for solving
the problem that the farmers who have already engaged in a job or trade would not
give up their land. It is advantageous to the scaled management, regional planting,
capital construction of the irrigation projects and the optimization of the resource
allocation. At the same time, as the local government is able to deal directly with
the management precincts with administrative function it reduces the possibility of
the conflicts with the highly dispersed famiers ditring the land acquisition and thus
reducing the engineering cost.
(1) Based on1 the principle of "resettlemenit on spot and multi-channel of the
employment" the job creation will be carried out by villager committee with
an overall arrangement for the farmers after the land acquisition.
(2) Take over the whole compensation and use it as the subsidy, according to the
scale determined by the town government, to the enterprises where the
affected farmers are working or use it to establish economic entities for
accommodating the affected farmers, carry out technical training, provide job
placement, and to use it for operational management or for value-maintained
and value-increment investments abroad.
(3) The affected farmers arranged in the town or village owned enterprises will
enjoy the unified social pension insurance, the insuranice of awaiting job
assignment, the only child treatment as well as the medical treatment and
labor insurance etc. and will join the year-end melon-cutting and enjoy the
share earnings.
5-7



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                   Resettlement Action Plan
2. Job placement introduced by the labor department
The labor departments will provide training to the affected farmers and then
provide job placements through the service market at all levels to the affected
farmers.
3. Allocate some development land according to certain proportion against the area
of the land acquired to the affected villages for the development of real estate and
commercial. As we know, there is still some land reserved for development in
some of the villages along the alignment of the proposed road. However, owiilg to
the fuind problem, the development plan can not be implemented. The
compensation from this proposed project will provide conditions for them to
implement the land development plan. At the same time, the implementation of
the development plan will provide numerous employment opportunities, such as
the civil work, the installation and construction, the residential area property
management and the tertiary industry and service etc, which will help the PAPs to
increase their income and improve their living standard.
4. Job placement provided under the employment plan created after the completion of
the urban construction project (such as the facility management, maintenance and
operation etc.)
5. Search for job by themselves
Those PAPs who have skills can search for job for themselves.
6. Provide for the aged
Affected persons with age over 45 for female and 55 for male will enjoy the
resettlement for the aged.
(1) Villagers will obtain the just earnings from their shares, enjoy the year-end
melon-cutting, the unified social endowment insurance and the medical
security from the village.
(2) For affected elder farmers converting from rural into urban residents, the
resettlement unit will pay the compensation through the village committee to
them with 30,000yuan for each or provide the endowment insurance and
medical insurance. They will also enjoy the social security as the urban
residents.
(3) For the small number of single elders the village and the town shall be
responsible for their maintenance.
Remark: according to Chinese tradition, the elders and minors will be supported
and brought up by their family members.
5-8



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                    Resettlement Action Plan
In addition, the following measures will be taken to ensure that the standard of
living of the PAPs after the resettlement will be entirely rehabilitated:
(1) The local people's governments at different levels will support and give
assistance to the affected rural collective-economy organizations and farmers
to run bLusiness and initiate enterprises.
(2) For those who can not maintain the original living level with the compensation
paid according to the above provisions the amount of the allowance can be
increased with the approval of the provincial government.
(3) For those who need a job the project will provide another 3000yuan for each as
the " training cost ". The sum of money will be paid to the labor department.
(4) Provide chances for the local villagers to make earnings during the
construction, such as the earth excavation, material transportation and material
processing etc.
(5) Refonr the villages inside the urban area according to the urban planning of
Guangzhou and speed Lip the pace of urbanization. At the same time encourage
the economic society of the villages to develop diversified economic industry
and by-line production so as to let the affected villagers live and work in peace
and contentment.
5.1.6  Analysis of the resettlement effect
1. Since this area is located in the Pearl River Delta where the economy has been well
developed, the price of land is comparatively high and the standard of living of the
villagers is quite high, the compensation rates for the land acquisition is the result
of the bargaining based on the current laws, regulations and policies and according
to the market law. The negotiated rate is confirmed in an economic contract.
2. The compensations are paid directly to the PAPs from the resettlement agency,
which prevents the likelihood of the embezzling of the fund at each level and speed
up the velocity of the cash flow and thus ensuring the direct benefit to the PAPs.
3. Since the farmers in this area on lonRger rely on the farmland for their living and the
most of land acquired for this project is not the farmland. Strictly speaking, the
affected population is only a dummy object estimated theoretically and the interest
of the farmers is not directly affected in fact.
4. In recent years, the township and village enterprises in this area have developed
rapidly and the year-end melon-cutting increases from year to year. Therefore, the
PAPs are willing to hand over their whole settlement allowance to the economic
collective for management in exchange for the right to share the year-end
melon-cutting continuously. Even those who have already agreed to accept a job
would like to pay a sum of money equal to the settlement allowance rather than
5-9



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                   Resettlement Action Plan
give up the right for the year-end melon-cutting.
5. Along with the deep development of the market economy in our country, the ntral
economic activities tend towards the diversification. The channels for making
money and the uncertain factors increased and the fanrers have many different
kinds of "hidden" incomes and odd items of receipt. Also, with the considerations
that the benefit of national enterprises is not good or the oppidans may discriminate
against the farmers or it may not be so easy to follow all those rules and regulations
in a factory, the affected villagers would not like to work in a national enterprise.
6. The compensation of the land acquisition is used by the economic society in a
unified way to develop the collective economy such as the township and village
enterprises, then return it to the villagers in a way of year-end melon-cutting, which
guarantees basically the standard of living of the immigrants to be improved year
after year and bring the direct benefit of the project to the immigrants.
7. Villages establish the social insurance mechanism based mainly on the collective
welfare to guarantee that the standard of living of the elders will be increased along
with the improvement of the income level of the villages and the annuity can be
dispensed monthly.
8. The cart ways, green space and part of the basic facilities originally financed, built,
managed and maintained by the villages will be reconstructed and restored during
the implementation of the proposed project according to the standard of urban roads
so as to upgrade the standard and the grade of the ground level roads. At the same
time, the supporting facilities will be extended and perfected. Villages along the
alignment of the road will get compensation for the original cart ways and green
spaces and these cart ways will become the municipal roads and thus reducing the
cost of the maintenance and management of these facilities by the villages. The
villages can use this part of fund for the collective economy investment and
enlarged reproduction, so as to create more employment opportunity, increase the
economic benefit and benefit the PAPs from the project.
5.2 Resettlement and rehabilitation measures for other types of the PAPs
5.2.1  Affected residential household
The resident houses need to be demolished within the scope of the Guangfo Exit
Radial Road project is 10950.38m2 and the number of the affected houselholds is 35
with the 87 affected persons.
5-10



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                     Resettlement Action Plan
5.2.2   Resettlement policy for the affected resident household
The Inner Ring Road Resettlement Policy - Housing will be implemented for this
project.
1. Users of the housing will be provided with the compensation for removal and
compensation for in-door facilities.
2. Property owners of the housing will be provided with the compensation for houses,
gardens, yards, water wells and any other attachmenlts.
3. Those who are both the property owner and the user of the house will get the both
kinds of compensations.
5.2.3   Principle for set up the resettlement sites and areas
1. Resettlement sites will be set up according to the demolition areas so as to ensure
the settlement in vicinity.
2. Public facilities such as the roads, water and power, communication and post and
the supporting facilities such as the educationi, hygiene, commerce, garden and
culture etc. shall be completely provided in the resettlement sites.
3. The resettlement sites will be set up witlhin the area where people will be able to
benefit the transport provided by the Inner Ring Road and the radial roads.
4. Transportation relating to the resettlement sites will be fully considered and
rehabilitation measures will be taken such as the arrangement of at least more than
two bus routes to go to the city center. According to the long-term plan of the metro
system all the resettlement areas set up will be located within the coverage of the
system.
Based on the above principles we have selected Baiyun Garden and Guocun
Residential area as the resettlement areas for this proposed project. The Inner Ring
Road Project Resettlement Action Plan has provided the detailed description of these
resettlement areas.
5.2.4   Other resettlement policy
I.AII the PAPs will have the righlt to select one from all the defined resettlement areas.
2.Compensation for housing in money will be calculated at local replacement price of
the time without any depreciation.
5-1 1



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                     Resettlement Action Plan
3.The patios, courtyards and gardens will be compensated at 50% of the replacement
price in the region of the time when the movement occurred.
4.Other attachments, enclosing walls and flower beds will be compensated at the
construction cost of the time without any depreciation.
5.Local schools shall accept the children of the affected persons who want to transfer
their schools. Possible transfer fee will be paid by the housebreaker.
6.The housebreaker will send trucks and staff to help the affected persons who are
unwilling to accept the relocation fee and move by themselves to move.
7.The affected persons will be given two days off by their working units for the
moving. They will also be compensated for their salaries deducted due to the
moving.
8.Price-difference compensation will be given to the affected persons whose finish
standards of their houses are higher than that of the resettlement housing. The finish
material can be removed by and be given to the affected persons under the
prerequisite that this will not influence the safety of the houses.
5.2.5   Special rehabilitation measures for the vulnerable groups
Besides the resettlement standards and rehabilitation measures listed above, the
vulnerable group will be entitled to following rights:
1. They will be relocated to the zones closet to the city center (unless they are willing
to choose other resettlement areas).
2. By special permission of the government, their resettlement will have area
amplifier, even if their original living sites are in the same level of city region with
the resettlement sites.
3. Poor people will be resettled on the first floor (if any). They will be permitted to
open stores to earn their own livings.
4. The elders in the vulnerable groups and the invalids will be resettled on the lower
floors.
5.2.6   Analysis of the resettlement effect
1. The implementation of the proposed project will zoom in greatly the distance
between the areas along the alignment of the road and the city center and bring
advantages of the metropolis to the residents in these areas. At the same time, the
improvement of the transport will also   facilitate the regional economic
5-12



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                   Resettlement Action Plan
development, which will create more job placements and development
opportunities to the PAPs.
2. The RAP sets up the resetttement areas based on the principle of resettlement in
vicinity and selects Baiyun Garden and Guocun Residential Area as the
resettlement areas. Guocun Residential Area is close to the location of the project
and therefore there will not be any impacts of the project on the affected residents
in terms of the commuting and living.
3. The specific employment policy in China ensures that the employees will never
loss their jobs due to the change of residential areas.
4. The project will pay special attention to the vulnerable groups and will resettle
them in the resettlement areas close to their original place of abode. Special
attends will also be given to them in terms of floor of the apartment and the
equipped facilities.
5. The RAP is prepared with the purpose to improve the housing conditions, the
equipped facilities, the environment of the residential areas and the structure of
houses to a great extent so as to benefit the PAPs. It is a RAP that focuses on the
improvement of the living environment of the residents among those prepared in
developing countries.
6. The resettlement areas selected for this proposed project are built based on the
Guangzhou Master Plan and according to the residential quarter planning in 21st
century in China. The residential areas are equipped with complete public
facilities for education, culture, medical treatment, municipal and utility,
landscaping and environmental health etc. The implementation of the project may
bring some impacts on people's commuting and culture life for a short period of
time. However, the completion of the project will bring improvement in this area
and the level of people's commuting and culture life will be maintained or even
improved, thus ensuring that the affected residents will benefit from the project
and their original standard of living will be increased.
5.2.7  Affected shops
There will be totally 347 shops with the floor area of 11 122.9m2 to be demolished for
the Guangfo Exit Radial Road project with a number of 696 affected persons and a
stop-loss of lO,OOOyuan/month.
5.2.8  The Inner Ring Road Resettlement Policy - Non-residence vill be
implemented for this project
1. The user of shops will be entitled to housinig resettlement and other relevant
5-13



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                       Resettlement Action Plan
compensation.
a.   Housing resettlement standard will be based on the floor area. If they are
resettled at the same place, the floor area will not be increased, otherwise it
can be increased as residence.
b.   Other relevant compensation: compensation for stop-loss and compensation
for loss of profits due to moving.
2. The owners will be entitled to housing compensation and other relevant
compensations, whhich are the same with those of residence.
3. Those who are both the owners and the users are entitled to both compensations
listed above.
5.2.9   Principle of shop resettlement and location of resettlement sites
1. Resettlement principles of shops
a.    We will keep the integrity of the slhops, i.e. to maintain the original
framework of the shops, rather than break them, to ensure the employment of
the original staffs of the shops.
b.    We will try our best to keep the community association of the original shops
to maintain the original business environment of the shops. We will sift the
trade of the shops and collectively resettle the shops of the same trade to
form large scale business.
2. Principle of the location of shop resettlement
a.    Business of the shops depends on the following two business environments:
First: the quantity and purchasing power of native residents and floating
population, such as the food and drink service and daily goods stores etc.
Second: large scale business and convenience of transport rather than native
residents and floating population, such as building materials, automobile
parts, industrial products, durable goods for family use, electrical appliances
for family (different kinds of super markets of building materials, automobile
parts and electrical appliances for family use in Guangzhout have such
character: they are far from the city center, but they are in large scale, several
hundred shops in one market, and have convenient transport.)
b.     Shops that depend on residents and floating population will be resettled in
the following regions:
Resident resettlement areas: in the resident resettlement areas shops will be
resettled according to the quantity of the residents. These shops can go on
with their business and act as the commercial facilities of the resident
resettlement areas. According to the plan of Guangzhou, every resident
5-14



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                     Resettlement Action Plan
housing zone should have commercial facilities whose area are no less than
8% of the total area of the zone.
Resettled at the original place: some shops will be resettled at the edge of the
demolished areas. This can solve the resettlement of the shops and
rehabilitate the commercial loss of the areas to be demolished.
3. Shops that depend on large-scale business and convenient transport will be resettled
at the transport beneficiary region of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road. Shops of same
or similar trade will be resettled in the same resettlement area to form large scale
business.
5.2.10 Other resettlement policies of shops with legal ownership
1. Money compensation
a.   Those who are both the owner and manager of the shops can choose to be
compensated for the shops in money.
b.    The compensation will be calculated according to the replacement price of
the land without any depreciation.
c.    Compensation for other housing attachments will be calculated according to
the standards of residence.
2. Compensation for stop-loss due to the closing.
Shops' loss of business due to the closing in the relocation process will be
compensated.
a.   Compensation including the total of salaries of the staffs, salaries of the
retired staffs, welfare funds, after-tax profits will be paid to the enterprises.
Then the enterprises pay the staffs. Time of the closing will be calculated
according to the actual closing time. GCCTP Project Office will supervise
the compensation of salaries and welfare funds.
b.   To some self-employed business self-employed business that do not have the
statement of profit and lose and have only the amount of sales with legal
taxation, compensation of the stop-loss will be calculated according to the
legal amount of sales + the current average rate of profit of the industry.
c.   To some commercial enterprises in deficit, if the salaries of the staffs are
lower than the minimum salary stipulated by the government at the time, the
project will compensate according to the total sum of minimum salaries.
3. Compensation for loss of business due to moving: shops that are moved to other
places will be compensated for the loss of business of moving according to the
degree and time of loss.
5-1s



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                    Resettlement Action Plan
4. Compensation for moving expense: moving expenses of the shops will be paid by
the project.
5. Compensation for the decoration: price difference compensation will be given to
the affected shops whose finish standards of their houses are higher than that of the
resettlement housing. The finish material can be removed by and be given to the
affected persons under the prerequisite that this will not influence the safety of the
houses.
6. For managers who rent their shops at high market price they will be given
equivalent resettlement and compensation. The owner of this kind of slhops will be
compensated according to thie loss of rent income.
7. If the project can not give the shop managers its own slhops temporarily, such as the
shops that will be resettled back on the edge of demolished area, the project will
hire slhops in some special markets for their transition operation so as to lower the
shops' loss of business due to closing and the expense of the project funds.
8. Shorten the transition time: to shorten the affected time and lower the compenisation
paid by the housebreaker for loss of business due to closing. There are following
measures:
a.   Demolish the housing on the edge of land in advance, which can be used to
construct commercial buildings and start the construction of commercial
buildings as soon as possible.
b.    Other shops will not be demolished until the lands are needed for the project.
For some sections where the project can be started later the shops can be
relocated after the commercial buildings have been built. Therefore, the
affected time of the shops as a whole are shortened.
c.   The affected shops shall not be demolished until the commercial buildings
are ready for business.
9. The project will take in account the specialty of the operation of individual shops
and give reasonable care in the plan of the resettlement.
10. The affected shops will have a preparation time for 2 months before moving.
5.2.11  Principles of resettlement and location of the resettlement areas for the
temporary shops
l. Compensation principle for the constructor (owner) of the temporary shops
Since the temporary shops are not pemianent buildings and have certain time limits
(generally one or two years), and the owners have promised to demolish them when
5-16



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                     Resettlement Action Plan
the time limits expire on construction, no compensation will be paid to the owners for
expired temporary shops. For unexpired temporary shops the owners will be
compensated according to the construction cost and time limits.
2. Resettlement and compensation principles for the users of the temporary shops
a.   The users of temporary shops will be given equivalent resettlement, or
introduced to other special markets in the city (special commercial markets).
The users will have the priority to rent the shops and will be given 10%
discount in rent.
b.    Users of unexpired temporary shops will be compenisated for loss due to the
relocation.
c.    Users of the temporary shops will be compensated for the moving expense.
3. Principle for the location of the resettlement areas for the temporary shops users
a.   Temporary shops will be built on the edge of the land along the alignment of
the Guangfo Exit Radial Road, wxhich are not suitable for building permanent
housings, as the resettlement areas for temporary shops.
b.    Existing different kinds of large scale markets in the city.
c.   Users of the temporary shops will be resettled in classes according to their
trades.
5.3 Resettlement policies for affected organizations
For Guangfo Exit Radial Road project, the number of affected working units is 7 with
the floor area of 3593.13m2 and the number of affected persons of 140.
5.3.1   Resettlement policies for partially affected organizations
The impacts of the project on the organizations are partial. Th the whole organization,
it does not need to be entirely relocated. However, if the affected part of the
organization is a relatively independent unit (such as the residential houses or shops
etc.) it will need a partially entire relocation. Therefore the resettlement policy for
affected organizations shall be decided according to the way in which they are
affected.
5.3.2   Resettlement policy for entire relocation of relatively independent parts
1. For affected residences of organizations the resettlement policy for resident
households will be performed.
2. For affected shops of organizations the resettlement policy for the shops will be
performed.
5-17



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                      Resettlement Action Plan
3. For affected public utilities (units) within the organization the resettlement policy
for the public facilities will be performed.
4. For affected infrastnicture within the organization the resettlement policy for the
infrastructure will be performed.
5.3.3   Resettlement policy for affected non-independent parts
l.Only the rear estates of the organization will be affected, which will not cause the
whole organization to close. The project will only compensate for the real estates.
Compensation will be paid according to the type of the real estates at the
replacement price without any depreciation.
2.Besides the real estates are affected, the whole organization has to close. The project
will compensate for both the real estates and the actual loss due to the closing.
3.Land acquisition: The land of most organiizations was allocated to them by the
govemnment, and they have not paid land-use fee to the government. Therefore, land
acquisition will not be compensated. For some organizations that have paid the land
using fee, the money they paid will be paid back.
5.4 Affected public utilities and cultural facilities (units)
For Guangfo Exit Radial Road project, the affected cultural unit is only one: Jiaobiao
Primary School in Huangqi Administrational District. One teaching building in the
2
school need to be demolished for the project with the floor area of 1092m . There are
currently more than 30 faculty and about 400 pupils in the school. For this school, the
compensation rate will follow the rehabilitation policy for the affected public utilities
and cultural facilities (units) of the Inner Ring Road resettlement policy.
The concrete measures for the rehabilitation are as the follows:
1. Partially demolition and reconstruction. The reduced floor area of the teaching
building will be compensated by building new building nearby or add stories to the
existing building.
2. Compensation and restoration will be provided for the damaged facilities due to
the project.
3. Environment protection measures such as the set up of noise barriers will be taken
around the school.
4. Help to improve the operational condition and teaching quality of the school by
5-18



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
providing assistance in the reform of the school area with the consideration of a
unified planning of the education in the district and town.
5.5 Resettlement policy for affected infrastructure
I.Resettlement policies stipulated in the "Inner Ring Road Resettlement Policy -
affected Infrastructure" will be performned, i.e. all facilities will be restored to their
original scale and compensated first.
2.Communication, power supply, water supply, pipeline of gas etc. will be restored
before demolition to avoid influence on all beneficiaries.
3.Civil air defense will be compensated at its construction replacement price.
4.Drainage facilities will be kept or reconstructed in the process of construction.
5.Trees and greening will be compensated at the replacement price.
6.Public utilities will be restored by the project.
7.Road and transport facilities will be restored by the project.
8.0ther facilities will also be restored or compensated.
5-19



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                          Resettlement Action Plan
Chapter VI Objective, pattern and methodology of the resettlement management
6.1 Objectives of the resettlement
To achieve the objectives of the resettlement with lowest cost and highest efficiency.
To realize the optimum combination of the degree of the satisfaction of the PAPs, the
resettlement cost and the working efficiency.
6.1.1   Reasons for raising the objecti-ves
*   As there are a number of options for the realization of the resettlement objectives
in urban resettlement there is tlherefore the possibility to reduce the cost
objectively.           I
*   China is still a developing country and the economic strength of the city of
GuangzhoLu is not yet powerful. And the counterpart ftund for this proposed
project is all from the taxpayers. Therefore, to accomplish the resettlement work
with the lowest cost is the duty of the resettlement staffs.
*   For urban municipal construction, the shorter the construction period is the
smaller the impacts of the project on the urban transport and the citizens would be.
Therefore, to speed up the resettlement work and deal well withl especially the
contradictions between the underground utilities and building demolition, the
pipeline and the main structure construction, and between the pipelines is the
objective requirement and the future purpose.
6.1.2   Explanation of the objectives
*   The way to minimize the cost is to improve the level of management but not to
injure the interests of the PAPs.
* Improving efficiency does not mean to work in a rough manner and it means the
close cooperation depend between departments, the earnest and responsible
attitude of the staff to their job and the advanced means of management.
6.1.3   Specific working objectives
6.1.3.1 Social goals - follow out the principle of focus on the people and achieve
equity and incorruptibility
*   To establish the scientific mechanism with openness, fairness and justness for the
resettlement
6-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
* To carry out the working guidance of the Guangzhou People's Government as
"focus on the people" and to better serve the PAPs and protect the legitimate
interests of the PAPs.
* To increase the degree of the satisfaction of the PAPs, reduce the number of
complaints and maintain the government figure and social stability.
*   To reduce opportunities of misconduct and corruption.
*   To ensure full consultation, participation of PAPs and to provide full information
dissemination.
6.1.3.2 Economic goal - strengthen the monitoring of the funds and control
effectively the cost
*   To improve the accuracy of the surveys, strengthen the monitoring and
supervisioni, avoid the creation of unnecessary number of the PAPs, reduce the
cost of the temporary moving of the pipelines and reduce the loss caused by
misplay of the job.
*   To allocate rationally the funds, reduce the resettlement cost (interest) and to
realize the entire share and rational allocation of the resettlement housings and
reduce the indivisible area of the resettlement housings. To reduce the cost of the
review work by adopting the automatic reviewing system.
6.1.3.3 Management objectives - perfect the management means and realize the
visible and controllable management
* Establish the internal control mechanism of the whole municipal resettlement
system including the GREEO, the administration districts and the relevant
departments of each district.
*   Establish the scientific and quantitative performance review system for the whole
working system of the resettlement on all the departments and individuals
participating in the resettlement work.
*   Realize the automation for statistics, registration, costing, budgeting and
settlement of the resettlement work.
*   Establish the disbursement center of the municipal resettlement to separate the
activities of contracting the compensation and contractual disbursement so as to
put an end to the occurrence of the interception of the fund and guarantee the
6-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                        Resettlement Action Plan
timeliness of the payment.
*   Realize the entire "transparency" of the resettlement working system (not only the
transparency of the municipal resettlement implementing agencies to the GREEO
but also the transparency of the GREEO and the municipal resettlement
implementing agencies to the municipal government, the Guangzlhou
Construction Commission and to the project owners) so as to allow the authorities
to carry out the decision-making management.
*   Realize the management with tabulation, datamation and graphs.
*   Realize the on-line on-the-spot working system to enable the decision-making
people to understand intuitively the working progress of municipal resettlement
of all the PAPs, all the affected buildings, all the affected pipelines and all the
acquired land (including the working quantity fulfilled, the resettlement
compensations and the problems encoulltered.)
6.2 Management pattern of the resettlement
6.2.1   Responsibility contract system
6.2.1.1 Concept
Responsibility contract system is a working mode, which means that the project
owner and the resettlement responsible agency work together out the uniified property
compensation rate, technical specification of the resettlement and rehabilitation and
the rigorous interior monitor system according to national resettlement policy, the
World Bank document OD4.30, the RAP and the relevant laws and legislation and
assign the working mission and time slicing to the implementing agencies for concrete
implementation.
6.2.1.2 Differentiate between the responsibility contract and economic contract
*   Economic contract refers to the contract including the task and total cost signed
between the project owner or the governmental functional department and the
implementing agencies according to the budget. The savings will belong to the
implementing agencies and the overruns will be covered by the implementing
agencies themselves.
* For responsibility contract the project budget shall also be worked out but without
the commitment of "keep the savings and cover the overspend". The contract will
be fulfilled according to the standard, technical specification and the monitoring
system set by the laws, legislation and plan. The total cost of the resettlement is
6-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                          Resettlement Action Plan
the total sum of the compensation to the PAPs plus the operation outlay of the
implementing agencies but not promissory in advance.
6.2.1.3 Explanation
*   Responsibility contract will avoid the occurrence of the activities that may
happen in an economic contract that the implementing agencies may overestimate
the resettlement cost or may embezzle part of the compensations to the PAPs with
the consideration of the their own interests. Namely, considering that the fixed
budget and the savings can be kept by themselves, the implementing agencies
may overestimate the budge with a motive to enlarge virtually the quantity of the
resettlement and increase the budget rate and to reduce the compensation rate
during the implementation and thus injuring the interests of the PAPs.
*   The adoption of the responsibility contract is decided by the nature of the
resettlement work itself (i.e. it is not a business dealing but a process of the
implementation of the resettlement policy and resettlement law and regulations.)
Therefore, the process of the law enforcement shall be monitored. The working
mode of the responsibility contract as "budging in advance, control during the
process and settlement after the resettlement" enables the successful monitoring.
While the economic contract is to legalize the acquisition of the price difference,
which brings difficulties for the implementing agencies to control and monitor the
justness and legalization of the compensation to the PAPs.
*   Responsibility contract system is also decided by the characteristics of the urban
resettlement work.
a. The quantity of the resettlement may change greatly: urban construction
projects may influenced by civic architecture and constructional work and
the construction red line (the affected area) may change geographically due
to different kinds of practical situations, which in deed influence greatly the
quantity of the resettlement. At the same time, withdraw of the developers
from the land for development or the development of the land along the red
line of the project, confirmation of the land acquired, return of the overseas
houses and the temporary sites for construction etc. may all change greatly
the quantity of the resettlement.
b. Resettlement cost may change greatly due to the adoption of different way of
resettlement and rehabilitation and different construction period.
c. As the affected properties differ in thousands ways and the way of the
compensation and resettlement differ from each other it is very difficult to
determine the contracting unit price with common average.
d. Resettlement housing is the major item of the settlement allowance. The
consLimption of the resettlement housing will not only be influeniced by the
floor space, but also by a number of factors SuCh1 as the area amplifying for
6-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                        Resettlement Action Plan
relocation at different places, the area amplifying due to different floors, the
usage difference, the population expansion coefficient, the indivisibility
coefficient, the overseas Chinese's houses and the occupancy rate, the
proprietor purchase or cost price building coefficient etc. and it is therefore
difficult to determine beforehand.
The responsibility contract will help to overcome the above practice problems
and allow the government functional departments to proceed overall balance by
taking the project as the whole, thus making the overall coordination and the
unified allocation of fund and resettlement housing possible.
6.2.2  Work jointly and district, township (street) responsibility system
6.2.2.1 Work jointly
From the institutional structure of the RAP, we can see that the resettlement work has
a very strong policy, involves a wide range, has many links of the management and
needs the overall cooperation of each government fuLnctional department and relevant
agencies. It is obvious that the original operational mode of each department defined
in the Inner Ring Road RAP will not be able to solve with high efficiency the
problems of the resettlement and contradiction with the construction. Therefore,
from August 1998 and with the suggestion of the GREEO the Guangzhou
Constniction Commission held meetings every week with the GREEO and the
functional departments such as the land and housing administration, the planning, the
municipal engineering, traffic police, urban supervision and the construction bureau at
district level, together with the utility agencies of power supply, communication,
water supply and gas. Even the enterprises, neighborhood committees and the
representatives of the PAPs are invited to attend the meetings for solving timely the
existing problems and speed up the construction. Practice has proven that this is a
very effective working mode. Therefore, it will be taken as the managerial system in
this RAP.
6.2.2.2 The concrete implementation of the resettlement will be carried out by
district and neighborhood
*   In the RAP of the Inner Ring Road the construction bureaus of the districts and
the neighborhoods are the supporting agencies of the resettlement.
*   During the implementation of the resettlement of the Inner Ring Road project, the
construction bureaus of the districts and the neighborhoods were responsible for
the concrete implementation of the resettlement as the responsibility contracting
agencies.
6-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
*   The Guangfo Radial Road project will follow this way and give full play to the
functions of all levels of the government.
6.2.3   Establishment of the disbursement center
6.2.3.1 Concept
The resettlement disbursenment center refers to the unified way on the delivery of the
resettlement housing and disbursement of the compensation fund by the GREEO. The
PAPs can get the compensation fund at the "disbursement windows" set up by the
GREEO with their ID cards and the contracts of compensation and go through the
procedure for moving in the resettlement housing.
6.2.3.2 Explanation
*   The interception or detention of the compenisation fund may happen only after the
fund arrives at the specific implementing agencies. After the establishment of the
disbursement center, such likeliness will be eliminated thoroughly from the
management system.
*   As the concrete time of the contract signing with the PAPs and wvhether the PAPs
may select the resettlement housing or may choose the cash compensation are not
certain, when the scale of the project is big straddling and exceeding several
regions and there are a number of implementing agencies involved, there may be
phenomena of the lack of fund in one place and the surplus of fund in another
concurrently. The fund in abundance may influence the efficiency of the use of
funds while the fund squeezing may influence the disbursement of the fund. The
establishment of the disbursement center will enable the GREEO to adjust the
funds in a whole so as to avoid the coexistence of the phenomena of the "margin"
and shortage" of the fund.
6.2.3.3 Advanced management means
6.2.4 Requirement of the management mode on the management means
*   The mode of the responsibility contract will solve the problem systematically of
the fund interception but it also raises higher requirement to the project owner
and the GREEO on their management work. Namely the object of the
management is not only the construction bureau of the districts (responsibility
contracting agency) and the contract signed with the agency but also every
affected person, every kind of affected property and the justness and validity of
every contract of compensation signed with the PAPs.
6-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
*   Work jointly will improve the work efficiency but will not solve some inherent
bottlenecks of the working efficiency during the implementation of the
resettlement.
*   The mode of the disbursement center requires the promptitude, nicety and
security of the dissemination of information, the fast check and query and
minimization of the risks of falsification of the contracts and duplicate payment.
Therefore, the resettlement work needs advanced management means - the
generalized resettlement information management system.
6.2.5   Outline of the information management system
The system will not only be an operational system of the resettlement work but will
also be a brand-new working mode and a security management mode established for
accomplishing the resettlement in a way of high-quality, cost-effective and swiftness.
It will cover the overall process of the resettlement work from the project planning red
line to the completion of the resettlement work. It will realize the integration of the
management infonration system (MIS), the geographic infonnation system (GIS) and
the office automation (OA) through the combination of the electronic chart, the
resettlement database and the text files. By using the means of data formatting,
process labeling, rigidization, resettlement provision  logicaliztion, standard
parameters of the compensation, mathematical model of decision-making,
mathematical model of monitoring, incorporation of the chart and numbers etc. to
realize the overall management, regulation and control of the process of tlhe whole
resettlement work. So as to solve all sorts of management puzzles of the manual
operation and during the management process of the resettlement work, realize the
fundamental objective of the resettlement work, reach the optimum combination of
the degree of the satisfaction of the PAPs, the cost-effectiveness and the resettlement
efficiency.
6.3 Ways to increase the degree of the satisfaction of the PAPs
6.3.1 Factors that influence the degree of the satisfaction
*   Unopened and unfair black-box operation.
*   Insufficient options of the resettlement housing  source, which  causes
inconvenience after the relocation.
*   Procedure is complicated, working efficiency is low and the complaint can not be
dealt witlh immediately.
*   Unreasonable demands of a small number of people are met, which creates
6-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
dissatisfaction of people as " honest people always lose".
* Misunderstanding caused by incomprehension of the compensation policy,
provision and standard.
6.3.2 Ways to increase the degree of satisfaction
*   The control of the system on the compensation rate and the resettlement housing
source will minimize the black-box operation and increase the options for the
PAPs to select their housings.
*   The control of the system on the compensation rate will stop the embezzlement of
the staffs.
*   The internal control mechanism of the resettlement work established by the
system will prevent staffs from having any illegal behaviors after the bribery and
prevent a small group of the PAPs from corrupting the team in order to have their
illegal requirement met.
*   The high efficiency brought by the system will simplify the working procedure,
bring convenience to the PAPs and enable us to deal with timely the complaints
of the PAPs. It also enable us to take timely measures to deal with the
unreasonable demand of the PAPs and to void the injustice with another meaning
as "the honest people always loss".
*   Let the PAPs have an overall understanding of the resettlement policy so as to
avoid misunderstanding.
At the same time, increasing of the degree of the satisfaction of the PAPs will urge
them to cooperate with the resettlement consciously so as to speed up the progress.
6.4 Ways to control the cost
6.4.1 Ways to control the quantity of resettlement
This is the most important link of the cost control.
* Ensure that all the properties to be compensated are within the red line so as to
control the quantity of the resettlement.
* Where the red line of the development company and that of the road are
overlapping, the project will not bear the outlay of the PAPs within the red line of
the development company if there is no any permit to compensate.
6-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
*   When the demolition scheme is not yet determined for any building riding on the
red line, the system will not accept the compensation agreement signed with the
PAPs dwelling in the said building so as to avoid any enlargement of the scope.
*   Of course, this function of the system also means that we will be able to seize
accurately and quickly each time the increase or decrease of the resettlement
quantity caused by the change of red line.
6.4.2  Control of the accuracy of the resettlement census data
*   To make the overall control on the resettlement quantity by using the culTent third
party data (electronic chart)
* Use the resettlement data, especially the different kinds of logical relation
between data of housings (which has the lion's share in resettlement cost) to
establish the automatic computerized mathematical model for the check and
review so that the resettlement data will be strictly checked and reviewed as soon
as they are input into the system.
*   Use the computer based data analysis system to analyze strictly the resettlement
data and change them into the analysis chart so as to allow the examiners to be in
a position to review and find any data error within the allowed band of the
automatic examination precision intLitively and in good time.
6.4.3   Control of the compensation rate
* The system will proceed the area conformity based on the use of the housings and
according to the administrative provisions.
*   For those who accept the resettlement the system will figure out automatically the
floor area the PAPs shall have according to their original place of abode, the floor
area, the population, the number of the floor and the situation of the resettlement
housing.
*   For those who accept the compensation, the system will figure out the sum of the
compensation automatically according to the compensation rate the PAPs shall
have with full consideration of the location, the nature of the property right, the
use, the structure, the number of the floor, the direction of the house, the height of
the building, the facade of the shops etc.
* For compensation besides the house, the system will present the standard price
according to the resettlement policy and the set standard.
*   The disbursement center will carry out strictly control on the execution of the
6-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
contract.
6.4.4 Ways to control the cost of capital of the compensation
6.4.4.1 For unforeseeable problems of the cash flow the system will solve them in
the following ways
*     Sum up monthly the prediction of the number of the agreements to be signed with
the PAPs by each staff (only the prediction of the selection of the PAPs and the
tentative time for signing, the amount will be calculated by the system
automatically) and then to work out the elementary plan of the fund demand.
*   Use the managerial experience data derived from the analyses of the previous
prediction and the actual signing of the contracts to adjust the current prediction
and work out exact cash flow control program.
*   The data records of the historical prediction by the system is also the indicator to
examine and assess the performance of the staff, which will urge the staff to
continually improve the accuracy of their estimation and judgement.
6.4.4.2 Supplement of the accuracy of the cash flow estimation
*   The system will manage all the municipal projects and this allows us to make
temporary fund manoeuvre according to the different project schedules and the
fund available so as to meet the need of the project and to fetch up the error
between the monthly fund-use program and the actual demand. Avoid the
phenomena of partially futnd margin and partially fund squeeze at certain time due
to the current partition of fund, improve the efficiency of use of huge sum of
municipal resettlement fund and reduce the interest cost of the fund.
*   At the same time, the use of the GIS system enables us to make prompt
adjustment of the activities relating to the signing and the execution of the
agreements with the PAPs in different partially priority ranges according to the
actual need of the project and the situation of the fund available. By conducting
rational disbursement, the limited fund will be then used where there is the most
need of the project so as to improve the work efficiency.
6.4.5 Establishment of the internal control system
6-1



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                          Resettlement Action Plan
6.4.5.1 Reason of the difriculty to establish the internal control system of the
resettlement work
Because of the uniqueness of the building to be demolished and the factors such
as the format, layout, different kinds of area ratio, direction, daylighting and
ventilation of the buildings that the buildings incomparable and it is difficult to
control by pricing or comparative price.
*   As the product of the demolition is the vacant land and after the demolition the
reference of the automatic data examination of the compensation will vanish.
Therefore, this requires timely monitor of the resettlement.
*   Besides the resettlement work there is not any industry that need so many "buying
clerk". And the object of the purchase is a nonstandard product that is hard for
analogy and with indefinite price and tremendous value. This makes the
management of the "buying clerks" very difficult.
*   In all the enterprises the businless operation itself will form the inter-control
between the difference departments and difference staffs. However, there is not
any " warehouse" in the resettlement work and we can not "warehouse" the goods
dismantled and so it is very difficult to establish a powerful constraint between
the "storehouse keeper" and the "buying clerk". The difficulty of the post
supervision even further weakens this constraint.
6.4.5.2 Solution
*   Timely monitoring: The system will ensure that the time of the resettlement data
examination is controlled after the signing of the agreement and before the
building and construction are demolished so as to allow the examiners to catch
out and rectify the problems timely.
*   Accuracy monitor: data examiners will be able to give the exact examination
instruction (such as to ask the examiner on site to certain factual data or verify the
nature of the object to be demolished with certain PAPs of the certain project
before certain date), to review whether the instruction has been executed and
the performance of the  execution. The system will automatically track the
process.
*   The data analysis instrument will only be used by the data examiners and the
examiners on site do not know the error of the resettlement date that have some
mistakes (i.e. they do not know the computational rules of the system and the
manual calculationi is very complicated and difficult). This will urge the
examiners on site to work hard and actively with responsibility.
6-1 1



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                          Resettlement Action Plan
* As there are some special individual cases existing in the resettlement work it willI
not be justifiable to evaluate the working performance of the resettlement staffs
by using the compensation rate of individual cases. The system will analyze the
cost tendency and the performance of the resettlement staff, the working groups,
implementing agencies and the resettlement project according to the difference
between the actual compensation rate of all the individual cases handled by each
staff and the systematic reference standard and the proportion of the difference
and the characteristics of the individual cases, and work out the detailed analyses
report so as to establish the internal control system of the resettlement
management.
6.4.6   Control of pipeline relocation
6.4.6.1  Difficulty of the pipeline relocation
Normally the scheme of the pipeline relocation will only be confirmed after the
confirmation of the construction scheme of the main structure and the time would be
very  tight by the time. Therefore, the contradictions of the cross construction
between the pipelines and the resettlement (i.e. to vacate the pipeline corridor), the
pipelines and the main structure and between the pipelines are very sharp. Sometimes,
temporary relocation has to be used that will not only increase the cost but also cut the
efficiency.
6.4.6.2 Solution
*   To combine the information of the construction drawings of the municipal works
and the geographic position of the different kinds of pipelines into one electronic
chart that is sharable to the project owner, the pipeline proprietor and the
resettlement departments so that the contradiction of the cross construction of the
project can be intuitively found. At the same time, to allow the designers of the
municipal works to consider fully the situation on site during the design and try to
avoid the pipeline relocation.
*   To work out, based on the instruction and the report of the computer system, the
integrative construction network plan including the resettlement, the pipeline
relocation and the construction of the main structure that can be adjusted
dynamically and to arrange the construction period rationally so as to reduce the
cost of the temporary pipeline relocation.
6-i



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
6.4.7  Other ways to reduce the resettlement cost
*   The introduction of the secondhand housing system will hugely reduce the
resettlement cost and will bring significant impact on the urban hosing evaluation
system.
*   The increase of the selectivity of the resettlement housing will reduce the
additional cost caused due to the indivisibility cf the housing.
*   The increase of the efficiency wi!l reduce the cost of the temporaty relocation and
the renting of the public housing.
*   The scale efficiency will be fully brougLht into play.
6.5 Ways to improve the efficiency
6.5.1   To solve the problem of the collection of the resettlement information
and to improve efficiency
6.5.1.1 Resettlement information is numerous and jumbled
Resettlement projects are composed with individual cases of the resettlement and
compensation of the PAPs. The properties acquired and the extent of the damage
differ in thousands ways, the requirements of the PAPs are also multifarious and the
ways to meet these requirements are also diverse from each other. Furthermore, the
requirements of the PAPs often change and repeat, which brings greatly difficulty to
the internal transmission of the information within the resettlement departments and
implementing agencies.
6.5.1.2 Solution
* To establish the intelligently controlled standard format of the resettlement data as
the basis for data analysis.
* To establish the business indication and problem report network integrated with
the resettlement data for rapid information collection based on the management
parameters of the indications and reports so as to allow the decision-making
authority to give in good time the reaction. Thus improving the efficiency.
6.5.2  To solve the problem of the innuence of the efficiency because the
working links are too many
6-1



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                        Resettlement Action Plan
6.5.2.1 Too many working links and which influence the efficiency
The resettlement work involves hundreds and thousands of households and needs a
number of departments to cooperate. It not only involves the longitudinal coordination
between the Guangzhou Construction Commission, project owner and the GREEO,
the resettlement units in each district, the pipeline units and the construction units but
also involves the transverse lateral communication between the resettlement units and
the planning department, the land and housinig administration department, the court,
the urban supervision department and even the judicial department. This needs
substantive dissemination of infomiation and the communication of the infomlation.
Conventional way of the information collection and transmission is ineffective and the
way to work jointly can only solve partially the problem.
6.5.2.2 Solution
*   The system can monitor the work of all the staff and can especially record
automatically the hand-over time of each work. The analytic result of the working
time will be taken as one of the indicators of the performance review. That will
urge all the staff to work in a high efficiency.
*  The system will automatic generate the business pursuant timekeeping and
provide automatic reminding and warning so as to urge all the participators to
work in a high efficiency. It will also help the management at higher level to
know immediately the progress of work(automatic reminding and waming) and
allow them to carry out prompt coordination to the external work and the prompt
supervision of the intemal work.
*   Working jointly will also be helpful for the exterior working coordination.
6.5.3  To solve the problem of the influence of the current housing resettlement
method on the efficiency
6.5.3.1 Influence of the current housing resettlement method on the efficiency
*   Too many requirements of the PAPs on the resettlement and the selection of the
housing, which is not easy for making decision.
*   As the resettlement work is implemented by the face-to-face bargaining between
the staff and the PAPs the resettlement housing has to be allocated in batches to
different implementing units, working group and individual staff. Therefore,
thouglh the total number of the resettlement housing is big the number assigned to
each staff is small, which means that the opportunity of the direct selection of the
PAPs is very limited.
6-1



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
*   It is very difficult to manoeuvre the numerous number of the resettlement housing
among a big number of resettlement staffs from difference projects and difference
units. The staff may also have the motive to detain some extra resettlement
housing in order to make their own work easier, which brings more difficulty to
the manoeuvre of the resettlement housing.
6.5.3.2 Solution
*   It is obvious that the wider the range for selecting the resettlement housing is the
bigger the opportunity to "clinch a deal" is. Therefore, the system willL use the
way of the entire share of the resettlement housing to solve the issue of
opportunity of the selection. It willI use the way of parameter control to deal with
the assignment problem of the resettlement housing, use the state control and time
parameter of the housing to stop any detainment of the resettlement housing by
the resettlement staff.
*   At the same time, the expansion of the system in thie future will introduce the
housing marketing system so as to provide more selectivity of the resettlement
housing. It will also provide better service to the PAPs who have the tend to select
compensation and thus reducing the hardness of the resettlement and improving
the working quality and management efficiency.
6.5.4  To solve the problem of the influence of the depth of the resettlement
management on the efficiency
6.5.4.1  Problem of the depth of the resettlement management
Because that the resettlement policy is too principle-oriented and because of the
particularity of the resettlement industry (i.e. the value of the demolished structure is
not comparable), the authorization of the resettlement management is very difficult.
Therefore, the way of control at each level has to be adopted for the operation, which
increases the management depth and thus reducing greatly the efficiency and has the
control risk.
6.5.4.2 Solution
*   The system  has established an internal price parameter base and housing
assessment as the administrative standard.
*   The system will proceed the control of the authorization to the implementing
agencies and staff according to the total amount of the difference generated from
the comparison of the actual compensation rate or resettlement area and the
6-1



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
management basis, the proportion of the difference and the total sum. This precise
authorization may be detailed into millions of records according to the
management requirement of difference project and difference agencies involved
so as to control the risks and reduce the management depth and to improve
efficiency.
6.5.5 Other ways to improve the efficiency
*   Rely on the Business Process Reengineering (BPR) of the system to rationalize
further the organization flow and to improve the efficiency.
*   The quantitative performance review system and the rigid working flow make the
dispute over trifles of the staffs impossible and urges the staff to do their job well
and to react quickly so as to improve the efficiency.
*   The close check on the resettlement staffs with the openness, fairness and
transparency of the system will decrease the misgivings of the PAPs, speed up the
decision-making process of the PAPs and improve the work efficiency.
*   The system also helps with the complicated rental control of the resettlement
housing and the exchange of property right etc. and thus improving the efficiency.
*   The functions of the system such as the automatic budget and settlement, the fast
inquiry, the files and documentation, the working guidance and the automatic
filing etc. will also improve greatly the work efficiency.
6.5.6   Supports to the disbursement center
*   The fast and precise modes of the intelligence transmission of the system will
enable the establishment of the disbursement center.
*   The concept of the disbursement center in the future will be a number of
comprehensively controlled disbursement windows distributed in the banks of the
whole city.
6-1



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                       Resettlement Action Plan
Chapter VII   Cost budgeting and implementation plan
The cost of land acquisition and resettlement compensation has been included into the
overall budget of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project. During the implementation of
the resettlement, the Project Office will arrange and allocate the fund needed for the
resettlement work of Guangfo Exit Radial Road project as scheduled to ensure the
completion of the resettlement work according to the schedule.
7.1 Cost budgeting for land acquisition and resettlement
I. Cost of land acquisition (see Table 7-1)
Table 7-1
Village          Item          Quantity   Unit price      Amount
Tanwei       Village  road, green  80.13 mu  24000      19,231,200 Yuan
Village     land and stndry terra           yuan/mu
Wuyanqiao    Village  road, green 37.67 mu  24000       9,040,800 Yuan
Village     land and sundry terra           yuan/mu
Huangqi      Flower field        153.87 mu  24000       36,928,800 Yuan
district                                    yuan/niu
Yanbu        Flower field        34 mu      24000       8,160,000 Yuan
district                                    yuan/mu
Subtotal                         305.67 mu              73,360,800 Yuan
2. Unexpired other temporary structures and farmer housings (see Table 7-2)
Table 7-2
Housing construction      Floor area     Unit price       Amount
Housing on residential plot  289.98m2      2800 Yuan /m2 811,692.00 Yuan
Mixed construction         3507.72m2       250 Yuan /m2  876,930.00 Yuan
Brick and timber structure  291.13m2       200 Yuan /m2  58,232.00, Yuan
Simple structure (with wall)  231.27 m2    150 Yuan /m2  34,690.50 Yuan
Simple (without wall)      30m2            100 Yuan /m2  3,000.00 Yuan
Subtotal                   4350.1 m2                     1,784,544.5OYuan
3. Estimation of the demand and cost of resettlement housing (see Table 7-3)
7-1



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                          Resettlement Action Plan
Factor of area increment                    Relinquish
Original                                             Resettled   property  or
Item           floor       Increment     Indivisibility             floor area  renting  and  Amount         Remark
area(m2)    coefricient  rate          Attachment      (m2)      unit price of  (Yuan)
resettlement
hiousing
Prediction   of                                                                  4000    Yuan                  Proportion of
relinquishing    8766.704                                                        /M2            35,066,816.00  relinquishme
property right                                                                                                 rnt 80%
Prediction   of
resettlement                                                                     3OYa
2191.676    10%          10%           10%           2849.1788   3200Yuan      9,117,372.16
House   housing built by                                                                 /M2,1,326
project owner
Prediction   of
rented                                                                Area of
resettlement                                                          rooms/0.6
housing
Ground     floor             __________6000                                              Yia                   Proportion of
0                floor t 6090.75                                                        /        uan  36,544,500.00  relinquishme
shops                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nt 90%
Second     floor              ___           __            __                       OOYuan
shops            1984.28                                                         /M2           9,921,400.00
Third  floor__                      ___4500Yuan
Tird       floor| 1149.89   |_42                                                                5,174,505.00
CD  ~ ~ ~    ~    ~   ~   __           __4500Yuan                                          3
En  Office           785.7                                                           /M2            3,535,650.00
____  ____    ____                     ~~~~~3800Yuan
Plant, warehouse  3233.82                                                        /m2            12,288,516.00
P-resdential structure   1471.6      10%          10%           10%           1913.08    /nn2          9,565,400.00
7-2



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                                               Resettlement Action Plan
Total                          125674.42        1                 1                  1                  1               1                  1121,214,159.2         1
7-3



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                      Resettlement Action Plan
4. Estimation of the compensation of unexpired temporary structure (see Table 7-4)
Table 7-4
Structure          Quantity (mh)   Unit (Yuan /m-)   Amount (Yuan)
Mixed structure       31,560.27          400             12,624,108.00
Brick and timber      17,715.68          350             6,200,488.00
Simple struIcture     20,483.99          250             5,120,997.50
Total                 69,759.94                          23,945,593.50
5. Compensation for the historical housing (see Table 7-5)
Table 7-5
Structure         Quantity (m)     Unit (Yuan /m')  Amount (Yuan))
Mixed structure       1,579.85          800              1,263,880.00
Brick and timber      9,304.26          600              5,582,556.00
Simple structure      276.39            400              110,556.00
Total                 11,160.50                          6,956,992.00
6. Compensation of trees (see Table 7-6)
Table 7-6
Name           Size   Quantity    Unit price of   Amount      Remark
(piece)    compensation     (yuan)
571,200.00
Street tree                 1428       400 Yuan /piece
Piscidia                    3          1 O00yuan/piece  3,000.00
Litchi                      11         2000yuan/piece   22,000.00
Mango                       6          1500yuan/piece   9,000.00
Banana tree                 11         l OOyuan/piece   1,100.00
Trigonometry coconut        26         2000yuan/piece   52,000.00
Banyan                      15         l OOOyuan/piece  15,000.00
Fishtail palm               10         300yuan/piece    3,000.00
7-4



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                     Resettlement Action Plan
Others                      298       200yuan/piece   59,600.00
Relocation
Sack sprout(sack)           1127000   0.Syuan/sack    563,500.00  and damage
Sapling                     2507605   1 an/ iece      2 507 6050.
Total                         _                       26375 450.
7. Compensation of constrmtctional work (see Table 7-7)
Table 7-7
Name              Quantity      Unit price of   Amount (Yuan)
compensation
Cement pavement         40275.5 m2     120 yuan /m2   4,833,060.00
Virescence              8268 m2         yuan /m2       1,901,640.00
Enclosing wall          5889 m2        100 yuan /m2   588,900.00
Flower bed              8748 m2        30 yuan /m2    262,440.00
Tennis court            1332.3 m2      350 yuan /m2   466,305.00
Archway                 4 piece        10000yuan/piece  40,000.00
Octagonal pavilion      I piece                       50,000.00
Gatepost, steel gate    13 piece       50OOyuan/piece  65,000.00
Total                                                  8,207,345.00
8. Other resettlement cost (see Table 7-8)
Table 7-8
Item              Quantity       Unit price       Amount     Remark
Operating  Ground floor shops  676.75    480 yuan/m'        324,840.00
losses due Second floor shops  220.48    400 yuan/m'         88,192.00
to remove  Above third floor shops 127.77  300 yuan/mi       38,331.00
Subtotal             1025                         451,363.00
Stop-loss  Ground floor shops  66.75     50 yuan/m'.month * 6  20,025.00
Second floor shops   220.48   40 yuan/m4.month * 6  52,915.20
Above third floor shops  127.77  30 yuan/m .month * 6  22,998.60
Office               87.3     40 yuan/m'.month * 6  20,952.00
Plant, warehouse     359.37   20 yuan/m'.month * 6  43,124.40
Subtotal             861.67                        160,015.20
7-5



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                      Resettlement Action Plan
Other      Compensation    for 35        Below 5 person: 450  15,750.00
compensat house removal                  yuan/household;
ion                                      Above 5 person: 600
yuan/household
Compensation for non 354       50m,1000           1,062,000.00
residence removal              yuan/house
50m2 - 20Gm',3000
yuan/house
2
200m ,5000
yuan/house
Cost   of  telephone 389       400 yuan/piece      155,600.00
removal
Cost of cable   TV   35        350 yuan/piece      12,250.00
removal
Cost  of  gas   pipe /                             1,245,600.00
removal
Subtotal             813                           2,491,200.00
House demolition, residues removal  113129.9  60 yuan/m'      6,787,795.80
3
Total                                                         9,890,374.00
9. Other relevant cost (see Table 7-9)
Table 7-9
Item           Quantity   Unit price    Amount           Remark
Resettlement  overhead           0.8%         -             Settlement against real
cost                                                        amount
Cost of announcement in  1 piece  300000      300,000.00    Settlement against real
newspaper                         yuan/piece                amount
Cost  of  survey  and                         600,000.00    Settlement against real
setting-out                                                 amount
Farmland    re-cultivate  190453.42  25 yuan/in' 4,761,335.71  Settlement against real
fund                   86m2                                 amount
Vegetable         field 305.67mu  18000       5,502,060,.00  Settlement against real
construction fee                  yuan/mu                   amount
Tax on plough occupation  305.67mu  1333      407,458,.1I   Settlement against real
yuan/mu                   amount
Work force employment 400         3500        1,400,000.00  Settlement against real
training expenses      person     yuan/person               amount
Service fee for procuring 305.67mu  2880      880,829.60    Settlement against real
state grain                       yuain/mu                  amount
Urban infrastructure fee                                    Free
Land        acquisition 271,735,2  1%         2,717,352.58  (1%  of the total of
management fee         58.20                                items 1-7) Settlement
against real amount
Total                                         16,901,725,.79
10. Pipeline expense: 75,073,955 yuani
7-6



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                       Resettlement Action Plan
11. Contingency allowance (see Table 7-10)
Table 7 -10
Item               Amount (Yuan)                Remark
Land   acquisition  and    14,431,849.20        5% of the total of items I - 9
resettlement
Pipeline relocation        11,261,093.25         15% of item 10
Total                      25,692,942.45
12. Labor cost 11,682,116.44 yuan (3% of the total of items 1 - 11)
13. Overall budget: 401,085,997.88 yuan (Total of the items I - 12).
Note: This budget does not include the resettlement cost of the 6 buildings, with the
2
total floor area of 4477.72mr, riding on the red line of the project on the two sides of
the ground level road south to the Fangcun Da Dao Interchange. See Section 1.4
Overview of the Project Impacts for the detail.
7.2 Fund plan of land acquisition and resettlement
Table 7-11                                                   Unit: yuan
Total cost     March 2002    April 2002     May 2002     LJune 2002   7
401085998     180217200      120325799  _   160434399    140108600
7.3 Implementation plan of the resettlement
The implementation of the resettlement will be started in July 2001 and all the work
relating to land acquisition and resettlement will be completed one month before the
commencement of the engineering construction. The RAP will be implemented in
three phases: 1) preparation; 2) implementation and 3) inspection, supervision and
evaluation. The interior monitor will be carried out throughout the whole
implementation stage. See the table attached. (see Table 7-12 for the detail)
7-7



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                        Resettlement Action Plan
Chapter VIII   Public participation and consultation
In order to guarantee the legal rights and interests of the PAPs and to improve or at
least maintain the level of their living standard after the resettlement and allow them
to benefit finally from the project, it is vital to carry out abroad and in-depth the
public participation and consultation. Active participation of the PAPs into the
planning and implementation of the resettlement work will release farthest their initial
resistance and thus guaranteeing the smoothly implementation of the resettlement
work and the whole project.
Even at the beginning of the conceptual design of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road
project and during the preparation of the RAP the designing, environment protection
and resettlement agencies of the project started to contact the working units along the
alignment of the road to collection abroad and listen to the opinion and suggestions
from the PAPs so as to take them into consideration during the preparation of the RAP.
The participation and consultation of the PAPs will be carried out througllout the
whole implementation of the project.
After the review and approval by the World Bank the RAP will be published on
relevant publications for the public.
Dissemination of the resettlement information and the acquisition of the feedback
from the PAPs are realized mainly by the following means:
8.1 Census
The purpose of the census is to carry out face-to-face inquiry with the PAPs and to get
true and firsthand information as the basis for the preparation of the RAP and for the
follow-up implementation. It is also a good opportunity of public participation, which
enables the face-to-face contact with a maximum number of the PAPs. In the course
of census, the trained investigators will introduce the significance and general
situation of the Guangfo Exit Radial Road project, the compensation rate, the relevant
resettlement policy, the preliminary resettlement arrangement and the implementation
schedule to the PAPs and will answer their questions and to understand their attitude,
desires and requirements. The requirements of the PAPs on the resettlement will be
then recorded in detail in the census questionnaires.
8.2 The standard of living survey (SLS)
The standard of living survey (SLS) to be carried out by the independent monitor
institution is the sample survey based on the census, which will focus further on the
indicators of the standard of living. As an important method of the monitor and



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                        Resettlement Action Plan
evaluation the standard of living survey will adopt the combined means of
quantitative and qualitative surveys. Compared with the census the SLS pays more
attention to the opinions, feelings and desires of the PAPs. The independent monitor
institution obtains the firsthand information through the standard of living survey and
reports timely the opinions of the PAPs to the Project Office together with rational
proposals so as to ensure that the standard of living of the PAPs after the resettlement
will be improved or at least maintained at the level before the resettlement.
The baseline survey of the standard of living of each phase will be carried out within
one month after the completion of the census. The second one will be repeated one
year after the completion of the resettlement and the last one will be conducled after
the whole project is completed. Public participation will be encouraged as much as
possible for each standard of living survey to ensure that the active function of the
PAPs will be brought into play during the adjustment period of themselves.
8.3 News media
The news media is an important tool for infonnation dissemination and public
participation and consultation. We issue the relevant informnation of the project
through the news media to allow the PAPs to know and then understand our working.
At the same time, we can also obtain timely the feedback information from the
citizens by using the news media with its characteristics of the sensitivity so as to
improve on our work. Another advantage of the news media is that it will not only
allow the PAPs to give out their opinions without any hesitation but will also allow
other people who may not be negatively impacted to take an active part in and provide
them opportunity to air their own views from just and objective angles and to appraise
the resettlement work on all aspects. If necessary, the Project Office will also carry
out special dissemination together with the television, the radio station and journalism
of the compensation rate and resettlement policy and will consult openly with the
PAPs before the implementation of the resettlement. After the resettlement, the news
media will continue to follow up the living and work of the PAPs by giving them
interviews. If any existing deficiency of the resettlement work is found, they will urge
the project owner to take remedial action. The news media releases the project
informnation even before the census is carried out.
8.4 Public consultation meeting
8.4.1   Official consultation meeting held by the Project Office and the GREEO
jointly
This type of meeting is held by Project Office irregularly as required. The topic and
the scale of the meeting and the invited attendants vary each time according to need.
The meeting is also monitored by the independent monitor institution. These meetings
also invite the representatives of the vulnerable groups (if any), especially the women.
s-2



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                        Resettlement Action Plan
8.4.2  Public  consultation  meetings  and  interviews organized  by  the
independent monitor institution
Public participation and consultation is one of the primary responsibilities of the
independent monitor institution and is also one of the important means of independent
monitor. The independent monitor institution will hold regularly (at least every two
months) small-scale public consultation meetings by zone and in different types with
different topics, scales and attendants. Suclh as the consultation meeting witlh the
affected households, consultation meeting with the affected shops and the symposia
with the focus groups (grouped according to the sex, age, income level, entitlement
and vulnerable people etc.). These meetings also invite the representatives of the
vulnerable groups (if any), especially the women. The Project Office and the GREEO
will send representatives to attend the regular meetings. Besides the regular
consultation meetings irregular interviews with the PAPs will also be arranged to gain
the latest information and feedback.
The independent monitor institution will report timely the outcome of the public
participation and consultation to Project Office. In the monitor and evaluation on
paper report sent to the Project Office every two months and sent to the World Bank
(through the Project Office) every 6 months in written form there will be chapter
reporting the activities of the public participation and consultationl during the
implementation of the resettlement.
8.5 Resettlement Information Handbook
Upon the approval of the World Bank on the final report of the RAP, the GREEO will
put Up all the detailed infonnation relating to the resettlement within the office
building of the GREEO, including the description of the project, description of the
resettlement areas (including picture infonmation), the compensation policy, the
compensation rate and the procedure for grievance etc. The Project Office and the
GREEO will also prepare a Resettlement Information Handbook summarizing the
resettlement entitlement of the PAPs and describing the procedure of the grievance.
The Resettlement Information Handbook will be distributed to all the PAPs, which
includes:
I. Brief introduction of the project;
2. Classification of the project impacts;
3. Compensation for all kinds of project impacts (resettlement policy);
4. Relevant information of the resettlement areas, including public facilities such as
school, hospital, police station and public transport etc.;
5. Name list of the responsible agencies for ensuring the entitlement of the PAPs
6. Coordination of the schedule of the implementation of all the resettlement and
compensation agreements and the schedule of the engineering construction.;
S-3



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
7. Ways of the PAPs' participation and consultation;
8. Detailed procedure of the grievance and appeals;
9. The Resettlement Information Handbook will be issued to the first-phase PAPs
within one month after the negotiation with the World Bank. The PAPs will get
relevant Resettlement Information Handbook before the signing of the
resettlement and compensation agreement.
8.6 Signing of the "resettlement and compensation agreement"
Before the GREEO sign the compensation" resettlement and compensation
agreement" with the PAPs the Project Office and the GREEO will organize together
by zone the resettlement consultation meeting, organize the PAPs to visit the
resettlement areas and various resettlement housing to help them to get familiar with
the environment, transport, commerce, school, communication and medical treatment
of the resettlement areas so as to allow the PAPs to make better selections. The
GREEO will also collect the opinions of the PAPs so as to improve the RAP.
The resettlement staff will go directly to the PAPs to sign the "resettlement and
compensation agreement" and have the plenary negotiation with the PAPs repeatedly.
If the PAPs have any objection to the resettlement scheme of their own with enough
reason the resettlement scheme can then be adjusted as far as possible to meet their
satisfaction.
8-4



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                        Resettlement Action Plan
Chapter IX Grievance and appeal
It is expected that there will not be any serious complaint happened after carrying out
participation and consultation activities of the PAPs throughout the whole project
implementation. However, in order to better guarantee the legal rights of the PAPs we
will establish a grievance mechanism. The PAPs can raise complaints at any time on
the resettlement schemes. This mechanism will provide the PAPs witlh a convenient,
transparent, fair and effective channel of grievance. The purpose is to deal as far as
possible with the grievance effectively within the project and avoid any complicated
and formal legal activities so as to guarantee effectively the progress of the project
implementation.
In order to simplify the procedure of the grievance of the PAPs it is planned to set up
a Grievance Handling Group under the independenit institution. The group will
compose 5 people and will be led by the director of the independent monitor office.
Among the other 4, 2 will come from the independent monitor institution, I from the
Project Office and the other I from the GREEO. The group will start to operate two
weeks before the signing of the resettlement and compensation agreement and by the
time hot line telephonie and postbox will be set Lip to receive public consultation and
complaint.
The procedure of the grievance and appealing is as the follows:
Step 1: everyone who thinks his entitlemenit is infringe in terms of the resettlement
and compensation can sent the literary and verbal complaint to the Grievance
Handling Group. If it is a verbal complaint the member of the group will make the
detail record. All the complaints will be classified by the group and the relevant
agencies will be contacted to handle the issue. The Grievance Handlinig Group will
provide the comment on the treatment of the issue within two weeks.
Step 2: if the complainant is not satisfied with the comment of the treatment given by
the group, he can send his complaint on paper to the higher management of the
GREEO (the implementing agency of the resettlement) - Guangzlhou Construction
Commission within one month. Guangzhou Construction Commission will give the
comment of the treatment within three weeks after receiving the comment.
Step 3: if the complainant is not satisfied with the comment of the treatment given by
the Guangzhou Construction Commission he can then send his complaint on paper to
the Guangzhou MuLicipal Government witlin one month after receiving the comment.
The "mayor postbox" is in charge of receiving the grievance letters and the
Guangzhou Municipal Govemnment will give out the comment of treatment within
three weeks. The "mayor postbox" is in charge of receiving the grievance letters and
the Guangzh1ou Municipal Govenmment will give out the comment of treatment within
9-I



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                         Resettlement Action Plan
three weeks.
Step 4: If the complainant is still not satisfied with the comment of the Guangzhou
Municipal Government, he can bring a suit to the local people's court within 15 days
after receiving the comment according to the law of civil procedure of the P.R.C. and
the have the case inquired and adjudicated by the court.
The PAPs can complain on any aspect relating to the resettlement and rehabilitation
including the payment of the compensation and the allocation of the resettlement
housing etc. Detailed procedure of the grievance and appealing will be widely
propagandized at the public participation and consultation meetino-s and will be
posted at the office location of the GREEO and Grievance Handling Group. These
contents will also be written in the Resettlement Infornation Handbook, which will
be distributed to the PAPs before the implemenitation of the resettlement.



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                        Resettlement Action Plan
Chapter X Monitor and evaluation
10.1   Interior monitor
Guangzhou City Center Transport Project Office will be responsible for the interior
monitor on the effect and impact of the implementation of the RAP. Project Office
wiII carry out complete interior monitor on the organization of the resettlement work
to ensure that all the responsible agencies will work according to the schedule and
will follow the principles of the RAP. The purpose of this monitor mechanism is to
ensure, during the implementation of the resettlement, the satisfactory effect of the
organization of the resettlement.
10.1.1 Indicators of the monitor
Project Office will be responsible for the following indicators:
*   Payment of the compensation to thie affected persons and working units;
*   Allocation of the housing (including the resettlement areas, the number of floors,
the size and position of the resettlement housing);
*   Resettlement of the PAPs;
*   Resettlement and rehabilitation of the vulnerable groups;
*   Rehabilitation of the infrastructure and public buildings;
*   Resettlement/ replacement, rehabilitation and compensation of the affected
enterprises and institutions;
* Schedule of the above works;
* Consistency of the above works and the RAP wvith the World Bank involuntary
resettlement business guide OD4.30;
*   The sufficiency and rationality of the public consultation and participation of the
PAPs during the preparation and implementation
*   The sufficiency of staff allocation and personal training, and the 'working
schedule and the efficiency of the GREEO.
10.1.2 Working procedure of the implementation of the interior monitor
During the implementation of the resettlement, the Project Office will collect
information from the GREEO at a 2-month interval and fill them in the fixed forms.
The Project Office will then check and verify all the collected information so as to
check the consistency of the GREEO's work and the RAP with the World Bank
involuntary resettlement business guide OD4.30; The Project Office will use the
censLIs carried out on the PAPs and their properties as the basis and wvill supplement
new data and information timely to form the consecutive information flow in a fixed
fomiat so as to achieve the goal of the continuous monitoring. The Project Office will
10-1



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                        Resettlement Action Plan
preserve the database and will control the process of the preparation and
implementation of the resettlement with the assistance of the GREEO and by
conducting a one-hundred-percent monitor. The Project Office will share the relate
part of the database with the GREEO.
10.1.3 Submit the internal monitor report
The Project Office will solve immediately the problems existing in the resettlement
and rehabilitation together with the GREEO according to the interior monitor report
prepared in fixed format every two months and will take all necessary steps to
guarantee the progress and quality of the resettlement.
During the implementation of the resettlement, the Project Office will submit the
interior monitor report to the World Bank every 6 months. The first report will be
submitted at the seventh month after the commencement of the implementation of thc
resettlement. After the completion of the implementation the result of the internal
monitor of the outstanding issues will be submitted to the World Bank by 31 January
of each year.
10.2 Independent monitor
The independent monitor institution monitors and assists the resettlement
implementing agencies to achieve the objectives of the RAP and ensures that the
PAPs the PAPs play a active function in their own rehabilitation. The independent
monitor institution will be responsible for the independent monitor of the resettlement
so as to observe the follows:
l. The functional operation of the resettlement institution network (including the
Project Office);
2. The situation of the adjustment of the PAPs to their new life style.
The independent monitor institution will be responsible for the evaluation during
the implementation and the measurement of the standard of living of the PAPs.
The purpose of the independent monitor is to evaluate the resettlement activity
through an institution independent of the Project Office so as to have an overall view
of the implementation from a broader and farther angle. The independent monitor
institution will follow up the resettlement activity based on the following contents to
evaluate whether the resettlement objectives are achieved:
1. Application of the relevant resettlement legislation of China, Guangdong
province and Guangzhou city;
2. The principle of the World Bank involuntary resettlement business guides
(OD4.30);
10-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                          Resettlement Action Plan
3. Improve the standard of living of the PAPs or at least maintain it at the original
level before the project.
10.2.1  Responsibility of the independent monitor institution
The independent monitor institution, as the independent monitor of the Project Office,
'iIi evaluate the operation of the resettlement work, predict the potential problems
existing during the implementation of the objectives of the RAP and raise optional
proposals of the actions. Concretely speaking, the independent monitor institutioni will
carry out the following activities:
10.2.2 The standard of living sur vey (SLS)
The independent monitor institution will carry out the random sampling of the PAPs
based on the information of the census before the implemenitation of the resettlemiient
and within one month after the completioni of the census and will determine a
foundation control group, and cany out the baseline survey of the standard of living
with this groLtp. The standard of living survey of each phase will be repeated one year
after the completion of the resettlement to measure the changes of the standard of
living of the PAPs. A follow-up survey of the standard of living will be carried out
after the completion of the whole project. The follow up surveys should ensure that
the same hoLuseholds from the baseline survey are interviewed. This activity will be
one of the methods to detenmine the changes of the standard of living of the PAPs. In
order to carry out the standard of living survey the independent monitor institution
needs to accomplish the follows:
1 . Design and test of the qtuestionnaire
When design the questionnaire of the standard of living survey it is necessary to
consider the factors of the local materials and the cultural and use the qualitative
and quantitative means to monitor the change of the standard of living. The
designed questionnaire will be tested through practice to observe the effect and
make the improvement.
2. Training of the inquirers
To train the inquirers with the improved questionnaire.
3. Editing and encoding of the findings
The group leader of the survey is in charge of the supervision of the work of the
inqtiirers and will verify and edit all the finished questionnaires in front of the
inquirers at the same day when the inquirers finish the questionnaire survey.
10-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                       Resettlement Action Plan
4. Sampling of the PAPs and the control group
Based on the survey data the scale of the sampling is set as the follows:
*   10% of the affected household (orclinary)
*   25% of the affected shops
*   10% of the affected enterprises and institutions
*   25% of the vulnerable group
*   The ratio between the affected households and the households in control
group is 1:1.
10.2.3 Unofficial visit
Unofficial visit is the form to supplement and guide the official visit by
observational method. It includes the discussion among the focus group, visit to the
PAPs, and interview to the specialists of the local conditions and customs and the
observation of the participators.
10.2.4 Public consultation meeting
The independent monitor institution will hold regularly (at least every two months)
public consultation meetings by zone and in different types. These meetings also
invite the representatives of the vulnerable groups especially the women. The
independent monitor institution will evaluate the situation of the participation of the
PAPs into the RAP and the issues included in the RAP that cause the PAPs' concern
and the effect of the implementation through the monitor of these meetings. The
independent monitor institution will also check how much do the PAPs know how
their livelihood mode will be rehabilitated and what are their desires and hopes and
will report the findings to the Project Office. These activity will be carried out prior to
the implementation, throughout the implementation and after the implementation. The
Project Office and the GREEO will join the regular public consultation meetings held
by the independent monitor institution. Official public consultation meetings held by
the Project Office will invite the independent monitor institution to monitor.
10.2.5 Grievance
The Grievance Handling Group under the independent monitor institution will be set
up. The group will start its operation two weeks before the signing of the resettlement
and compensation agreements. Telephone hotline and mailbox will set up to receive
from the PAPs.
The independent monitor institution will also visit regularly the resettlement areas and
the implementing agencies, accept and handle the grievance and visit the PAPs to
understand their grievance, and to make a suggestions to make feasible modification
10-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                          Resettlement Action Plan
of the working procedure so as to ensure a smoother and more effective
implementation.
10.2.6 Other responsibility
The independent monitor institution will also provide suggestionis and monitor the
following indicators during the preparation and implementation of the RAP:
*   Payment of the compensation to the affected persons and enterprises according to
the negotiated rate of the agreement;
* Rationality of the allocation of the housing (including the resettlement areas, the
number floors, the size and position of the resettlement housing);
*   The timeliness and the degree of plenitude of the preparation of the resettlement
areas;
*   Timely resettlement of the PAPs;
*   The rehabilitation of the PAPs especially vulnerable groups (ability);
*   Relocation and replacement of the infrastmtctures;
*   Rational compensation and resettlement of the affected enterprises;
*   Timely provision of other negotiated subsidies such as the transportation and
removal subsidy, loss of incomes or wages, location for busincss during the
transition period etc.;
*   Sufficiency and rationality of the public consultation and participation;
* Receiving and handling the grievances of the affected persons;
*   Consistency of the resettlement activities and the resettlement policy;
*   Effectiveness of the organization of the resettlement institution network;
*   Accuracy of the interior monitor report
10.2.7 Staff of the implementation independent monitor
The independent monitor institution is led by a director with at least 5-year experience
on demographic census and project monitoring. The institution shall also possess the
ability for the data management, statistical analysis statistical analysis, profit
valuation and social valuation as well as the experience of the qualitative survey.
10.2.8 Submit the independent monitor and evaluation report
During the implementation of the resettlement the independent monitor institution
will submit the monitor and evaluation report to the Project Office every two months
and to the World Bank (through the Project Office) every 6 months. The first report
will be submitted to the World Bank at the seventh month after the commencement of
the implementation of the resettlement. The independent monitor institution will
submit the survey report to the Project Office and the World Bank ( through the
Project Office) after the completion of each standard of living survey.
10-



Guangfo Exit Radial Road Project                            Resettlement Action Plan
10.2.9 Follow-up actions after the submission of the report
After the submission of the monitor and evaluation report by the independent monitor
institution the Project Office will hold the discussion together with the GREEO, the
independent monitor institution and other relevant institutions to raise proposals for
the follow-up actions focusing on the issues confirmed in the report. The monitor
and valuation report includes:
1. Report the progress of the follow-up actions taken for the issues confirmed in the
previous report.
2. Report the actions taken by each relevant agencies after the discussion of the
previous report.
10-



