Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4329 CHA
Project Agreement
(Guangzhou City Center Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GUANGZHOU MUNICIPALITY
Dated June 26, 1998 
LOAN NUMBER 4329 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and GUANGZHOU MUNICIPALITY (Guangzhou).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Republic Of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Guangzhou agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
WHEREAS Guangzhou, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Guangzhou declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, economic, financial, engineering practices, and safety and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
Section 2.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement and except as the Bank and Guangzhou shall otherwise agree, Guangzhou shall 
carry out the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Guangzhou shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Guangzhou shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Guangzhou, a plan 
designed to ensure 
the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Guangzhou on 
said plan.
Section 2.05. (a) Guangzhou shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Guangzhou shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Guangzhou of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Guangzhou shall maintain or cause to be maintained, records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Guangzhou responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Guangzhou shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
Page  3
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Guangzhou 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Guangzhou thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Guangzhou:
Guangzhou City Center 
  Transport Project Office
5th Floor
29 Fuqian Road
Guangzhou 510032
People’s Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Guangzhou may 
be taken or executed by the Mayor or such other person or persons as said Mayor shall 
designate in writing, and Guangzhou shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
Page  4
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
GUANGZHOU MUNICIPALITY
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, (i) contracts for works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more each; (ii) contracts for 
supply and installation of equipment under Part A of the Project shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each; and (iii) contracts 
for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or 
more each. 
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
Page  5
to be carried out by domestic contractors, excluding goods manufactured in and works 
carried out by contractors from Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
(d)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(e)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
The following may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines: (a) works estimated to cost 
less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$45,800,000 equivalent, and (b) goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent.
2.
International Shopping
Software packages under Parts B, D and F, and buses under Part C.2 (c) of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for:  (a) works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $2,000,000 or more, and (b) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  6
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedure for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management
1.
Guangzhou shall maintain the Project Leading Group with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, chaired by a vice-mayor and including 
representatives from the municipal agencies responsible for transport planning, 
transport design, construction  and maintenance, public transport, and traffic 
management, control and safety, to coordinate the implementation of the Project.
2.
Guangzhou shall maintain the Project Office, with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank, managed and staffed with personnel in adequate number and with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, to manage the implementation 
of the Project on behalf of the Project Leading Group.
Page  7
B.
Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1.
Guangzhou:
(a)
declares its commitment to the preservation of the environment and, to 
this end, undertakes to carry out, and to cause to be carried out, the EAPs in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
shall furnish any proposed revision to the EAPs to the Bank for its prior 
approval; and
(c)
shall maintain policies and procedures to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the EAPs.
2.
Guangzhou shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank by June 30 of each year, commencing in 1999, an annual 
environmental report during the construction phase under Part A of the Project, and 
for each of the first three (3) years following completion of construction.
3.
In respect of Parts A and C.1 of the Project, Guangzhou shall:
(a)
implement the RAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
no later than six months prior to commencing construction on each of 
phases II and III of the Inner Ring Road, complete and furnish to the Bank an update 
of the census and socio-economic survey satisfactory to the Bank for the areas related 
to such phases respectively;
(c) 
furnish any proposed revision to the RAP to the Bank for its prior 
approval; and
(d)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the carrying out of the RAP, including engaging an 
independent agency acceptable to the Bank to monitor the implementation and impact of 
said RAP.
C.
Project Implementation
1.
Guangzhou shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval, by October 31 of each year 
commencing in 1998, an annual work plan for the implementation of the Project during 
the following calendar year, said work plan to include, inter alia, the scope and 
schedule of activities under Parts A, B, C, D, E and F of the Project, the financing 
plan and detailed budget arrangements; and
(b)
thereafter, implement said work plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.
2.
(a)
In respect of Part B.1 of the Project, Guangzhou shall carry out a 
program of traffic management satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
To that end, by no later than December 31, 1999 Guangzhou shall complete 
the first phase of traffic management improvements, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank, including: (i) establishment of bus priority facilities comprising bus lanes; 
(ii) establishment of bicycle routes; and (iii) channelization improvements at major 
road intersections. 
3.
In respect of Part B.1 (d) of the Project, Guangzhou shall:
(a)
by March 31, 2000 complete a study on parking management in accordance 
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such study to the Bank for 
its review and comments; and
(b)
thereafter, develop a time-bound action plan satisfactory to the Bank to 
implement the recommendations of such study taking into consideration the Bank’s 
Page  8
comments thereon.
4.
Guangzhou shall:
(a)
by March 31, 2000 prepare and furnish to the Bank for its comments a 
policy on traffic demand management; and
(b)
thereafter, establish said traffic demand management policy and take 
appropriate steps to implement such policy, taking into considerations the Bank’s 
comments thereon.
5.
Guangzhou shall carry out the training under Parts A, B, C, D, E and F.1 of the 
Project in accordance with  a training program acceptable to the Bank.
6.
Guangzhou shall: (a) carry out the studies under Part F.2 of the Project in 
accordance with terms of reference  and a time table satisfactory to the Bank; (b) 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments the interim reports and the results 
and recommendations of such studies; and (c) thereafter, take appropriate steps to 
implement the recommendations from such studies taking into consideration the Bank’s 
comments thereon.
D.
Monitoring and Reporting
1.
Guangzhou shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory 
to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof. 
2.
Guangzhou shall:
(a)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) a quarterly report on January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of 
each year, starting January 31, 1999; (ii) an annual report by July 31 of each year 
starting in 1999; and (iii) on or about January 31, 2001, a mid-term report, in each 
case integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph D (1) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of each such report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(b)
review with the Bank on such dates as the Bank shall request, the reports 
referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph D (2), and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter.
