Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4329 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Guangzhou City Center Transport Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 26, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4329 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1998 between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Guangzhou Municipality (Guangzhou) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Guangzhou the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Guangzhou;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
Page  2
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings wherever used in this Agreement: 
(a)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“EAPs” means, collectively, the Inner Ring Road EAP and the Longxi EAP, 
which establish environmental protection measures in respect of Part A and Part C.1 of 
the Project, respectively, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure the implementation of such measures; and “EAP” means either of the EAPs; 
(c)
“Inner Ring Road” means the urban expressway of approximately 26 
kilometers in length, to be constructed within Guangzhou to alleviate traffic 
congestion in the city center; 
(d)
“Inner Ring Road EAP” means the Inner Ring Road Environmental Action 
Plan, dated September 1997, in respect of Part A of the Project;
(e)
“Guangzhou” means Guangzhou Municipality, the capital of the Borrower’s 
province of Guangdong, and any successor thereto; 
(f)
“Longxi EAP” means the Longxi Environmental Action Plan, dated April 
1998, in respect of Part C.1 of the Project;  
(g)
“Project Affected Person” and “PAP” mean a natural or juridical person 
who, on account of the execution of Parts A and C.1 of the Project, had or would have 
his/her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in 
any house, land (including premises and agricultural land) or any other fixed or 
movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, 
occupation, work  or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; and “Project 
Affected Persons” and “PAPs” mean collectively all persons who qualify as a Project 
Affected Person; 
(h)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and Guangzhou, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(i)
“Project Leading Group” means the inter-agency group established by 
Guangzhou and referred to in paragraph A (1) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(j)
“Project Office” means the office established by Guangzhou and referred 
to in paragraph A (2) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(k)
“Resettlement Action Plan” and “RAP” mean the Inner Ring Road Project 
Resettlement Action Plan, dated February 1998,  approved by Guangzhou, which sets out 
the principles, policies and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other 
property, resettlement and compensation for PAPs, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan; and 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred million dollars ($200,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
Page  3
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars 
for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Page  4
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Guangzhou to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Guangzhou therein set forth, shall take or cause to 
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Guangzhou to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Guangzhou, 
through Guangdong Province, on the following principal terms: 
(i)
the principal amount so made available shall be denominated and 
repayable by 
Guangzhou in dollars and shall be recovered by the 
Borrower, through Guangdong 
Province, over a period of twenty 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five 
years; 
(ii)
Guangzhou shall pay interest on the  principal amount referred to 
above in 
paragraph (b) (i) of this Section withdrawn 
and remaining unrecovered from 
time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate applicable to the Loan pursuant to 
Section 2.05 
of this Agreement; 
(iii)
Guangzhou shall pay a commitment charge on the principal amount 
referred to 
above in paragraph (b) (i) of this Section not 
withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate equal to three-fourths of 
one percent (0.75%) per annum. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by Guangzhou pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made; and 
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Guangzhou shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Guangzhou will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Guangzhou, and is legally binding upon Guangzhou in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  6
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
 to be financed
(1)
Works
130,900,000
43%
(2) 
Goods
 46,300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
Page  7
(ex-factory cost) and
75% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants' services
 8,900,000
100% 
 and training
(4)
Unallocated
13,900,000
__________
TOTAL
      200,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; 
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent each;
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts awarded to: (i) consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (ii) individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d)
training; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Guangzhou Municipality 
to: (i) improve accessibility of the city center, and (ii) promote the efficient use 
of its urban transport system in an environmentally sustainable way.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Inner Ring Road
1.
Construction of about fifteen kilometers (km) of the Inner Ring Road within 
Guangzhou, including: (a) construction of about 15 km of an elevated highway, with 
grade-separated interchanges with primary roads and access ramps to the street 
network, and (b) upgrading of about 15 km of existing ground level roads underneath 
the elevated highway; and provision of noise barriers and traffic management equipment 
for said sections of the Inner Ring Road. 
2.
Resettlement, rehabilitation of and compensation for people affected under Parts 
A.1 (a) and (b) of the Project.
Part B:
Traffic Management and Safety
1.
Carrying out of a program of traffic management in Guangzhou through civil works 
and the provision of equipment, consultants’ services and training, such program to   
include:   
Page  8
(a)
establishment of:   
(i)
a bus lane network of about five (5) km; 
(ii)
pedestrian facilities consisting of sidewalks and footpaths of 
about two (2) 
km, and about thirty pedestrian crossings 
equipped with refuges, signal 
controls and special 
facilities for the aged and the handicapped; and 
(iii)
segregated bicycle routes of about two (2) km; 
(b)
installation and replacement of traffic signals and traffic signal 
controllers; 
(c)
monitoring and control of traffic on the Inner Ring Road; and 
(d)
parking management.
2.
Carrying out of a program of road safety, through the provision of equipment, 
consultants’ services and training, such program to include: (a) updating of the 
traffic accident management computer software; (b) undertaking of an analytical review 
of accident information collection procedures; and (c) implementation of accident 
reduction measures.
Part C:
Public Transport
1.
Construction of: (a) a bus maintenance depot at Longxi, and (b) a related waste 
water treatment plant; and provision of maintenance equipment for said maintenance 
depot.
2.
Carrying out of a program to develop public transport in Guangzhou, through the 
provision of equipment, consultants’ services and training, such program to include: 
(a) development of information systems for the location, operational and financial 
control, regulatory management and service planning of buses; (b) establishment of a 
pilot system for bus operations and management; (c) carrying out of a program to test 
selected buses with more advanced and environmentally benign specifications on the 
main routes for purposes of determining the most suitable types to be operated in 
Guangzhou; and (d) carrying out of a program of maintenance of public transport buses.
Part D:
Vehicle Pollution Control 
Carrying out of a program to control and reduce air pollution from mobile 
sources in Guangzhou through the provision of equipment, consultants’ services and 
training, such program to include: (i) initiation of the distribution of unleaded 
gasoline; (ii) strengthening of the vehicle inspection and maintenance system; (iii) 
strengthening of the vehicle emission research centre; and (iv) improvement of the air 
pollution monitoring network.
Part E:
Road Maintenance
Carrying out of a program of road maintenance management in Guangzhou through 
the provision of equipment, consultants’ services and training, such program to 
include: undertaking of a comprehensive inventory of maintenance requirements and 
updating of the maintenance expenditure requirements.
Part F:
Institutional Development 
1.
Strengthening of the managerial, technical, planning and implementation capacity 
of the municipal agencies involved in aspects of city transport, through the provision 
of equipment, consultants’ services and training. 
2.
Carrying out of studies to assist Guangzhou to formulate plans and policies in 
respect of, inter alia, motor vehicle pollution control, traffic demand management, 
bus operations and management. 
* * * 
Page  9
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
January 15, 2004
4,230,000 
July 15, 2004
4,355,000 
January 15, 2005
4,480,000 
July 15, 2005
4,615,000 
January 15, 2006
4,750,000 
July 15, 2006
4,895,000 
January 15, 2007
5,040,000 
July 15, 2007
5,185,000 
January 15, 2008
5,340,000 
July 15, 2008
5,500,000 
January 15, 2009
5,660,000 
July 15, 2009
5,830,000 
January 15, 2010
6,005,000 
July 15, 2010
6,180,000 
January 15, 2011
6,365,000 
July 15, 2011
6,555,000 
January 15, 2012
6,745,000 
July 15, 2012
6,950,000 
January 15, 2013
7,155,000 
July 15, 2013
7,365,000 
January 15, 2014
7,585,000 
July 15, 2014
7,810,000 
January 15, 2015
8,040,000 
July 15, 2015
8,280,000 
January 15, 2016
8,525,000 
July 15, 2016
8,775,000 
January 15, 2017
9,035,000 
July 15, 2017
9,305,000 
January 15, 2018
9,580,000 
July 15, 2018
9,865,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2 and 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $8,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
Page  10
exceed the equivalent of $ 40,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  11
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
