Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7179
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
aANRIN'NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
(CREDIT 977-MAG)
April 4, 1988
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution aud may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenrise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UQUIVALENTS
CurreacY Unit - Malagasy Franc (1MG)
ftchge Rate.(An"ual Average):
IUSS a 1MG
1980        211.28
1981        271.73
1982        349.74
1983        430.45
1984        576.60
1985        662.48
1986        676.34
1987        833.00 (end May 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BCIM    -  Banque pour la Comerce et l'Iadust!le de tadagascar
BCRt   -  Banque Centrale de la Ripublique lUalgache
BDPI   -  Bureau de DWveloppemeat et de Promotion Industriels
BPV    -  Banque Nationale pour le Comrce
NI    -  Banque Nationale pour le Diveloppemnt Industriel
BNH    -  Banque Nationale Malegasy de DSveloppemnt
BTM    -  Banque Nationale pour le DSveloppe.mst Rural
CCCE   -  Caisse Centrale de Coop6ratlon Economique
CCP    -  Ceatre de Chiques Postaux
CRAPS  -  Caisse Nationale de Privoyance Sociale
CPA    -  Certifled Public Accountant
EIB    -  European Investent Bank
FItG    -  Malagasy Franc
KfW    -  Xrsdltanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
SERDI  -        tSocit  d'Etude et de rdalisation pour le developpeuent
industriel
SPA    -  Special Fac1lity for Sub-Saharan Africa
SNI    -  SocietS nationale d'investissewent
SSE    -  Small-scale enterprise(s)



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washmgton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ok.4 i1 DKNEVGhIWN1
April 4, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Madagascar -
Bankin'ny Indostria (BNI) (Cr. 977-MAG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Madagascar - Bankin'ny Indostria (BNI) (Credit 977-MAG)'
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Further evaluation of this project
by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
1This document has a festricted distribution and mauy be used by fecipients only in the Perfornance|
of their offtiail dutzes. Its contents tnay not otherwLse be disclosed without World Bsank autitofization. 



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR - BANKIN'NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
(CREDIT 977-MAG)
Table of contents
Page No.
PREFACE ..................  1
BASIC DATA SHEET               ...................                      ii
HIGHLIGHTS .........                                                   iii
1,    INTRODUCTION      I............................................   1
l.l Background        ............                ........       1
1.2 Project Objectives and World Bank Group Role  ...s....    3
2.     MACROECONOMIC. INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES .......    3
201 Macroeconomic Setting *e..3... .................e..    3
2.2 The Industrial Setting         ...............................    5
2.3 The Flinncial Sector ...... 6........................    6
3.     THE INSTITUTION ...............    8
3.1 Initial Issues                                               8
3.2 Overall Development. during Project Implementation and
Current Status                                               9
3.3 Impleusntation Performance under IDA Credit    ..........   12
4.     ALLOCATION OF THE CREDIT       .................................   12
4.1 Overview ........,..........................    12
4.2 Economic and Financial Characteristic of Subprojects .   12
4.3 Feasibility Studies *.....e0**ge0 0e06                      14
5.     OPERATIONAL AND PINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ....................   15
5.1 Overall Operational Performance    ......................   15
$.2 Resource Mobilization ........ ....e...eec.......e.   16
5.3 Financial Condition and PerformaAce       L.................   17
6.     CONCLUSIONS ..................                                   19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Annexes
1.  Evolution of Staffing aQd Regional Offices, 1980-86                         22
2. List of Subprojects and other Project Componeats PFianced
under Credit 877-MAG                    ...                             23
3.  Schedule of Estimated vs. Actual Disbursemnts   .              .24
4, Actual and Projected Operations, 1977-85   .                 .25
5.  Analysis of BN1 Investments (Loans and Participations)
durlg 1979-85   ..26
6.  Analysls of BNI Investments (Guarantees) during 1979-85             .       27
7.  Actual and Projected Summary - Balance Sheets, 1977-85 ..28
8. Actual and Projected Summary - Income Statements,
1977-85.                                                                30
9.  Actual and Projected Sources and Uses of Funds, 1977-85 ..                   31
10.  Actual and Projected Financial Ratios, 1977-85   .             .32
11.  Economlc Characteristic of Subprojects Financed under
Credit 977-M..AG         ..                          .                  33
12.  Financial Characteristics of Subprojects Financed under
Credit 977-MAG                   ..34
13.  Summary Description and Present Status of Above Free Limit
Subprojects Financed under Credit 977-MAG.                              35
14. Studies Financed under Credit 977-MAG   .                  .41
15. Comments from the Borrower    ..42



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HADAGASCAR: BANKIN'NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
(CREDIT 977-MAG)
PREFACE
This report presents an evaluation of Credit 977-KAG to the -
Democratlc Republic of Madagascar, with the Bankin'ny Indostrli (BNI) as
lmediate beaeficiary. This first IDA line of credit to BNI.was approved
in January 1980, and was declared effective in February 1981.
Disbursements were completed in July 1986.
The Association'a Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office has
prepared this report on the basis of written and oral informatlon provlded
by the Borrower during a miosion to Madagastar In November/December -1986.
The report reviews BNI's use of the credit proceeds and its institutional
development over the past years.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED), but the project was not audited by OLD staff.
Following standard procedures, OED sent copies of the draft report
to the Borrower for comments. These comments have been taken into account
in finalizing the report and are reproduced as Annex 15.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR - BANKIN'NT INDOSTRIA (BNI)
CREDIT 977-HAG
BASIC DATA SHEET
(Amounts in USS Million)
AS of
February 29, 1988
Orifinal  Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaid   Outstanding
Credit No. 977-MAG      5.0       4.992       0.008        -            5.0
Cululative Disbursements
Fiscal Year               1981      1982     1983      1984      1985     1986
(1)   Estimated            0.4       2,0      4.2 =T      0      5.0       5.0
(ii)  Actual                -       0.8       2.0       2.9      3.8       4.9
(iii) (LI) as Z of (l)      -         40       48        58       76        98
Prolect Data
'Orginal Dates   Actual/Revised
Board Approval                                  01/29/80          01/29/80
Loan Agreement Signed                           05/08/80          05/08/80
Effectivenes                                    09/08/80          02/24/81
Completion of Commitmaents                      12/31/82           12/311d4
Loan Closing                                    12/31/84          12/31/85
Mission Data
No.of   No. of      Staff
Mouth/Year   Weeks   Persons    Weeks    Date of Report
1. Reconnislaace/                   -
Identlfication      11/77          1       1          1          1/78
2. Pre-Appradsal       06/78          2       3          6          7/78
3. Appraisal           11/78          2       2          4          1/80
4. Supetvision 1       05/80          2       3          6          6/80
5. Supervision 2       05/81          2       2          4          7/81
6. Supervision 3       09/82          2       3          6         10/82
7. Supervision 4       07/85          2       2          4          8/85
8. Project Completion 11/86           1       1          1          6/87



- ill -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR - BANKIN' NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
Credit 977-MAG
HIGHLIGHTS
The Bankin' ny Indostria (BNI), which started operations in
1977/78, was appraised for the fxrst IDA line of credit in November 1978,
and the project in the amount of US$5.0 million was approved in January
1980. The line of credit provided BNI wizh foreign exchaage resources to
finance part-of its lending in industry and mining for medium and larger
subprojects, artisans and SSEs, feasibility/pre-investment studies as well
as improvements in institution building.
At the time of appraisal BNI had several weaknesses: the level
of its interest rates was low, it lacked clear strategy and policy
statements, and its accounts were not audited by independent qualified
CPAs (para. 3.01). BNI made progress in correcting some of these
weaknesses during project implementation and thereafter. First, it
increased interest rates and medium- and large-scale subborrowers assumed
the foreign exchange risk which raised effective real interest rates
considerably following several devaluations of the Malagasy currency in
recent years. Second, new general Policy Statement was adopted in late
1979. During project implementation, however, BNI was unable to act
independently as a financial intermediary. The Government as the principal
shareholder increasingly intervened directly in BNI's activities. The
Government's direct involvement in BNI's decision making process eroded de
facto BNI's. independent functions and responsibilities as well as its
operational'and financial autonomy. Third, BNI's audits were initially
adequately prepared but submissions were delayed. A special IDA
country-wide audit review mission concluded in 1985 that BNI's auditors
were no longer suffictently qualified to prepare comprehensive statements
and loan portfolios. IDA, therefore, requested BNI that--in line with
comprehensive audits already undertaken for the other two state banks as
agreed with the IMF-a full audit of both BNI's accounts aud portfolio be
undertaken by, or. in collaboration with, an international auditor. actions
to this effect have been taken in the meantime.
The experience with the first IDA-financed line of credit to BNI
suggests that the operation was reasonably successful in financing a number
of priority industrial and SSE subprojects. However, the project's
institution building objective of upgrading and strengthening BNI's
operational and management capabilities was only partly achieved
essentially due to three inter-related factors (para. 6.04). First,
macroeconomic conditions deteriorated during project implementation,
affecting seriously quality and volume of BNI's operations and financial
position. Second, Government's expansionary policies in the late
1970s/early 1980s, had to be replaced by stabilization and deflationary
measures, starting in 1982, which had a profound impact on production and



- iv -
profitability of BNI's clients and caused in turn a serious deterioration
of BNI's portfolio and financial position. Finally, the Government's
interventionist .tance and interference in BNI's activities constrained
institution building efforts.
BNI's current operational and finarcial shortcomings are not only
institution-specific; they represent also more fundamental problems of the
country's banking and financial system, presently under review by the
Government in collaboratior with the Bank and the IMF (para. 6.04). A
proposed banking reform, presently under consideration and involving BNI as
well as the other two national banks, would be an important prerequisite
for BNI to play an effective role in the development of the industrial
sector.  Reform measures would include portfolio restructuring, improved
internal control and management, more independent decision making and
financial autonomy; and further deregulatory measures to enhance
competition and expand the range of financial services.
Other points of interest are:
-Trends ia the economy and the industrial and SSE sectors (paras.
2.01-10);
- Implementation performance under the IDA credit (paras. 1.04/05;
3.05);
- BNI's financial condition and performance (paras. 5.07-5.10);
- Performance of subprojects financed under the credit (paras.
4.02-4.08 and Annex 13).



PROJEC" C,OMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR: BANKIN'NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
(CREDIT 977-MAG)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 Background
1.01      The Bankln'ny Indostria (BNI) was created in January 1977 as a
result of the satioavide b^aking reform that took place Ia 1976. 8NI then
assumed ti) tt- loan and equity portfolio of the former Banque
Nationale Malagasy de D6veloppement (BNM) in the industrial and social
sectors, and (ii) the portfolio of the former Banque pour le Commerce et
l'Industrie de Madagascar (BCIM), a comercial bank nationalized in 1976.
BNI's basic objectives, as a combined commercial and development baok,
Include the promotioa of Industrial and handicraft development through
short, medium, and long term loans as well as equity investments. It also
finances Individual and collective housing and provides loans for household
equipmnat.
1.02     BNI has a share capital of FMG 4.5 billion owned by the
Government (56.77%), the Central Bank (6.67%), the Social Security Fund
(19.90%), the ARO insurance company (8.33%), and the Ny HAVANA insurance
company (8.33%). BNI's board (Comite de Gestion) is chaired by the Minister
of ieinance. Until recently, BNI and the other two national banks were
governed by a Joint Management Board (Comite de Gestion unique) which was
responsible, inter alia, for the approval of credits exceeding certain
amounts.  As part of banking reform measures agreed during the Sixth
StandbyArrangementwith the IMF, a new, independent and separate Board of
Directors was established for BNI (separate Boards were also established
for the other two banks) in November 1986 which includedrepresentatives
of the Government and the public and private sectors. The Minister of
Finance continues to chair the Board.
1.03      The World Bank Group's involvement with BNI began in 1977, BNi's
first year of operations* At the request of the Government, a Bank
reconnailssance/ideat±flcation aisslon visited Madagascar in November 1977
to review BNI's status and prospects and to consider possibilitles for
collaboration particularly In support of BNI's emerging industrial sector
promotion activities and institution building efforts.
1.04    * The project proposal was prepared by the Goveranent and BNI with
assistance from the IDA preappraisal and appraisal misslons that visited
the country In June and November 1978 (Appraisal Report No. 2456a-MAG).
The IDA credit of US$5.0 million (including US$0.5 million for technical
assistance, training, and feasibility studies) was approved on January 29,
1980; it was signed on May 8, 1980 and became effectlve on February 24,
1981. Commitments and disbursements under this first IDA line of credit
were slower than antlcipated at appraisal. Principal factors for the delay
include (i) the economic recession in the early 1980. resulting in
cancellations or delays of subprojects envisaged by BNI at the time of
appraisal; (ii) BNI's cautious approach in extending loans to enterprises
under less favorable overall economic conditions; and (iii) difficulties in
identifying and prepariag bankable artisan and SSE projects. As of
December 31, 1982, the original target date for submission of subloan



-2-
proposals, only 681 of the credit was coumitted. The terlaal date for
subproject submisslon was extended three times to September 30, 1983, March
31, 1984, and December 31, 1984, respectively. The original closing dste
was December 31, 1984 which wa  extended once to Decesber 31, 1985.
Disbursements under the credit were closed on July 2, 1986, resulting in
the cancellation of an unutilized amount of US$8,43e,95.
1.05      The project components, as lnitially appraised and as revlsed io
January 1983, were as follows:
Initial Components    Revised Componeatt
(US $ million)         (US S million)
1. Medium and large
project finAncing                 4.0                     4.4
1.  Artisan/SSE financing              0.5                    0.2
3.  Feasibility Studies                0.3                    0.4
4. Training of BNI staff               0.1                     -
5.  Technical Assistance               01 
Total                   5.0                    5.0
A total of US$4.5 million (subsequently revised to US $ 4.6 million) of the
proceeds of the credit were onlent by the Government to BNI at an Interest
rate of 7.51 p.a. plus 0.75  commitment fee for a period substantially la
conformity with the aggregate of the amortization schedules of the medlum
and large subloans, except for US$0.5 million (revised to US$0.2 million)
for artisan/SSE projects with a fixed amortization schedule.  BNI onlent
the proceeds at a minimum interest rate of 8.5% p.a. to sub-borrowers.
Actually, final beneficiaries  paid interest at a rate of 9.5% p.a. plus
a commitment fee ranging from 1% to 1.5%. The foreign exchange risk was
borne by all medium and large-scale sub-borrowers. For SSEs, the Government
assumed the foreign exchange risk against payment of a fee of 1% p.a.
Government passed on the (revised)amount of US$ 0.4 million to BNI for
feasibility studies as an interest free loan but with a 0.75% service charge
under a fixed amortization schedule. The Government also assumed the foreign
exchange risk.  Domestic inflation was estimated to average about 8% during the
second half of the 1970s.  Important features of the credit included an
individual subproject free limit of US$150,000 in all sectors and an
aggregate free limit of US$1.5 million. To ensure that the proceeds of the
loan would be utilized to finance as many projects as possible, the maximum
single BNI subloan was limited to US $0.75 million and the maximum total
project cost of an investment to be financed to US$2.4 million equivalent
or FMG 500 million at the then prevailing exchange rate of US$1 - FMG 210.
At the time of the appraisal, BNI's debt/equity ratio of 0.5:1 was
considered low for BNI as a combined commercial and development bank,
allowing for substantial additional borrowing capacity (para. 3.01). Apart
from the usual conclusion of a Subsidiary Loao Agreement between the
Government and SNI there were no special conditioas of effectiveness.



-3-
1.2 Prolect Objectives and World Bank Group Role
1.06      Main objectives of this flrst IDA live of credit included support
for the country'o growing industrial sector and BNI's important role In it
by provLding the foreign exchange needed for capital Investment and
feasibility as well as other pre-investment studies. The institution-
building component of the credlt was considered to have a significant
Impact on the sector as it would strengthen BNI, the main Institution
responsible for Industrial fliancing in the country. Aaother objective of
the credit was to provide--on a pilot basis--financial assistance to
artisan and small-scale enterprises.
1.07      Additional funding for priority BNI activities was Included in an
industrial sector adjustment project (para. 2.06). In the context of the
FY85 Industrial Assistance Project of SDR 40.2 million (US$40.0 million),
approved in January 1985, and supplemnted by an FY86 US$ 20 million SFA
credit, DNI was selected to manage the rehabilitation component In the form
of another regular DFC-type line of credit of US$5.0 mllion. Thls
component provides financing of Imported equipsent for urgent restructuring
needs of priority eanterprises. The Government is paesing on to BNI the
funds at the World Bank lending rate prevailing at time of approval
(9.29Z). Onlending to enterprises is at au Interest rate of two percentage
points p.a. above the rate to BNI for a maximum maturity of 15 years. The
foreign exchange risk Is borne by all iedlum- and large-scale borrowers.
For SSEs the Government carries the risk for a one percent p.a. fee.
Commitments under the rehabilitation component reached US$1.0 million by
December 31, 1986. Lower than originally anticipated commitmeAts-are
partly due to the reluctance of borrowers to assume the foreign exchange
risk.  The Initial coamitment date expired on June 30, 1986 and the
Association Is consldering a request for an extension once a satiefactory
review and comprehensive audit of BNI's overall financlal conditions
lncludlag portfolio position has been made (paras. 3.01, 3.04). in the
meantime, the commitment date bas been extended.
2. MACROECONOMIC AND SECTORAL SETTING
2.1 Macroeconomic Setting
2.01      Madagascar. with a populatlon of about 10 million and a per
capita inCOme of about US$250 in 1985, is among the poorest countries in
the world. It is a sparsely settled country, with a population density of
about 17-personas per square kilometer. Although Madagascar is generally
well endowed with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are
considerable regional variations In ecology and climate. Agriculture
continues to be the mwitatay of Madagascar's economy, providing employment
for some 88X of the population, creating about 40X of GDP and generating
over 802 of export earnings.
2.02      In the decade following independence in 1960, Madagascar's
economy grew at an average annual rate of about three percent. Agricelture
was responsible for much of this growth, while manufacturing, benefittiag
from increased protection, gained in relative Importance. The years
following 1972 marked a watershed in Madagascar's economic and political



-4-
development. After the 1972 and 1975 revolutions, an inward-looklng
economic policy wva et In place, geared to self-sufficiency and
consolidation of the new reglme 's socialist alms. The policies Included
decentrallzatlon to new local governaent lnstltutions, natlonalization of
Industrial and other enterprises, and oDves towards collectivization of
agriculture. Tiwards the end of the 1970s this movement was overlaid by a
policy of rapid industrializatlon with emhasis on capital intensive
publicly-owned enterprises, accompanied by pricing and marketing policies
heavily biased towards urban consumers.
2.03      During the decade 1973-82 real per capita GDP fell by an
estimated 28%. The major contributing factors to this decline Included (1)
wldespread nationalization of economic actlvity and suppression of private
initiative, accomplished by taking over numerous enterprises and creating
new parastatals, which gave rise to a large and unmanageable public
sector; (Li) lacreased regulatory interventions lncludLng price controls,
oew government marketLag monopolles and tightened lport restrlctlons and
exchange controls; and (Iii) neglect of agriculture and fostering the
growth of manufacturing for domestic markets, Including the establishment
of numerous enterprises of doubtful economic value.
2.04      The Government's attempts In the late 1970s to stimulate
expansion of Madagascar's stagnating economy through a large publlc
Investment prograa contributed to an external and internal financial crisis
beginning in 1980-81. 'The financing of a masslve investment program
contributed to a large public sector deficit, Inflation in excess of 301
both In 1981 and 1982, and a sharply Increased debt service burden. The
debt service burden has been largely responsible for the severe shortage of
foreign exchange which has been a critical constraint to economic
activity.  Indus%ial. exports, which had never been actively encouraged,
suffered a blow through the Impact of the forelgn exchange shortage an the
iavailabllity of raw materials and spare parts and through an overvalued
exchange rate.
2.05      Faced with an unsustaLnable resource gap, Government began
implementing stabilLzation measures In i981. In the years which followed,
most notable actlonA Included changes of the exchange rate and consumer
subsidies. Madagascar's stabilization also Included tax measures,
expenditure cuts, Increases in prlce of public enterprlse goods and
services and sharply curtailed imports. In addition to fiscal restraint,
tight bank credl.. cellings were employed to reduce Inflation. Domestic
inflation was reduced considerably after 1982, from about 302 in 1981 and
1982 to approximately 102 in 1985 and 152 in 1986.
2.06      Slnce the emergence of the debt crisis at the beginning of the
1980s, Madagascar has managed the balance of payments by cutting Imports
and rescheduling debt service payments. Madagascar now has probably
reached a limit to further cuts in imports as these are down to
bare essentials. While the country's creditors may contlaue to accord debt
rescheduling arrangements to Madagascar, the country is attempting to boost
export earnings as a means of strengthening the balance of payments and
reducing the debt burden. The Bank's strategy is to support the
Government's stabilization and recovery efforts, together with the IMF
which, siace 1981, concluded Its sixth Standby Arrangement in September



1986. At the same time the Government Is extending its adjustment policies
to new developmnt initiatives to set the stage for future sustained
export-led growth. In support of these efforts, the Back provided the FY85
industrial sector adjustment project and the FY86 Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit to help accelerate and deepen the adjustment process.
The ongoing policy reform dialogue is expected to be Intensified through
further sector and structural adjustment operations, laying the foundations
for longer-tem growth.
2.2 The Industrial Sector
2.07      In 1960, Madagascar's manufacturing sector accounted for about 42
of GDP; by 1970, it tripled Its share to about 132. From 1970 to 1979
manufacturing value added grew at a rate of about 2.5Z per annum, but it
fell thereafter by about 35Z, a drop far greater than any other sector. As
a result, the sector's contribution to GDP decreased to an estimated 10S by
1985. Manufacturing growth proceeded along the path of import
substitution. Under a high level of protection from foreiga competition,
the domestic manufacturing sector quickly became the supplier of many final
consumer goods. After 1979, however, the deteriorating macro-ecoaomic
situation and the emergence of a severe foreign exchange constraint brought
to the surface the structural inefficiencies of the sector and showed that
development along the lLnes of the past was unsustainable. As a result of
acute shortages of imported Inputs and spare parts and a sharp decline in
the supply of domestic agricultural inputs, a large number of enterprises
were forced to slow down or even stop production. In 1985, imports of
Intermediate goods (excluding petroleum) and spare parts for industry
amounted to US$110 million or 28% of total imports but the sector provided
only about 62 of export revenues.
2.08     There are some 400 manufacturing enterprises In Madagascar, more
than half located in Tananarive, the capital city, employing about 100,000
people or about 2.61 of the economically active population. As a result of
nationalization of existing enterprises during the 1970s and large volumes
of public investments, a large part of industry cams under Government
control by the late 19709. At present, some 50 industrial enterprises are
entirely state-owned while the Government has a majority interest in
another 20 firms. Enterprises in which the Governmeat has an interest of
more than 502 account for an estimated 65Z of sectoral output and a similar
share of. emloymnt.
2.09     Between 1975 and 1983, annual industrial investment by both the
public ahd private sectors averaged about 6Z of GDP with the lion's share
of this investment made by the Government. After rapid growth in the
1960s, private sector investment in Industry has remained low since the
political and economic eaviroaent was not conducive to private sector
initiatives. As a result of the Government's economlc expansion program of
the late 1970s, industrial investment -by the public sector accelerated.
More than 702 of investment in manufacturing between 1979 and 1983 was
undertaken by the public sector, primarily Qn new activities (metal
products, machinery, cement) aimed at broadening import substitution into
areas where the private sector had not ventured. A significant part of
these Investments was undertaken without adequate analys±s and the
financial or economic viability of som projects is questionable.



- 6 -
2.10      The Government's recent adjustment efforts in the industrial
sector aimed at increasing output from existing efficient plants while at
the same time beginning the process of establishiag an enviroament
conducive to efficient import substitution and export production. The
Government strategy for achieving these objectives involved the adoption of
policy reforms and the provision of foreign exchange for the importation of
industrial inputs. The policy reforms, supported by the Association and
the IMP, include a more realistic exchange rate policy, further trade
liberalization, continued deregulation of the manufacturing sector and the
introduction of a new Investment Code in 1986. The removal of price
controls on the vast majority of industrial goods, the abolition of export
taxes, the simplification of export procedures and the adoption of a more
private-sector oriented Investment Code have been important first steps to
enhance the business community's confidence in the Government's commitment
to liberalize the economy. There has also been some some increase in
capacity utilization of existing plants but a significant increase in
output is coastrained by continuing low levels of import capacity, erosion
of domestic demand and lack of export competitiveness.
2.11      The couatry's informal artisan sector (deflned as manual workers
working alone or with few (family) helpers) provide an important amount of
Madagascar's coasumer goods and tools. Artisans represent about 3X of the
total labor force. There is some export poteatial, e.g. for basketry and
gems crafts. The small scale enterprise (SSE) sector (defined as
enterprises which employ from 5 to 30 workers and have assets of up to FNG
15 million or US$20,000 equivalent (at current exchange rate) is primarily
active ia food processing, printing, transport, and construction. More
than half of the SSEs are concentrated in the Province of Aatananarivo.
Production techniques are generally outdated and SSE operators frequently
lack technical, managerial and financial know-how. Constraints to the
taformal artisan and SSE sectors in Madagascar (as in most other LDCs
elsewhere) iAclude difficulty in obtaining local and imported raw materials
at competitive prices; lack of quality control and effective domestic and
overseas marketing arrangements; and limited access to loans for expansion
or rehabilitation and working capital requirements. The Government seems
aware of the long-term socio-economic development potential of the informal
sector and its principal constraints to overcome. However, it was not yet
able to define a strategy and adopt a comprehensive action program to
tackle outstanding issues. Fragmeated efforts in support of artisans and
SSEs lnclude UNIDO-sponsored studies and technical assistance in
collaboration with SERDI (Socite d'etude et de realisation pour le
developpeumat industriel), a public consulting firm, and CETA (Centre
d'etude technique pour l'artisanat), a public agency in charge of providing
extension services to the artisan sector.
2.3 The Financial Sector
2.12      Madagascar's financial system was reorganized in 1976, when the
then existing commercial and development banks (all of which had been
nationalized in 1975) were merged to create three new national banks
specialized by sector: the National Bank for Industry (BNI), the National
Bank for Agriculture (BTM), and the National Bank for Commerce (BTV). The
state is the principal shareholder of all three institutions which are now
combined commercial/development banks. The financial sector consists of



the Central Bank, the three national banks, a postal savings and checking
system, two state insurance companies and an investment fund. In addition,
there is a social security fund and a commodity price stabilization fund
both of which iavest funds in the other financial institutions. Parallel
to the limited institutional variety, financial services and markets are
likewise little developed. BNI and the two other national banks play the
predominant role in channeling funds from savers to investors, and in
providing most of the external financing. Organized securities markets are
nonexistent, and primary securities issued by the Goverament, banks or
non-financial enterprises are not negotiable. Companies are obliged to
hold specific types of securities; for instance, subscription to treasury
bonds is compulsory for banks, insurance companies, socialist state
enterprises and lerge private companies.
2.13      Monetacy policy tools in Madagascar include quantitative
controls, such as credits and rediscount ceilings for the three state
banks, and qualitative controls, e.g. the Central Bank's authorization of
credits in excess of FNG 100 million (about US$150,000 equivalent).
Overall monetary developments during the 1980s refle-ted the Government's
growing concern with stabilization and demand management. Throughout the
period, the growth of credit to the Government was reduced, and beginning
in 1982, credit to the non-government sector (private and parastatal)
generally expanded faster than credit to the Government. State-owned
enterprises, however, absorbed an lncreasing share of the limited credit.
The poor operational results and precarious financial position of some
parastatals started to present an increasing threat to the health of the
banking system. At the end of 1985, the loan portfolio of the bankiag
system amounted to FMG 355 billion, of which FMG 110 billion were
classified as doubtful or contentious by the banks themselves. Provisions
against these loans totalled approximately FMG 44 billion, leaving FMG 66
billion uncovered by provisions.
2.14      Interest rates remained virtually unchanged between 1974 and
1981, but were Increased in June 1982 and in February 1983 in recognition
of high inflation rates in the early 1980s as detailed below. In April
1985, Lhe interest rate structure was simplified under an IMF Standby
arrangement. All interest rates, except the Central Bank's rediscount
rates and the deposit rate for 6-12 months, were liberalized. At the same
time, the Central Sank lowered its rediscount rate by 1.5Z to a maximum of
11.52.  Accordingly, the three national banks reduced their interest rates
ranging from 13.52 to 21Z p.a. on short term credits under 2 years
depending an the client and the type of credit. For medium term loans, the
banks cherge interest of about 17% a year. For long term lending, as
further spread of 0.252 is added. The banks do not seem to have taken full
advantage of this liberalization and tead to follow implicit or explicit
interbank agreements with the 'advice' of the Professional Bankers'
Association. On deposits, interest rates vary depending on duration.
Demand deposits yield annual interest of 1.52 to 32. For certificates of
deposit (CD's), rates range from 7.52 p.a. (6 month CD's) to 12.5Z p.a. (6
year CD's). Interest rates for term deposits vary from 112 p.a. for six
months deposits to 182 p.a. for six years deposits. Domestic inflation in
Madagascar was reduced considerably after 1982, from about 302 in 1981 and
1982, to approximately 10 in 1984 and 1985 and 152 in 1986. Currently, as
a result of recent policy improvements, credit and most deposit rates are
positive in real terms due to the combined effects of higher aominal
interest rates and lower levels of inflation.



-8-
3. THE INSTITUTION
3.1 Initial Issues
3.01      During the course of project preparation and appraisal, credit
negotiations and project implementation, the following major issues were
discussed with the Government and BNI:
(i)  Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk.  At the time of
appraisal in 1978, the country's Interest rate structure was
considered to be low with BNI charging an average of 7.51 p.a. on
loans below FMG 5 million (US$21,000 equivalent). The average
rate of inflation in Madagascar between 1975 and 1977 was 7.31,
while the then projected rate of inflation for the following
three years was estimated to exceed 101. During negotiatlons it-
was agreed that the onlending rate for all final beneficiaries be
increased to at least 8.5%. Medium and larger borrowers carried the
foreign excnange risk while the Government assumed the risk for a
fee of 1Z p.a. for SSEs (defined as those with fixed assets below
FMG 15 million or about US$70,000 equivalent at the then
prevailing exchange rate). The assumption of the foreign
exchange risk by the medium and larger final beneficiaries
constituted a departure of BNI's past policy and was at
that time estimated to add some additional two to three
percentage points to the actual borrowiag costs of final
sub-borrowers. The Government also expressed Its Intention to
review the interest rate structure periodically.
BNI 's spread for the IDA credit of at least one percentage point was low
but as its average cost of funds at that time was under 4S and
its commercial operations very profitable, BNI's spread for the
IDA credit was considered acceptable.  Ar:-ually, final beneficiaries
paid interest at a rate of 9.5% p.a. plus a commitment fee ranging
from 1% to 1.5%. During project implementation domestic inflation
accelerated. However, periodic significant devaluations of the
local currency, exceeding on average domestic inflation rates, raised
the real effective interest rate to sub-borrowers who carried the
foreign exchange risk 1/. Particularly squeezed were enterprises
which had difficulties adjusting their sales prices to increased
financial and other costs because of market constraints or
administrative delays in the case of controlled prices.
'I   Year   Average Annual    Annual       Domestic Inflation   GDP Deflator
Exchange Rate    Variation         Rate (Z)              (x)
(IUS$-FHG)        (x)
1980       211.28
1981       271.73          28.6               30.5            26.6
1982       349.74          28.7               31.5            28.5
1983       430.45          23.1               19.6            21.5
1984       576.60          34.0                9.9            10.2
1985       662.48          14.9               10.5            11.2
1986       676.34           2.1               14.5            17.5(prov.)
1987       833.00 (5/87) (23.2)              (18.0)(prov.)   17.0(proj.)



-9-
(1i) BNI'e strategy and policy statement. At the time of project
preparation and appraisal, BNI's general and operating policies
were spelled out In the Statutes and Rules of Procedures of the
predecessor bank BNK.  During negotiations, a draft General
Policy Statement or Rules of Operations (Principe3
d'Intervention) was agreed and formally adopted by BNI's Board ia
December, 1979. It was also agreed that BNI would exchange views
with the Association on proposals to modify its Statutes or Rules
of Operations. Principal elements of BNI's policies iclude (1)
maximum BNI4 fiancing of 752 of individual project cost; (ii)
limit of BNI's total exposure to one client normally set at about
25Z of BNI's equity; and (iii) maximum long term debt/equity
ratio of 4:1.
During project preparation aad appraisal the Association
discussed with BNI its strategy to assist the Governmeat in
developing the country's industrial sector. BNI was expected to
be more active in the identification and promotion of industrial
projects.  During project implementation, however, BNI was unable
to perform an independent and dynamic promotional function
involving new initiatives in industrial development. Rapidly
deteriorating macroeconomic conditions caused the Government to
take strong deflationary stabilization measures (paras. 2.04-
2.05). Also, the Governmeat took an increasingly interventionist
stance in BNI's decision-making (and in that of the other two
national banks) thus limiting severely the independent financial
and advisory functions of BNI and the other finaencial
intermediaries. BNI's overexposure in several large, highly
indebted parastatals are examples of the Government's strong de
facto influence on major operational and financial decisions.
(iii) BNI's Audit.  Before IDA involvement, BNI's accounts were
reviewed by external acr ,untants (Ccommissaires aux comptes") but
were not audited. IDA considered this inadequate since BNI
resulted from the merger of two institutions of a dlffereat
nature (development bank and commercial bank) and the integration
process of the accounting system was still in progress at the
time of project preparation and appraisal. During negotiations
it was agreed that accounts would be audited annually by a
qualified CPA firm. Initially, the annual audits were, in
goenral, adequately prepared but submissions were delayed. A
special IDA mission to review auditing in Madagascar in 1985
- concluded that BNI's auditors were no longer sufficiently
qualified to prepare comprehensive independent audits of
financial statements and loan portfolios. IDA, therefore,
requested BNI in November 1986 to engage qualified auditors or
propose to the current local auditor to eater into a cooperative
arrangement with an internationally operating auditing firm to
prepare BNI'e future audits.  BNI is reviewiag the issue to
improve future audits and to prepare a special portfolio audit
(para. 3.04). Actions to this effect have been taken in the meantime.
3.2 Overall Developments during Project Implementation and Current Status
3.02  Management and Organization.  BNI's top management consists of BNI's
General Manager, a Malagasy national and former Minister of Industry, and



- 10 -
two deputies, former executives of BNM and BCIM. Except for the replacement
of BNI's general manager in 1985, the appointment of a new deputy general
manager and a new director for branch offices, no major change has taken
place in BNI's senior management structure and organization. BNI has nine
departments,which reflects its dual role as a development and a commercial
bank, and 14 regional offices throughout thp country. BNI's management and
organizational structure needs improvements and should be strengthened in
areas such as streamlining and simplification of Drocedures. definition of
(int:ra-) departmental functions and responsibilities, better
Interdepartmental coordlation and coimanIcatIon through the adoption of a
formal operational manual and an effective management information system
(including annual budgets, project pipeline, and projections), and
efficient procedures to monitor aud improve the loan and equity portfolio.
3.03 Staffing and Staff Training. BMI has a total staff of about 1,200,
of whom 264 are professionals. As shown In Annex 1, BNI'c staff has grown
moderately over the past years from 1,022 in 1980 to 1,186 in 1986 and is
generally quallfied. Staff training program-both In-house and
external-exist but in geaeral are not vell adapted to specific needs
especially in the technical and engineering fields. Originally US$0.1
mIllion each had been earmarked for (1) staff training at other experienced
development banks and relevant training Institutions and (IL) services to
set up BNI's Promotion Department and Improve its Project Preparation
Department. During project esecution, BNI management pointed out that
financlag for outside training by other financial or training lostitutions
to normally provided by these institutions. Also, given the prevailing
adverse economic condltlons In the country, the establlshment of a
Promotion Department was not considered a primary task and its creation,
4herefore, was postponed. Under these circumtances, the Association and
3NI agreed to reallocate these funds (para. 1.05).
3.04 Procedures
(i) Appraisals. At the time-of credlt appraisal, BlNI's project
appraisal procedures needed Improvement. A more comprehensive
format for appralsal reports was reviewed and agreed during
negotlations. During project Implementation, BIII appraisal
reports generally put emphasis on the financLal aspects of
investment proposals. Although the economic merits of projects
were also analyzed, this analysis tended to be less comprehensive
than the financial reviews. In general, there was also a need
for the reports to express more clearly and pointedly hIl's
opinion on the merits of the project. BNI appraisal work in
recent years was Influenced by BNI's management and staff
awareness that major (project) decisions de facto were made
outside the institution by the Government as the principal
shareholder. This has led to doubtful investment decisions
resulting In a rapid deterioration of BMI's portfolio as well as
to low staff morale because of actual or perceived outside
interferences in both BNI's appraisal and supervision activities
(para. it below). At the technical level, the project appraisal
department of the Ministry of Industry seemed to be the virtually
unchallenged authority on investment appraisal in the public
sector and chances for BNI staff to decline such projects as a
result of an independent in-house appraisal were practically
non-existant. Also, BNI had not yet finalized and put into
effect an internal operational manual.



- 11 -
(il) Supervision. During appraisal, BNI's supervision procedures were
found inadequate. Therefore, new supervision procedures and
policies were reviewed and agreed during negotiatlons. During
project implementation, BNI supervised subprojects mainly through
monitoring the borrowers' current bank account. BNI " a
.universal bank' is in a position to moantor cllents' liquidity
position and, In addition, to e:cerclse leverage to obtain timely
repayments on its term loans. In several inst"ces, however,
term loans could not be repaid and corresponding overdue amounts
were added to the short-term overdraft balance. For larger
operations, particularly in the public sector where BNI's control
and influence are limited, supervision work needs loprovement,
e.g. through timely preparation and submission of (audited)
accounts and more periodic visits by BNI staff.
(III) Procurement and Disbursement.  BNI requires its borrovers to
obtain several proforma invoices to determine the most attractive
offer.  At the time of project appraisal, BIl did not have
techical staff to assist in the review of proposals and had to
rely an outside expertise. During project Implemantation, BNX
started recruiting technicians to lncrease Its in-house
capabilities. Disbursements were made against presentation of
Invoices. BNI normally made disbursements am its loas only
after the beneficiary had used his own resources.  1NI's
procurement and disbursement procedures are adequate.
(iv) Audit and Reporting.  As indicated in para. 3.01, improvements in
SNI's auditing arrangements were discussed during project
preparation and agreed at negotlations. During project
implementatlon, sibmissions of audits prepared by a Malagasy CPA
firm were delayed, in part, because BNI was in the process of
establishing a computer-based management information system.
Also, more recently, the annual audits were found inadequate.  A
Canadian SPA firm carried out a first special portfollo audit for
1983--confirming a serious deterioration of the portfolio-but no
further updating was done as of now. IDA, therefore, requested
that-in line with . ,rehensive audits already undertaken for
the other two State banks as agreed with the til-a full audit of
both BNI'e ccounts and portfolio be undertaken by, or in
collaboration with, an international auditor. BNI has not yet
taken concrete action and is still reviewing the matter. IDA
Informed BNI that the extensien of the commitment date of June
30, 1986, for the rehabilitation component of the Industrial
Assistance Project is contingent on a satisfactory solution of
this outstanding issue (para. 1.07). In the meantime, actions
to improve BNI's audits have been taken. Delays occurred also
in reporting during project implementation and important information
was missing especially related to portfolio, arrears, collections
and projections. BNI was advised to improve and expedite
reporting under the ongoing operation, and to submit
comprehensive reports in future on time (para. 5.06).



- 12 -
3.3 Implementation Performance under IDA Credit
3.05      As indicated in para. 1.04, the pace of project Implementation
and utilization of the IDA credit approved in 1980 was slower than
anticipated at appraisal essentially due to unfavorable economic conditions
prevailing in the country in the early 1980s, coupled with restrictive
Government policy measures in support of stabilizatioa and adjustment.
Also, several prospective promoters were reluctant and some of them finally
unable to undertake the proposed medium and large-scale investments because
of what they considered excessive foreign exchange risk to be assumed in
light of successive devaluations In recent years. As shown In Annex 3, at
the time of project appraisal, disbursements were projected to be completed
by March 1984, whereas at that date actual disbursemeats accounted for only
52% of the original estimate. As of Juae 30, 1985, the credit amount of
US$5.0 millioa was fully committed and US$3.7 million were disbursed. The
loan was 75% disbursed at the time of the (extended) closing date in
December 1985. Disbursements of the full IDA credit were completed ti June
1986 with a small residual amount of US$8,438.95 cancelled on July 2, 1986.
4. ALLOCATION OF THE CREDIT
4.1 Overview
4.01      The proceeds of the IDA credit were utilized to finance a total
of 17 subprojects (eight above the free limit and nine below; Annex 12).
The size of the 17 subprojects ranged from US$14,000 equivalent for a small
carpentry project to US$700,000 equivalent for a medlum-sized dalry plant.
The subloans carried an interest rate of 9.5% p.a. (plus a commitment fee of
1% to 1.5%),for terms ranging from 3 to 11 years including grace periods
of up to three years. The foreign exchange risk was borne by the sub-
borrowers, except for six SSEs which paid a fee of 1% to the Government for
its assumption of the foreign exchange risk. A summary description and present
status of the eight above free-limit subprojects are provided in Annex 13.
4.2 Economic and Financial Characteristics of SubproJects
4.02      Authorized and disbursed amounts of subprojects are listed in
Annex 2. Economic and financial characteristics of the subprojects are
summariz.ed in Aneaxes 11 and 12, respectively. The eight above-free-limit
subloans include qperations In the paper, building, material, leather,
textile, and agrobusiness/food processing (beverages, dairy products)
subsectors as well as mining (two graphite mining operatioas). BNI has an
equity participation in four above free-limit subprojects; the majority of
the IDA financed subprojects, however, is in the private sector (Annex
11). Only two of these eight operations are located ln Antananarivo, the
capital city; the other projects are located in other parts of the
country. However, beneficiaries of all SSE subprojects and two of the
free-limit subloans have operations in Antananarivo. These data suggest
that on average BNI achieved a fairly wide geographic coverage of the
IDA-financed subprojects.



- 13 -
4.03      During project implementation and ia recognitioa of adverse
macroeconomic conditions seriously affecting established industrial
enterprises, the Association and BNI agreed (informally) that a significant
proportion of the proceeds of the credit should be allocated to maiatai
adequate utilization of existLig production capacities rather than create
new production facilities. The principal aim wae to ensure, at least
temporarily, reasonable levels of output, employment, productlvity, and
lntersectoral linkages for existing industrial enterprises as well as
reasonable wages and tax payments of some larger companles. The credit
utilization In term of type of operation financed, therefore, can be
summarized as follows:
US$ '000        2
- subloans for the establishment of new plants and
extension of existing production capaclties
tiucluding improvements in product quality,
produtivity and diversification):
- four larger subprojects .....................    250             50
- all nine free limit/SSE subprojects .see....      0.21            4
- subloans for the purchase of rehabilitation
equipment including spare parts to maintain
or avoid further reduction in the utilization
of existing productlon capacity
- four larger subprojects                           1.82           37
- Sub-total amount earvirked for 17 subprojects  eeo    4.53             91
Amount allocated for studies, purchase of hardware        0.47            9
Grand Total:                                               5.00         100
4.04      Given longer investment gestation and related production
adjustment periods for a number of (more recently approved) subprojects,
the full operational and flnancial Impact of several new or extension
subprojects cannot be fully assessed before 1988. BNI estimated that
ex-ante economic rates of return for new or expansion subprojects at
subloan appraisal varied between 302 and 61X and financial rates of returns
ranged from 232 to 50S (Annexes 11/12). In selected cases, sensitivity
analyses were made to assess the effects of potential cost variations such
as imported vs. local raw material inputs. There are no ex-post rate of
return computations, but available information suggests that for new and
expanslon projects average rates of return tend to be lower than originally
estimated, whereas for rehabilitation subprojects rates of return are
likely to be higher. Several subprojects show excellent operating and
financial results, whereas others suffer losses. However, in the latter
case, actions are being considered or undertaken to redress the
unsatisfactory operational and financial situation through measures such as
production and marketing improvements, debt consolidation and price
increases (including regulated administrative prices).



- 14 -
4.05      Most of the subprojects contributed to a significant degree to
the processing of local raw materials (had, hence, a relatively low import
dependence) and established increased interindustrial and sectoral
linkages, whereas the export Intensity of subprojects-with the exception
of the two graphlte mining operations-was either relatively low or
non-existing. In a few cases, e.g., processed coffee, an export potential
was Indicated but not exploited because of administrative or regulatory
constraints (state export monopoly).
4.06      Total project cost for the subprojects amounted to MPG 3.6
billion. Significant cost overruas, expressed In local currency, occurred
averaging close to 502 of original cost estimates, primarily due to
considerable successive devaluations of the FMG (para. 3.01) and, to a much
lesser degree, to additional investment needs realized during the
constructioa period. Most of the subprojects were implemented on schedule
or with relatively minor delays. In selected cases, more significant
implementation delays were due to factors such as cumbersome administrative
(import licensing) procedures, delays in shipments, and hesitations by
project promoter 5 because of significant increases in financing
requirements and ultimately debt expressed in local currency due to
consecutive devaluations.
4.07      Nine subprojects generated some 160 new jobs at an average
Investment cost per job of about USS11,500 equivalent. The investment cost
per job ranged from about US$17,000 for a building material plant to about
US$3,200 for a small scale carpentry firm. These data compare favorably with
appzaisal estimates of average cost per job createa of about US$i.0,000,
even though the total new employment generation was much lower than
originally anticipated because of the different composition of the type of
operations financed (para. 4.03). A high proportion of rehabilitation
operations, however, while not contributing to new job creaticns, helped
stabilize the level of existing employment which, in the absence of the
proceeds of IDA funds, could not have been achieved given the prevailing
serious lack of foreign exchange.
4.08      There are presently no repayment-arrears of the subloans extended
under the IDA credit.   Three subloans with short maturities for the
financing of rehabilitation equipment and spare parts have already been
fully repaid. One borrower chose to pre-pay his subloaa and another firm
is seriously considering it in order to minimize the foreign exchange risk
in view of potentially further devaluations during the amortization
period.  la some cases, the original repayment schedule was revised to
reflect -ctual or anticipated delays It subproject Implementation.
4.3 Feasibility Studies
4.09      An amount of US$0.4 million (increased from the original amount
of US$0.3 million in lieu of partial financing the creation of a promotiot
Department (para. 1.05) wastallocated to finance feasibility studies for
special projects or subsectors to be selected by BNI to identify and
prepare bankable projects In line with BNI's operational requirements and
priorities. This project component was designed to help strengthen BNI's
institutional and management capabilities and to increase its absorbtive
capacity.  An overview of the objectives and sumary results of the four



- 15 -
studies financed under the IDA credit is contained in Anaex 14. Four
studies in various subsectore (food, construction material, agrobusiness,
chemical products) were carried out by the local consulting firm SERDI.
This public company has been cooperating closely with BNI in the conduct of
feasibility studies and other promotional activitles in the industrlal
sector. In the absence of a compcehensive Government SSE promotion
program, SERDI also performed several important extension-service type
functions on behalf of BNI such as assistance to prospective small
Investors in project preparation and Implementation (pre-investment and
management support, respectively).
4.10      Lack of investment opportunities  and  a  temporary
restraint on BNI's new project promotion activities on the one hand, and an
urgent need to strengthen BNI's management capabilities through an improved
management information system on the other, led to an understanding between
the Association and BNI during project implementation to help finance the
purchase of additional computer equipment totalling US$381,000 (out of the
project component earmarked for feasibility studies). This equipment
contributed to Improvements in operational procedures including more timely
data processing. BNI estimated that due to Improved computerization, the
tlme needed for processing regular banking transactions was reduced by
about 30S.
5. OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.1 Overall Operational Performance
5.01      Annex 4 shows BNI's approvals, commitments, and disbursements for
the period 1977-85 as well as comparative data, projected at the time of
appraisal, for the years 1979-82. During 1977-85 BNI approved medium and
long term loans at an annual average of US$10.4 million and US$15 million
for equity investment. Annual average disbursements for the same period
amounted to US$7.8 million and US$1.3 million, respectively. Annual
fluctuations of approvals, commitments and disbursements were substantial.
Extraordinary large increases in total banking transactions that occured
during the 1980-82 period reflected expansionary policies pursued by BNI
(as well as other national banks) in accordance with the Governmaet's
ambitious growth policies of the late 1970s/early 1980s. In recent years,
with theLdeepening of the economic crisis and the beginning of
macroeconomic stabilization and adjustment efforts, the amount of lending
has decreased considerably from a peak of FWG 10.3 billion in 1980 to about
FMG 4.0 billion per year in 1981/82, and less than 3 billion each it
1984/85. During this period, equity investments dec±ined from FMG 1.6
billion in 1979 and approximately FMG 500 million p.a. in 1981/82 to about
FMG 300 million p.a. during 1983-85.
5.02      Estimates made at the time of project appraisal lagged
considerably behind actual figures due to rapidly shifting Government
policies indicated above. For instance, for the period 1979-82 (i.e. the
projection period at appraisal), aggregate actual medium and long-term loan
approvals expressed in aosinal local currency (FMG) exceeded projected
estimates by 1332 and disbursements by 1091. The corresponding figures for
equity investments were 75Z and 572, respectively. The considerable



- 16 -
discrepancies between actual and projected lendlng and equity investment
activities are clear indications of BNI's aggressive leading policies at
that time In support of ambitious Government programs.
5.03      Annex S gives a summary analysis of BNI's total financing
activities (agregate loan approvals and equity patt'icipation) for the
period 1979-85. During this period BNI approved 103 medium and long term
loans and 32 equity investments totalling FMG 29.5 billion (approximately
US$73.8 million equivalent 2/) or an annual average of FMG 4.2 billion
(approximately US$10.5 millTon). These operations contributed to the
financing of total investmeats of FMG 142 billion (about US$355 million).
Total project cost for the average BNI operation totalled FMG 1.3 billion
(or about US$3.3 million). Close to 60X of the number of BNI's operations
contributed to the financing of investments wlth project cost of less than
FMG 250 million. However, more than 80Z of the aggregate amout of
investment was allocated to individual projects with total project costs in
excess of FMG 1 billion. In terms of number, the majority of the 135
operations were between FMG 50-200 million or about 39Z of the number of
approved transactions. In terms of value, howevar, approvals were
dominated by loans and equity participations ia excess of FMG 500 milliou
with a share of about 45Z of the aggregate amount of approvals. This
significant exposure of BNI in large investments ls a clear reflection of
Government policies in late 19709/early 19809 concentrating on rapid,
large-scale capital intersive Industrialization.
5.04      The majority of BNI leading during the years 1979-85 carried an
average annual interest rate ranging from 8-10 which appears low (para.
3.01). However, close to 251 of BNIl's leading during that period was made
at average Interest rates In excess of 142. The maturity for the bulk of
operations varied from one to five years.
5.05      BNI's lending and equity , .ticipation are diversified in terms
of sectoral distribution and cover a wide variety of economic activities
notably industrial subsectors such as textiles, food products, construction
materials and paper products which together accounted for more than 60Z of
BNI's lending to the manufacturing sector (about 57Z of total BNI
investment). Other major BNI activities included operations in the mining
sector with an average share of about 361 of total BNi Investment during
1979-85. BNI's longer term financing activities clearly were concentrated
on the public sector with 721 of total approvals in value terms (471 in
terms of imber of operations) benefitting enterprises with public majority
shareholding. (The majority of the IDA-financed subprojects was ln the
private sector; pera. 4.02.)
5.2 Resource Mobilization
5.06      In addition to its capital and deposits which lt used to finance
equity investments and short-term credits, respectively, BNI also had term
resources both in local and foreign curreacy. Term resources In local
currency have been provided by the Treasury, the Post Office and Insurance
companies for durations generally ranging between 5 and 10 years. In
addition, BNI had rediscouat possibilities at the Central Bank for the
I At an estimated average exchange rate of US$1-MG 400 during the
1979-85 period.



- 17 -
financing of short and medlum-term credit.  Foreign currency resources have
been provided from diversified sources Including IDA, the French Calsse
Centrale de CoopEration Economique (CCCE), the German RFW, the European
Investment Bank (BIB) and some foreign private commercial banks. Terms
ranged between six and ten years from the CCCE loans, to between 15 and 20
years on the KFW loans. T% mid 1982, for instance, BNI's financial
resources totalled FMG 32.9 billion, of which FMG 14.9 billion were equity
funds (especially reserves and provisions), FMG 4.0 billion other resources
(term deposits, rediscounting) and FMG 14.0 billion borrowings, Including
FMG 10.6 billion foreign funds from KPW, CCCE, Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole (CNCA), Credit Industriel et Commercial (CIC), and CrEdit
Commercial de France (CCF). As of aid 1986, BNI's resource position can be
summarised as follows (in billions of FMG):
Local   Foreiga   Total
Currency  Currency
(i) available resources                             33.7   157 .2    4Z81
(ii) resources approved, comitted or disbursed    20.3         9.5      29.8
(ill) resources available for approvals (i - li)    13.4         5.7     19.1
5.3 Financial Condition and Performance
5.07      Loan Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1985, BNI's total portfolio
amounted to around PMG 120 billion (US$181 million). This amount is
composed of (i) medium- and long-term portfolio totalling FMG 10.21 billion
(about US$15.4 million), short-term leniang amounting to 1MG 103.1 billion
(US$156 million) and (lil) equlty investment of FMG 6.6 billion (US$10
million). These figures clearly Indicate the overwhelming (quantitaLive)
significance of comercial banking operations in BNI's activities (Annex 7
a/b). On doubtful loans, BNI has made provisions amounting to 1MG 6.2
billion (US$9.3 million) i.e. about 5.52 of the total loan portfolio. A
special audit of BNI's 1983 portfolio was carried out by an international
auditing firm. An updated audit by SNI's local auditors showed the
following overall loan portfolio position at the end of 1985:
1MG billion      %
(i) Gross loan portfolio                              155          100
(ii) Performiag Portfolio                               85           55
(iLL) NOn-performing portfolio                           70           45
(iv) General and special provisions (including
counter guarantees, tentatively estimated at
FMG 15 billion, by other national banks in
consortium/risk sharing operations)                42           27
(v) Net loan portfolio (i) - (iv)                     113           73
The audit confirmed that nearly half of BNI's loan portfolio is not
performing. Also, the performiag portfolio requires further analysis since
the special audit was based on internal BMI documentation alone. Factors
that have led to the deterioration of BNI's loan portfolio cannot easily be



- 18 -
isolated since, 2s indicated earlier (para. 3.04), BNI's declsion maklng in
the past has been considerably influenced, If not determined, by the
Government as the principal shareholder through direct interventions and
Instructions. Contributing factors to BNI's unfavorable portfolio position
included excessive lending and overexposure to large parastatals, mainly as
a result of Government investment policies and adverse macro-economic
conditions prevailing in the country during most part of the project
implementation period. BNI's portfolio including arrears position requires
further assessment and more detailed audits. This is being discussed
between BNI's management, auditors and the Association (as well as the IMF
which requested the special 1983 portfolio audits of all three national
banks as part of a previous Stand-By Arrangement). Also, BNI is addressing
shortcomings identified la the portfolio audit, including a review,
conducted by local and foreign experts, of organizational and procedural
arrangements and improvements in the internal re.ortlag system. BNI and
the Association are collaborating to streagti.ea firther BNI's management
infor-aation system which should include regler v ogress reports on major
clients, quarterly collection ratios, arrearc eteAstics, as well as annual
budgets and operational and financial projectiowi (para. 3.04). BNI will
also continue its recent policy to make substantial provisions for possible
further losses on its loan portfolio while increaslng collection monitoring
and supervision efforts.
5.08      Equity Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1985, BNI's equity
portfolio totalled FMG 6.6 billion (US$10 million) of investments in some
50 enterprises which represented about 5S of BNI's total portfolio.
Beneficiaries of IDA-financed subprojects in which BNI has an equity
participation are listed in Annex ~1. BNI made provisions for its holdings
in 11 enterprises, 7 of which it has provided for fully. All of those
provisioned for are among the 17 participations which BNI classified as in
deficit, In difficulty or In the process of being liquidated. Twelve of 23
profitable enterprises paid out dividends totalling FKG 207 million or
about 3X of total equity portfolio. .The low level of dlvidends is due to
the low earnings of these enterprises, the overall economic difficulties
in the country which affect adversely the profitabillty of these companies,
as well as the need to increase the equity of certain enterprises.
5.09      Income and Profitability.  BNI's actual incomi statements,
balance sheets, sources and uses of funds and financial ratios for the
period 1977-85 as well as comparative projection estimates made at
appraisal for the years 1979-82 are presented in Annexes 7, 8, 9 and 10.
Due to a higher volume of operations than anticipated at appraisal, income
from loans was higher than forecasted. However, dividend income was
significantly lower than originally estimated Annex 8. BNI's gross income
in nominal terms expressed in local currency (FMG) rose rapidly from FMG
4.7 billion in 1977 to FMG 11.5 billion in 1981 and close to FHG 20 billion
in 1984 and 1985 as a result of both a growing volume of operations and
relatively high levels of interest rate spreads of up to 10 percentage
points towards the end of the project implementation period. Gross income,
therefore, increased from 8.8X of average total assets in 1978 to 9.1Z in
1981 and about 132 in 1984/85 (Annex 10). Admiaistrative expenses averaged
an acceptable 2.52 of average total assets during the period 1979-82,
exactly as projected at appraisal. This proportion, however, rose to an
average of 3.2X during 1983-85 whea gross income as well as finaacial



- 19 -
expenses accelerated significantly. Overall, ENI's financial performance
matched, in general, appraisal forecasts. During 1979-82, gross profits
before tax and provision averaged 4.1% of average total assets (vs. 4% as
prrkj..ted) and 302 of average equity (vs. 37% as projected). BNI's
profitability declinied considerably in recent years. While profits after
tax averaged 14.2% of equity during 1979-82, it fell to 8% in 1983 and
further to 4.5-4.8% in 1984/85. BNI's 1985 net profit after tax and
provision of FMG 623 million (about US$0.9 million) represented only 0.2%
of average total assets and a modest 4.5% of average equity, while domestic
inflation was about 10%. However, FMG 6.1 bi'llion out of the 1985 gross
profit of FMG 7.0 billion were earmarked for provisions made during the
year. Provisions averaged FMG 1.8 billion during 1979-82 but increased
dramatically to FMG 6.2 billion p.a. during 1983-85. It should be aoted
that BNI's accounting practice and auditing of accounts do not show actual
cash flow figures. Therefore, some of BNI's actual interest income is
overestimated since it is on an accrual rather than a cash flow basis,
especially since several debtors are in an actual or potential precarious
financial position. Moreover, given the level of domestic iaflation, BNI's
effective profitability in real terms was negative.
5.10      BNI was able to maintain a reasonable liquidity position and an
adequate debt service capacity throughout the project implementation
period. The term debt/equity ratio of 0.7:1 remained well below the
contractual limit of 4:1 agreed with IDA. Even including liabilities
corresponding to term guarantees, the ratio would increase to only 2.8:1,
still a very low proportion which would allow substantial additional
borrowing.  BNI also took measures recently to bolster its capital base and
financial position.  rirst, BNI's share capital was increased in 1985 by
50% from FMG 3.0 billion to FMG 4.5 billion, the first capital increase
since 1979 (AnQnex 7b)o Second, BNI began earmarklag increasing amounts to
its general reserves, in addition to substantial portions of its gross
profit to provisions for loans and equity participation in recognition of
the deteriorating portfolio. Third, BNI initiated negotiations with the
Government with a view to converting BNI's debt vis-&-vis the Government
under the onleading arrangements of the IDA credit into equity. These
measures were designed to cover some of the decapitalization in real terms
that BNI suffered during recent years through deterioration of portfolio
a'A prof±tabilitv.
6. CONCLUSIONS
6.01      Since its creation in 1977, resulting from a merger from a
commercial bank with a development finance institution, BNI has supported
the country's efforts to develop the industrial sector. During project
implementation and thereafter, BNI's performance as one of the three
national banks was generally satisfactory as a commercial financlal
institution, but less so as a development institution. Given the fact that
the Government has a majority equity participation, its actual influence on
crucial operational and institutional decision making was significant
which, however, blurred to a large extent BNI's management functions and
responsibilities. One of the future key tasks, therefore, is to make BNI a
more independeat, organizationally and financially autonomous institution
with clear objectives and responsibilities so that it can play a more
active and effective role in support of Government's future industrial
development strategy.



- 20 -
6.02      Cooperation between the Association and BNI began in 1977/78 when
BNI started operations.  A first IDA line of credit of US$5.0 million
equivalent was extended in 1980 whleh Lncluded support to LnstLtutLon
buildLag and pre-Lnvestment actlvlties on a pilot basls. ',ollaboration
between the AssocLation and BNI contLaued ln the coatext of an Lndustrial
rehabiltation component to BNI as part of the FY85 ItduetrLal Sector
Adjustment operation.
6.03      ImplementatLon of the first IDA credlt under revlew progressed
slowly mainly because of procedural start-off difficulties, administrative
delays and difflculties ia LdentLfying and preparLig bankable projects
especlally in the SSE/artLsan sector. OperatLonal and flancLal
performance of fLial benefLeLarLes in general are satlsfactory. During
project implementation the focus of the credlt utillzatLon had been partly
shifted to make better use of the credit proceeds in light of prevalling
condLtLons ln the Industrial sector and the economy as a whole for several
reasons. Flrst, greater attention was glvea to rehabilitatLon efforts
through financiag of equipment includlng spare parts for restructuriag
existLng enterprises rather than funding of new investment or expansion
plans. Second, while recognizing the need for continued support to the'
informal SSE/artical subsectors for socio-economie reasons, especially
creation of new employimnt, BNI had to reduce the scale of SSE financing
because of lack of well-prepared bankable projects sn effective public
extension services needed to pursue a more active promotLon pollcy. Third,
support for more promotional activlties in the industrLal sector initially
planned for lNI had been replaced in favor of strengthening of
inastitutional, managerial and procedural arrangements.
6.04      BNll's and the Association's orLginal longer term strategy to
upgrade BNI's operational and management capabilities was constrained
essentLally by three Liter-related factors. First, macroeconomic
conditLons deterLorateA during project LmplementatLon affecting seriously
the quality, and partly the volume, of BNI's operations, sub-borrowers and
other clients' performance as well as BNI's financial position. Second,
Government's expansionary policies to stimulate the stagnant economy with a
massive public investment program in the late 1970s/early 1980s initially
bexefitted BNlt's general banklig, longer-term lending and other investment
actlvitles.   However, the necessary shift In Goveraent's strategy towards
stabilization and adjustment, starting ln 1982, led to deflatlonary
policies which had a profound Lipact on production as well as profitabillty
of BNI clients, and, as a result, caused a serious deterLoration of BNI's
portfolio and overall financial posLtLon. Third, the Government as the
principai shareholder, increasingly intervened directly in lNI's activitles
especially concerning some large parastatals. The latter used to be
beneficiaries of dlrect budgetary subsldles which were cut or ellimnated in
the course of the Government's financial stabllization program and, In part
at least, replaced by addltional bank lending. The Government's
LnterventLonist stance and Licreased direct lnvolvement in BlI's decision
makLng process eroded de facto BNI's independent functLons and
responsibilities as well as its financial and operational autonomy. In
sum, in the Malagasy context, BNI's major current operational and financial
shortcomlags are not only ListLtution-specific; they represent also more
fundamental problem of the country's banking and flnancLal system,
currently under review by the Government in collaboratLon wlth the Bank and



- 21 -
the 14P.  A proposed banking reform, presently under conslderation and
involving BNI as well as the other two national banks, would be an
Important pre-condition for BNI to play a more dynamic and effective role
In the future developmnt of the Industrial sector. Reform measures are
likely to Include portfolio restructuring based on rehabilitation plans for
major parastacals; Improved internal control and management information
systems; more lndepeadent decision making and financial autonomy of the
financial institutions; and further deregulatory measures to enhance
competition and expand the range and quality of finaacial services.
6.05      In essence, the experience with the first IDA-financed line of
credit to BNI suggests that the operation was generally successful in
financing a nmber of priority Industrial and SSE subprojects.  However,
the project's institution building objective of upgrading BNI was only
partially achieved, partly due to factors exogenous to the financial
instLtution such as adverse macroeconomic conditions and considerable
Government interferences In operational decision makLig, and partly us a
result of continued weaknesses in BNI's operational and financial
management and organization.



- 22 -
AN=1
&Aqi= NY DMI& (EI)
Project 2Mletitn Report (Rapport d'acMvenet du projet)
Evolution of Stafftrg and Remg     Off£  (Nbie d'effect±f et ags)
1980 - 1986 a/
198D  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
Total Staff                    1,022 1,076  1,124  1,131  1,163  1,198  1,183  Node ttal dts
of whidc professiaml
staff                          65    68    71    75    76    93    96    dmt
N&r    of Redul Offim             13    13    13    13    13    13    13  Fdme d'em
tIhe of tty0fft±                  5      5      5      5     5      5      6    Ia de 1b     m
de quarie
a/ Enl of year (fin de 1'ami6e)
Srce: MF Dllvlsia, Einem a  S          attm   Africa RegLa, Jim  1987
Dlviesxa de   la -ppuInt    isr    et Fizunouts, Ri*gmAf£ique histrale et Oditale,
Jun 1987



- 23 -
AU= 2
UMI=  1NY DosWA (MR)
Ptoiect CcWletioa Report (Rawort d'a'cl*veme  du pojet)
11st of Su ojects Flzwm  in  (mt 977-G
(lste des as-projets finac  sa la Ltg. de Qrd1t 977-G)
hwat Disbse as of/
Am=at AufwrLasd/                au
SuLproject Nam/      Subproject bo./   Dee Aath4zied/    Ibtait  aatss            3D/09/86
NiM                Numro        Date d'atorisatimu    (WS$i,000)            (WS$1,000)
1. PAROD                 A-k               10/81               625                 593
2. TU                    A-2               12/U                70D                 70D
3. FLa                   A-3                9/82               53D                 499
4. SMEIA                 A-4               10/82               675                 675
5. SC                   Ak5                10/82               275                 276
6. SNR                   k6                 1/83               270                 276
7. lazys                 A-7                6/84               23                  2S9
8. SUMD                  A-G               11/84               690                 727
9. FRef                  31                 6/81               140                 140
i0. Iuy                   B-2                9/82                65                  55
11. P                     B-3                5/84               13}                 12-7
12. Pur       of 4 cars    (3-4)           (12/85)              (3D)                (32)
13.     amsrim            S-1                2/84                33                  33
14. Ratlm                S-2                 2/84                14                  16
b. %Horo                  5-3                4/"                 Z3                  7
16. Ratlvy                S-4                8/84                40                  40
17. Rabehaata             S-5                8/84                25                  25
18. QMt                   S-6                1/85                65                  75
19. Hat. at    ni5ctFc   IS-1               10/81                21                  19
2). Caipter 1qzpient    F!v-2               10/82               366                 381
21. Food Industry .        -3                4/83                18                   5
22. GMue & adhiwes       1S-4                5/84                 8                   7
23. Marwtisika           ES-                 5/84                 7                   9
Sourc: 1DF Divisiom, Easterm and Sauthem Africa Regian, Jwe 1987
Divisiia de 1*ieIoMp.i  Inhzstriel et Finanic5nts, Rigca Afrique Australe et Orientale,
Jufn 1987.



- 24 -
ANNtn 3
BAWIN' NY D06.IA (BE)
Project Cpletiim Resort (Raport d'aI*veiut du Projet)
Scheule of Estimted vs. Actual Disburset (        1t     effectifs et pd biuimmls)
(US$ '000)
41raisal satiate/ /visins
ar l'8poe d'valutati                   AkI/Actual
Fi/     Qmarter/  Per Qirter/    0-11ari'e/  Per Ckarterl  Qalative/ X of EtzimteI X of Total Lom
m-he Fiscal. Timtre  Par Tdrestre   Oulat.f   Par Trlmtre            ladif
1981         1         0.05           0.05          -            -            0               0
2        0.05            0.10         -             -            0               0
3        0.20            0.40         -             -           0                0
4        0.20            0.40         -             -            0               0
1982         1         0.30           0.70          -            -            0               0
2        0.40            1.10         -             -           0                0
3        0.40            1.50        0.27          0.27         18               5
4        0.50            2.00        0.48          0.75         38              15
1983         1         0.50           2.50         0.03         0.78         31              16
2        0.60            3.10        0.23          1.01         33              20
3        0.60            3.70        0.92          1.93         52              39
4        0.50            4.20        0.03          1.96         47              39
1984         1         0.40           4.60         0.17         2.13         46              43
2        0.30            4.90        0.17          2.30         47              46
3        0.10            5.00        0.31          2.61         52              52
4          -               -         0.29          2.90         58              58
1985         1           -              -          0.08         2.98         60              60
2          -               -         0.11          3.09         62              62
3          -               -         0.44          3.53         71              71
4'-        -               -         0.22          3.75         75              75
1986         1           -              -          0.33         4.08         82              82
2          -               -         0.33          4.41         88              88
3          -              -          0.50          4.91         98              98
4          -               -         0.04          4.95         99              99
1987         1           -              -          0.05          5.00       10             100
Source: HF Division, Eastern and Sotlern Africa Reg=on, Jue 1987
Division de            Invelout Tmstriel et F lnwaw, RMg    Af rique Astrale et Orltale,
Juin 1987



(tuo  i  milin)    l)
Poslet Comlott  toer  tuoso   4 oZa-       4. mIst)
Actua  an  ftoet.oi tsatos.  1977-INS
It.  IA mllIes) S/
1.1 11 * L T lIe"          3-N    2.9#023 1.30   *,ODD  J,150   I*."&   2,?01 1.e}t  2,?eM * 311    12D  2,80 2,637                       1.1          t        d  an  tore.
1.2 fItt  last_nte          371       *70      7     1p33      300       M      NO1    U13    M2         2 M    3i       410      31       1.2  m     d   tatt5me.
1.                                                                                          £       7.    .7       .7 
2.1  n* L t team  bt        240              1.90    4.100  2l1o1    10,1l,  2059100   2.555   2.700     4        M3       2,9     17      2.1 9th. a      ,et nm  tere.
2.2 E"Ity lovostmt.          331      387      210   1.5       30 J0             l0     9In      M       235     310     424       37      2.2 tdsS do p&ttletpSt,s.
1. SNODtS Ttim CUDITS OtAlSNAUDING                                                                                                             5. 31id  de orfte   ecort team
(bolotag of Yosr)             -    34.429   40.573  23602?  46.334   50.088  5.445  57.93  3,759  43.03   73.213  37,157   32.377              (dEbt di 1'A_)
4.  CausixTie. LtTU5s Ot, -a"81M                                                                                                                "I M0CoisMo. WR IA.. otir        d mItM.;
CtlD     boutegindning of  post)
boginntootot of   t    17.635  21,300  23,40   24.175   2".30  23,405  37,412  2,3405  3,731    Sl,00  64.429 70.575 ct
S. DiS3isuSm                                                                                                                                    5.  wbsrsmo
5.I M * L ? loomns           217    1.519    1.329   I.5    2.091    3.470   2,23  3  .923   2.631   2.133        729   5.349  2.034        5.1  Prlto a mom e.5lot  isre sn.
S.2  utity towsstmoUt        381      109      250   1.570      110     57     500     22       00    2317       407     473     32        5.2 Plrso *_t prtlepeterssi.
Ij A *e ttol. t * projected (prIlalom).
t/ sodius and Iwo eg tw loanm (pedto A myso et 34mg tifa)-
:  1935, total offt blance absotg alms garsOtsS uemwd (tatl   rt  blis  miss Mtr  - ale  now). 19733 1944: total off bslancobsot (total b  tebors. o).
--oere   18W Division. Rssiom  cad Southern Af rica Bategs Ia  s1f 
9gt,e;1 d  0Seslopp_et Iodtlst Ortoncalo.                                                                                                                                  I!



.I U! DSI
holect ai tlb             i d'            d   t
Inaide of  1  1_ I1 too"Ah  te                                   at 119SS4
Maly_ de       l.u 1u nmst1aa"   _a( en t         iinu          6nut isa        4 de 1979 a 198
(ln FMC milum
__ _ __ _ __ _ _ _   s__   _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _            ic ,u              __  _ __ _  __ _ __  _
tow O- 7i7 ;Gi Km   loa Omaq/ Fip M.  loa                     w/ r<  eip K        aG. rocam/ Vv         km.4 r 0
Ibue locale   biSa        lzi    cae bui1               I_e 1ii    bwu           Shtoae   &~vh
1. Size of  tiet                                                                                                                         1. kb et 4 hl
0 to-so 50 n        1        21          1928.4                     31.1         545            627           3.4          4.7           8 A 501 IUa
3 DO .111km            33           21           446           35.5       3,Jtl          2,495         2.3     3     18.7t~           de 33  lla
La" thdn 500. 11km             14          16            189          2L2         4,939          4,127    D      .7         31.0         IAu de 500 miSlaw
Over 511D1Ui                    6           5             81           6.2        6.89           6077          42.6         45.6           6dtmaw   50C Uiat
2. Total ktoieq Ont                                                                                                                      2. Itk total d
thaO 250 .13ak                  66                       5L9                 4,G61          3.247          9.9           3.4        "gm de 250 .llm
le dt  500.1idlU                     15                      0.4                  3,317          6,149          7.1          6.5         "IAMeo e 30D  Im
la  dm  IXD w.U1akm                   5                       4.5                 2,M            2,545          5.9          2.7         fau de I,aX situ"
Over ,000 adlUan                     26                      23.2                3S559          72.954         77.1         87.4        S9rimr  a I.C00o1Uit.
Total                                      i                      *3                            16,935.'        0.0         100.0   l     otIa
3. Interst Rates                                                                                                                         3. Tan d'ltnz
too thRm 8                           19                       18.4                         3,947                       15.1               _  de                                     0°
ex - 21                              55                       53.4                        13,'8                        SL9               De   I i    de 11
1uz - 1a                             14                       36                           2.368                        9.1               I Il8kg u dm d4
142 and  r                           15                      14.6                         593                          22.9              %grur a n
Total                                1)3                                                                              1W1 JDta
4. Muit esPrid  4& =                                                                                                                                :IptldaP.
Car 5 )yM                            28                      2D.7                         3,p3                         36.6        de 5
I to S ye                            75                      55.6                         15,33                        52.0              We I 6 Sa
Fqdty pwndp.                         32                       3.7                          3,3'D                       11.4             fMm  de pertslan
Total                               .iS                      Ul0O (81SI
5. Setoral kv*Amn                                                                                                                        5. Smtw d'atiwlt
-A4eoltuxhwsat                       1                       0.8                            1.                        0.               -  twcltm  e glm 
- hpro    tuy                         8                       5.9                          2,63B                        8.9              - ltrXn4Mmtr
- Midaotatig                         87                      6.4                          14,272                       48.4              - bA-trt. _GOuter0tn
-Oter IMstrien:                                                                                                                          - Atin  rAUt1wZ
mIMUt  6 nuitaafta               22                      16.3                        10,52                         35.8                 di. et wtbaut
- T eUla. (01eIa)                     2                       1.5                            236                        0.8              - lgAstrie hkeUt  eotwe
- Ti'utptta1                         10                       7.4                          1,582                        S.4                 h Tr
- mianllmas                           S                       3.7                            169                        0.6              - Diwgr
Total                                15                      300.0                        2,491                        100.0             Total
6. Phir Uulhau                                                                                                                           6. ktiiuiatm  al1tWe                U
- !mjor Sardtihdif of pltbe meator    63                     46.7                         21,CU                        71.5              - Seas  paitk mjaftslm
- Ibj4r ShseFte1d er  prtiv.e sector   72                    53.3                          8,410                       28.5              - 5r ptrj waIjo
Total               I                                       1W5                           29,491                       0D.0              Total
a/ nths  tilnc also tnchad pmjecca tor htAch IIN diu..1 eadit e.run.
(Y aqruisa cni arvspmdeut am projets fi n Fesr di &m ctr"dta ai     pl Ia IN, an phis dee prkt   t putIdpottou.)
Swnerim   lrfolviteSn. Fatem  idSadwmti Afrtica    n, J t1967
Dividlin de Ilfselopqnt Irulrel et Fnmueits, i5trn Agri"  Astrale et O       biaaaI,
btn~ Iqq7



-R| N2f DZWA MIS
PtoIsM  Co    io biut (zmat d'adawi   &a paoea)
hi.bmda Of 31I ti           (u      ) =nR  t3.         odf 1979-19b5
dimlye de toa l    aSU (               )           m dati a I       d  1979 A 1965
LiAa   aql Fsmip  i low Qwcg/ F8s Eis.  low   Oiuacql Fsmlp hi. lisa O                          rqw c/ Fsigi Es.
l4zmia lacal    him         YM*"e bami    34v1M          Vala blalae   DvAm           Ibd mi  '-la   hwiam
1. Size cf Isrt                                                                                                                                   I.      at
2 to 50 ad                       -             2              -             7.4            -              83            -            0.4          2D   it5iu
Lia thn 2MD lilu         a       -             7              -            25.9            -             743                         3.2          Mides 21D Jal
IeAs5 dm Sao hUm                 -             S              -            1.5             -     6      ,569            -            36,9         HiAM di 530D Ei
Der S51 dllum                    -            13              -            48.2            -          13 789            -            59.5        Skira a No siliaD
tal                                                                        00.02                                                    100.0        tO
2. Total Rt1eant                                                                                                                                  2. Ccot ti  dI  et
taw d= no glialm                         4                       44.5                      -       6      02            -            8.7          MIma  de 2iD 1Ui
lg  dmi 530 dilia                                               -                         -              -             -            -            hblmde5OD   Mm
tw tdmo  1,1)D  lUl                      2                       22.2                      -           1,22D            -            17.5        Him de 3l000 glum
Oer 3,O00 .1LU1n                         3                       33.3                    3.935         S 137           100.0         73.6         S     qfrlam A I3,OOD dL
Total                                                            IOD.0                   1,935         f5ir            liii ii3c TOW
3. litemt Rates                                                                                                                                   3. Tan d'dtt*
Lft diE                                 27                      IOD.0                           3,164                         IOD.0       d          8Sde 
8t-102                                                                                                                         -                  DbeImjAsduI? IV
IIIU-l                                                                                                                        -                  13S-sDe I U A d   142
142 ad owr                                                                                                                    -                      9ift" a   142
Total                                                             O.21100.0                                                                      T
4. tauidties                                                                                                                                      4. Mm* du pg&aatidr.
Over 5yes                                7                        25.9                          12,049                         52.0              PI ' di Sm
I to 5 pmr                             20                        74.1                          11,135                          48. 0                I A S
qty MuItid,.                                                     -                                 -                           -                  Prim de parUcplm
Ttaul                                                                                                                                            T 000  318  iDl 
5. Sectoal B3rkdam                                                                                                                                5. Sa-r d'actlvlti
-                                                                                                                              -                  - Apia/ o _tam  a __ev 
-   tr y                                 3                        11.1                          3,152                          13.6               - A4rtMtd
- hmfacmd  ls'                         34                        51.9                          113968                          51.6              - lntre mdfacurie
- 00iur Ingtrln:                                                                                                                                  -  nts Inastde:
MnIg & Swatcrafts                   6                        22.2                           6,444                         27.6                   gr  ea rtan t
-  war*s  (tha))                        -                                                                                      -                  - 1gmtrte hrelik  et twrLse
- Traupcatsal                           2                         7.4                            1,227                          5.3               - Trwepoct
- tllMuam                               2                         7.4                             401                           1.7              - Dm                                    2:
TOS                                    27                       10D.0             Soui1                                                          ToXal
6. tb10r Surtiholdi3                                                                                                                              6. &tiamgm1s mjoritaires
- Haj1 Shr      rs of pAUtc secter    23                         85.2                          22.797                          96.3               - Sectesr pabltc miwttral
- Major Shuahold&m of private sector    4                        14.8                             387                           1.7              - Secrair prt4 majoaltalm
Taal                                    27                      100.0                          2,8-4                          100.0               Total
Scaroe: mF Divtaiin, Eastem ad Southem Afria legim, is  1987
Dlvinsin de  aIeloppmr hnAitriel at Flraxn ta, MgImn Afriu Asotrale et Orlietale,
JuLi 1987



Pro1ae Co_l t       oitC        (        t     du orolet)
Actual ad ftolcmd bina    laIa     WOOLSb . 1977-65
(in Imm dllleo7) :
2!                 79    29        so       so     I                       8E      a        4       as
A       K                          ~      A       P       £       p       A               A        A
1. "u"anta                                                                                                                                1. ActI 2 =t r
1.1 C     ad Bas            2,361    2,924    1,140   4,025   1,01W    16,767   1,000   4,331   920   s,iw8   5,670   7,001    9,630      3., Cd at gi_
1.2 AneCats lac.evablea    17'    2,170         -    3.279      -    8.360       -   13,527      -   15,336  7.177  9.737    9.248        1.2 Vai.w 6D l'a casaOdt
2. "anaad 0D. oe behalf
of OoCvant              1,743    1,770    1,120   2,101   1,120    2,594   1,120   2.735   1,120   2,630   6,364   9.052    8,890   2. Osdratile ltt
3. Mlsc. Dabtore and
ba rccolunts            3,956    7,359     ,SI0  17,778   4,961   12,550   5,457  32,440   6,002  23,412 29,664  13,253  144,16  3, 0bitenur Diver, St Autt, Cotes            I
4. Portfolio                  43 242  45 '64   59 494  62 665  67 703  74 073  74O85  83 276  62 788 93 790 107 330  99 694  119 079   4. Portaailla                                ti
6.1  bo  5t Tn    X , i2  X,02  T50,   36~U   33W4,669~W   ~P   U                                   72,216TT   10U177WJTI              e.il~     r"lI 8 ann te
4.2 HILT                    6,478   6,799    9,876   6,397  11,004   12,052  12.341  15,109  13,76S  15,774  14,097  11,059   10,163      4.2 Porteloealla 8 eopen at long term   I
4.3 Eqati:                  2,335    2.638    2,954   4,160   3,254    4,8S  3,754   5,121   4,354   5,60   6,076   6,356    6,573       4.3 Participation.
so Not rlad Assets             1,164    1,303    1,315   1,420   1,262    1,476   1,307   1,471   1,149   1,729   2,332   2,679    3.045   S. Astrcas natears lnobiliade
6. total as"ta                54,260   60,990  60,579  81,261  76,143  116,622  83.669 137,762  91,979 142,625 156,577 141,416  165,173  6. total d    l'actif
a    A - Actal;   P * Proaectad.
Lorce:  ID  Diviaton, iatra and Souetbre Africa &ag ., Jn  1987
Divaton de D0VOloppamot Ilmattial et inaeoemata, lEtion Aulnque Lutrala at Orieatale,
J.ie 1987.
00
'
FW



* ProSect Cea  on{pr ' rSt
LibeOl ed  ho oet d Semi Balnc  Shets  197745
717      7        79      79      sO       so      81      81       U       82      8        4       85
-r       -r       -r      -z-    -r^       --    -r         --    ^-^    -^           r     ^r       ^-
1. Current Llebilitle,                                                                                                                       1. Iydf I Cnurt  S
1.1 l^Aank                  1,327      745    2,65      420   4,545    5,063   4.820   3,321   4.592  10,712   4,94        all    1.095       if t3   _
1.2Sou   raeost
tmax 2 yearm)          25,321   32,107   26,52) 37,963  29,2t2   50.C01  32.210  48,940  35.431  53,592  38,541  69.107   51.599         1.2 D"toa  We at court term  (2 ^N  Mu.)
1.1 Centrnal Blok Reca.                                                                                                                      1.3 UeBcepte de do laqg"    Cantr*he dee credIts a
for abort term credits  3,138      187    4,411   3.660   4.815        -    5,342      -    5,S76      -    3,354   2.121    4.84,           court term
2. Men"'S"d Oueetiott9 08
beb lt ot   eomant       1.5S6    1,896    1.420   2.383   1.420    2,144   1,420   2,102   1,420   2,557   5,250   5.871    8,431   2. Opdrtiotn  EtatI
3. Tec- ODeosits                 109      255    9.90D      267  10,890      305  11.919      272  13,176     533  1,6U3   3.754    7.16s   3. 09d9ti a term
5. Mitec. Creditors and
other Accounts          11,381   14.095    4.10  22.470   4.961   42.415   3,457  58,962   6,002  41,619  54,922  28,627   32.548   4. Cridiisurs divers et Butres comPtes
S.5o~rrojijI 3,895    3 413    8 671   3515  .9820    3888  10 562   8.901  12.091  10,238  10,77   85865    9,08b   S. Ewr"nts
.l O    It       *               t orrowiogs  TUT   4IW    1, 71 9 3 10,230 * ,57 5 ,115 S 6 S.l  V. -   4R                                    A   ate a soem et long term
S.2 Central Bank repf 1.                                                                                                                     3.2 BiescoePte de tosSanque Controls dee CrEdtit a
tor term loan           1.103    1,349    1,975   2,13    2,200        22  2,468      330   2,753       -    1,203      -        -           mouen tc lmg terz
6. Proitilone lot LoAns and
Invesntmets              1,ls9    1,814    1.384   2,5b0    .608    3,459   1,619   3,596   l,o8O   4,390   .265   5,786    6.154   6. Proviiona tpsur orits et oarticlP tio)
7. Other Provisions               -         -       872      -       l72      -      872       -      572      -       -       -        -    7. AItre. Prof4sions
8. Eaut                        S92    6b478   65909   8030   7.910    8808   9818   11808  80539  12.514  12 826  133474   13,953    . VoadaF Pogres
8.1 Sh_re Capital                           .0D   20    3l        l   i      3,000    2,180     3 tl0                    3,0uO    *. 'SU     5.1 Capital sociaL
8:2  esterveo               2,213    2,629    2,213  13.069   2,213    3.736   2,213   5,458   2.213   6,790   7,797   8,836    *,o27        8.2 Sleerve^
8.3 Advances from treaeory  1,000   I1CO0         -    8,000      -     I.000      -    1,000       -    1,000   I,000  1000    1.000       8.3 Ootat1ons Trdeor Public
8.4 Undtftributed Surplue     739       849    2,696     961   3.691    1.072   4.975   1,630   6,326   1,724   1,029      638      626      8.4 fnfflcee o-diettrAbude
9. T..ta. 33    ties
and  3Sul               54,200   6U,9      6I,)IA  Wi,lli  76,143  116,622  83,669 137,782  91.979 142,825 8Sd,577 141,416  105.173   9. Tltal aI   poomIt
*/  £ - Actual;  P * Pru)ected.
Sources  10  Divlislon. Ea'.e,n tond Southera Africa Bogtoa. June 1981                                                                                                                     t  X
0 -r



ttol et Coin.2tlon hpoti (  met da e_uant dun pol)
Actual aod  tol eInce se Statetente., 1971-85
(In WIH .1lUo10) *I
77       78l       i        79      S0 D               81 8lI            U2      82       83      84 8A
A    -r    A-    p                        A    -F   Ai   -r   AT    A    T
I.  Into..                        4,727    Sl080    590    ,116   6 535   17917             8 7 mg  3S"    8,132  331634  164982  19996   19,5D9   1....
1. Loan 4 Otber Incomme    i.83   t459i   65U4          t4:,151      tl     A I;           T7RI 7a71  Y i  1 246 7fuT.r                               .1 Ptob  ttr  _nYer  t *.    _r_    tr   mcem.)
1.2 Divldends                  144       268       221      171     253       131      *3      224      496      122     263      225        63       1.2 Rewvnue do Porteatll-tItces (dilde.ua2
1.  Administratlve Expenses      1,497    3 631  1     724   1, 88    1 824    2 381   1 930   2,98       2 043   3 701   4 31?   A 413    5 991   1. Fraia jdtntntratife
1.1 Personmwl                3,02    1          rT lW 1,26   T,2s7     r,so7            r,sls      iW no  2  2 0         22.T1 FPe13 .de p.,onnel
I.2 Other Adin. talewnses    445         514       S25     t32      561       114     612    .21              I63S 2"017 196.01   3,924    1.181      1.2  ittres *     Ain  inirt'li
2.  Financial Expensee           1.275    1.113    1.S48   1.466   1,e83    1,499   1.97    3,058   2,281   3,431   S.134   5.93S   6,210   2. olate 7Inanclers
3.  oepreciatlon                     9S       It?7     tlV      174      103      212      I0S      223      tOe     204      396      244      280   3. £Aortiseso nts
4.  Total Expenses               2tb7    2,92n    3.372   3.52B   3.740    4.092   4.JII  e6.262  4e432   1.30   9.667  10.664   12.483   4.  aaLee   Tateles                                                    O
S.  Profit before Tax 4 Prow.  1,860    2 160    2,318   27e88   2.795    3,S25     .518   5.211    3,700   6.294   7,315   9.332    7,026   S. UiEficees avant  epe8ta  at provlvIOns
6.  ProvIstons                      693      75)        93      863      100    1,437      335   2.010       61   2.696   4.780   7.934    6,072   6. PFrovtsons
7.  Profit before Tax             3,lbS    1.407    2.225   1,923   2.69S    2,3B8   3,443   3,276   3,639   3,596   2.535   1,398              954   7. e7ndf Ire  avant l.eti
S.  Taxes                           427       568      80o      910      970    1,317   1,239   1,647   2,310   1.814   I,330          762      331   8. t,the sut I*& Sini tiee
9.  Nrit Profit After Tax           lid       1lE    1.424      953   1.725    1,071   2.204   1.629   2,329   1.,22   3,023          036      6fl    9. 56,fIesr nets h.r% lnvoj  et ProaIlem,
10. Dividends                       310       Wi0      598      360      724     5VO       926    S3O       978      120      2S0      30       31UU  to. Olvtdendes
I1. Undlstributed Niet Profit       428      439       826      593   1,001       S31   I,V2t   1,089   2,332   1,002         113      336       123  11. Undfloes Nete non-Dlstrihof
of  A * AcLUOI;  P - Pr,jtCted.
So,,rcr:  IWF Dtvialgn, Klctcrn acd So1Itlern ALnt. 3gIeln. 1,.oa le19
DIvitson de Of veloppement Indusirlel et PinanceOeents. 31ten 01riquo tAuLrale at Oriental*. Julon 198
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



smilile tr tIlbOst  (Ul})
roSect Cemt letto  Report (treort d at.ese_nt du toet)
Actual and Projected Sourceesd Use, ot tunde. 1977-65
ttn PUS mIlIon) :f
ai       is        79       79       so       80       at      8l       62       62       83      64        85
A        A         T        A    T    T    _1    r    C-  -A    r    -A   Ar
I. Sources                           -     43509    7 417  10 934   6 617   15 719   I 956   6 0317   6 74   16 661   9 414  13 924   25 924   1. Resmoureee
t1, Net Profit                  738       639    tm        .1.133  T715 1i'5         115E              ti# $     5ft        7;s2 "  6'       621      T.1 gfnrtce not
1.2 Provlstons                  695       753        93      0So     300    1.437       135   2.010       61   2,696   4.780   7.934    6.0o2          1.2 Provislons
13. tiet Increase tn Term                                                                                                                              .3.  Augmnrtatioo nette  tos moront5 It Soy"n 51 long
,ocrroving                   -       (482)   2,469       102   1.149       351     742   5,0)3   1,529   1,337   S40  (1,913)            221           term
1.4 Itnrease In Current
Llabilities                  -      3,199    3,411   9,016    ,863   12.6836   4,d75  (2,635)  4.824  12,924   3,069   7.267   19.008              1.4 AeSr.ntation d. pselt  A court ton
2. Uses                              -       3,0tS 7.6I7  18,627          6  to 37.707  t 05L    3 3   06.23  13,119   6.704  (4.679)  21,140   2. ftbmole deo  fonds
2.1 Net increase In Short
Portfolio                    -      1.596    6.066  14.061   6.761    71.6       S.34,3    3S.12    .179   9.*168  14,941  (4.680)  20,066         2.1 Autinftatlon nite* de porceteeilsa d eouC term.
2.2 Increase (decreasie) In,                                                                                                                           2.2 Vaflatione(emaito/ddclm e                   scttle a
nther short tetr silets    -           384     (200)  1,109       -      5.081       -    5,167       -    1.809  (.3159)  2,360   *89                 court germ
2.3 Net Increase fi    Term                                                                                                                            2.) AMntstion mitc  de pOtt.auttle a mysn et
Portfolio                    -        121       933    ,596   1.12ft   3,655   1,3)7   3,057   1.424          665  (1,677) (3,038)    (696)        2 stod
2.4 Equity Dtabursesents          -        830      250   1.542       300      703      300      236     600      679      276     282       215       2.4 Prise  de participatlons 1166r&.
2.5 Oividends Pay ents           -        3t0       S98      43       724      360      926      340     97t      540      720     250       3no       2.5 DlvIdendes v"red
2.6 Increase (decrease) In
Ftsed Assets                 -        119       (50)    117      (53)       s6      (33)     (7)    (S6)    258       603      347       366      2.6 Augmntalion (r6doctlunl des *as.,, tInubtilts.
3. Lxcedent (aboI falil) of Sources                                                                                                                    3. VarIation. ne4,es de  resourcest. inlols des tn-dS
-over Uses                    -      1,l74      (2001 17.691)    (4))  (1,986)    (97) (8.06)    (60)  S. 562   2.710  18.403    4*,54              (variation des fonds de roulatsti)
4. Aerum.lmted Cash, tanks           -     2.924    1,140   4.025   1,097   16,767   1,003    4.331    920   5.928   5.670   7.031    9,6sO   *. Cats" et ban.uea (rmilfte)
I-
*lA 4   Actual. V - Fgr,j.Cted.
Sources lUt DtvIsion. Eastern and Southern Africa eUliloi. June I9"7
Olvilion de 66.eloppaOnt InduStrls*t .L Flnsnconte. tigta Afrique Ahststl at Orlootele. Jal  3967



HAICASCA*
B5NKI   NY IID055111 (Y1)
Project Cotoletion Boort (reeport dachlvemnt du proeSt)
Acttual and Protected Pinnnclal bttioa. 1977-85 *7
77       i6       79      i9      so       80      el      61       82      82      83      84       as
Ai       A                 a                4 P  A  P           A                            A        A
1. Structural Ratios                                                                                                                         1. todic5teufatructwrole
1.1 Tero Debtituity           -     0.S:1    1.3&1   O.S:1   1.3:1    0.5:1   1.2:1   0.9:1   1.231   0.9:1   0.9t1  0.7:1    0.7:1         1.1 90ttm  a Ur-lopUitasu  propr e
1.2 Term DebtiEquity
(tncl. Libilttilea to                                                                                                                    1.2 Dette A terinelcapiteux propree (y coprle des
Tero Guarantles)          -     1.6:1    2.2st   1.9:1   2.2:1    2.8:1  2.2s:   4.1:1  2.231  3.4:1   3.5:1   3.M:l    2.6:1               couttionlevelo etc a term)
1.3 Provisiana  a a B of                                                                                                                     1.3 Provisione ean ptrcatase de pontafuittle du
Porttolto                   -      4.0      4.2      4.1     3.8      4.6     3.6     4.3     3.3     4.7      4.9     5.8      5.1          global
2. Income Statemnt Latios                                                                                                                    2. Inrdicteute dee cootea do settoa
(2 of average total *asete)                                                                                                                  (otrcente  de l aetIf total aoyan)
2.1 Croas Income               -       8.8       8.9     8.6    9.1       8.0     9.3     9.k    9.4       9.7    11.3    13.3     12.7      2.1  af ttce brat
2.2 (leex) PIlancial Cap.      -       2.0       2.4     2.1     2.5      I.S     2.S     2.4      2.6     2.4     3.4     4.0      4.0      2.2 (mama) trele financiers
2.3 (le*a) duts. Eapensees     -       2.8       2.7     2.7     2.6      2.4     2.4     2.3     2.3      2.6     2.9     2.9      3.9      2.3 (maIn.) frtes  adslniatatiets
2.4 Gross Profit befote Tax
and Provielons             -       3.4       3.6     3.9     3.9      3.9     4.2     4.2     4.2      4.5     4.9     6.2      4.6      2.4 SdnAticea naeu seoot lepte et prowletona
2.5 Dlvidend*                  -       0.7       0.9     0.5     1.0      0.3      3.1    0.4      1.1     0.3     0.2     0.2      0.2      2.5 Dvlidendea
2.6 Not Profits                        0.8       1.3     0.8     1.4      0.3     1.6    0.9       1.6    0.7      0.5     0.2      0.2      2.6 UnAfice net
1. Profitability Rati.o                                                                                                                      3. Indicateure de la rentabilitl  fnanclrete
3.1 lrofit before T, 44 a of                                                                                                                 3.1  5n0fice not event imp8t et proMiloona en pour-
average equity             -      22.6      34.2   26.3    36.4      28.4   40.3    32.9    37.0   30.5   20.0    10.6          6.9          centage des fonds ptopres maoens
3.2 Profit after to n e I of                                                                                                                 3.2  eniftice net apr60 i*8  en pourcentage des tur.d
overage equity             -       13.5     21.9   13.1    23.3      32.7   25.8    16.4   23.7    14.b        8.0     4.8      4.5          propres moyans
3.3 Dividend Payments as 2 of                                                                                                                3.3 Dtivdendes wvenes en pourcantage da fond.
average Equity             -       6.4       9.2     5.0     9.7      6.4    10.8     5.4    10.1      6.1     2.0     2.3      2.2          propret toyene
1.4 Income ftroe loans *nd
other Incoe  ae  2 of                                                                                                                    3.4 Produls baotairae (prft  at *utras revenue) or
swerage loon portfolio     -       11.7     10.3    12.1    10.4     12.1   30.3    15.3    10.4    16.3    17.7    20.3       16.8          pourcenta,e du port.f.utlio  woen des pr6ta
3.5 Oitvdend  1cM  as * of                                                                                                                   3.3 Dividendes reSuea en pourrenteag  d4a  ortelfulkle
average Equity Portfolio   -       6.7       7.8     3.0     8.1      2.3    12.S     4.S    12.3      2.3     4.4     3.6      1.0          mayean des participattlan
a*   A   Actual;  V - Prejected.
Soures: IDV Divleoan. Eastern end Southern Uttce Begston Jung 3987
Ditvlson de Divaloppemat Indatriel at Finoacematen t     giaon Atrique strrale et Orientale. Juin 1967
5-.
Io



Peeeddeeltiom  nea frema  d'ehv..td.e)li
9ceomlc Chawreewtitica of- Uoeaa    imemea Raiff Ciejit 9)7-MA
Share oI local    Skate of
an  qiety  S_  Natertall         experts tor meow                   I gconool,
Subproject        Subproject          e     t     o Konmfe           mat, of       Loceeta of           t3tu  of      tPttipatioe          in total       total some    Ptrmmat           SAte of *et
name             Mkaber      Sector            Acttei Pebliobocz tt7                                  "Oct                           !rod 'et too      ..X .    .    Joet. Ceated           (a)
1. FPAAO           A-I       lnd oe        Ptr   o                                                  bceteeteov *a                           34W-                             --
2. tIKO            A-2       Indotey      Dsaiq peodecia   I SU1                   mao)    rian   Xn                     -                 20                  -
3. hAd             A-)        Indouetp     Saelding atnaele          logo           nereuo           W                   *                 70                  -            u
*. SITENA          *4         Indregry     Textiles                  I9SS         Naajg             Shbtllgtetim        40.91              ".8               130              6                _
S. SMt              A-)      "ining        Graphite                  19714        Toomanai          msembailit.g         -                ICO                IO              -
6. STAR            A-S        Ind r,       seveta                     l1oss       Aetateab          Smhbilltlgo          33.37            2i.7
7. Lam.s           A-?       mining        Graphite                  It"          heatbe           hS_malitatmon         -                toO                3O0
5. SIFED           A-S       lode etr      Isattauim                 lo7l         Atea toagio       3abablettegi         93.25             31                  -             -                SI
9. roteo            B-1       loCMe1t1     Cart"e proetg              low         Aot_ erieo        iapata-                               100                  -             5 
10.  ey             3-2       lDetry         Wedcal product.          3975         Dt_aare           am                   -                -                   -              14
I1. kanomad         53         ladetrY      litlldien  mactael        1966         MOrmUnga          Ueabiteti.o          71.7               0-
12. Andrienarieo    S-l       ArlemloSSE   Sboen/leatb.  goods      1393          Aeteaasriw        gate*atioo           -                A0                  -              -                 -
It. Catetab         5-2       Artialsw   Carpe tr                     19W         Antennrtvo           aomoe              -                 o                   -              S
1S. Mslbhro         5-)       IndTp                                   It"O         Aonanarlvo        salenlon             -                 ha                 -              2
IS. liniwony        5-4       Artiem        Shoe                      1922         Ateneftarto         te i               -                                    20              S                _
16. Rebente         S-S       Areteen       CarPetrSy                  92          Ant eto           Sate elem            -                 so                  -                               -
U,. s3iS           S-        ladenry       Coemetic Products         393          Antanrte_ e       t mioon              -                 S                   -              * 
&=Cos   of    Stafgf etimattes
ISW Slosion. Seaern and Southern Africa egtion, het  ago
Dlvialon dse Meeloppewnmn  tndeatrlol at PIunemaite. Ugim   fiqe. htre1e at Ouitelele, oin 1931
La



MADAGASCAR
BANKIN' NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
Project Completion Report (rapport dlach@ve.ent du projet)
Financial Characteristics of Subprojects Financed under Credit 977-KAG
(in FMG million)
Financial1
.ubproject         Subproject               Project Cost                      DNI                            Additional    Rate of
Name              Number       Local         Forelgn        Total        Subloan      Self-Financing          Loan       Return (S)
1. PAPMAD            A-1          128            260           388            260             128                  -            -
2. TIKO               A-2         183            293           476            293             183                  -           38
3. FIACI             A-3         (134)          (104)         (238) 8/       (139)            (71)               (28)          23
4. SOTEMA            A-4          -              250           250            250              -                   -            -
5. SMGI              A-5           97            174           271            174              97                  -            -
6. STAR               A-6         -              312           312            312                                  -             -
7. Louys             A-7           46            163           209             163             46                   -            -
8. SIPED              A-8         132            477           609             477            132                   -           50
9. Fotis              B-l          63             57           120              57             63                   -            -        w
lO. lary              B-2           24             38            62             38              24                  -           35
il. Panomad           B-3           37             77           114             77              37                  -            -
12. Andrianarlsoa    S-l            6              23            29             23               6                  -            -
13. Ratsimba          S-2            7             10            17             10               2                  5            -
14. Malboro           S-3            6             14            20             14               6                  0            -
15. Rainivony         S-4           14             25            39             25               9                  5            -
16. Rabehanta         S-5            5             12            17             12               3                  2            -
17. SMIR              S-6          118             48           166             48              76                 42           46
I Subsequently increased from FKG 238 million to FMG 519 million.
;ource: BNI and staff Estimates
CDF Division, Eastern and Southern Africa Region, June 1987
ivision de Dgveloppement Industriel et Financements, Region Afrique Australe et Orlentale, Juin 1987



* - 35 -
Annex 13
Page   of 6
MADAGASCAR
Bankin' NY Indostria (BNI)
ProJect Completion Report (rapport d'achevement du pr2je,)
Summary Description and Present Status of Above Free Lim1t
Subprojects Financed under Credit 977-MAG
1. Papeteries de Madagascar (PAPMAD) (A-1)
Subloan:     US$593,440.40
Disbursed:   US$593,440.40
This firm was established as a 'Sociftf Anonyme. (incorporated stock
company); Its main activity is the production of paper for
multi-purpose uses. BNI holds 45Z of the share capital. The French
company Parsons and 'Ahittmore remained majority shareholder. PAPMAD
enjoys currently a monopoly situatlon In its line of activity with
signlficant fcrward linkages to other Malagasy firms.
The subloan was extended to permit the company to finance the purchase
of urgently needed spare parts for Its production equipment at a time
when the country faced serious balance of payments problems. The
subprojsct enabled the firm to maintain its machinery in good
conditions and to develop its production. The subloan was approved in
1981 and utilized in 1982. The repayment period was for 3 years. The
subloan was completely repaid on July 31, 1985. There are no arrears.
The company had a profit of FMG 374 millioa (5.7Z of sales) at a
production level of 9,800 t. in 1984. Despite an Increased production
of 10,400 t. in 1985, the company suffered a loss of PMG 370 million
(cash flow -5 million) primarily because of increased production and
financing costs and constant (admlnistratively regulated) sales
prices. An action plan involving pricing, sales, debt consolidation
and production rationalization policies Is being considered.
2. Products Laitiers TIKO (A-2)
Subloan:     US$700,000
Disbursed:   US$700,000
This subloan was extended to the then newly established TIKO company
which produces dairy products such as pasteurized milk, yougurt, butter
and cheese.



- 36 -
Annex 13
Page Z of 6
investment started in 1981 and wa completed io 1983 when the plant
actually began operations. Initial project cost were estimated at FMG
249 million while actual investment totalled FMG 475.6 million. Cost
overrun was due to devaluation of the FMG (especially vis-a-vis USS)
and additional lnvestuents originally not envisaged by the firm
(supplementary building necessary for appropriate stocking).
As in the case of other subborrowers, fluctuations of the exchange
rates caused a significant increase of TIKO's indebtedness and Its
current expenditures. The subloan served to f1inance the foreign
exchange costs of the project.
Regarding production, the company started at a low level In 1983, the
first year of operation. However, in 1984 and 1985 the company's
activities Increased significantly. Total production targets have been
exceeded, particularly In 1985 when there wa sufficie,nt supply of raw
material.
It Is noteworthy that TIKM's euploywa.t creatlon exceeded considerably
the projections (65 actual jobs vs. 33 jobs .s foreseen In the project
documnt).
Currently, and still for more years to coms, the firm Is dependent on
imported raw material (milk powder, butter oll). Nevertheless, at
least up to 1990 full capacity utilization I ivirtually guaranteed
because In addition tb the normal import quotas, PAN (World Food
Program) will supply, as part of a 5-year operation plan, milk powder
and butter oil averaging annually 380t and SOOt, respectlvely.
Concerning operatlonal and financial performance, the company showed
excellent results (1983 sales of 7MG 302 mllUon and profits of 58
dMIllon; the 1985 flgures are 1h  1.1 blllon and FMG 568 mllion,
respectlv tly). There are no arrears of the subloan.
3. FIACI 'SoclStS our la fabrication industrielle d'elements en
agzlourrs de Clment" (A-3)
Subloan:     US$550,000.00
Disbursed:   US$499,462.39
Thls is a new plant for wall and floor tiles establehed ln Fianarantsoa
in 1980 under license from Euro Brevet. The subloan was extended for
the partial financement of the lavestment program of this project,
especially to cover foreign exchange cost. All equipment financed
under the subloan has already been delivered and ln place since 1985.
The relatlve devaluation of the European currencies in relatlon to the
US$ enabled the company to purchase additional productlon equlpment
whlch was not orlginally envisaged. Nevertheless, out of the total
approved loan amount of US$550,000, only US$499,000 was needed.



- 37 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 6
The Implementation of the project was delayed because of differences of
opinion among the original project promoters. The project was
reactivated by end 1985 by the Ravandison Group which enjoys a very
gooa reputation In the Malagasy business community and which, amongst
others, has good experience in the field of household hardware and
building material products. An expert of ECTI (the European licensor)
visited Madagascar In April 1986 to assist In the assembly of the
equipment. Production of the plant is currently scheduled to start in
1987. The subloan has a maturity of 10 years including a grace period
of 2 years. The first repayment is due on December 31, 1987. It
should be noted that the new project sponsor is now a Societe Anonyme
(SA) lncotporated stock company) with a share capital of FMG 120
million following the transformatLon of the SocietE Anonyma de la
Responsabilite LiitEe (SARL; liited partnership company) Into a SA in
December 1985.
4. Societe Textlle de Kajunga 'SOTEMAW - (A-4)
Subloan:     US$675,000
Disbursed:   US$675,000
SOTEHA is a Socilte Anonyme (SA) founded In 1967 with major
partlilpations by the SEDITEX group and BNI (which holds an equity
participation of 45.9Z).
The subloan was used for the partial financing of SOTEMA's imported
spare parts necessary for upgrading and recycling equipment to maintain
the plant's productivity. This Investment" was considered vital to
mitigate the negative impact caused by the lack of spare parts due to
unfavorable economic conditions. Together with other spare parts
financed by other sources, It was possible to decelerate the declining
productivity in spinning and weaving operations.
Nevertheless, given SOTEMA's 20 years old obsolete production
facilities and the need to successfully compete on export markets, a
large scale rehabilitation program has to be implemented. Such a major
program has already been prepared and the local authorities as well as
potential foreign suppliers of funds (DEG, IFC and EIB) have reached an
agreement in principle in 1986 concerning the first tranche estimated
at DM 24 million. The rehabilitation program is scheduled to be
implemented during t1987/88. The financing arrangement has been
completed in 1987 and the rehabilitation program is now being
implemented.
SOTEMA's sales rose from FMG 17.4 billion in 1984 to FMG 21.4 billion
in 1985. The company suffered deficits in 1984 (FMG 952 million) and
1985 (FMG 844 million) with positive cash flows in both years averaging
FMG 500 million p.a.



--38-
Annex 13
Page 4 of 6
5.  SMGI  SocigtS des Mines de la Grande Ile" (A-5)
Subloan:     US$275,000
Disbursed:   US$276,478.69
This company (SA) was founded in 1974; principal activities are
mining and export of graphite and operation of coffee plantations. The
proceeds of the subloan were used to purchase equipment and spare parts
needed for the rehabilitation of mining production facilities already
completely written-off. All investments were completed by the end of
1985.
Total sales rose from an annual average of FMG 800 million in 1983/84
to PMG 1.4 billion in 1985. Hovever, the firm suffered losses,
averaging 7MG 39 million p.a. during 1983-85 mainly because of low
world market prices for graphite and high financial charges. Demand
and price forecasts are favorable and it is expected that the company
will soon be profitable.
6. STAR (A-6)
Subloan:     US$270,000
Disbursed:   US$276,311.03
This company (SA) was founded In 1953.  Principal activity is the
production and distribution of beer and soft drinks. BNI has an equity
participation of 33.36Z.
The proceeds of the subloan (US$273,000) were used to finance the
foreign exchange cost of spare parts which were vital for the
functioning of relatively old production facilities. Delivery of all
Imported goods has been completed.
Although the company has projected increased operations, Its activities
have been constrained by unfavorable economic conditions, especially by
reduced Import licences for necessary raw materials. This situation
has had repercussions on the company's profitability and its financial
position. STAR management, therefore, has undertaken a financial
recovery program focussing in particular on capital increase, selective
debt rescheduling (involving Soci6ee  Gen6rale) and a medium term
consolidation of Its short term bank debt.
Sales rose from FMG 11.9 billion in 1983 to FMG 15.8 billion in 1985
(operating deficits FMG 1.1 billion and FMG 946 milliou, respectively.
Profits are expected to achieved in 1987 following the rehabilitation
program.



-39 -
ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 6
7.  Societe Arsene Louva (A-7)
Subloan      US$250,000
Disbursed:   US$258,600.30
Principal shareholders of this company, founded in 1958, are members of
the Louys family. Its main activity is the exploitation and export of
graphite.
The proceeds of the subloan were used to finance the foreign exchange
cost of the rehabilitation of 3 obsolete earth moving equLpment.
Initial cost estimates amounted to FMG 151 million; final figures
totalled FMG 209 million mainly due to the revaluation of the US$. The
imported equipment, originally scheduled to be available in 1984,
arrived only in early 1986 uainly because of delays in issuing the
necessary import licences. The Investment,-therefore, became
operational only in 1986 and its full impact on the company's
activities will, therefore, be felt only in 1987 and thereafter. Sales
increased from F1G 232 illion in 1984 to 1MG 323 million in 1985.
DurLng the first 10 months of 19896, sales reached already PMG 348
million. Increased production, higher graphite prices on world markets
and the effects of currency devaluation are expected to ensure a
healthy profitability.
The maturity of the subloan is 5 years and repayments started in
December 1986. In viev of the company's good financial position, it is
considering, prepayment of the subloan.
8. SIPED-"SocietC Industrielle des Produits Electrigues et DSrJvSs' (A-8)
Subloan:     US$690,000
Disbursed:   US$727,246.75
This firm was founded as a limited partnership (SARL) in 1971 by Piles
Wonder France and transformed Into a stock company (SA) in 1980. Its
main activity is the production of batteries.
BNI La major shareholder (95.25X of equity) after assumption of the
share capital held by the Wonder-France Group in 1984. A partial
offering of the sh, -.e capital currently held by BNI to nationals is
presently being co4idered.
The subloan was used to finance the purchase of 3 new production lines
for the manufacturing of plastic batteries in order to increase annual
productlon capacity from a current level of about 19 million to 36
million units.



-40-
Annex 13
Page 6 of 6
Initial cost estimates amounted to US$690,000, whereas actual cost
totalled US$727,000 due to general prlce increases. Moreover, the
value of this investment expressed in domestic currency Increased
significantly because of the revaluation of the US$.
The new equipment, initially planned to be available in 1984, was only
delivered in November 1985 because of administrative delays. The dew
machinery, therefore, did not become operational before 19b6.
Sales averaged FMG 2 billion p.a. in 1984/85 with operating profits of
FMG 288 million in 1984 and FMG 132 million in 1985. The company's
financial position is projected to remain satisfactory.
The terms of the subloan are 11 years of maturity including 3 years of
grace. The first repayment will be due on June 30, 1988.
Source: Based on information provided by BNI



HADAOAWCAR
UAIKIN' B IUMT llWoNl I)
Project Cc tltion !  oh rt (rapDort 4achvemnt du projet)
Studies Financed uder Credit 977-IAC
Batieted           Approwed
Cost              Amont        Dlhburseeents
Nam  of Study & Code      (l000 F1C)        (D56.000)      (US01.000)          Objective of Study          Summary Resulte
Suliding  aterial            7,180              21.0             19.5        Review of potenttal for        The study  naabled BNI to Identify projects related to
(FSI)                                                                   new SSE In the btAIding        the subeector (e.g. bress-foundiog, brick ed tile fec-
mtoeral aubeector in           tories), ad to better understand mrket c_dtSion  of
accordance with                this tnduetrial *ubsector. It was possible to prepare
development plan               projects (FICI, tile factory) or to stdy the  (brick
objectives,                    tactory). 'adver, thb  Preparation ad  inslou g of
these projects could not be completed becaue of unfa-
vorable economic condition  durtog the pest few yers.
Food Industries              8,500               18.0             5.4       hAeossmnt of                    This study enabled Ull to Identify a saber of projects
(FS3)                                                                   poesiblities to redue         (milk an  datiy products, cocoa, flour mill, soft
external dependence of the     driks, moat, fruits and veptables, alcoboltc bvev-
subsector. Rehabilitation      rages) and to assess packing problem. Concernng dlk
of existiSn  firm  and         and dairy products, the Socilti Kelgerehe des Produite
prootion of sore               La4tiere S currently underttakig inattmts In order
Integrated plants.             to proess milk collected In the Anteirable region
(establishmat of a dairy plant based on tresb milk to
prodsuo- butter, yogurt, ceam. etc.). Reperding fruits
and vegetables, a project to produce dried fruitto t
scheduled to be completed by beginnng 1987. Concern-
ing other food Induatry subeectors, project possbtilt-
tite bave been identifted and coma project Ideas bave
bean submitted to BWl.
Clue products and adhesives  4.140                8.0             6.8        Evaluation of possibili-       The study provided an ovrviev of the domestic markLt
(54)                                                                   tties for establishmant of      for glue products aod adhesives.  It enabled 3WI to
neu enterptres  or expan-      affectvely appraie finanitng requests   bmItted.
sion of exieting plants In    (The 531 subproject wa financed under the IDA credit
thia subeector.                and anotbr loao propoeal for the financing of
production of glue* is currently being studied).
Potato starch fectory of     6,003                7.0             9.1        Diagnots  and rebabili-        Based on the findinp oft the study. UI contacted
Karovitelka                                                                  tation study of  Sag-           potentlal financing institutions, in particular the
(FS)                                                                   buetne e  plant.               Frencb CCCE, with a view to stcurtag funding for the
rebabilltation of the plant. The project proposal was
also submitted to the Winietry of InduOtry, Energy and
Nines for an appreciation of the global problem of the
potato sterch factory.
Source: Based on information provided by bNI_
IDP Ditvi4lonl. Ea,tern and Snithurn Africa ReRton, June 1967
Dtviuion de Developpe.ent lnduistrtel at Financements,
REgton Atrique Australe et Orlentale, Jalln 1987.



- 42 -
ANNEX 15
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER           Page 1 of 8
Translation of incoming telex from Madagascar, dated December 28, 1987
From:    Tantely Andrianarivo
To:       Mr. Alexandre Nowicki,
(Division Chief, Evaluation of Macroeconomic
Adjustment Lending to Industry and the Energy Sector)
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Telex No: l1:27/BRD/TMR/MG
We have to inform you that, based on a preliminary read-through of
the draft Project Completion Report on Credit 977-MAG, we find that some of
the information and statements i" contains do not fall within our
institution's sphere of responsibility.
We have therefore contacted the other agencies involved, but, given
the fact that December 30 is a national holiday, we very much doubt whether
all our comments will be available by January 4, 1988.
We shall, however, make qvery effort to let you have our preliminary
comments during the week of January 4, 1988.
Kind regards and best wishes for the New Year. Tantely Andrianarivo.



- 43 -                   ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 8
Translation of incoming telex from Madagascar, dated January 7, 1987
From:     Tantely Andrianarivo
To:       Mr. Alexander Nowicki,
(Division Chief, Evaluation of Macroeconomic
Adjustment Lending to Industry and the Energy Sector)
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Telex No.:18:04/BRD/TNR/MG
Further to our telex dated December 28, 1987, we wish to inform you
that we are sending you today, under separate cover, BNI's preliminary
comments on the Project Completion Report for Credit 977-MAG.
In the case of those parts of the report that do not directly
concern us (particularly where macroeconomic and sectoral aspects are
discussed) we have asked the authorities concerned (the Ministry responsible
to the President for Financial and Economic Affairs and the Central Bank) to
let us have their comments.
We shall forward these comments to you as soon as we receive them in
writing.  Regards.   Tantely Andrianarivo.



- 44 -                   ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 8
BANKIN'NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
74 Rue du 26 Juin 1960
Antavanarivo, Madagascar
January 7, 1988
Our ref. No. 003 -DGL/SR/JR
Mr. Alexandre Nowicki
(Division Chief, Evaluation of Macroeconomic
Adjustment Lending to Industry and the Energy Sector)
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Subiect: Project Completion Report on
3BN1-Madagascar Project
Ref.:     Your letter dated November 30, 1987
Our telex of December 28, 1987
Sir:
We are writing further to our telex of December 28, 1987 and enclose
BNI's comments on the Project Completion Report for Credit 977-MAG.
We hasten to point out, however, that these are only preliminary
comments as of this date, focusing on the points that directly concern BNI.
With respect to the parts of the report that fall outside our sphere
of responsibility, dealing with macroeconomic considerations and underlying
problems, we have asked the appropriate authorities (specifically the Ministry
responsible to the President for financial and economic affairs and the
Central Bank) to let us have their comments.
We ahall be sure to pass on to you whatever observations these two
institutions send us, as soon as we receive them.
In the meantime we remain:
Yours etc.
(illegible signature)
BANKIN'NY INDOSTRIA



ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 8
A N N E X
COMMENTS OF BANKIN'NY INDOSTRIA ON THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FOR PROJECT 977-MAG
_*A*AAAA**AAA   AA********AwJ*i*A*** _******
The comnents can be divided into three categories:
A.   Those pointing out transcription or typographical errors;
B.   Those aiming to correct erroneous statements and information given
in the report;
C.   Those adding clarification, with the aim of providing a more
up-do-date or more accurate picture of the situation.
I.  CATEGORY A. COMMENTS
1.1  The page before the table of contents
The F`MG/US$ exchange rate at the end of May 1987 should be 833.00,
not 8343.00 (the figure is correct in the English version).
The abbreviation CNaPS stands for Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance
Sociale.
1.2 Page 3 (paragraph 1.07)
The fourth line should refer to an "FSA" instead of an "FAA" credit;
The fourteenth line should refer to "medium-" and large-scale
borrowers instead of "small-" and large-scale borrowers, which comes
closer to the truth and to the English version.
1.3 The annexes
Annex 1
Total staff numbered 1,076 in 1981, 1,131 in 1983 and 1,183 in 1986. Also,
the professional staff numbered 96 in 1986.
Annex 2
The amount disbursed to Panomad was US$122,000, not US$130,000.
Annex 4
The actual amount of short-term credits outstanding for 1980 was
FMG 50,088 million, not FRG 55,088 million.
Annex 8
Projected profit before tax and provisions amounted to FMG 3,700 million in
1982, not FMG 5,700 million.



- 46 -                     ANNEX 15
Page 5 of 8
Annex 9
The projected decrease in fixed assets was FMG 53 million in 198C. and the
cash and banks showed an actual balance of FMG 4,331 million in 1981, not
FMG 5,331 million.
Annex 12
The subloan extended to the Ratsimba project was FMG 10 million, not
FMG 5 million. The local currency cost of the SMIR subproject was
FMG 118 million and the foreign exchange cost was FMG 48 million.
II. CATEGORY B. COMMENTS
2.1 First page of the introduction
In paragraph 1.01, mention should be made that BNI assumed:
-    the industrial and social loan portfolio of the former BNM,
including equity holdings (and not only the term loan portfolio);
-    the entire portfolio of the former BCIM (and not only the industrial
loan portfolio).
In paragraph 1.02, BNI's FMG 4.5 billion share capital is
constituted as follows: 56.771 is owned by the Government, 6.671 by the
Central Bank, 19.901 by CNaPS, 8.33% by Societe d'Assurances ARO and 8.33%
by Soci&e d'Assurances Ny HAVANA (instead of 85% by the Government, 10% by
the Central Bank and 5% by CNaPS).
2.2 Question regarding onlending rate
This is mentioned on page 2 (paragraph 1.05), page 10 (paragraph
3.01(i) and on page 16 (paragraph 4.01).
While the Project Agreement clearly stipulated (Section 2.01(b))
that subloans should be extended at an interest rate of at least 8.5% per
annum, BNI was, in practice, not content with a spread of only 1% and issued
all the subloans under Credit 977-MAG at 9.51 per annum, to which it added a
commitment fee of between 1 and 1.51.
The parts mentioned above therefore need to be corrected
accordingly.
2.3 Annex 11
On the basis of borrower information, the number of permanent jobs
created should be 0 (instead of 30) in the case of SIPED and 14 (instead of
26) in the case of IARY.
The report's comments on employment should therefore be adjusted
accordingly (paragraph 4.07).



ANNEX 15
Page 6 of 8
III. CATEGORY C COMMENTS
3.1 Cumulative disbursement table (page ii)
The actual disbursement figures given in this table certainly
correspond with those established at the time the disbursement notices were
issued by the World Bank. Based on actual value dates (also shown on the same
disbursement notices), we confirm the figures we gave to the mission, which
are as follows:
1981         1982           1983          1984           1985           1986
0.1          1.1            2.3           3.1            4.4            5.0
3.2 Question regarding auditing
This question is raised several times in the report (on page (iii)
of "Highlights"; on page 4, paragraph 1.07; on page 12, paragraph 3.01(iii);
and on page 15, paragraph 3.04(iv)), all of which stress the fact that an
audit by one or more qualified firms was a prerequisite for the extension of
the deadline for submission of subprojects and of the closing date for
component B under Credit 1541-MAG.
Given the fact that the World Bank notified us, by telex dated
June 11, 1987 and signed by Mr. Isenman, that the extension had been approved,
following a decision to have BNI's portfolio audited by two associated firms
(local and international), we feel that this issue was actually resolved in
the end.
3.3 Page 2 (paragraph 1.04(ii)
With reference to this we want to point out that it was not so much
BNI that was hesitant in extending loans, but it was rather the potential
beneficiaries who, in light of the unfavorhble economic conditions and the
problems stemming from exchange risks, showed reluctance in proceeding with
their investments and in contracting loans denominated in foreign carrency.
3.4 Page 19 (paragraph 4.10)
Similarly, it is not accurate to say that BNI deliberately held back
on project promotion activities during this period. Rather, it was the
difficulties encountered with promotion (for the reasons mentioned above) that
prompted BNI to ease up temporarily in this area.
3.5 Page 10 (paragraph 3.01.(i))
The statement that assumption of the foreign exchange risk by
beneficiaries constituted a radical departure from BNI's past policy needs to
be qualified significantly.
In the first place, it must be kept in mind that in the past almost
all BNI's foreign exchange resources came from French lenders and since the
Malagasy franc was at fixed parity with the French franc, exchange risk
problems were minimal at the time.



ANNEX 15
- 48 -                      Page 7 of 8
However, well before April 1982 (when the Malagasy financial
authorities decided to eliminate the fixed parity and to establish floating
exchange rates for all foreign currencies) the loans extended by BNI from
foreign exchange funds were already subject to assumption of the foreign
exchange risk by the beneficiaries, due to the fact that they were denominated
in the respective currencies. This was true, for instance, in the case of all
financing covered by the lines of buyer credit opened, in particular, by
French banks such as Credit Industriel et Commercial, Caisse Nationale de
C-edit Agricole, Credit Commercial de France, etc.
It is still true to say, however, that this exchange risk problem is
a factor that penalizes the beneficiary and causes financial problems for many
enterprises. We have discussed this matter with all our World Bank contacts
on numerous occasions and are still waiting for an answer to the proposals we
put forward in connection with component B of Credit 1541-MAG.
3.6 Page 12 (paragraph 3.02)
With the opening of the Sambava branch (in northern Madagascar) this
year, BNI now has 14 regional offices.
In addition, the appointment of a new Assistant General Manager
(replacing one who retired) and the installation of a new Director of Foreign
Branches (also in replacement of another) are important points, on the subject
of organization, that we think would be worth stressing.
3.7 Page 13 (paragraph 3.03)
The claim that staff training programs are, in general, not well
adapted to BNI's needs also calls for qualification. To mention just two
examples, the Centre d'Etudes Financieres Economiques et Bancaires (CEFEB)
and the Centre International de Formation de la Profession Bancaire (CIFPB),
which have provided training to a large percentage of BNI's senior
professional staff, are centers that are internationally renowned for the
quality of their training programs.
We admit that there are deficiencies where technology and
engineering are concerned but efforts have been made to beef up this type of
training, with special focus on technology and data processing.
3.8 Page 14 (paragraph 3.04(i))
The report says that "at the technical level, the project appraisal
department of the Ministry of Industry seemed to be the virtually unchallenged
authority on investment appraisal in the public sector and chances for BNI
staff to decline such projects as a result of an independent in-house
appraisal were practically non-existent."
Generally speaking, the Ministry of Industry is an industrial
investment coordination department. Developers about to undertake investment
projects must therefore submit documentation to the Ministry in order to
obtain its approval. The Ministry screens the project for soundness, priority
ranking, timeliness, etc.



-49 -                       ANNEX 15
Page 8 of 8
This is why BNI has always sought the Ministry's approval:
-    either in advance, prior to any in-house appraisal;
-    or later, after in-house appraisal but prior to presentation to the
Board, which makes the final decision.
There have been cases where projects have not been approved by BNI
even after being authorized by the Ministry in advance.
3.9 Page 14 (paragraph 3.04(ii))
We should point out, where project supervision is concerned, that in
addition to the monitoring BNI conducted itself, the services of consulting
and supervisory firms (cabinets de surveillance) have been used with
increasing frequency.
3.10 Pase 24 (paragraph 5.08)
The low level of dividends is also due to the fact that in certain
cases BNI encouraged the enterprises not to pay out dividends in order to
strengthen their equity position (either in order to improve the balance sheet
structure or in order to be able to cover planned investments).
3.11 Page 28 (paragraph 6.05)
As for all the problems relating to procedure, organization and
management, we think you wontld do well to refer to the portfolio audit report
recently prepared by RINDRA-EUROSEPT, which highlights, among other things,
the efforts and progress made by BNI in these different areas.
January 7, 1988



NOTES



