Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 2456a-MAG
MADAGASCAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A FIRST IDA CREDIT
BANKIN'NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
January 10, 1980
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1   =  FMG210
FMG100 = US$0.48
ABBREVIATIONS
BCIM      -    Banque pour le Commerce et l'Industrie de Madagascar
BDPI      -    Bureau de Developpement et de Promotion Industriels
BFV       -    Banque Nationale pour le Commerce
BNI       -    Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Industriel
BNM       -    Banque Nationale Malagasy de Developpement
BTM       -    Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Rural
CCP       -    Centre de Cheques Postaux
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CNAPS     -    Caisse Nationale d'Assurances et de Prevoyance Sociale
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
IDA       -    International Development Association
SNI       -    Societe Nationale d'Investissement
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
BANKIN'NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA   ............................................. i - ii
I.    THE ENVIRONMENT
L                          A*.   The Industrial  Sector  . .............................
Background  .........................................    1
Changes  in Economic  Policy                  .........................    1
Recent  Performance  ...* .............   ........... ......                  4
Policies  ...................  --o .... . o ...........                       5
Promotion  ...... o   .................................                       5
Prospects  ., ............................ ........                           5
Artisans  ........... ....................... .......                         6
Small-Scale  Industries  (SSI's)  ........... 0.... .......    6
B.    The Financial Sector  .... ........  ................ .                        7
The Banking  System               ................................            7
Credit  Policy  ................... .. .............                          7
Inflation ................ . . . ....                                        8
Int'erest Rates  ....   *......8
II.    THE  INSTITUTION
A.  Institutional Aspects........    9
Background and Objectives  ................               ....a ......        9
Ownership, Board  ....................... .            ...... ..... .    9
Management,  Organization  and Staffing  ... o .........    10
Operating  Policies  .................................   10
Procedures  ............................. . ........    10
(a) Appraisal  . .............. .       .... .. ..............   10
(b) Follow-up    ........... ........................                    11
(c) Procurement .......................... -                        .  11
(d) Disbursements ......................  ...........  11
(e)  Project Promotion .....             ........................   11
Strategy  .......................................    11
Interest Rates  .... ..................................   11
< ~~~~~~~Audit  ,...*..........   -......... ...... 0...........   12-
This report was prepared by Messrs. Philippe Beuzelin, Jose-Luis Mombru
and Ben Lehbert on the basis of their visits to Madagascar in June and
November 1978.
This docunwnt ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oAciaW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discioSd without World Bank authorinztion.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                   Page No.
B.   Operations           ........................................   13
Main Features of Past Operations ..........*.........    13
BNI's Operations ............. .. ..  ......... ....... ..... .  13
Economic Impact . ..................... .. .  ........... .  14
C.    Financial Condition ................. .             .....  .    14
Loan Portfolio  ,.................................... .....      14
Equity Portfolio ....                .     ...... ............. .  15
Provisions  .      .....                     ......... .... .  15
Resources ................................. . ...... .  15
Financial Position ................... o ................. .......  16
Profitability ...o .....................................         16
D.   Prospects ......           ...............................        17
Forecast Operations ................................ ...   17
Resource Requirements . . .  ..... . o..o. .o... . . ..o. . . . . . . . . .  17
Projected Financial Condition and Performance .o.....  18
III.    THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives of Proposed First IDA Credit  ...  o......  19
B.   Description of the Project ........  oo ..... ...........  19
C.   Proposed Credit to BNI ...... oo...        -...-............  20
Terms and Conditions  ..................-                . ...  20
Project Cost Financing .............................  21
D.    Project Implementation    ...   -oo ......-...           ...    22
Reporting Requirements ...............o.               ...-o.....  22
Procurement ........o............. --                . ....... . .  22
Disbursement. .... .        .      . -.        .......... ...  22
E.   Benefits and Risks ...... o.....           .... .........  23
IV.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...... o.....  23



Table of Contents (Continued)                                       Page No.
ANNEX NO.
1   Madagascar - Interest Rate Structure .......... ......    25
2    BNI - Draft Statement of Rules of Operations**-...-.   26
3    BNI - Summarized Balance Sheet 1977-1979 ............   29
4    BNI - Summarized Income Statement at 1977-79 ........   30
5    BNI - Project Pipeline at End 1978 .      ................   31
6   BNI - Projections of Operations 1979-82   ............   32
7   BNI - Projected Balance Sheets 1979-82 ....     .........   33
8    BNI - Projected Income Statements 1979-82  ...........   34
9   BNI - Projected Sources and Uses of Funds 1979-82         35
10   BNI - Schedule of Disbursements ....................   36
11   BNI - Selected Documents and Data Available in
the Project File   .              .37






MADAGASCAR
BANKTN' NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
BASIC DATA
Date Established: 1977
Ownership (as of December 1, 1979)
FMG (billion)       %
Government                                             2.7            85
Central Bank                                           0.2            10
Social Security Fund                                   0.1             5
TOTAL                                                2.0           100
Resource Position (as of September 30, 1979)
(FMG million)
Sources
Equity Funds                                      Local         Foreign        Total
Share Capital (net of fixed assets)               694            -             694
Reserves and Provisions                         6,572            -          6,572
Forecast Reserve from 1979 Profit                 750            -            750
Total Equity Funds                   8,016            -           8,016
Borrowings
Post Administration                             1,000            -          1,000
Treasury                                        1,233            -           15233
Social Security Fund                              450           -             450
KfW                                               -             260            260
CCCE                                              -             524            524
Total Borrowings                     2,683           784          3,467
Other Resources
Term Deposits (more than 18 months)               332            _             332
Rediscounting Potential for Term-Credits    ____0li              -          2,031
Total                                2,343            -           2,343
TOTAL RESOURCES                     13,042           784         13,826
Uses
Term Loan Portfolio (net of rediscounting)   6,130               -          6,130
Equity Investment                               3,777                        3,777
9,907            -          9,907
Resources Available for Disbursements             3,135           784          3,919
Undisbursed Commitments                         1,160            -          1,160
Resources Available for Commitments               1975             -          2759
Uncommitted Approvals                             748            -             748
Resources Available for Approvals                 1,227           784          2,011



Approvals
(FMG million)                                   197          1978         1979
(At 9/30)
Term Loans                                     400        2,909        1,832
Equity Investments                             200           469         512
Total                                600        3,378        2,344
Operating Results
(FMG million)
Net Profit (after provisions)                  738.4        839.3        800.3
Net Profit as % of Average Net Worth            12.2         13.5         11.7
Net Profit as % of Year-End Share Capital       36.9         41.9        n.a.
Financial Position
Net Worth                                    5,952        6,478        7,221
Total Assets                                54,280      60,990        75,453
Term Debt/Equity                                 0.7          0.5          0.5
Interest Rates and Other Charges
Interest Rates: 1/      6.o - 8.o %
Commitment Fee:         O.63- 1.50%
1/ Charged on the total outstanding of the loan during the]ife of the loan.



MADAGASCAR
BANKIN' NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. THE ENVIRONMENT
A.   The Industrial Sector 1/
1.01      Background.  At Independence in 1960, Madagascar possessed very
little industry, mostly the processing of foodstuff and minerals for domestic
consumption or export. Industrial production accounted for only 5% of GNP.
The new Government actively encouraged industrial development whilst retaining
very close ties with France. It created favorable conditions for business by
means of the Investment Code (1961) and a system of protection against foreign
competition, whilst setting up new institutions such as the Societe Nationale
d'Investissement (SNI), the Banque Nationale Malagasy de Development (BNM),
the Bureau de Developpement et de Promotion Industriels (BDPI). Value added
by industry increased at 6% per annum in real terms from 1966 to 1971.
1.02      However, the industrial sector had several problems.  A dispropor-
tionate part of business was in non-Malagasy hands. There were roughly 400
enterprises in 1974, but the largest 80, which accounted for 70 to 75% of
value added in the sector, were almost entirely owned or controlled by for-
eigners, mostly French. A very high proportion of smaller businesses were
owned by entrepreneurs originating from the Indian subcontinent and often
holding French passport. The industrial structure was not an integrated one,
but was mostly composed of simple industries, either catering to local con-
sumption or processing local raw materials for export. Much industry being
concerned with foodstuffs, output was restricted by the marketed agricultural
product and subject to severe fluctuations. The geographical distribution of
industry was very uneven, most being concentrated around Tananarive 2/. The
high costs and difficulties of transport over most of the country, and the
greater poverty of other regions were the main reasons for
this lopsided distribution of industry.
1.03      Changes in Economic Policy.  The political changes of 1972 brought
about a change in basic economic policy. (a) It became the declared policy to
Malgachize business and a number of large enterprises were brought under state
control by a partial or complete acquisition of their capital. (b) The Govern-
ment also declared that key industries would be reserved to the state.
(c) Madagascar left the Franc zone in 1973 and applied strict controls over
the import and the transfer of money abroad. (d) Foreign enterprises were
obliged to establish legal domicile in the country. (e) A new Investment Code
was promulgated in 1973.
1/   Defined to comprise manufacturing but not mining and energy, which in
some Malagasy statistics are included in the sector.
2/   There is now some concentration of industry in the port of Tamatave,
mainly in petroleum refining and related products.



- 2 -
1.04      With the advent of the present Government in 1975, the systematic
restructuring of the whole economic system began and the socialist aspects
of policy were formulated much more explicitly. All banks and insurance
companies were nationalized in June 1975 and work started on preparing long-
term plans for the economic development of Madagascar. The system being
created rests essentially on five basic features:
(i) The Charter of the Socialist Revolution of 1975;
(ii)  The Law on Socialist Planning (December 1977);
(iii)  The Charter of Socialist Enterprises of May 1978;
(iv)  The program of decentralization;
(v)  The Investment Code (originally of 1973, being revised).
1.05      The process of nationalization began in 1973, but it was the Charter
of the Socialist Revolution that gave, for the first time, formal ideological
and economic meaning to actions that might otherwise have appeared haphazard.
It includes among the objectives of the Government eventual control of the
principal means of production and the nationalization of all mineral wealth.
It also advocates reducing Madagascar's heavy dependence on foreign trade.
The promulgation of the Charter of Socialist Enterprises in May 1978 clari-
fied the new system which is designed to permit the state to determine the
overall direction of the economy by means of the enterprises and corporations
it controls, whilst granting the autonomy necessary for efficient management,
1.06      The Charter of Socialist Enterprises defines as socialist enter-
prises those of strategic importance in which the state owns or controls,
directly or through the holdings of other state enterprises, 51% or more of
the shares (with the implication that the state will not seek to control
enterprises to which it does not attach key importance). Each enterprise
is to be managed by a committee composed of representatives of the state, of
local institutions (when appropriate), of workers' representatives, and of
partners of the state, meaning private investors and organizations belonging
to other cooperating countries. In addition, the enterprise will have a
managing director nominated by the Prime Minister on the advice of the Managing
Committee, and bound by a personal contract to the enterprise. Socialist
enterprises are grouped into sectors, the industrial sectors being textiles
and leathers; wood and derived products; foodstuffs; mechanical and electrical
industries and chemical industry.
1.07      Each sector will have a Policy Council (Conseil d'Orientation)
responsible for deciding on the sector's policy in conformity with the Plan.
This Council also proposes to the Prime Minister the state's representatives
on the managing committees, the committees' chairmen (who cannot be managing
directors) and auditors for the enterprises. The committees and the managing
directors are jointly answerable to the Councils.



- 3 -
1.08      Each Council is composed of state representatives; of members
of the national assembly; of representatives of managing committees of the
sector; workers' delegates, and representatives, as appropriate, of the
sector's socialist cooperatives. It is presided over by one of the state
representatives. The Councils are answerable, jointly and severally, to
the Supreme Council of the Revolution.
1.09      Profits, after a small allocation to the enterprise's reserves,
are divided into four parts: the part Df the state, i.e., taxes; the part
of the workers (mainly for their collective benefit); the part of the nation
and the part of the entrepreneur. The nation's part can be reinvested in
the enterprise if the entrepreneur so invests his part, otherwise it will
be invested elsewhere or placed in a national loan fund to earn interest.
1.10      The Law on Socialist Planning and the Plans describes itself as
the legal instrument for translating the "fundamental options of the Charter
of the Socialist Revolution" into operational terms. It prescribes that
planning will be done with three kinds of plans: long-term, medium-term
(3-6 years) and short-term. It also provides for a Supreme Council for the
plan, sectoral committees and plan committees for the decentralized bodies
at all levels. The law describes some of the development targets to be
attained and the evolution prescribed for the economic system.
1.11      The Program for Decentralization, which is not yet fully developed,
envisages a system of decentralized planning with different tiers and in
which the decentralized bodies will be able to undertake projects on their
own initiative.
1.12      The Investment Code of 1973 was promulgated in order to replace
the Code of 1962 which was felt to be unsuited to the policy of malgachiza-
tion and to the greater part the state was expected to play in the economy.
It offers two alternatives to investors:
(1)  Agreement.  Under this alternative,import duties on equipment,
excise on products and taxes on profits can be reduced or waived.
The enterprise can also be granted priority in the allocation of
foreign exchange and in the sale of goods and services to the state
and its enterprises. The agreement which in the case of existing
enterprises is referred to as "encouragement" cannot exceed 5 years
and is not renewable.
(2) Participation. Here the state enters into the investment as
a partner and the contract between the parties becomes law.
1.13      Eligible for these incentives are enterprises that promise to be
of particular economic benefit, especially technically and financially,
but purely domestic commercial enterprises are excluded. The beneficiaries
undertake to fulfill a precise program of investment, production, prices,



4
training, malgachisation and plowing back of profits. The Code provides
for temporary relaxation of the process of malgachisation when necessary.
This 1973 Code is presently being revised to include more explicitly the
socialist enterprise but its main provisions are likely to remain unchanged.
1.14      Recent Performance.  Since 1972, industrial production has developed
very unevenly from one branch to the other and overall industrial growth
has been slow, as output increases up to 1974 were partly cancelled out by
the recession during 1975/76. Since then output has recovered and in most
branches reached or exceeded the levels of 1974. As statistics on industrial
production have been based on limited samples only since 1975, output figures
have to be interpreted with caution, but on the basis of the sample surveys
and related data (electric power consumption) it can be estimated that overall
ouput increased by 2 to 3% per annum in real terms during 1972-77 and now
accounts for about 10% of GDP. This average disguises wide differences in
performance. For instance, the two major industrial branches (textiles and
food and beverages) which each account for about one-third of industrial
output fared quite differently: textiles grew by 5-6% per annum while the
output of food and beverages declined by about 1% per annum. Some growth in
output (between 1 and 5% per annum) was registered by the tobacco, leather,
rubber, paper and chemical industries, while output of construction materials,
transport equipment, petroleum products and wood products declined (also
between 1 and 5% per annum) 1/.
1.15      The reasons for declining or stagnating output in these industries
are varied: (a) shortage of domestic inputs (mainly food industry); (b) short-
age of imported inputs (mainly transport, equipment, metalworking); (c) de-
pressed demand (mainly construction materials) 2/.
1.16      Information on capacity utilization is available only for some indus-
trial branches. It appears that the textiles, paper, cement, and chemical
industries worked close to capacity, while capacity utilization in the food
industry, construction materials (other than cement), transport equipment and
petroleum products was relatively low although, in many industries, capacity
has already been considerably reduced by the age and condition of plant,
mostly because investment in industrial plant has remained low since 1972,
partly as a reaction to the changing economic policy framework. On the basis
of very global estimates, for instance, it appears that investments in industry
in real terms in 1976/77 were less than half of those in 1972.
1.17      The low level of investments is not necessarily a reflection of
lagging profits.  Again, there appear to be wide variations, with some stag-
nating industries incurring losses, but others -- mainly among the growing
branches -- making reasonable profits, although overall profitability in real
1/   Exact data are not available as the sample figures are in current prices
and volume data for output of industrial products are available only for
a few items.
2/   The decline in the output of petroleum products was due mainly to the
loss of markets in the Comoros and Reunion, which stopped purchasing
products from the refinery in Tamatave.



terms has been limited in some sectors, largely because of strict control
over some sale prices (mainly consumer goods) exercised by the authorities
and the increase in the cost of inputs including wages. There are no firm
employment statistics for the sector but manufacturing employment in 1976
can be estimated at 45,000.
1.18      Policies.  The Government's basic objective is to control the
economic decision-making bodies and to define their activities on the basis
of national needs and priorities. This is considered to be a necessary
step to overcome the colonial heritage and to achieve a socialist society.
The present situation is characterized by the creation of new structures
in all economic sectors specifically tailored to achieve this objective
and industrial policies are geared toward building-up a domestic industry to
satisfy local needs. Exports are seen as an added -- marginal -- possibility
at this stage. Employment creation is a priority objective but superseded
when necessary by the need to create -- and develop -- strategically important
industries which may require more capital intensive investment.
1.19      Promotion.  The Bureau de Developpement et de Promotion Industriels
(BDPI) was created in 1966 to assist Madagascar's overall industrial develop-
ment. Its main activities have consisted in screening project ideas, preparing
feasibility studies for some projects, looking for potential investors and
providing technical and managerial assistance to entrepreneurs. However, only
a few of these projects were actually implemented. It is also responsible for
providing technical assistance to SSI's; however in practice its activities in
that field have been very limited due to a lack of adequate manpower resources,
which in turn is mainly due to the low level of Government salaries.
1.20      Prospects.  The new Government initially showed little interest
in industrial development, other than to "Malgachize" the sector. The new
economic system remains unclear in many respects but consciously leaves
the door open for substantial private activity in the industrial sector,
principally in small- and medium-sized enterprises. Although there is always
the question on how the private sector will react to the changes in economic
policy (para. 1.03) there are increasing signs that show the positive sides of
the Government's interest in and policy towards the industrial sector. In
turn, the private sector is increasingly ready to play by the rules of the
game. Indeed, and in addition to active -- sophisticated -- Malagasy private
investors, there is a group of people in Madagascar with very substantial
investible funds -- which cannot be shifted out of the country because of
foreign exchange regulations -- who have shown an increasingly keen interest
in investing in industry as the best way to put their capital to productive
use. These are the traders of Indian and Pakistani origins, whose commercial
operations were nationalized -- with compensation -- when the Government
decided to take control in the major sectors of the economy, including whole-
sale trade.
1.21      The 1978-80 development plan aims at an industrial output growth
of 10.77% per annum compared to 5.75% for the economy as a whole. The bulk of
these investments is scheduled for various large industrial plants, but the
residual for small- and medium-sized industry still would amount to FMG17



-6-
billion for 1978-80, or about FMG6-7 billion for 1979 and 1980 each. These
objectives which do reflect the emphasis that the Government wants to put on
industry, are probably somewhat optimistic.
1.22      Artisans.  Malagasy legislation defines the artisan as a manual
worker working alone, with members of his family or with a few helpers.
It is estimated that artisans in Madagascar number about 100,000
i.e., 1.2% of the total population and 2.8% of the labor force. Although it
is not possible to quantify the significance of the sector to the economy
because of the lack of production statistics at the artisan level, it appears
that it provides a substantial amount of the country's consumer goods
and tools. Data on total exports of artisan products are not available,
but the potential seems good. Indeed, CETA, an agency created by the Govern-
ment in 1962 to develop the artisan sector, sold abroad FMG350 million worth
of Malagasy handicrafts in 1977, 80% of which was basketry and the remainder
mostly gemstone crafts. Artisan activity is spread throughout the country
with a heavy concentration in the Hauts Plateaux, specially around the city
of Tananarive. Most private artisan workshops are located either inside or
adjacent to the owner's house while cooperatives are often housed in make-
shift quarters. The majority of artisans living in the rural areas tend to
perform work on a seasonal basis, from May to September. During the rest of
the year, they are small farmers. In the towns, one tends to find mostly
full time artisans. Monthly salaries vary, according to profession and
whether the artisan works full or part time between an extremely low level
of FMG3-4,000 per month and FMG30,000. Constraints to the development of
artisans are: difficulty in obtaining local raw materials at reasonable
prices and imported raw materials; lack of adequate technical and design
know-how; difficult access to the wider domestic market and to the export
market; difficulty in obtaining loans for the expansion and improvement
of work facilities and for working capital. The Government which is aware
of both the potential and the problems of the artisans is presently trying
to implement a National Development Plan for the sector. The World Bank
was invited to participate in the financing of this project and reviewed
the proposed Plan. It concluded that the Plan puts too much emphasis on the
administrative framework and not enough on production and marketing of artisan
goods. The Bank suggested a modified approach and a dialogue is being pursued
with the Government on the matter.
1.23      Small-Scale Industries (SSI's).  In Madagascar, SSIs are generally
defined as enterprises which employ from 5 to 30 workers, and have assets of
up to FMG15 million (US$70,000). In addition to greater size, one of the
essential differences between the artisan enterprises and the SSI's is that,
in the latter, ownership and management can be differentiated. Because of
lack of statistics, it is not possible to ascertain the economic significance
of SSI's in Madagascar, but they seem to be considerably fewer than artisans.
More than half of SSI's are concentrated in the Province of Tananarive. The
main activities of the sector include food processing, printing, transport,
and construction. The production techniques they use are in general non-
modern and their owners frequently lack required technical and financial know-
how. Constraints to their development are basically the same as those of the
artisans. There appears to be some potential for further SSI development
in the context of a relative revival of the country's private sector (para.
1.19).



-7-
B.   The Financial Sector
1.24      The Banking System.  Until mid-1975, the banking system in Madagas-
car consisted of the Central Bank, four commercial banks partly foreign-owned
and a development bank, BNM, owned by the Malagasy Government and the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). At that time, the Malagasy
Government assumed control of the entire banking sector by purchasing CCCE's
shares in BNM, by nationalizing the four commercial banks and by appointing
Malagasy nationals as managers of the financial institutions. However, the
structure of the banking system remained unchanged. In 1977, the Government
restructured the system by merging the development bank and the four commer-
cial banks into three sectorally specialized banks: the National Bank for
Industrial Development (BNI), the National Bank for Rural Development (BTM),
and the National Bank for Commerce (BFV). Despite their sectoral specializa-
tion, the three banks are in competition for collecting deposits and also to
some extent for extending credit to individuals or enterprises outside their
sector of specialization. Furthermore, because of imbalances of resources,
the three banks must often pool resources in consortium loans to meet cor-
porate financing needs. The following table presents some information on
the three banks:
As of 12/31/78
(FMG billion)
BNI     BFV      BTM     TOTAL
Total Assets                            60.9    46.8    45.7       153.4
Short-term deposits from clients
-  FMG billion                          32.1    20.9    22.7        75.7
- % of total deposits in the
financial sector                    42%     28%      30%
Loan portfolio
- FMG billion                           42.8    26.4    30.5        99.7
- % of total lending in
the financial sector                43%     26%      31%        -
Staff                                    963    1000   1,217      3,180
Branch Offices                            13       24      41         78
BNI is larger than BFV and BTM in terms of total assets and short-term
deposits from clients.  Furthermore, BNI accounts for a larger share of credit
(43%) than the other two institutions despite a smaller staff and less branch
offices. This results mainly from the transfer to BNI of all the industrial
term portfolio of the former BNM and, to a lesser degree, from the larger
loans made recently by BNI to its industrial clients.
1.25      Credit Policy.  In the context of a centrally planned economy like
Madagascar, the decision making process for the allocation of resources is
largely centralized. Although market forces do play a role in this respect,
they are only secondary. The main objective of the credit policy in Madagascar



- 8 -
is to limit overall credit expansion to a level consistent with internal
and external stability while increasing the share of credit for production
and credit directed to Malagasy enterprises. To fulfill these objectives,
the Central Bank relies on quantitative and qualitative instruments. Quan-
titative controls consist of an overall target on credit for consumption,
production and exports and on monthly rediscount ceilings which are set
periodically for each individual bank on the basis of its liquidity position
and its expected needs. The qualitative instruments consist of advance
authorization by the Central Bank for short-term credit to firms whose total
outstanding bank credit is in excess of FMG100 million and minimum ratios
according to which banks are mandatorily required to devote 6.5% of their
demand deposits to finance medium-term loans and 15% for short-term credit
to Malagasy nationals.
1.26      Following the reform of the banking system, the Central Bank is
assessing the effectiveness of policy instruments used until now. Pending
the results of this evaluation, it has suspended the automatic application
of most credit policies and operates on an ad hoc basis.
1.27      Inflation.  Between 1975 and 1977, inflation in Madagascar, measured
by the cost of living index in Tananarive -- which is a weighted average of
consumer price indices of low and high income households -- followed a
decreasing trend and averaged 6.8% (9.4% in 1975, 6.7% in 1976, 4.2% in 1977
and 6.8% in 1978) throughout the period. The decrease in the index in 1977
was partly due to Government's decision to reduce the price of rice which has
a significant weight in the consumer basket. For the next few years, prices
are expected to increase somewhat faster (perhaps, 10-12%) due to inflationary
pressures created by expansionary fiscal policies.
1.28      Interest Rates.  Because of the centralized decision making on
investments and the allocation of credit, interest rates do not play a sig-
nificant role in resource allocation in Madagascar and the structure presented
in Annex 1 has remained practically unchanged since the end of 1974. The
Central Bank's rediscount rate for short-term paper is set at 5.50% (except
for export bills for which the rate is 4%). The rediscount rate for medium-
term paper stands at 5% except for small business credits of less than FMG5
million extended to Malagasy nationals for which the rate is 3.75%.
1.29      On medium-term loans (2-5 years) that are rediscountable by the
Central Bank, the three banks (BNI, BTM and BFV) charge to enterprises,
except small-scale enterprises, in all sectors, rates which vary between
6.25 and 7.25% depending upon the risk associated with the specific lending
operations. Loans to small-scale enterprises vary between 5 and 5.75%. The
rate on consumer and housing loans is 7.50%. On medium-term loans that are
not rediscountable by the Central Bank, the authorized rates for loans to
enterprises and individuals vary between 6.75% and 10%. In addition, a
commitment fee of 0.5% to 1.5% is charged to the borrowers. On long-term
loans (more than 5 years), the rates vary between 7 and 9% depending on
the cost of the resources. A. commitment fee of 1 to 1.50% is also charged.
Interest rates on deposits range from 0.75% to 7.5% depending upon the
maturity and the size of deposits.



- 9 -
1.30      Present interest rates in Madagascar are low in relation to pro-
jected inflation and some upwards adjustments are probably in order to bring
the structure more in line with the expected inflation rate in the country
(para. 1.27). This matter was discussed during negotiations and the Govern-
ment's representatives agreed that in the event the inflation rate in Madagascar
would increase substantially in the future, the Government would consider
raising the interest rates.
II. THE INSTITUTION
A.   Institutional Aspects
2.01      Background and Objectives.  BNI, created in January 1977 as a
result of the 1976 banking reform, took over the term loans and equity 1/
portfolio of the former Banque Nationale Malagasy de Developpement (BNM)
in the industrial sector, and assumed the industrial loan portfolio of the
former Banque pour le Commerce et l'Industrie de Madagascar (BCIM), a
commercial bank nationalized in 1976. BNI is primarily responsible for
promoting the development of industry and handicraft through short, medium
and long-term loans, and equity investments. It also finances individual and
collective housing and provides loans to households for domestic equipment.
2.02      Ownership, Board.  BNI is a socialist enterprise with a share
capital of FMG2 billion owned by the State (85%), the Central Bank (10%) and
the Social Security Fund (5%). BNI's Board (Comite de Gestion) which is
common to the country's three banks -- is chaired by the Minister of Finance
and Planning and composed of the General Managers of the Central Bank and
the Finance Ministry and of the former General Manager of the Ministry
of Economy and Commerce. This composition is likely to be modified to
include representatives of the staff and management of BNI but this should
not affect the Board's effectiveness. The Board meets on an ad hoc basis,
to examine and discuss projects submitted by BNI's management or policy
matters, but its members are informally available for discussion with
BNI's Management at any time and have been playing an effective role in
supporting and guiding BNI's management. BNI's General Manager is author-
ized to approve without consultation with the Board secured loans up to
FMGIOO million, unsecured loans up to FMG20 million and equity investments
up to FMG20 million per investment.
2.03      According to the Charter of Socialist Enterprises, a Policy Council
(Conseil d'Orientation) will oversee the activities of enterprises in each of
fifteen sectors of economic activities 2/ (para. 1.06). The Policy Council
1/   In 1973, BNM had itself absorbed the Societe Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI), an equity investment company.
2/   These sectors are:  agricultural production, fisheries, cattle, water
and energy, transport, mining and extractive industries, public works
and housing, trade and distribution, textile and leather, wood products,
food industries, mechanical and electrical industries, chemical indus-
tries, services.



-10 -
for banks, to be created at a date not yet specified, should review the
operating policies of all banks in the country.
2.04      Management, Organization and Staffing.  BNI is headed by a Malagasy
national, the former General Manager of the Banque Nationale Malagasy de
Developpement (BNM). He is assisted by managers formerly with BNM and BCIM.
BNI's management is competent, experienced, and dynamic. BNI's organization,
which includes nine departments reflects its dual role as a development and
a commercial bank and is adequate for the institution's role and objectives.
However, there is need to strengthen BNI's technical capabilities for
project preparation and appraisal. Management is aware of this deficiency
and is taking steps through staff recruitment and training to remedy the
situation. The technical assistance component of the proposed line of credit
is intended to help management in its efforts (para. 3.02). BNI's staff,
which is composed of Malagasys only, presently totals 963 persons, of whom
about 634 in Tananarive and 329 in the thirteen branch offices.
2.05      Operating Policies.  At present, BNI applies the policies of the
former BNM for its industrial medium and long-term loans, as its Board of
Directors has not yet approved formally a policy statement for the institu-
tion. These policies are adequate, except that specific clauses dealing
with the following matters need to be adopted by BNI's Board: exchange risk
on foreign borrowings not to be taken by BNI, limits on BNI's exposure
overall and in individual projects, more precise definition of BNI's role
and criteria for project selection. During negotiations, a draft Statement
of Rules of Operations 1/ that consolidates all BNI's policies, including the
new clauses (Annex 2) was discussed and formally agreed upon. BNI's Board of
Directors has now approved this document.
2.06      Procedures.  BNI's procedures for project appraisal, follow-up
procurement and disbursement have not yet been spelled out in writing.
There is a need to formalize procedures and to that end management is prepar-
ing an Operational Manual.
2.07      (a) Appraisal.  As BNI was born from the merger of a development
bank and a commercial bank, the somewhat opposite influence of each of the
two former institutions is being felt. While the former BNM staff and manage-
ment want fairly detailed and analytical project appraisal reports, those
who came from BCIM are in favor of short, commercial bank type reports.
Appraisal reports, tend to be a compromise between these two attitudes and
are not as comprehensive as they should be to justify investment proposals.
In addition, they do not include in their economic analysis a calculation of
the economic rate of return (EROR). BNI management has agreed that BNI's
future appraisal reports will be more comprehensive and a format including
EROR calculation for medium/large scale industrial projects was discussed and
agreed upon during negotiations.
1/ During negotiations, at the request of the Malagasy delegation it was
agreed that BNI's Policy Statement would be formally referred to as
"Rules of Operations".



- 11 -
2.08      (b) Follow-Up.  BNI does not have a comprehensive data reporting
system for projects under supervision which is made essentially through the
monitoring of the short-term credit accounts of clients. There are no periodic
visits to projects being implemented or in operations. Although BNI management
believes the present system is generally adequate, it does need to be sig-
nificantly improved, both in content and periodicity. The matter was
discussed during negotiations and appropriate supervision policies and pro-
cedures were agreed upon.
2.09      (c) Procurement.  As a normal procedure, BNI requires the borrower
to submit several pro forma invoices. However, as BNI does not have the
necessary technical staff, it relies on the selection of the project equip-
ment and the supplier upon the judgment of the Industry Division of the
Ministry of Economy and Commerce and on the opinion of the Bureau de
Developpement et de Promotion Industriels (BDPI). The present system
is adequate but it will be improved once BNI will have recruited its own
technical staff to supervise procurement matters.
2.10      (d) Disbursements are made against presentation of invoices.  BNI
starts disbursements on its loans only after the promoter has used his own
resources. Long-term loans are utilized first, followed by medium-term
loans. BNI's disbursement procedures are adequate.
2.11      (e) Project Promotion.  Until now, BNI has not been very active in
project promotion for various reasons. First, it did not have the necessary
manpower resources to be seriously engaged in these activities; second,
during the first two years of existence of BNI, management attention and
resources were concentrated mainly in ensuring the success of the merger of
the two institutions that formed BNI; third, the volume of operations was high
enough to make the institution financially viable. Management believes that
the time has now come for a more active role in industrial project promotion.
The proposed IDA Credit would assist BNI in its effort by providing technical
assistance for the development of its Project Promotion Department.
2.12      Strategy.  BNI strategy is essentially to assist the Government in
its efforts to develop an industrial base that is geared toward Madagascar's
priorities and needs and that includes mainly local entrepreneurs. In apply-
ing this strategy BNI is being increasingly called upon to act as a financial
adviser to the Government on very large projects such as fertilizers (FMGIO
billion investments), ferrochrome, railroads, etc. For medium-size projects,
defined as those with investments up to about FMG400-500 million, BNI provides
financial resources under the form of loans and/or equity investments.
Finally BNI intends to provide increasing assistance for the development of
small-scale enterprises.
2.13      Interest Rates.  BNI presently charges interest rates which vary
between 6 and 8% depending on the risk situation of the borrowers. In addi-
tion, it charges a commission varying between 0.63% and 1.50%. This is in
fact a supplement to the interest rate as the commission applies to the
amounts outstanding during the whole life of the loan. On that basis, the



- 12 -
total interest charged by BNI on its loans is presently 8.50%, with some
exceptions marginally above or below. Discussions during appraisal on the
possibility of raising interest rate for industrial lending through BNI
met with opposition from BNI and the Central Bank. They stated that the
Government intended to review the interest rate structure and that they could
not agree at this stage to an across-the-board increase for industrial
lending.
2.14      Understandably, the Government does not want to increase overall
rates at a time when it is debating on a new structure which could represent
lower rates for some activities and IDA's line of credit, representing a
small proportion of BNI's resources cannot be used as a leverage to propose
changes to the country's overall interest rate structure at this time.
We recommend, however, that regardless of the changes that could be intro-
duced in the rate structure, the Government should agree that BNI would
charge on medium- and long-term loans to its IDA financed industrial clients
a minimum rate of 8.5% and that the final borrowers would assume the foreign
exchange risk, with the exception of artisans/SSE for which the Government
would take it against payment of a 1% fee. As the average cost of BNI re-
sources is low (3.9%) and its commercial operations very profitable, a spread
of about 1% on the IDA credit would be adequate.
2.15      The proposed rate is in line with those charged by other financial
institutions in Madagascar and by shifting to the final borrower the foreign
exchange risk, the arrangement would bring the cost of borrowing by industrial
enterprises more in line with the cost of capital on international markets.
Furthermore, in relation to international inflation which is the key factor
here because the sub-borrowers would assume the foreign exchange risk, the
actual rate is likely to be positive except for loans made to artisans/SSEs
with the small proposed pilot SSE financing component (para. 3.02(b)) for
which final rates -- at 9.5% including fees for foreign exchange risk coverage
-- are likely to be marginally below positive rates. The amounts involved
are, however, very small and the impact of such distortion very marginal.
Finally this first operation by IDA would permit the start of a dialogue
with the Government on industrial policies, including interest rates, at a
time when the role of the industrial sector in the economy is going to be
greatly enhanced.
2.16      Audit.  Until recently BNI accounts were reviewed by external
accountants "commissaires aux comptes" but they had not been audited yet.
BNI management agreed that the institution's accounts would be audited
annually in the future, by a qualified Malagasy CPA firm, which has already
performed satisfactorily audits for two projects financed by the Bank Group.
The first audit report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1978 has been
submitted to IDA.  The report which is satisfactory provides a clear picture
of BNI's situation.



- 13 -
B.   Operations
2.17      Main Features of Past Operations.  Annual approvals of term financ-
ing operations carried out by the two institutions which formed BNI (para.
2.01) averaged about FMG2 billion per annum in the period 1966-76 1/. There
are no data available concerning the main features of these past operations
total interest charged by BNI on its loans is presently 8.50%, with some
exceptions marginally above or below. Discussions during appraisal on the
possibility of raising interest rate for industrial lending through BNI met
nor the annual level of equity investments and the overall level of commit-
ments and disbursements throughout that period. Consequently, in order
to ascertain the main characteristics of the operations financed before
BNI's creation in 1977, one has to rely on the analysis of BNI's term and
equity portfolio as it results directly from these past operations.
2.18      More than half of BNI's FMG8.1 billion term portfolio at December
31, 1977 was in industrial projects, the rest in housing (about 15%), public
works (10%) and transportation (6%) with tourism and agriculture representing
marginal proportions. Equity investments -- totalling FMG2.4 billion -- at
12/31/77 were overwhelmingly in the industrial sector. The overall industrial
portfolio, 2/ is well diversified, mostly among activities using local raw
materials (textiles and agroindustries represent about 60% of it, wood indus-
tries 20% and construction materials about 10%, the remaining being evenly
distributed between chemicals and metal working). The portfolio is also well
distributed geographically with about 60% of the amounts loaned and invested
being located outside Tananarive. As for ownership, close to 65% -- by
amounts -- of this overall financing to the industrial sector has supported
public enterprises but it is interesting to note that equity investments have
been made predominantly in the private sector. Indeed, close to 60% -- by
amount -- of the total equity portfolio at 12/31/77 was in private enterprises,
in most cases with substantial foreign participation but also with significant
private Malagasy participation.
2.19      BNI's Operations.  During 1977, BNI's first year of operations, term
credit approvals totalled only FMGO.4 billion and equity investments FMGO.2
billion. This relatively low level of approvals was a result of the changes
and the restructuring involved in the creation of BNI. However, operations
picked up dramatically in 1978 when term loans totalling FMG 2.9 billion and
equity investments amounting to FMGO.5 billion were approved. At September 30,
1979 FMG 1.8 billion in term loans and FMG 0.5 billion in equity operations
had been approved. There is an increasing emphasis on manufacturing opera-
tions, which represented 70% of 1978 approvals, witnessing BNI's role in
1/   Considerable variations in this annual level of approvals, particularly
in 1972 and 1974, were the result of the country's political upheavals
in those years.
2/   Practically no information is available concerning the main features
of the non-industrial projects in the portfolio.



- 14 -
industry following the reform. Tourism, housing and services accounted for
the remaining 30%. Fifty-three precent of approvals for 1979 (at September 30)
were in manufacturing, 9% in mining, 7% in housing and 31% in services.
Within the manufacturing sector, the distribution of operations follows a
similar pattern than in the past with agroindustries represenLing about 54% of
total approvals during 1978 and 1979 followed by textiles 17%, wood industries
15%, and chemicals 14%. Close to two-thirds of the projects financed are
expansions of existing units, and diversification away from Tananarive con-
tinues also as in the past. Finally, concerning the ownership of the projects
financed, there is an increasing emphasis on private sector projects. Indeed,
while in value, public sector projects represented slightly above 50% of total
financing, due to two big Government promoted projects - a refinery and a
sugar mill - in number, they represented only one-third of the projects fi-
nanced by BNI in 1977/78. It is significant to note that during that two-year
period, foreign promoted projects (overwhelmingly private) represented 35% of
total financing while projects controlled by private Malagasy investors
received above 10% of total BNI financing. This indicates the existence of a
relatively lively private sector interested in industrial investment (para.
1.20).
2.20      Economic Impact.  Given the status of BNI's accounting and informa-
tion system, it is not possible to give any information concerning the economic
merits of the projects financed before 1977. The industrial and tourism
projects financed by BNI in 1977 and 1978 are estimated to represent more than
FMG5.6 billion in new investments in fixed assets and generate close to 1,200
new jobs. This rather high capital intensive situation results from: (i) the
high proportion of expansions of existing units among BNI's latest approvals;
and (ii) the existence of a few highly capital intensive projects -- partic-
ularly a refinery and a paper mill -- in sectors which are considered of
strategic importance. Most of BNI's industrial projects in 1977/78 substitute
existing imports and only two have a clear export orientation, but they are
all based on the use of local raw materials, many outside Tananarive. These
results, which broadly are a reflection of the country's industrial policies
(para. 1.18) and BNI's role in it, have to be interpreted with caution, how-
ever, as they apply to less than two years of operations.
C.   Financial Condition
2.21      Loan Portfolio.  BNI's short-term portfolio at 9/30/79 totalled
FMG45.6 billion, of which FMG1.5 billion (3.3%) was considered doubtful.
Provisions made totalled FMGO.8 million (1.8% of the short-term portfolio).
Medium/long-term portfolio totalled FMG8.9 billion and doubtful loans repres-
ented 7.1% of it. Provisions made amounted to FMGO.78 billion or 8.7% of the
portfolio, a rather large proportion but necessary considering the relative
importance of doubtful loans. BNI's management has taken a rather conservative
and prudent attitude in evaluating its doubtful loans and the need for
provisions. In fact, only four projects in BNI's medium/long-term portfolio
-- three industries and one hotel -- are serious problem cases (they represent
about 60% of the outstanding doubtful loans), and adequate provisions have



- 15 -
been made on each of them. Overall, BNI's loan portfolio is of acceptable
quality. I/
2.22      Equity Portfolio.  BNI's equity portfolio at 9/30/79 totals
FMG3.7 billion investments in 47 companies. Overall, it is of rather good
quality. Of the 39 operating companies, 25 are regularly profitable and have
good prospects to continue being so. Most of them distribute dividends
(close to 7% return on equity portfolio). Twelve have losses of which
seven are in liquidation and fully provided for while the other five unpro-
fitable companies have good prospects of recovery. 2/ Provisions made --
totalling FMG35 million (0.9% of portfolio) are adequate.
2.23      A particular feature of BNI's equity portfolio is that
in the last two years it has been increased by a few companies transferred
from the State to BNI following the role assigned to it after the banking
reform. BNI's performance in accepting only the good investments witnesses
the independence and autonomy of the institution in investment decisions;
indeed of the eight companies so transferred, six have book values above
par values and, of the remaining two, one has already been profitable in
1977 and the status of the other one is yet unclear following its national-
ization by the Government but BNI's stake in it is marginal.
2.24      Provisions.  BNI's accounting system does not allow for a classifi-
cation of the arrears situation per type of loan (i.e., short, medium, and
long-term) but each loan is closely monitored. Accounts are classified as
normal or needing surveillance, and different degrees of control are estab-
lished thereafter according to BNI's periodic review of the situation.
This allows for an early detection of the doubtful cases and, when necessary,
provisions are made which are tax exempted and have to be approved by the
country's tax authorities. Overall, BNI's provisions policy is adequate,
loans and investments are closely followed up and management is on top of the
situation.
2.25      Resources.  In addition to its capital and deposits which it uses
to finance equity investments and short-term credits respectively, BNI also
has term resources both in local and foreign currency. Term resources in
local currency, have been provided by the Treasury, the Post Office, Insur-
ance Companies and other local financial institutions, generally ranging
between 2 and 5 years, but with a few exceptions for 7, 8 and 10 years to
1/   Eleven loans (including short and term debts) have been rescheduled --
mostly in connection with a Government takeover or a restructuring
program following the political events of the early 1970s -- but BNI
still keeps the provisions made for nine of them, even after agreeing
to the rescheduling.
2/   There is no information concerning the performance of two companies in
BNI's equity portfolio. They correspond to investments recently trans-
ferred by the State to BNI for which no information is yet available.
Investments involved are, in any event, of marginal importance.



- 16 -
finance specific projects. The weighted average cost of these resources was
3.9% at the end of 1978. In addition, BNI has, under certain circumstances,
rediscounting possibilities at the Central Bank for the financing of short and
medium-term credits (para. 1.25). Concerning foreign currency resources,
all of them have, so far, been provided by CCCE (since 1963 to 1971) and KfW
(granted in 1970), mostly for the financing of specific projects in housing
(CCCE) and industry (CCCE and KfW). Terms range between 10 to 15 years for
the CCCE loans and 20 years for the KfW loans. The weighted average interest
rate paid by BNI on these resources is 3.8% at the end of 1978. At the same
date, only FMG200 million were available for commitments in foreign exchange.
2.26      Financial Position.  BNI's -- summarized -- balance sheet for
1977-1979 is shown in Annex 3. At 9/30/79 assets totalled FMG75.5 billion,
of which loan portfolio represented FMG52.9 billion and equity portfolio
FMG 3.7 billion. Capital, reserves and surplus totalled FMG7.2 billion and
term borrowings FMG3.6 billion. BNI's debt/equity ratio is thus 0.5:1, a
very low proportion for a combined commercial and development bank allowing
for substantial additional borrowing capacity. BNI's financial position is
very sound.
2.27      BNI has been rather active in giving guarantees particularly in
the past two years. Most of them correspond to short-term operations, i.e.
advances guaranteed by contracts obtained with the Government, but an increas-
ing proportion represent BNI's guarantees for its clients' medium-term oper-
ations financed by suppliers credit (between 3 and 6 years). At the end of
September 1979, BNI had about FMG9.7 billion such guarantees outstanding.
In principle, BNI uses its regular appraisal criteria to evaluate guarantee
requests which are, in most cases, submitted by companies well known to BNI.
Given its expected role as sole provider of financing for industry in the
country and the fact that the Government is very reluctant in directly
guaranteeing loans for industrial projects, BNI is likely to be more and more
involved in these types of operations. During negotiations, it was agreed
that these guarantees for suppliers' credits will be limited to twice the
amount of BNI's equity resources and that they will be taken into consideration
in limiting BNI's exposure in a single project. Clauses to that effect
included in BNI's Rules of Operation.
2.28      Profitability.  BNI's Income Statements for 1977-1979 are summarized
in Annex 4. In its first year of operations, BNI made a net profit of
FMG738.5 million which represented a return of 12.2% on average net worth.
The results obtained in 1978 were still better with a net profit of FMG839.3
million, representing 13.5% of average net worth. Gross income represented
8.7% of total assets in 1977 and 8.3% in 1978, while administrative expenses
represented 2.8% ofd total assets in 1977 and 2.6% in 1978. These results
are satisfactory.  Preliminary results for the first nine months of operations
in 1979 confirm BNI's good profitability.



- 17 -
D. Prospects
Forecast Operations
2.29      Annex 5 shows BNI's pipeline of projects at the end of 1978.  It
consisted of 18 industrial projects totalling more than FMG 25 billion of
investments, of which more than FMG17 billion in foreign exchange, and
requesting possible term/equity financing from BNI of about FMG6.9 billion
(US$33 million); i.e., of total cost of the projects. Agroindustries, is by
far the leading sector followed by textiles and chemicals. The majority of
these projects are Government-owned, but more than half of them are joint-
ventures with foreign partners. As in the past, half of the expected projects
are new, the rest being extensions and modernizations of existing units.
Regional diversification continues and a substantial part of the projects are
expected to be located outside Tananarive or have some units throughout the
country. BNI has also identified projects in housing and other activities
but not in new tourism activities as it realistically considers that the
market is already rather saturated. Overall, the projects in BNI's pipeline
provide a solid basis on which to support BNI's expectations of future
business.
2.30      BNI's forecast approvals of operations for 1979-82 by sector and
type of activity are shown in Annex 6. This forecast does not take into
account the very large projects which BNI may be called upon to finance as a
result of its role in the industrial sector -- on a managed funds basis on
behalf of the Government -- and, to a certain degree, in the housing area
(financing of the big housing companies). BNI expects to approve FMG2.2
billion in 1979, 2.5 billion in 1980, 3.2 billion in 1981 and 3.3 billion in
1982. BNI's projections are realistic and jugtified by reasonable prospects
in the industrial sector and by a solid pipeline of projects.
Resource Requirements
2.31      As a result of these business projections, BNI's commitments for
term and equity financing operations should evolve from FMG2.3 billion in
1979 to FMG3.3 billion in 1982. At October 1, 1978, BNI had practically no
resources available in foreign currency and in January 1979, it obtained a
FMG200 million line of credit from CCCE, mostly for the financing of SSIs/
artisan operations. BNI has started negotiations with some foreign financial
institutions and expects to sign a FMG1 billion tied line of credit from the
Italian Government and renegotiate with KfW an additional line of credit of
FMGO.3 billion available by 1980. In addition, BNI's term operations could
continue being refinanced on a case-by-case basis by the Central Bank and
CCCE.
2.32      BNI's resource needs through the period September 1979 to December
1981 can thus be reasonably expected to evolve as follows (in FMG million):



- 18 -
1979 (3 months)  1980   1981   Total
Commitments                           577          2,410  3,090   6,077
(of which in foreign exchange)        384          1,568  1,R88   3,840
Local                                  193           842  1,202   2,237
Foreign exchange resources:
Italian Government                   -            500      500   1,000
CCCE                                200           400      400   1,000
KfW                                  -            100      200     300
Total                           200         1,000   1,100   2,300
Excedent (gap) in foreign
exchange                           (184)         (568)   (788) (1,540)
BNI would therefore, need FMG6 billion (about $29 million) of which FMG3.8
billion ($18 million) in foreign exchange, to cover commitments throughout
the period and BNI expects that, during the same period it would have avail-
able for commitments only part of its new foreign exchange resources available
to it, as shown in the table above. Local currency needs could be covered
by BNI's ample internal cash generation and, if necessary, Central Bank
rediscounting. These expectations are reasonable and would leave a resource
gap in foreign exchange of FMG1.5 billion ($7 million) part of which would be
covered by IDA's proposed credit of $5 million. BNI should have no problem in
securing the additional financing from other sources and the proposed IDA
credit should play a catalytic role in that respect.
Projected Financial Condition and Performance
2.33      The basic hypotheses underlying BNI's projections are in the Project
File. Projected balance sheets, income statements and sources and uses
of funds for the period 1979-82 are presented in Annexes 7 to 9. Total
assets will grow to about FMG92 billion from the FMG54 billion at end 1977.
The projections show that BNI is capable of sustaining this expected growth
in its operations while continuing on a sound financial basis. It will
maintain a satisfactory liquidity position of above 1 and keep its conven-
tional debt to equity ratio at a rather low level around 2.2:1. BNI is also
expected to continue being a very profitable institution. Administrative
expenses -- decreasing from 2.7% of average total assets in 1979 to 2.3% in
1982 -- will be well controlled and kept at a reasonable level for a combined
development and commercial bank. With financial expenses representing, on
the average, only 2.5% of average total assets throughout the period, profits
before taxes would be rather high (from 2.2% of average assets in 1979 to
4.1% in 1982). At the same time, provisions at acceptable levels will be
made to cover risks in the portfolio -- representing 3.3% of total portfolio
at the end of the period -- while dividends could continue to be distributed
at the same level of 1977 (42% of net profit), representing a substantial
return on average equity of 8.9% in 1979 to 9.9% in 1982.



- 19 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives of Proposed First IDA Credit
3.01      The main objective of the credit is to support the country's growing
industrial sector and BNI's crucial role in it by providing the foreign
exchange needed for capital investment and the technical assistance needed
for the training of the staff, the institutionalization of its procedures
and the setting up of a Promotion Department. Indeed, with important tools
at its disposal since the banking reform, the institution has already carved
out a significant position for itself, not only as direct financier but also --
and increasingly so -- as a financial consultant to the Government both in
project and policy matters. The institution building impact of the proposed
credit should thus have a significant impact on the sector as it would
strengthen BNI, the main institution responsible for industrial financing
in the country. Another objective of the credit will be to provide -- on
a pilot basis -- financial assistance to artisan/small-scale enterprises.
B.   Description of the Project
3.02      The proposed project would have the following five components:
(a) Medium and Large Projects Financing. US$4.0 million would be used
by BNI to finance medium and large industrial, agro-industrial, and
tourism projects. This would represent about 15% of BNI's projected
commitments for medium and large projects in these sectors during
the period September 1979 to end 1981, and about 24% of BNI's
gap in foreign exchange needs during the period.
(b) Artisan -- SSE Financing. US$0.5 million would be used to
finance artisans -- small-scale industrial enterprises,
including transport, and semi-industrial services, defined as
those with fixed assets below FMG15 million (about US$70,000).
This component, which would be a pilot and experimental effort
in this sector would complement the technical assistance to be
offered to artisans under the National Artisan Development Plan,
which does not include funds to satisfy the artisans' credit
needs, when the Plan becomes operational. However, the component
should be available to all artisans irrespective of whether they
are part of the National Plan or not. BNI will use a simplified
appraisal format -- to be agreed with IDA -- for these projects.
IDA will review extensively the first five projects submitted
under this component to ensure the adequacy of BNI's appraisal,
which will be monitored thereafter by Bank supervision missions.
(c) Feasibility Studies. US$0.3 million would be allocated to the
financing of feasibility studies for special industrial, agro-
industrial and tourism projects selected by BNI. This would
supplement BNI's efforts to set up its project promotion and
evaluation departments at a time when BDPI is going through
a much needed restructuring and should thus benefit both BNI
and the overall industrial sector. Consulting companies selected



- 20 -
to carry out these feasibility studies would be chosen by BNI
after consultation with IDA from among capable foreign and
Malagasy consultants. BNI should submit for approval the
objectives of each study, its detailed terms of reference and
a short list of the consultants envisaged to carry it out with
a detailed explanation of their expertise in the particular
field of study.
(d) Training of BNI's Staff. US$0.1 million would be used to finance
the training of BNI's staff specifically in project promotion
and appraisal at other experienced development banks and rele-
vant training institutions. This should allow about 10 to 15
BNI's staff members to benefit from training programs throughout
the period.
(e) Technical Assistance. US$0.1 million would be allocated to the
financing of up to two man-years of foreign experts' services
to set up BNI's Promotion Department and improve its Project
Preparation Department. These experts would not be permanently
stationed at BNI but would conduct their assignment in phases
of 3 to 6 months.
C.   Proposed Credit to BNI
3.03      The US$5 million line of credit to BNI will finance the foreign-
exchange component of the fixed capital investment of large, medium and small
subprojects approved by BNI in the industrial, transportation and tourism
sectors. It will also provide BNI with the technical assistance required to
strengthen its project preparation and appraisal capabilities.
3.04      Terms and Conditions.  The proposed first line of credit to BNI
would carry the following terms and conditions:
(a) Limit per Project. To avoid that the line of credit be used
only for a few large projects the IDA funds would be used
only to finance projects with total costs up to FMG500 million
(US$2.4 million) and the maximum credit granted by BNI to a
single project with the IDA credit would be limited to
US$750,000. These limitations are considered within BNI's
definition of medium size enterprises (para. 2.12) and they
would concentrate IDA financing on projects of total costs
between FMG300 million and FMG450 million (US$1.4 million-
US$2.1 million).
(b) Onlending Rate to BNI. To provide BNI with an adequate 1%
spread on the IDA funds,the credit will be onlent by the
Government to BNI at 7.5% with the normal rate commitment
fee except for the technical assistance/ training/studies
component of US$0.5 million which would be passed on by the
Government to BNI at the IDA service charge but without any
commitment fee.



- 21 -
(c)  Onlending Rate by BNI.  BNI would charge a minimum rate of
8.5% to its IDA financed clients.
(d)  Foreign Exchange Risk.  The foreign exchange risk should be
passed on all medium and large-scale borrowers. For small-
scale enterprises (defined as those with fixed assets below
FMG15 million or about US$70,000), the Government will carry
the foreign exchange risk at a 1% fee. The Government should
also assume the foreign exchange risk on the technical
assistance/training/studies component. This should be agreed
upon during negotiations.
(e)  Free Limit.  The free limit for projects in all sectors should
be US$150,000 and the aggregate free limit US$1.5 million. IDA
would also review the first five subprojects submitted under the
proposed SSE component. This would allow IDA to review most of
the projects likely to be submitted by BNI.
(f)  Economic Analysis of Subprojects.  BNI will be required to
provide a complete economic analysis, including calculation
of the economic rate of return on all medium/large scale
industrial subprojects submitted to IDA for financing.
(g)  Amortization Schedules.  The US$4.0 million component to
finance medium/large scale industrial enterprises would
have a flexible amortization schedule conforming to the
aggregate amortization schedule of BNI's subloans, none
of which should in principle exceed a maximum period of
15 years   The US$0.5 million to finance artisans -- SSI
projects and the US$0.5 million technical assistance
component would be repaid under fixed amortization sched-
ules to be agreed between BNI, the Government and IDA.
3.05      Other customary conditions and covenants would be included in the
credit and project agreements.
3.06      Project Cost Financing.  The total cost of projects that BNI is
likely to finance from September 1, 1979 to December 31, 1981 is expected to
total about FMG25 billion. BNI's contribution to these projects would
amount to FMG6 billion of which the foreign exchange component is estimated at
FMG3.8 billion.
3.07      BNI's financing plan for the period September 1979 to December 1981
is as follows:



- 22 -
Financing Plan September 1979-December 1981
(FMG billion)
Local    Foreign      Total
Total Commitments                                  2.2       3.8         6.0
Resources available for commitment 9/1/79           -         -           -
RESOURCE GAP                                       2.2       3.8         6.0
To be financed by Local Currency
Cash Generation                                    2.2        -          2.2
Foreign Currency
CCCE                                             -         1.0         1.0
KfW                                               -        0.3         0.3
Italian Government                               -         1.0         1.0
IDA                                              -         0.9         0.9
Other                                            -         0.6         0.6
TOTAL                                        2.2        3.8         6.0
IDA would, therefore, cover about 24% of BNI's foreign exchange requirements or
15% of the total resource requirements between September 1979 and December 1981.
D.   Project Implementation
3.08      Reporting Requirements.  BNI would be required to submit quarterly
reports which would include financial statements, resource position, statement
of arrears and notes on subprojects encountering serious operational difficul-
ties. BNI would also be required to submit annual audit reports in accordance
with IDA guidelines for audits of DFCs, prepared by qualified accountants
approved by IDA along with BNI annual report.
3.09      Procurement.  Procurement for the subprojects financed under the
credit would be in accordance with the standard IDA practice for development
banks.
3.10      Disbursement.  The proceeds of the proposed first credit would be
disbursed on BNI subloans as follows:
(a) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported goods or services for
eligible subprojects;
(b) 85% of the cost of previously imported equipment which is
purchased locally for the subprojects;
(c) 70% of the cost of equipment produced in Madagascar
substantially from previously imported components or raw
materials;



- 23 -
(d) 55% of the cost in Malagasy Francs of construction works
included in subprojects and carried out by Malagasy
contractors;
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of local expenditures
for experts and consultants' services and training of BNI's
staff.
3.11      The credit component is expected to be fully committed by December
1981 and to be fully disbursed by March 1984.
E.   Benefits and Risks
3.12      After a period of stagnation that was in part related to political
factors and also to a reassessment of the country's general orientation,
the industrial sector is showing signs of revival. While the new Government
initially showed relatively little interest in the sector, its attitude
has been changing recently in that respect, as demonstrated by the search
for foreign partners to launch several industrial projects and its request
for assistance from the Bank Group to the sector. An IDA credit for that
purpose at this juncture would permit the Bank Group to participate in the
development of an important part of Madagascar's economy. The credit would
finance projects with total cost of about FMG25 billion and create about 6,000
jobs even on the pessimistic assumption that past cost per job of about
$20,000 is maintained (para. 2.20). Employment generation will in fact,
become considerably larger as BNI moves increasingly into project promotion,
mostly SSEs.
3.13      Despite the generally positive attitude of the Government, there
remains still some uncertainties as to how the sector will evolve in the
coming years, particularly in the context of the transition toward a system
of socialist enterprises, and this may create a climate not conducive to
private investment, particularly foreign. Although this may result in a
somewhat reduced industrial growth, it should not materially affect the
utilization of the proposed credit as: (i) its amount is reduced in compari-
son with BNI's expected needs; and, (ii) private investment has been given
little weight in evaluating BNI's financial needs in the near future. These
risks, thus, should not detract from the validity of the main objectives of
the proposed credit, particularly concerning the strengthening of BNI and
the IDA support of the overall industrial sector and the artisan/SSE activities.
IV. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      This report recommends an IDA credit of US$5 million for BNI through
Government to be retroceded to BNI on the terms and conditions specified in
paras 3.03 to 3.07.
4.02      During negotiations, agreements satisfactory to IDA were reached on
the following:



- 24 -
(a) With Government, that:
(i) the minimum lending rate for BNI's IDA financed projects
will be 8.5% (para. 2.14);
(ii) BNI's medium/large borrowers will carry the full foreign
exchange risk and the Government will carry such risk
for artisan/SSE lending at a 1% fee (para. 2.14);
(iii) Government will carry the foreign exchange risk and
will pass to BNI the $0.5 million technical assistance/
feasibility study component at the IDA service charge
but without any commitment fee (paras 3.04(b) and (d)).
(b)  With BNI:
(i) a Statement of Rules of Operations that BNI's Board of
Directors has approved (para. 2.05);
(ii) that adequate project appraisal and supervision
procedures will be implemented (paras 2.07 to 2.08);
(iii) that the economic rate of return of medium/large scale
industrial subprojects will be calculated (para. 2.07);
(iv) that the auditor acceptable to IDA will carry out the
yearly audit of BNI's accounts (para. 2.16);
(v) satisfactory appraisal format for artisan/SSI projects
(para. 3.02(b)).



- 25 -                                ANNEX 1
MADAGASCAR
Interest Rate Structure
(In per cent per annum)
Central bank rates                                                      Effective
October 1, 1974
Rediscount of: Short-term paper                                         5.50
Export bills                                            4.0o
Bills secured by products under
contract with stabilization funds                     4.75
Medium-term paper                                       5.00
Long-term paper 1/                                      6.oo
Advances                                                           6.50  -  8.oo
Commercial bank rates on credit operations 2/
Credit secured by: Commercial paper                               6.75  -  8.00
Government contracts                           6.75  -  8.50
Stocks of coffee                               6.75  -  7.25
Stocks of other crops                          7.125 -  9.25
Stocks of other merchandise                    8.00  -  9.25
Overdrafts                                                        8.00  -  9.25
Commercial bank rates on deposits
eMinimum deposit
Sight deposits                          tthousands of FMG)
Private sector                                                        0.75
Public sector                                                         3.00
Insurance companies                          -                        3.00
Time deposits
At least 2 months                          75,000                     4.90
At least 3 months                           50,000                    4.75
From 6 to 12 mohths                            500                    4.75
From 1 to  2 years                             300                    5.65
From 2 to 2-1/2 years                          300                    5.8C
Certificates of deposits
From 6 months to 1 year                        500                   3.70
From 1 to 2 years                               50                   4.25
From 2 to 3 years                               50                    5.30
From 3 to 4 years                               50                    5.80
From 4 to 5 years                               50                    6.80
From 5 to 6 years                               50                   7.50
Source: Central Bank of Madagascar
1/ Rediscounting of long-tern paper was introduced in August of 1974.
2/ Refers to credit that is rediscountable with the Central Bank; non rediscountable
credit bears, on the average, a rate that is 0.75 to 2 percentage points higher.
EAPID
December 1979



-26 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 1
BANKIN' NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
Draft Statement of Rules of Operation
(To be approved by BNI's Board of Directors)
1.   Objectives and Operational Criteria
(1) The Bank's general objective is, within the framework of a
developing socialist economy, to promote the growth of industry
and handicraft, to help improve housing, as well as domestic
and collective equipment and to mobilize national savings.  To
that end, the bank will assist in the creation and development
of enterprises in Madagascar in all productive sectors of the
economy.
(2) The Bank shall extend its assistance in accordance with the
objectives of the National Development Plan and on the basis of
economic and financial criteria only. Enterprises that submit
projects to the Bank shall be required to have efficient management,
be technically sound, have satisfactory market prospects for
their production, be able to guarantee a financial return on
the investment and generally to contribute to the economic growth
of the country. The Bank shall take all these different aspects
into consideration when appraising the projects submitted to it.
(3) The Bank shall extend all kinds of assistance. The Bank shall
invest in the capital of enterprises and shall subscribe to issues
of shares and other securities. It shall grant short-, medium-
and long-term loans, for periods depending on the type of
project involved, with an appropriate grace period. The Bank
may also furnish guarantees in certain cases. Normally, the
Bank will not be engaged in refinancing operations. It shall
endeavor to actively promote the establishment of new and the
expansion of existing enterprises. It shall give its clients
technical assistance and advice on the planning, layout and
execution of their projects. These loans and participations
may be granted for construction work, purchase of plant and
equipment and for the constitution of working capital.
2.   Investment Policy
(4) Short-term loans shall not exceed two years, medium-term
loans five years and long-term loans ten years. However,
the ten year limit can be exceeded whenever the Bank is
able to borrow locally or abroad resources for a longer
period. In such a case the maturity of the loans made
with these resources shall not exceed their repayment
period by the Bank.



ANNEX 2
- 27 -                     Page  2
(5) As a general rule, the total amount of medium and long-term
loans granted by the Bank at its own risks together with its
participations and any other medium and long-term commitments
in favor of a single enterprise may not exceed 25% of the Bank's
equity.
(6) The Bank shall normally limit its share participation to 35%
of the share capital of any given enterprise. However, in
specific circumstances such as insufficient participation
of other shareholders to the share capital of an enterprise
operating in a priority industrial subsector or whenever the
Bank will consider appropriate to assume a majority position
in a company, its Board may decide to exceed the 35% limit.
In no case, however, such participation shall exceed 51% of the
share capital of the enterprise. Furthermore, the Bank's total
investments in the form of equity participations may not exceed the
Bank's equity.
(7) The Bank may guarantee the fulfillment of assistance commitment
by other credit institutions or suppliers; it may also provide
guarantees in favor of physical or moral individuals in charge
of implementing public projects. However, the guarantees shall
be only in favor of physical or moral individuals that have
received or are receiving one or several loans from the Bank
with maturities at least equal to the duration of the guarantee.
The total amount of medium and long-term guarantees by the Bank
may not exceed two times its equity.
(8) The Bank shall join with other financing institutions, whether
local, foreign or international, in financing projects whose
financial requirements exceed its capacity.
(9) When deciding upon the amounts and form of financial assistance
it shall provide, the Bank shall take into account all the
financial requirements of the project and the financial situa-
tion of the enterprise in question. In principle, the financial
assistance granted shall not all together exceed 75% of the
total cost of the project.
(10) The Bank shall endeavor to maintain a balanced portfolio by dis-
tributing its loans, participations and other commitments among
all the sectors of industrial and economic activity within the
range of its objectives.
3.   Financial Policy
(11) The general aim of the Bank's financial policy is to main-
tain the value of its own capital, to manage its funds in



ANNEX 2
-28 -                        Page  3
such a way that it is at all times able to honor its obliga-
tions on time and to achieve a profit margin that enables
it to cover its operating costs, form adequate reserves and
distribute reasonable dividends to its shareholders. To this
end the Bank shall:
-    maintain a satisfactory balance between the
maturities of its own obligations and those of
the loans and other financial assistance it grants;
-    not incur debts of more than one year of term including
term guarantees in excess of four times the amount of
its equity;
-    not incur exchange risks in respect of those of
its borrowings that are repayable in foreign
currencies;
-    generally require appropriate guarantees for the
loans it grants;
-    fix its interest rates, commissions and other
charges at a level that will enable it to obtain
a satisfactory return;
-    make adequate provisions against potential losses
and build up reserves to a level consistent with
sound financial practices.
4.   Special Provisions
(12) The Bank shall supervise the execution of projects it finances
to protect its interests and contribute as much as possible to
their implementation.
(13) The Bank's own accounts shall be kept in accordance with
generally accepted international standards. The Bank shall
engage the services of an independent firm of professional
accountants of international repute to audit its annual
accounts.
EAPID
December 1979



- 29-                             ANNEX 3
BANKIN' NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
Summarized Balance Sheet
(In FMG million)
Year Ended December 31                              1977            1978          1979
(Audited)      (Audited)   (As of 9/30)
(Provisional)
ASSETS
Current Assets                                                           1/
Cash and Banks                                     2,367           2,924         2,365
Accounts receivable                                 1 786
14,153         5,9091         ,8
Managed operations on behalf of Government          1,743          1,770         2,045
Miscellaneous debtors                                 295          3,465         4,587
Other accounts                                      3,663          3,894         4,643
Portfolio
Short-term portfolio                               34,429         36,027        44,807
Medium/Long-term portfolio                          6,478          6,799         8,142
Equity Portfolio                                    2,335          2,638         3,742
43,242         45,464        56,691
Net Fixed Assets                                    1,184          1,303         1,306
TOTAL ASSETS                             54,280         60,990        75,453
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Banks                                              1,327             745           585
Short-term deposits (up to 2 years-)              25,321          32,107        37,358
Central Bank refinancing for short-term
credits         3,338            187           596
Miscellaneous creditors                             5,738          7,133        12,149
Other accounts                                      4,832          5,908         8,137
40,556         46,080        58,825
Term deposits (more than 2 years)                     109            255           218
Miscellaneous term creditors                          811          1,054         1,376
Borrowings
Medium and Long-term borrowings                     2,792          2,o64         1,570
Central Bank refinancing for medium-term
credits        1,103          1,349         2,011
3,895          3,413         3,581
General provisions for loans and investments    1,389              1,814         1,895
Managed operations on behalf of the Government  1,568              1,896         2,337
Ecluity
Share capital                                      2,000           2,000         2,000
Reserves                                            2,213          2,629         3,o69
Advance from Treasury                               1,000          1,000         1,000
Undistributed surplus                                 739            849         1,152
5,952          6,478         7,221
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY            54,280         60,990        75,453
*                         Out-of-balance sheet commitments                                                        3/
Guarantees                                          7,917         15,872        17,761
Letters of credit                                   6,702         10,534        13,973
Others                                              3,146            -           3,212
17,765         26,406        34,946
l/Includes a FMG170 million short-term investment.
i/Net of provisions for losses.
3/Of which FMG9,746 are term guarantees.
EAPID
December 1979



30-                                ANNEX 4
BANKIN' NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
Summarized Income Statement
(In FMG million)
Year Ended December 31                              1977         1978         1979
(Audited)   (Audited)   (As of 9/30)
(Provisional)
Interest Income                                    3,644.8      3,976.4      3,666.9
Income from other commercial operations              789.0        683.7        559.8
Dividend Income                                      143.9        167.9         91.2
Other Income                                         149.3        252.5         21.6
Total Income                              4,727.0      5,o80.5     4,339.5
Expenses
Personnel Expenses                                 1,052.4      1,096.4        917.3
Other Administrative Expenses                        444.5        514.2        523.7
Total Administrative Expenses             1,496.9     1,610.6      1,441.0
Financial Expenses                                 1,274.7      1,172.5        994.6
Depreciation                                          95.1        136.5        120.0
Total Expenses                            2,866.7     2,919.6      2,555.6
Profit Before Tax and Provisions                 1,860.3      2,160.9     1,783.9
Provisions for Loans                                 544.6        453.5       350.0
Provisions for Future Equity Investments             150.0        300.0       100.0
Profit Before Tax                         1,165.7     1,407.4      1,333.9
Taxes                                       427.3        568.1       533.6
Net Profit                                  738.4        839.3       800.3
EAPID
December 1979



181111I i!Y INDOSTIA  (BCI)
Project PiPeline at cnd 1978
BNI spcected fiac ice                              Project'  expcted i0nt1        -J.tioc
Total cost of pro-Jct                                            Year of expected        Start of            Start of            Probbillty
ProRiecr/Octoo                Nature of Project            Proter-               (of which foreign exchanRe)            Loan       Equity             approval            inveetaeot          Oeeraolone           (I to 5)            Rearks
(to HgF. nillfoo)                 (in MgFr. million)
SOh-os-o - litiug             Rtopo-iog and                Publto sector!            260           (130)                   75          10          1979 - 1980            2nd half 1980       let half 1981           3                Feceibility  tu.dy redy.
oodnrulouccoo               pr--o  e forelgn                                                                                                                                                           study nor ype  dOe by 8NI.
Jlrami    - Pcblc- otilLties   E--cni-on                   PnbliC  -eccoo          6,800        (5,100)                  500           -           19S0 to 1984           1980 to 1984        1980 to 1984             5               Peaxibility  tudy redy.
Study under prepartio  by BNIt.
I/
Solinu - Ch-emcals            Extc0i00                     Ptblic soctor             no           cu.                     300          -           1980 to 1984           1980 to 1984        1981 te 1984             5               Projeot under atudy by MinIstry cf
Industry with p-rtctpatioo 881.
Cenot Antsirabh               Now                          Ptblic  ccoon
pi-vato foreign        3,800        (2,390)                  600          -                 1979                  1979               1981                 5
Sopreu- Che-iculu             New                          Public -e-oor/          1,050           (650)                  725          83                1980                  1980          1981 to 1982              5               8Bth feaaibiltry and oNl    studies redy.
private M  l-afuy/                                                                                                                                                         Looking for finencing in foreign axohasge.
privt rtcorni
somacoreo - Totiles           Ette...on p-blictcocoon                                700           (525)                  390         100               1979                   1979               1980                 5               Both feasibility and 8INI' studina ready.
procaco foroign                                                                                                                                                            Firuteg up local ftD eolng
Co-tcn Tl or - Toxtle-        New                          Public s-c-or/          4,500         (3,375)               1.250           .                 1979                  1979               19H0                 5               P-oJect under s-ady t  Ministry
pnivato  forrign                                                                                                                                                           of lIdnautry.
Ti-coc  - Textiles            New                          Prioate M-gasy/         1,200           (900)                 600           -                1979                   1979               1980                 5               Pe-ibility study ready.
private foroige                                                                                                                                                            INI r-vine underw.
0il Ma-tge - Ag-oird-try   Nw                              PNbli t*ecotor            220           (120)                   70          10               1979                   1979               1980                 3
3 nuga- mills -                                            tNe  Public nertor        315           (215)                 100           -                1980                   1980               1981                 4
s-rums - Ag-ofodustr          tooy Peloc                   Nublic *ecto-             650           (550)                  520          _           1979 to 1984                1979               1984                 5               881 study ready and .ent to Centrl lak.
SN8ct - Agroicdust-y          Etonsion                     Public sector/          2,800        (1,540)                  300           -                1979                   1979               1980                 5                    ,
pofoate foroLgo
star- Ag-riodu-trly           E-to ione                    Public  -ector/           n.-          na                     500           -                1980                   1979         1980 to 1981               4               Project under study *t Ciiefety
pniv-et  foroigV                                                                                                                                                           of Industry
Br-adowking - Agroird.        Nec                          Pe1lic SectOr             414           (360)                 125           -                1979                   1979               1981                 3
SID - Agro-idustry            Exte-sion                    Public  -ctor             270           (140)                 152           -                1979                   1979               1981                 4               t81 so dy ready. satig fr Gner--e
to- ispleset BleN scedatcs
Hsc V-o - Agroiod.           Nco                           P0bli,c  ctoo!            250          (1501                    50          70               1979                   1979               1979                 5                rNI  -tody ready, to b  presented
priv-to for-igc                                                                                                                                                            to Board shortly.
bata - Shoo-                    tention                   Ptivat-   foroign/         914          (685)                   40          135                1980                  1980          1980 to 1981              5                Fea-ibility study ready.
public sector                                                                                                                                                              Under di .oss on vith IFC and BNT
8uts - T;onnry                Nev                          Private foreign/          882           (485)              -  100          100                198O                  1980               1982                 5
V  Per -vvm                                                 public  ector_
EApIr                                                                              24c765        17,315                6.397           508
Dec-ober 1979



- 32 -
AZOIEX 6
BANKIN' NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
Projections of Operati6ns 1979-82
(In FMG million)
1297       1980        1981        1982
APPROVALS
Medium and Long-Term loans
Industry                                     1,500       1,700       2,000      2,000
Tourism                                       -           -            150        150
Housing                                        150         150         250        250
Others                                         300         300         300        300
Total                           1,950       2,150       2,700       2,700
Equity Investments
Industry                                       250         300         500        600
Tourism                                       -            _          -           _
Total                              250        300         500         600
COMMITMENTS
Medium and Long-term loans
Industry                                     1,560       1,660      1,940       2,000
Tourism                                         31        -            120        150
Housing                                        150         150         230        250
Others                                         320         300         300        300
Total                            2,061      2,110       2,590       2,700
Equity Investments
Industy                                        250         300         500        600
Tourism                                                               -           _
Total                              250        300         500         600
Short-term credits
(outstanding beg. of year)                    40,578      46,664     53,445      58,790
Guarantees, letters of credits
and others (outstanding at
beginning of year)                            21,300      24,175      28,405     28,405
DISBURSEMENTS
Medium and Long-Term loans
Industry                                     1,241       1,620      1,828       1,976
Tourism                                        120          13          72        138
Housing                                        148         150         198        242
Others                                         320         308         300        300
Total                          1,829       2,091       2,398      2,656
Equity investments
Industry                                       250         300         500        600
Tourism                                        _          -           -          -
Total                            250         300         500         600
Short-term credits
(outstanding beg. of year)                  40,578      46,664     53,445      58,790
EAPID
December 1979



- 33 -                                      ANNEX 7
BAANKIN' NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
Projected Balance Sbeets - 1979-82
(In FMG million)
1979             1980           1981           1982
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash, banks and foreign correspondents                                            1,140             1,097          1,000            920
Managed Operations on behalf of Government                                        1,120             1,120          1,120          1,120
Miscellaneous debtors and other accounts                                          4,510            4,961           5,457          6,002
Portfolio
Short-term portfolio                                                             46,664           53,445          58,790         64,669
Medium/long-term portfolio                                                        9,876           11,004          12,341         13,765
Equity portfolio                                                                  2,954            3,254           3,754          4,354
59,494           67,703         74,885         82,788
Net fixed assets                                                                  1,315             1,262          1,207          1,149
TOTAL ASSETS                                      67,579            76,143         83,669         91,979
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Banks and foreign corref7'ndents                                                  2,680            4,448          4,820           4,692
Short-term deposits                                                              26,620           29,282         32,210          35,431
Central Bank refinancing for short-term credits                                   4,413            4,856          5,342           5,876
Managed operations on behalf of Government                                                          1,420          1.420          1,420
35,133           40,006         43,792         47,419
Term deposits                                                                     9,900           10,890         11,979          13,176
Miscellaneous creditors and other accounts                                        4,510            4,961           5,457          6,002
Borrowings
Medium and long-term borrowings                                                   6,696             7,620          8,094          9,338
Central refinancing for term loans                                                1,975            2,200           2,468          2,753
8,671            9,820         10,562         12,091
Provisions for loans and investments                                              1,584            1,684          1,819           1,880
Other provisions                                                                    872               872            872            872
Equity
Share capital                                                                     2,000            2,000          2,000           2,000
Reserves                                                                          2,213            2,213           2,213          2,213
Undistributed surplus                                                             2696             3697           4975            6326
6,909            7,910          9,188         10,539
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                                67,579            76,143         83,669         91,979
STRUCTURAL RATIOS
Term Debt/Equity Ratio  1/                                                        1.3:1            1.3:1          1.2:1           1.2:1
Term Debt/Equity Ratio  2/                                                        2.2:1            2.2:1           2.2:1          2.2:1.
Current Ratio             3/                                                      1:1 11                          1:1            1:1
Provisions as % of Portflio                                                      4.2              3.o             3.6            3.3
p/ Excluding liabilities corresponding to term guarantees.
2/ Including liabilities corresponding to term guarantees  (assumed to represent 100% of BNI's year-end equity every year).
3/ Considering all term deposits as included in current liabilities.
EAPID
December 1979



BANKIN' NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
Projected Income Statements 1979-82
(In FMG million)
1979           1980           1981           1982
Income
Loan and other income                                                    5,469          6,282          7,151           7,686
Dividends                                                                  221            253             438      .     496
Total                                                    5,690          6,535          7,589          8,132
Expenses
Personnel Expenses                                                       1,199          1,257          1,318           1,382
Other Administrative Expenses                                              525            567             612            661
Total Administrative Expenses                            1,724          1,824          1,930          2,043
Financial Expenses                                                       1,548          1,813          1,976           2,281
Depreciation                                                               100            103             105            108
Profit before tax and provisions                         2,318          2,795          3,578          3,700
Provisions                                                                  93            100             135             61
Profit before tax                                        2,225          2,695          3,443          3,639
Taxes                                                      801            970          1,239           1,310
Net Profit after taxes                                   1,424          1,725          2,204          2,329
Dividends                                                  598            724            926             978
Net Profit                                                 826          1,001          1,278          1,351
Ratios
Income Statement Items as % of Average Total Assets
Gross Income                                                             8.9            9.1            9.3             9.4
(less) Financial Expenses                                                2.4            2.5            2.5            2.6
(less) Administrative Expenses                                           2.7            2.6            2.4            2.3
Gross Profit before tax and Provisions                                   3.6            3.9            4.2             4.2
(less) Dividends                                                         0.9            1.0            1.1            1.1
Net Profit                                                               1.3            1.4            1.6             1.6
Profitability
Profit before tax as % of average equity                                34.2           36.4           40.3           37.0
Profit after tax as 7, of average equity                                21.9           23.3           25.8           23.7
Dividend payments as % of average equity                                 9.2            9.7           10.8           10.1
Income from loans and other income as % of
average loan portfolio                                               10.3           10.4           10.5           10.4
Dividend income as % of average equity portfolio                         7.8            8.1           12.5           12.3
EAPID
December 1979



BARKIN1 NY INDOSThIA (BNI)
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds 1979-82
(In FMG million)
1979          1980          1981          1982
Sources
Net Profit                                         1,424         1,725         2,204         2,329
Provisions                                            93           100           135             61
Net Increase in term borrowings                    2,489         1,149           742         1,529
Increase in current liabilities                    3,411         5,863         4,875         4,824
7,417         8,837         7,956         8,743
Uses
Net Increase in short-term
portfolio                                         6,o86         6,781         5,345         5,879
Increase (decrease) in other
short-term assets                                  (200)         -             -             -
Net Increase in term portfolio                       933         1,128         1,337         1,424               U
Equity disbursements                                 250           300            500           600
Dividend payments                                    598           724           926            978
Increase (decrease) in
fixed assets                                        (50)          (53)           (55)          (58)
7,617         8,880         8,053         8,823
Excedent (shortfall) of
sources over uses                                  (200)          (43)           (97)          (80)
Accumulated cash, banks                            1,140         1,097         1,000            920
EAPID
December 1979



- 36 -                               ANNEX 10
BANKIN' NY INDOSTRIA (BNI)
1/
SchedUle of Disbursements
Amount in             Cumulative
FY81                                       us$'ooo                   %
First Quarter                                   50
Second Quarter                                  50
Third Quarter                                  100
Fourth Quarter                                 200
Sub-total                                    400                  8%
FY82
First Quarter                                  300
Second Quarter                                 400
Third Quarter                                  400
Fourth Quarter                                 500
Sub-total                                  2,000                 40%
FY83
First Quarter                                  500
Second Quarter                                 600
Third Quarter                                  600
Fourth Quarter                                 500 _
Sub-total                                  4,200                 84%
FY84
First Quarter                                  400
Second Quarter                                 300
Third Quarter                                  100
TOTAL                                     5,000                100%
1/ Assuming that the credit became effective in November 1979.
EAP-ID
December 1979



- 37 -                             ANNEX ll
BANKIN' NY I-DOSTRIA (BNI)
Selected Documents and Data Aveilable in the Project File
Direction Generale du Plan - Structure de l'Industrie a Madagascar,
(Juillet 1978)
Direction Generale du Plan - l'Emploi dans l'Industrie a Madagascar,
(Janvier 1977)
Direction Generale du Plan - Analyse de la Performance de l'Industrie
a Madagascar                                          (Mai 1977)
Central Bank - Monthly Statistics Bulletin - May 1978
Ministere des Finances et du Plan - Bulletins mensuels de statistique
Ministere des Finances et du Plan - Les options fondamentales pour la
Planification Socialiste
Ministere des Finances et du Plan - Analyse de la Performance de l'Industrie
a Madagascar                                          (Mai 1977)
Ministere des Finances et du Plan - Basic Social and Economic Data
on Madagascar   (1950-1975)
Ministere des Finances et du Plan - Rapport sur les Projets Industriels
Strategiques (1975)
Ministere des Finances et du Plan - Situation economique au ler janvier 1977
Ministere de l'Economie et du Commerce - Plan National de Developpement
de l'Artisanat malgache        (June 1977)
BNI - Annual Report 1977
BTM - Annual Report 1977
BFV - Annual Report 1977
BNM - Annual Report 1976
BNI - Organization Chart
BNI - Assumptions for projections 1978-1982
EAPID
December 1979



