EOFFICIAL
DOCTMNTS  CREDIT NUMBER 977 MAG
Project Agreement
(Industrial Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANKIN'NY INDOSTRIA
(National Industrial Development Bank)
Dated                             , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 497 MAG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        -V         ?          , 1980, between
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and BANKIN'NY INDOSTRIA, the Borrower's National
Industrial Development Bank (hereinafter called BNI), established
pursuant to Ordonnance No. 76-047, dated December 27, 1976, of
the Democratic Republic of Madagascar (hereinafter called the
Borrower):
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to lend to the Borrower, for relending to BNI, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars
($5,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BNI agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are herein-
after set forth; and
WHEREAS BNI, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of BNI
Section 2.01. (a) BNI shall carry out the Project, described
in Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, and conduct
its operations and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate economic, financial and investment
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management
and in accordance with its Statutes and Rules of Operations.


﻿-2-
(b) Sub-loans and Investments shall be restricted to the
financing of Investment Projects: (i) with total costs not ex-
ceeding FMG500 million and (ii) except for Small-scale Investment
Projects, which show an economic rate of return of at least 10%,
or such lower rate as the Association may accept, and the amount
of any Sub-loan or Investment shall not exceed the equivalent of
$750,000 for any one Investment Project. Sub-loans shall carry
interest at no less than 8.5% per annum.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, BNI shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for approval or for autho-
rization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(b) (i) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval,
BNI shall furnish to the Association an application, in form
satisfactory to the Association, together with a description of
the Investment Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be
financed thereunder (including a description of the expenditures
for such Investment Project proposed to be financed by BNI and an
appraisal of the Investment Project) and the proposed terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including the schedule
of amortization of the Sub-loan, or of repayment to the Borrower
of the amount to be used for the Investment, and such other
information as the Association may reasonably request; and (ii)
such appraisals will include a calculation of the internal finan-
cial rate of return and, in any case other than that of a Small-
scale Investment Enterprise, an evaluation of the economic rate of
return, established in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to
the Association.
(c) Each request by BNI for authorization for withdrawals to
be made from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment Project (including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, (i)
shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by


﻿- 3 -
the Association of such Investment Project or of authorization by
the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
in respect of such Investment Project, and (ii) shall provide
for approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association and BNI shall otherwise agree,
BNI shall submit applications for approval of Investment Projects
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section and
requests for authorizations for withdrawals to be made from the
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section on or before December 31, 1982.
Section 2.03. (a) BNI undertakes that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on
terms whereby BNI shall obtain, by written agreement or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and of BNI, including, in the case of any such
Sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the
case of any such Investment: (i) the right to require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) the right to require that the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or
Investment be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Invest-
ment Project; (iii) the right of the Association and of BNI to
inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) the right to require that the
Investment Enterprise take out and maintain such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice and that, without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment to the place of use
or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) the right to obtain all such information as
the Association or BNI shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing, to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be
derived from the Investment Projects; and (vi) the right of BNI
to suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to


﻿the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its agree-
ment with BNI.
(b) BNI shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the interests
of the Association and of BNI, (ii) comply with its obligations
unuer this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. BNI shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association may reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Sub-loans and Investments,
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
the Sub-loans and the Investments.
Section 2.05. BNI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BNI shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, or amending, abrogating
or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association and BNI shall other-
wise agree, BNI: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations
and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.07. BNI shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of BNI under this
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.08. BNI shall exchange views with the Association
on any proposal to modify its Statutes or Rules of Operations.
Section 2.09. (a) In order to assist BNI in carrying out: (i)
the studies referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement; and (ii) that part of the Project described
in Section 3.01 (a) (iv) of the Development Credit Agreement, BNI
shall employ consultants and other experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.


﻿-5-
(b) Any consultants or experts employed by BNI in order to
assist BNI in carrying out the training included in Section 3.01
(a) (iii) of the Development Credit Agreement shall have cualifi-
cations and experience and conditions and terms of employment
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.10. By December 31, 1982 or such later date as may
be acceptable to the Association, BNI shall, pursuant to terms
of reference acceptable to the Association, complete the studies
of the feasibility of the industrial, agro-industrial and tourism
projects selected by BNI referred to in Section 3.01 (ii) of the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BNI shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of BNI and shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records and relevant documents.
Section 3.02. BNI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of BNI and the
audit thereof as the Association may from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and BNI shall other-
wise agree, BNI shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to incur
any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated
debt of BNI and all its Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding
would exceed four times the consolidated capital and surplus of
BNI and all its Subsidiaries. For the purpose of this Section:


﻿-6-
(a) the term "debt" means any debt incurred by BNI or by any
Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the data on which it
is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
BNI or by a Subsidiary;
(b) wherever reference is made to the incurring of debt,
such reference shall include any modification of the terms of
payment of such debt and debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i)
under a loan contract or agreement on the date and to the extent
the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan contract or agreement
and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms of
Malagasy francs debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation
shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such foreign currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtain-
able in Antananarivo for the purposes of servicing such debt;
(d) the term "consolidated debt of BNI and all its Subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of BNI and all its Subsid-
iaries excluding (i) debt owed by BNI to any Subsidiary or by
any Subsidiary to BNI or to any other Subsidiary and (ii) debt
referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) and (iii) of this Section;
and
(e) the term "consolidated capital and surplus of BNI and
all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (i) the total
unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of BNI and
of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as
shall represent equity interests of BNI in any Subsidiary, or of
any such Subsidiary in BNI or in any other Subsidiary, (ii) the
amount of Subordinated Loans and (iii) such amount of any other
loan which the Association may determine to be included in the
consolidated capital and surplus of BNI.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and BNI shall other-
wise agree, BNI shall not make any repayment in advance of matu-
rity in respect of any of its borrowings (other than deposits)
having an original term exceeding one year, including, without
limitation, the loan provided for in the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. (a) BNI shall take such steps satisfactory to
the Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the variuas currencies (including Malagasy francs) used
in its borrowing, lending and guarantee operations.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, BNI shall
(i) ensure that Borrowers under Sub-loans for Investment Projects
other than those of small-scale enterprises assume the risk of
losses due to foreign exchange fluctuations and (ii) make arrange-
ments with th: Borrower whereby the Borrower will assume such risk
on behalf of Small-scale Investment Enterprises against payment to
the Borrower of a fee of 1% per annum on the outstanding balances
of Sub-loans for such enterprises.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation and Information
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and BNI shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Association and BNI shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by BNI of its obligations under this Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of BNI and other matters relating to the
purpose of the Credit.
(b) BNI shall furnish to the Association at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
the Sub-loans and Investments and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from the foregoing.
(c) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account, BNI shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association ,zhall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by BNI and the Association
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.02. BNI shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by BNI of
its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BNI thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) the date upon which full repayment shall have been
made by BNI to the Borrower of the loan provided
for in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, together with
all interest and charges accrued thereon.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BNI of this event, and upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿- 9 -
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    24423  (RCA) or
89658 (WUI)
For BNI:
Bankin'ny Indostria (B.N.I.)
B.P. 174
Antananarivo
Republique Democratique de Madagascar
Cable address:                     Telex:
BENIBANK                          22205
Antananarivo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by BNI may be taken or executed by its
Director General, or by such other person or persons as BNI shall
designate in writing, and BNI shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence cf the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By )S    ).U      -
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
BANKIN'NY INDOSTRIA
By /
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness, whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the     L      day of
FOR SECRETARY


