'DOCa          CREDIT NUMBER 977 MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Industrial Development Bank Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 977 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 ?           , 1980, between
the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Section
3.01 of this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) The Project -4ll be carried out by Bankin'ny Indostria,
the Borrower's National Industrial Development Bank, with the
Borrower's assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to such bank the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and Bankin'ny Indostria;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions):
(a) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning
set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."


﻿- 2 -
(b) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect
to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of
thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (e)
of the Project Agreement no applications for approval or
requests for authorization to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of any portion of the Credit shall
have been received by the Association, or having been so
received, shall have been denied or (c) after the Closing
Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from
the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(d) The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06;
and
(e) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BNI" means Bankin'ny Indostria, the National Industrial
Development Bank of the Borrower, established pursuant to Ordon-
nance No. 76-047 of the Borrower dated December 27, 1976.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and BNI, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time.


﻿- 3 -
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BNI pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(d) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed
to be made by BNI to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to BNI under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "free-limit
Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement.
(e) "Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by BNI in an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to BNI under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
BNI proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it pro-
poses to make or has made an Investment and "Small-scale Invest-
ment Enterprise" means an Investment Enterprise which is an
artisan or an enterprise with fixed assets below FMGl5,000,000.
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment.
(h) "FMG" and "Malagasy francs" mean the currency of the
Borrower.
(i) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
(j) "Statutes" means the statuts of BNI approved by Decree
No. 76-441 of the Borrower dated December 27, 1976, as amended to
date and as further amended from time to time.
(k) "Rules of Operations" means the Rules of Operations
of BNI as adopted and approved by its Board of Directors on
December 14, 1979, as amended to date and as further amended
from time to time.
(1) "Subordinated Loans" means subordinated loans to BNI
whose terms and condition provide, inter alia, for the first


﻿-4-
repayment of principal on account thereof to be made after the
maturity date of the loan provided for in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(m)  "Subsidiary" means any company whose principal activity
consists of the provision of financial services and of which a
majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned or effectively controlled by BNI or by any one
or more subsidiaries of BNI or by BNI and one or more of its
subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to five million dollars ($5,000,000), for use by BNI.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of this Section,
the Borrower may withdraw from the Credit Account the equivalent
of amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to
be paid) by BNI on account of withdrawals made by an Invest-
ment Enterprise under a Sub-Loan or Investment to meet:
(i) the reasonable foreign-currency cost of imported
goods (except goods described in paragraph (d) of
this Section) and services required for the Invest-
ment Prcject in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested;
(ii) eighty-five per cent (85%) of the invoiced price
paid for goods purchased as set forth in paragraph
(d) (i) of this Section;
(iii) seventy per cent (70%) of the invoiced price paid
for goods purchased as set forth in paragraph (d)
(ii) of this Section; and
(iv) fifty-five per cent (55%) of the costs of construc-
tion works included in such Investment Projects
and carried out by national contractors;


﻿- 5 -
provided, however, that no amount shall be so withdrawn from
the Credit Account in respect of an Investment Project unless
(A) the Sub-loan or Investment for such Investment Project shall
have been approved by the Association or (B) the Sub-loan shall
be a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount or amounts
previously financed for the same Investment Project under the
Development Credit Agreement or under the Prior Credit Agreements,
and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of $150,000 and which, when added to all other free-limit Sub-
loans financed under the Development Credit Agreement, shall
not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,500,000, the
foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the Association; provided, however, that the first
five Sub-loans proposed for Small-scale Investment Enterprises
shall not qualify as free-limit Sub-loans.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
equivalent of at least $500,000 of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be reserved for the financing of Sub-loans for Small-scale
Investment Enterprises.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made on account
of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower only for: (i)
goods previously imported into its territory through normal
trade channels and from countries which are members of the Bank
(or from Switzerland); (ii) goods produced in the territory of
the Borrower to a substantial extent from components or raw
materials so imported, and purchased by Investment Enterprises to
carry out Investment Projects; (iii) construction works as
described in subparagraph (iv) of paragraph (a) of this Section;
and (iv) services of consultants employed for carrying out the
feasibility studies included in the Project.
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures made by
an Investment Enterprise prior to the date of this Agreement or
(ii) expenditures made in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Association's approval, or of an Investment, more than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received


﻿-6-
the application and information required under Section 2.02 (b) of
the Project Agreement or (iii) expenditures made in respect of a
free-limit Sub-loan more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Association shall have received the request and infor-
mation required by Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
(f) The Borrower shall also be entitled to withdraw from the
Credit Account the equivalent of 100% of amounts in foreign
currency, or 80% of amounts in Malagasy francs, paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by BNI for the
reasonable costs (i) up to the equivalent of $300,000 of the
studies included in the Project, (ii) up to the equivalent of
$100,000, of the training so included and (iii) up to the equi-
valent of $100,000, of consultants' services required for carrying
out that part of the Project described in Section 3.01 (iv) of
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and BNI of such
later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1990, and ending December 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable on
December 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Project for which the Credit is granted
is (i) the financing by BNI of economic development in the terri-
tory of the Borrower through loans for productive purposes to
enterprises in such territory, and through other productive
investments in such enterprises, all for specific development
projects and in accordance with the Statutes and Rules of Oper-
ations of BNI, (ii) the carrying out of feasibility studies for
industrial, agro-industrial and tourism projects selected by BNI,
(iii) the training of staff of BNI in the promotion and appraisal
of projects and (iv) establishment by BNI of a Promotion Depart-
ment and improvement of its Project Preparation Department.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
or the equivalent thereof to BNI under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and BNI containing terms
and j)nditions which shall have been approved by the Association,
including a maximum term oF 18 years (which shall include an
appropriate grace period), a commitment charge of 0.75% and
interest at 7.5% per annum; provided, however, that on amounts
utilized for parts of the Project other than the financing of
development projects, no commitment charge shall be applicable and
in lieu of interest, such amounts shall bear a service charge
at the rate of 0.75% per annum.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Sectioin 3.02. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of
its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instrumen-
talities, or any agency or instrumentality of any political
subdivision, to take, any action which would prevent or materially
interfere with the carrying out of the Project or the performance
by BNI of any of its other obligations under the Project Agreement
or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take or cause to be
taken all reasonable action which shall be required on its part in
order to enable BNI to carry out the Project and to perform such
other obligations.


﻿-8-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make such arrangements
as shall be appropriate on its part to achieve the objectives set
forth in Section 3.05 (b) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of BNI under the Project Agreement or under any other project
agreement between the Association and BNI;
(b) the Statutes or the Rules of Operations of BNI shall
have been amended so as to affect materially and adversely the
operations or financial condition of BNI;
(c) BNI shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken whereby any of
the property of BNI shall or may be distributed among its credi-
tors;
(d) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BNI
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity, as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BNI or for the suspension of its operations; and
(f) a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by BNI, if such creation, acquisition or
taking over would adversely affect the conduct of BNI's business,
its financial situation, the efficiency of its management and
personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿- 9 -
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (f)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and BNI; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
entered into by the Borrower and BNI, respectively.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and signed on behalf of, BNI, and constitutes a
valid and binding obligation of BNI in accordance with its terms;
and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and signed on behalf of, and constitutes a
valid and binding obligation of, the Borrower and BNI in accor-
dance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date   T"          i hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (f)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement and those of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or upon full repayment by BNI to the Borrower of the entire
principal amount of the loan provided for in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, together with the interest and charges accrued thereon,
whichever date shall be the earlier.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Repreehtative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03
of this Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupres de la Presidence de la Republique
Charge des Finances et du Plan
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address:                  Telex:
MINFINPLAN                           22339
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     24423  (RCA) or
89658  (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 11 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By
Authorized Representati
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 5S/
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
19FSL .
FOR SECRETARY


