Document of
The Wor-ld Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No, P-2731-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM
March 3, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performsnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World BDak authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit              =  Sudanese Pound (LSd)
US$2.00                    =  LSd 1.00
US$1.00                    =  LSd 0.50 (piasters)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)             =  10,000 m  =  2.47 acre (ac)
1 feddan (fed)             =  1.04 ac   =  0.42 ha
1 ha                2      =  2.38 fed
1 sq. kilometer (km )      =  100 ha
1 kantar (seed cotton)    =  100 pounds (lbs) cotton lint
1 bale of cotton           =  420 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
ABS       -   Agricultural Bank of Sudan
ARC       -   Agricultural Research Corporation
EAP       -   Export Action Program
EFF       -   Extended Fund Facility
EMC       -   Earthmoving Corporation
MAFNR     -   Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
MOI       -   Ministry of Irrigation
ODA       -   Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
PAPC      -   Public Agricultural Production Corporation
PEWC      -   Public Electricity and Water Corporation
SGB       -   Sudan Gezira Board
USAID     -   United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMIENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
1/   On September 16, 1979, the Government abolished a tax/subsidy
procedure previously used to arrive at the effective rate of
exchange and an official rate of US$2.00 per Sudanese pound
was established. Valuation of all imports for customs purposes
has been changed to the new official rate (LSd I = US$2.00)
from the old official rate (LSd 1 = US$2.50).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Amount:         US$65 million equivalent from IDA
Terms:          Standard IDA terms
Program         (a) To provide foreign exchange financing for high priority
Description:  imports (spare parts, equipment, fertilizers, etc.) to help
increase utilization of productive capacity in the irrigated
agriculture subsector from which Sudan derives, the bulk of
its foreign exchange earnings; (b) to encourage macro-
economic and agriculture sector policy and institutional
reforms; and (c) to provide financing for technical
assistance to help implement the program. Main risks
involved are existing procedures and institutional
constraints that tend to impede effective project execution
in agriculture by preventing timely procurement and delivery
of urgently needed inputs. The project would help mitigate
these difficulties through institutional and policy reforms
and through provision of technical assistance for tendering
and procurement.
Estimated
Disbursements:                           (US$ million)
IDA FY     1980       1981
IDA Credit                      40         25
Procurement:   Procurement of goods would be made in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement.
Map:            IBRD No. 14729.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR AN AGRICULTURALI REHABILITATION PROGRAM
i.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of US$65 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms,
to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan to help finance an agricultural
rehabilitation program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic updating mission visited Sudan in November, 1978 and
in mid-1979; its report (No. 2652-SU) was issued October 24, 1979. Major
conclusions are reflected in this report.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 17 million and is
classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per capita GNP is esti-
mated at about $320. Much of the country is unoccupied or very sparsely
populated, and in contrast to many developing countries, there is little
population pressure on presently developed land. Although a large part of
the country consists of desert or semi-desert, the Sudan nevertheless has
great untapped potential for agricultural development. Estimates indicate
that about two-thirds of the total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral
production, and only a small fraction of this land is under intensive use.
The economy is heavily dependent on exports of cotton, which is the major
commodity produced on irrigated land, and also exports of gum arabic, sesame
and groundnuts. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and, apart
from the processing of such agricultural commodities as cotton, oil seeds and
sugar, it is limited to the production of consumer goods and building materials.
There have been some exports of chrome ore and further development of these
deposits is taking place. A development of potential significance to Sudan's
prospects is the reported discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part
of the country. The public sector has long been important in the Sudanese
economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the railways and
virtually all power and water supply. With nationalization measures of
1970/71, a significant proportion of industry, commerce and finance was
also transferred to the public sector. Although some industrial enterprises
have since been returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP is
generated within the public sector.



-2-
Past Economic Performance
4.        While the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is consider-
able, its economic performance has been disappointing. During the sixties
and early seventies, the economy grew by little more than the -a'te of growth
of the population. This was primarily due to the depressed level of invest-
ment, both public and private. While the Government was successful in achiev-
ing a high growth rate of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure absorbed
most oL it, and development expenditure decreased.  The growth of recurrent
expenditure was caused in large part by increasing security expenditures and
transfers to local government. A protracted civil war in the south also
claimed considerable energy and resources. Public sector deficits were in-
creasingly financed through excessive credit expansion. Prices rose steadily,
and the external position was under pressure owing to the rapid growth of
imports and a stagnation of export volume.
5.        Following the Addis Ababa accord of 1972, which brought an end to
the civil war, the Government directed its attention more to the country's
development needs. For the first time, in 1973, the Government's development
objectives were stated clearly in an Interim Action Program, which aimed
mainly at removing the severe infrastructural bottlenecks, attaining self-
sufficiency in a number of consumer goods and expanding agricultural exports
to increase foreign exchange earnings. Prospects for financing this program
through external assistance looked very hopeful, particularly from Arab
oil-exporting countries which at the time regarded Sudan as the future
"breadbasket" of the Arab world.  Government development expenditure did
indeed expand rapidly, from LSd 50 million in 1973/74 to LSd 185 million in
1977/78, and it was generally directed towards high priority sectors. Sub-
stantial amounts of foreign capital were forthcoming -- over the five years
1974-78 total commitments amounted to almost US$3 billion with particularly
large amounts made in 1974/75. In 1977/78, the Government produced a new
six-year development plan. Ironically, these developments occurred at a time
when other forces were propelling Sudan towards perhaps the worst economic and
financial crisis in its history. Today, after several years of an accelerated
development effort, leading to an estimated average GDP growth rate of about
4.5 percent a year, the country is financially much worse off than seven years
ago when the development thrust began.
The Current Crisis
6.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the crisis situation
with respect to the balance of payments. Within two years, from 1973 to
1975, the deficit on current account increased from US$65 million to US$640
million and has not changed much since. In spite of high levels of external
aid commitments, disbursements actually declined. Gross official reserves
have fallen from a level equivalent to two months' imports in 1974 to only
a few days worth of imports. Debt service obligations started mounting,
and external payments arrears accumulated to a level of about $1.2 billion
in September 1979.



7.        The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic manage-
ment policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply increased
cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government's ability to
respond quickly with effective remedial action, once the decision to act
had been taken. For example, import prices rose by about 88 percent during
1973-78, and because there was no equivalent rise in Sudan's export prices,
the country suffered a deterioration in its terms of trade averaging about 3
percent a year between 1973 and 1978. Adverse developments in foreign trade
were accompanied by other disadvantageous forces -- reduced flows of external
capital after 1974, mounting debt problems and absorptive capacity difficulties.
Table 1
Sudan: Balance of Payments, FY1975-78 (Summary)
($ million)
1975       1976        1977       1978
Exports (including NFS) /1                    515         696        782        800
Imports (including NFS)                     -1202      -1304       -1492      -1550
Resource Balance                             -687        -608       -710       -750
Investment Income, net                        -56        -99        -113       -105
of which interest on
Public MLT /2 Loans                        -57         -65         -84        -80
Private Transfers                             102         188        296        330
Balance on Current Account                   -641       -519        -527       -525
Private Direct Investment                      -          -           -          10
Short-term, net                                 9          19         62         30
Public Grants and MLT Loans
Grants, disbursements                          32          21         20         30
MLT loans, disbursements                      489         493         156       265
MLT loans, repayments                         -79        -119       -141       -150
Disbursements, net                            442         395          35       145
Increase/decrease in Arrears                    5         245        445        270
Use of IMF Resources                           -           -          -          52
Change in Reserves
(- = increase)                             362         104          -          21
Errors and Omissions                         -177       -244         -15         -3
/1   Non-factor services.
/2   Medium- and long-term.



- 4 -
8.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of international
inflation, particularly in 1974 and 1975. Available data suggest that the
tacrease in real terms was particularly large between 1973 and 1975, perhaps
25 percent a year or more. Thereafter, imports in real terms increased at a
much more moderate pace of about 2 to 3 percent a year on the average.
Exports, meanwhile, declined in real terms by some 13 percent between 1970 and
1977. The decline was concentrated in cotton. In spite of an increase in
land under irrigation, the area of land under cotton (economically the most
remunerative export crop) fell by about 20 percent over the 1970-1977 period.
At the same time yields decreased from 4.3 kantars per feddan to 3.5 kantars
per feddan. As a result, the volume of cotton exports in 1977 was about 35
percent lower than in 1971. Transport difficulties and other infrastructure
problems contributed to this decline, as did the increasing lack of mainte-
nance in many public irrigation schemes (a condition aggravated by the lack of
spare parts and other inputs) and the decision taken in 1974, after the sharp
rise in world prices of cereals, to expand the production of wheat and rice
at the expense of cotton. An important factor, however, was the framework of
explicit and implicit disincentives to growing cotton (e.g. an unfavorable
exchange rate for the conversion of cotton export receipts; an additional
cotton export tax; the disproportionate share of production costs borne by
cotton in the public irrigation schemes).
9.        As indicated earlier, Sudan, starting in 1973, attempted to sharply
increase its development expenditures from a low and stagnating level. Ini-
tially, the rise in expenditures was financed by external capital, but this
declined unexpectedly soon thereafter. For example, disbursements from public
loans dropped from $563 million in 1974 to $156 million in 1977. Part of the
reason is that new commitments also decreased somewhat. Because of the
accumulating arrears, external donors became more reluctant to make new
commitments. Also, increasing problems of absorptive capacity and execution
of projects contributed to the slowdown of disbursements.
10.       As a result of these developments, Sudan was left with a difficult
choice: either to cut back on projects just started or to maintain the
projects by running down foreign exchange reserves and borrowing from banks or
other sources abroad. Government decided to try to sustain the development
effort by using reserves and by borroving heavily on relatively hard terms.
Gross international reserves declined from $124 million at the end of 1974 to
$28 million at the end of 1978, enough for only a few days of imports. At the
same time, net foreign assets, which were already negative in 1974 (minus $138
million), fell to about minus $566 million at the end of 1978. As foreign
reserves ran out, the accumulation of arrears became unavoidable. Meanwhile,
external public debt service obligations increased from $55 million in 1973 to
about $300 million in 1978. As a result of this, the debt service burden as a
proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services and remittances increased
in those years from 11 percent to 35 percent. The reasons were (a) the huge
amount of external borrowing in 1974-77 and (b) the fact that a large proportion
of the borrowing was on inappropriate terms (almost 70 percent of total new com-
mitments of $2.5 billion during the years 1974-77 was on hard terms -- averaging



- 5 -
7 percent interest and maturity of 9.7 years including 3.1 years of grace,
implying a grant element of only 11 percent). This unfavorable debt profile
has not only led to a very difficult debt service burden but has critical
implications for future debt service obligations (ref. para. 53).
11.       Sudan's balance of payments problems reflect a number of fundamental
deficiencies in economic policies and management as well as serious absorptive
capacity problems. The latter include infrastructural bottlenecks, which have
been aggravated by increasing shortages of skilled manpower and managerial
talent. The transport system, which in a country the size of Sudan is absol-
utely crucial for effective development, remains unreliable.   Because of the
scarcity of foreign exchange, maintenance of the capital stock -- infrastruc-
ture, generally, but also in the main public irrigation schemes -- has been
insufficient. These problems have been exacerbated by an exodus of qualified
Sudanese managers and craftsmen to the oil producing Arab countries. The
weaknesses in economic management involve mainly: (a) incentives for the
productive sectors, both implied in the system of taxation and exchange
regime, and those applied through pricing and cost sharing arrangements;
(b) resource mobilization and allocation; (c) management of debt; and (d)
performance of public enterprises.
12.       A major reason behind Sudan's current troubles has been the wide-
spread price distortions in the agricultural sector, which have hampered
expansion in output, particularly of cotton. This, in turn, has jeopardized
export performance (ref. para. 8). Until June 1978, the foreign exchange
rate remained unchanged at LSd 1 = US$2.87. In 1972, an exchange tax/subsidy
scheme was put into effect, except for cotton, which amounted to a de facto
devaluation to LSd 1 = US$2.50, coupled with an implied 15 percent export tax
on cotton. Nevertheless, after that the Sudanese pound became an increas-
ingly overvalued currency, as indicated by the excess domestic demand for
foreign currency, and the fact that the inflation rate in Sudan, averaging
about 20 percent a year over the last several years, was about twice as high
as in most industrial countries. In such a situation, exporting sectors
received less for their output than they ought to. Imports tended to be
artificially cheap and were therefore encouraged.
13.       In addition to the problem of an overvalued currency, the system
of explicit and implicit disincentives to growing cotton helped make the
situation worse. For example, under the historic profit sharing formulae,
which have remained in existence in the main irrigation schemes, the expenses
of the schemes were deducted from the proceeds of cotton sales.  This remained
so after the introduction of other crops, and expenses for these crops were
borne by cotton alone.  Profits on other crops, however, accrued entirely
to the tenant. Thus the tenants had a strong disincentive against cotton,
despite the fact that the country's international comparative advantage is
greatest in cotton.



14.       The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases
in expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. In particular,
development spending trebled between 1973/74 and 1977/78 while net external
financial flows declined. The sharp rise in public sector recourse to the
domestic banking system constituted the primary cause of a rapid acceleration
in the growth rate of domestic liquidity, which peaked at 44 percent in
1976/77. The rapid buildup in inflationary pressures resulted in an acceler-
ation of price increases from 6 to 7 percent in the mid-1970s to over 20
percent in 1977/78 and 1978/79.
15.       Most of the increases in current expenditures have been for social
and community services, transfers to local government and general administra-
tion. Most expenditures of local government, for example, are financed
by transfers from the central government budget and accounted for 25 percent
of total central government current expenditures in 1978/79. Transfers in the
past tended to be allocated on the basis of budgetary deficits of the local
authorities rather than on the basis of a rational transfer formula. Efforts
have recently been made, however, to improve these budgetary procedures.
The sharp increases in general administration expenditures are due in large
part to wages and salaries of civilians in the central government, cost of
living subsidies and extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side, tax
revenues have increased over the past few years but this has been possible
only because of frequent introduction of new tax measures, rather than
structural changes; the tax system per se is relatively inelastic. The main
reason for this is that taxes are based heavily on foreign trade and the pound
value of exports and imports lagged behind GDP in current prices.
16.       Another contributing factor to Sudan's current crisis is the poor
performance of the public enterprises, which dominate all non-traditional
activities in the country and contribute more than half of GDP. These
enterprises have not generated anticipated profits or contributed to economic
development as expected. Instead of yielding surpluses, they have relied on
the central government and domestic borrowing to cover their deficits. Public
enterprise deficits are estimated to have averaged more than US$50 million a
year over the last five years. A thorough study of the public enterprises
was carried out in 1977 by a team consisting of Government, University of
Khartoum, private sector and Bank Group representatives; the final report was
issued in April, 1978. The main shortcomings of the public enterprises, as
portrayed in the report, included poor management, inadequate internal organ-
ization and control, contradictory and unclear objectives and often changing
relations with ministries and departments. The problems related to the pricing
and taxation of cotton have also been a major factor behind public enterprise
deficits in the agricultural sector (ref. paras. 12 and 13).
17.       As indicated earlier, (ref. para. 10), Sudan's external debt burden
has been quite heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding
external debt at the end of 1978 amounted to more than US$2 billion and
scheduled debt service payments (principal and interest) for 1979 were almost
US$300 million. Until very recently, the authority to engage in foreign
borrowing and the administration of foreign loans was scattered among many
different ministries and agencies. The absence of a central authority or
unit which had a complete picture of the total debt and which could render



sound judgments on the appropriateness of various foreign borrowing options
further compounded the external debt problem. The Bank/IDA share of Sudan's
debt service is 3 percent and of debt outstanding is almost 9 percent. We
estimate that the Bank/IDA share of debt service will remain at 3 percent in
1985 when the Bank/IDA share of debt outstanding would be about 10 percent.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
18.       World Bank Group commitments to Sudan to date total US$543.4 million.
Of this, US$32.7 million are IFC commitments. There have been eight loans
(two on Third Window terms) and 22 credits for a total of 26 projects.
Seventeen projects and one technical assistance project, funded by UNDP and
executed by the Bank, are under implementation. About 40 percent of the total
volume of Bank/IDA lending has gone into agricultural development: three
irrigation projects, three mechanized farming projects, three smallholder
development projects, two in the southern region and one in the west; a
livestock marketing project and an agricultural research project. Projects in
other sectors include: two power projects, two education projects, two
highway projects, a domestic aviation project, four railway projects, a port
project, a technical assistance credit and two credits to the Industrial Bank
of Sudan. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of January 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
19.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been poor, and is becoming worse as a result of the economic crisis. Many
projects have difficulty in getting key materials--cement, fuel, timber,
of which there are periodic shortages. Belated delivery of equipment and
supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects most projects. The
continuing drain of skilled manpower from Sudan to neighboring countries,
where job opportunities are better, takes its toll on effective preparation
and implementation of projects. Relatively frequent changes in ministerial
appointments also create problems. Beyond these difficulties there are other
shortcomings traceable to inordinately cumbersome Government procedures. For
example, there have been protracted delays in getting parliamentary ratifica-
tion of agreed development projects and, subsequently, in obtaining legal
opinions from Government. There have also been inordinate delays in meeting
effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in establishing new
institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary
legal documentation or concluding required cofinancing arrangements. These
problems have been brought repeatedly to the notice of Government authorities
and efforts are being intensified to help resolve them.
Strategy
20.       Bank Group lending continues to emphasize agricultural and infra-
structure investments. For the near term, and in accordance with Government's
current economic and development objectives, more importance will be placed
on the rehabilitation and intensification of existing irrigation schemes and
on helping to alleviate key infrastructure bottlenecks. The objective here



- 8 -
will essentially be to help the country generate increased export earnings
in order to help carry it through the stabilization period. This will mean
that for the near term at least, the emphasis in Bank Group lending will
be on those activities that promise greatest and most immediate payoff in
terms of increased exports and government revenues. Less emphasis will be
placed on equity considerations or on trying to distribute the benefits of
development more broadly throughout the society. These goals will be sought
through adjustments in the taxation system and through more rational revenue
allocation mechanisms (ref. para. 64). It should be noted, however, that
investments in more directly productive activities can have important equity
consequences--e.g. to the extent that large irrigation schemes along the
Nile can be rehabilitated to expand production, increased seasonal job oppor-
tunities will result for thousands of laborers from other parts of Sudan.
Finally, recent experience has demonstrated that several ongoing projects
(e.g. Savannah Development project; Southern Region Agriculture project) that
were designed in large part to help meet equity, as well as productive,
goals, will very likely take much longer to implement because of absorptive
capacity problems and the current economic crisis.
21.       This lending strategy is fully consistent with the Government's
policies, as reflected in the new Export Action Program and the Three Year
Public Investment Program (ref. paras. 44-47). A proposed project to improve
overall production in the existing New Halfa irrigation scheme, Sudan's
second largest, has been appraised, as has a third power project. Rehabilita-
tion of a pump scheme project (cotton) on the White Nile and a separate one
on the Blue Nile have also recently been appraised. Other projects under
consideration include rehabilitation of the Gezira irrigation project (Sudan's
largest), a second technical assistance credit to emphasize project implemen-
tation, a water supply project and a second port project.
Previous Bank Group Lending in Agriculture
22.       Since the first loan of US$15.5 million was approved in June 1960
for the Managil Irrigation Project (an extension of the Gezira scheme), the
Bank Group has approved a total of 11 lending operations (two loans, nine
credits) totalling US$192.5 million for agriculture in Sudan. These operations
have touched virtually all subsectors: Irrigation (Managil and the Rahad
projects, the latter involving two separate credits totalling US$62 million
for a new cotton and groundnut scheme); Rainfed mechanized farming (one loan
and two credits totalling US$32.3 million); Smallholder Development (a Credit
of US$17 million for the Savannah Development Project; two projects in the
Southern Region involving credits of US$10.7 million and US$15 million
respectively); Livestock (a Credit of US$25 million approved in June 1979) and
Research (a Credit of US$15 million approved in July 1978). Projects in the
agriculture sector have experienced the same kind of implementation problems
described earlier (para. 19). However, because agriculture is the backbone
of the economy, the problems of foreign exchange scarcity, inadequate mainte-
nance, lack of spare parts and equipment, poor infrastructure support tend
to be particularly acute in this sector. And they are compounded by some
critical structural and policy shortcomings as described below.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
23.       The agriculture sector dominates the Sudanese economy.  It is
the source of virtually all exports, provides inputs for a large proportion
of industrial activity, contributes about 40 percent of GDP and is the main
source of employment for nearly two-thirds of the labor force. Production
consists mainly of cotton, cereals, oilseeds and livestock. An Agricultural
Sector Survey for Sudan was recently completed (Report No. 1836a-SU of May 18,
1979).
24.       Of a total land area of just under 600 million feddans, some 200
million is classified as agricultural land, 220 million as forests and about
180 million as uncultivahle land. The northern third is largely desert but
rainfall increases gradually to the south with annual rainfall of about 200
mm around Khartoum, 400-800 mm in the central plain and up to 1,500 mm in the
extreme south. Recent agricultural developments have been largely concentrated
in the central plain where the bulk of the modern irrigation development has
taken place. Out of the 17 million feddans officially estimated as currently
under cultivation, some 4 million feddans is under irrigation, and about 5.5
million feddans is under mechanized farming in the Savannah areas. Most of
the remaining area is rangeland, heavily used by the large livestock popula-
tion (15 million cattle, 16 million sheep, 11 million goats and 2 million
camels) in nomadic or sedentary livestock farming systems.
25.       Cotton is still the dominant cash and export crop, accounting for
about 56 percent of all exports. It is followed by sesame (9 percent),
groundnuts and gum arabic (each 8 percent). Other exports include live-
stock, hides and skins, castor beans, horticultural produce and Kerkadeh
(a derivative of a flower grown by traditional farmers in thne savannah belt
and used as a beverage). In some years of surplus, quantities of sorghum have
also been exported. Recent crop diversification has also concentrated on
import substitution, and considerable expansion has taken place in wheat and
sugar output.
26.       Data on relative income distribution are scanty.  From the nutri-
tional standpoint, studies indicate that aggregate food supply is adequate on
average. This masks wide variations among income and regional groups, however,
and undoubtedly poorer groups suffer from inadequate nutrition. An important
feature of the employment situation is the existence of a highly mobile labor
force of about 1 million persons who migrate annually in search of seasonal
employment. This is made possible because the main labor demand in the modern
sector for cotton picking or sorghum, wheat and groundnut harvesting occurs
outside the peak period for labor employment on primarily subsistence farms.
Thus some of the benefits of the modern sector devolve to the traditional
sector.
Performance
27.       In recent years, Sudan's agriculture development has been charac-
terized by the following major features: (a) a continuing emphasis on rela-
tively capital iatensive projects, particularly in irrigation and mechanized



- 10 -
farming, though these projects have also been significant users of labor;
(b) a lack of maintenance support for on-going projects in favor of area
expansion, notably (since 1971) of 2.6 million feddans in mechanized farming
and some 300,000 feddans under irrigation; (c) a relative neglect of the
traditional and subsistence areas. (Most recently however, somc important
interventions have been initiated, directed at helping the small farmer and
pastoralist in the west and south, ref. para. 20); (d) an expansion of ground-
nuts and sorghum.
28.       The 1971-75 Five Year Plan, extended to 1977, gave high priority
to agriculture with an allocation of 38 percent of total plan resources. It
sought to increase foreign exchange earnings and reduce imports by a policy of
some diversification out of cotton with increased emphasis on food grains and
oil-seeds in both modern and traditional farming. Severe bottlenecks subse-
quently led to a shift in emphasis to infrastructure development, reducing
the agriculture allocation to 25 percent.
29.       Agricultural production has shown increasing diversification into
new crops during recent years. The production of foodgrains, of which the
most important are two varieties of millet grown mainly on rainfed land, and
wheat, which has expanded rapidly in irrigated lands, is oriented towards
satisfying domestic consumption.  The cultivated area under noncotton crops
increased rapidly between 1971/72 and 1976/77. The area under cereals
expanded from 7.1 million feddans to 9.4 million feddans and the area under
oilseeds from 3.3 million feedans to 4.0 million feddans during this period.
However, as in the case of cotton (ref. paras. 8 and 38), a striking feature
of the performance of other crops has also been the long term decline in
yields. While the cultivated area under coarse grains increased by about
34 percent between 1970/71 and 1975/76, output actually declined by 8 percent.
This implied a 49 percent decline in yield over the period, from 333 kilo-
grams per feddan to 169 kilograms per feddan. Oilseed yields also declined,
particularly in the case of sesame, which suffered a 28 percent drop over the
same period. These declines are attributable to several factors, including,
in addition to the major constraints noted in paragraphs 19 and 34, poor
weather, inadequate pricing, and unreliable support services.
Organization and Supporting Services
30.       The agricultural sector is served by two major ministries and a
number of parastatals.  The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
(MAFNR) is responsible for the development and implementation of agricultural
policies and programs through four administrations: Natural Resources, Agri-
cultural Services, Animal Resources, Planning and Administration, and para-
statals such as the Sudan Gezira Board, Rahad Corporation, Mechanized Farming
Corporation, Agricultural Research Corporation, Rural Water Corporation,
Animal Production Public Corporation, Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation.
A number of other parastatals and semi-public companies are involved in crop
marketing and storage, and the major agency for agricultural credit is
the Agricultural Bank of the Sudan which is also directly involved in input
supply and storage.



- 11 -
31.       The Ministry of Irrigation (MOI) is responsible for the control,
regulation and development of water resources in the Sudan. It has three
directorates, two commissions, a planning unit and two parastatals: the
Earthmoving and Irrigation Works Corporations.
32.       Generally, existing extension services are inadequate.  In fact, the
only service worthy of the name of an extension service is in the field of
veterinary health. There are no extension agents at all in the fields of
animal production, a handful on range management, land use and forestry and
some 200 on crop extension, or one per 15,000 farm families. In Gezira, as on
other irrigation schemes, the small extension service is run alongside a
special block inspector system, but it has not kept pace with the growing needs
of the farmers. The Mechanized Farming Corporation has a small extension
service.
33.       The two ministries, the National Council for Research and the
University of Khartoum are directly or indirectly involved in agricultural
research. The bulk of agricultural research is conducted, however,
within the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources by the Agri-
cultural Research Corporation (ARC); the Animal Production Research Adminis-
tration; and service departments which contribute in varying degrees to agri-
cultural research. Almost all of the agricultural research in Sudan is, in
fact, now under the responsibility of ARC, which is a semi-autonomous body
with the task of investigating the scientific basis of crop production in the
country with a view to producing maximum yields at minimum cost. The ARC is
the main beneficiary of a project (Credit 834-SU) aimed at enhancing Sudan's
agricultural research capabilities and jointly financed by IDA and USAID.
Constraints and Potential
34.       With its underutilized land and natural resources and a potentially
large market for its products in neighboring Arab countries, Sudan is well
placed to capitalize on these assets and expedite its development process.
The pricing system in agriculture is generally adequate with the exceptions
noted below regarding the impact of the exchange rate. However, a variety
of constraints (in addition to the macro-economic problems described in Part
I) exist which must be tackled effectively if the country's full potential is
to be realized. These constraints might be grouped as follows: (a) avail-
ability of water and land; (b) incentives and marketing; (c) insufficient
maintenance; and (d) management and administration.
(a) Water and Land Availability. Sudan will shortly use all Nile
water at present available under the 1959 Water Sharing
Agreement with Egypt, and has begun to implement expensive
water conservation schemes in the south to increase its
allocation. The development of land resources is also
subject to a number of problems, arising mainly from the
country's economic crisis. For these reasons, development
emphasis should now be placed more on obtaining the higher
returns available from improving existing schemes rather
than developing new ones. This will imply giving priority
to improving productivity. Indeed, this is a prime
objective of the Three Year Public Investment Program
(ref. para. 46).



- 12 -
(b) Incentives and Marketing. After the sharp rise in the world
prices of cereals in 1974, a decision was made to expand the
production of wheat and rice, to promote self-sufficiency
in basic foodstuffs and to expand the output of high value
cash crops, mostly groundnuts. Consequently, cotton acreage
was reduced by 20 percent to accommodate other crops. The
pattern of financial incentives was also adverse to cotton.
The disincentives to cotton cultivation were manifested in the
shifting of inputs to other crops and in the general neglect of
cotton cultivation. This resulted in declining yields which
compounded the fall in output due to cutbacks in acreage.
Sudan, however, has a strong comparative advantage in cotton
and groundnut cultivation. Thus the shift in the composition
of agricultural output brought about by changes in cropping
patterns and the incentive structure resulted on a substantial
misallocation of resources and caused a reduction in the net
foreign exchange earnings of the irrigated public schemes.
Government has recently begun to rectify this situation; in
recent agreements with the Fund (ref. para. 41), several
significant measures were taken to help enhance the produc-
tivity and competitiveness of cotton. Further steps are
needed, however, to eliminate the price squeeze on schemes and
tenants caused by exporting at the official exchange rate (LSd
I = US$2.00) and importing some inputs at the parallel rate
(LSd 1=US$1.25). Marketing of Sudanese cotton has also begun
to encounter problems in traditional markets--e.g. Western
Europe. This may be partly the result of white fly
infestation in certain schemes which adversely affects the
quality of ginned cotton.
(c) Insufficient Maintenance. Another serious constraint -- one
stemming largely from Sudan's critical shortage of foreign
exchange -- has been the inadequate maintenance of capital
stock, particulary in some of the country's basic infra-
structure. The pump schemes along the Blue and White Niles
have been producing at low levels and incurring large losses
because of a rapid deterioration in the canals, pump equipment
and agriculture machinery.   Failure to control weed growth in
Gezira has reduced water availability to the various crops.
Lack of adequate inputs at the proper time also has been a
major problem in the Gezira and other irrigation schemes.
Frequent power breakdowns and shortages of spare parts also
have disrupted the processing of agricultural exports.
(d) Management and Administration. The scarcity of managerial and
administrative talent impedes the development effort generally
in Sudan, but particularly in the agriculture sector. The problem
is due partly to the continuing lure of nearby oil-rich Arab
countries, where good job opportunities are plentiful.   The
difficulty has been compounded by Sudan's economic crisis.
The Irrigation Subsector
35.       Organizationally, there are three different types of irrigation
schemes in Sudan: (a) Large schemes (well over 20,000 feddans), managed
by government-related bodies and cultivated by tenants; the Gezira-Managil



- 13 -
scheme, with over 2 million feddans, is the largest of this type. The large
scale schemes occupy a net command area of 3 million feddans (72 percent dis-
tributed in 3 schemes); (b) Medium scale schemes, which are mainly nationalized
pump schemes along the Blue and White Niles occupying a net command area of
about 0.9 million feddans (21 percent) distributed in more than 400 schemes;
(c) small scale schemes, mainly along the Nile north of Khartoum; these belong
entirely to the private sector and have a net command area of about 300,000
feddans (7 percent) and are distributed in several thousand schemes. (See map
and Annex IV.)
36.       For the past 50 years cotton has been, and still remains, Sudan's
most important cash crop. The main irrigation schemes--Gezira, New Halfa,
pump schemes on the White and Blue Niles--are all major producers, as is
the new Rahad scheme. The main types grown under irrigation are long and
extra long staple and medium staple. In the irrigated areas, all land pre-
paration is mechanized. The time of planting is from mid-July to mid-August.
The harvest takes place over a two to three month period depending on variety,
time of planting, irrigation efficiency and climate. In late November
the first pickings start.
37.       Historically, the irrigated schemes were conceived for the cultiva-
tion of cotton as the only cash crop. Two other crops, sorghum and fodder,
were cultivated for subsistence and livestock purposes, either complementing
cotton in the rotation, or using marginal land for cereal production. However,
as indicated earlier, Government decided in 1974, in response to the sharp
rise in the world prices of cereals, to expand the production of wheat and
rice to promote self-sufficiency in basic foodstuffs and to expand the output
of high value cash crops, most notably groundnuts. As a result of these
decisions, groundnut production has gradually displaced the fodder crop in the
Gezira's cropping pattern and has also expanded upon new acreage, while wheat
has been expanded in competition for acreage with cotton and sorghum. This
has encouraged the tenants to neglect cotton. While alternative crops are
generally more profitable to the individual tenant, studies of the interna-
tional competitiveness of Sudan's various crops indicates that profitability
(measured as the net foreign exchange earnings (or savings) obtained in
producing a crop per unit of domestic resource input costs) is highest for
cotton.
38.       Over recent years cotton output in Sudan has tended to decline.
Output fell sharply, by almost 50 percent in 1975/76, with about 90 percent of
the reduction occurring in the long staple varieties. Part of this decline
in long staple was planned by Government. However, only marginal lands were
taken out of cotton cultivation so that average yields should have increased,
while in fact yields in the Gezira fell to 2.8 kantars per feddan, which was
the lowest level recorded since 1963/64. In the 1976/77 season, output
recovered somewhat but it remained well below the level of earlier seasons
and the yield, although higher than in 1975/76, was still historically low
at about 3.5 kantars per feddan for long staple varieties. The combined
loss in output in the two growing seasons (1975-77), when measured against a
hypothetical yield of 4.5 kantars per feddan (the average yield for the decade
ended in 1974/75 was 4.7 kantars per feddan) can be calculated to have been



- 14 -
some LSd 29 million (valued at average 1976/77 prices). Cotton yields were
further adversely affected in the last growing season by unusually heavy rains
which caused severe flooding in the main schemes such as Gezira.
39.       A major factor underlying the decline in yields appears to have been
the increased demands made upon the irrigation systems, which are in a poor
state of repair and have therefore been unable to satisfy the higher demand
for water. However, other factors are just as important--the inadequate
incentive system, poor cropping patterns, overall country economic problems
resulting in severe shortages of foreign exchange which particularly affect
the irrigation schemes. For example, in the Gezira-Managil scheme both
irrigation and agricultural machinery are underutilized for want of spares.
Field water management systems have been disrupted by an almost total break-
down of the telephone system. The Gezira Light Railway, which is the central
means of transport into the scheme from the main line of the Sudan Railway
system, is in disarray with overaged equipment and lack of spares. The
Government has begun to address the policy and structural problems. However,
much more remains to be done and without sufficient foreign exchange, policy
reforms cannot be implemented effectively.
PART IV - THE AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATIONQ PROGRAM
Policy Changes
40.       Against the background of serious payments imbalances stemming from
structural maladjustments in production and trade, the Government in the last
year or so has taken several significant decisions aimed at re-establishing
financial equilibrium and restoring the economy's development momentum. The
decisions are designed mainly to alleviate or correct the policy deficiencies
outlined in Part I. Implementation of the decisions will require a substan-
tial volume of external assistance and debt relief. The Bank can play its
part by providing fast disbursing financial assistance, such as the proposed
credit for agricultural rehabilitation. Following is a description of the
recent policy changes taken by Government to deal with the crisis and an
explanation of the framework for the proposed Credit.
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
41.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of an
agreement with the IMF that involved a drawdown of 51 million SDRs from two
support facilities -- the first credit tranche and the trust fund. The
agreement included a devaluation of the Sudanese pound, effectively by 25
percent, and declarations of intent by Government to keep deficit financing
within certain limits and to limit short and medium term foreign borrowing
as follows: a ceiling on new commitments during 1979/80 of US$200 million for
loans with a maturity of 1-10 years of which not more than US$50 million would
be on loans of 1-5 years maturity. Also, the Government announced that the
pricing system in the irrigated agriculture sector would be reformed and that
land and water charges would be imposed on most crops. In May 1979, agreement



- 15 -
was reached on a set of policy actions to be taken by Government in order to
obtain access to resources under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for a period
of three years in an amount equivalent to SDR 200 million. The policy actions
involve essentially an extension of those agreed as part of the Fund standby
in June 1978. Simultaneously with these developments, the Government has
taken steps -- abolition of the cotton export tax, institution of land and
water charges, revamping of agricultural production relationships -- which
should help considerably to recast the pattern of financial incentives in the
agriculture sector along lines that are consistent with Sudan's comparative
advantage in international trade.
42.       On September 16, 1979 the Government enacted additional significant
measures with respect to the exchange rate system. These were as follows:
(i) Establishment of an official rate of US$2 per Sudanese pound. Valuation
of all imports for customs purposes has been changed to the new official rate
(LSd 1 = US$2) from the old official rate (LSd 1 = US$2.50); (ii) Abolishment
of a special incentive rate for remittances and establishment of a parallel
exchange market with an initial rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25. The division of
transactions between the two markets provides for some 90 percent of exports,
70 percent of imports and official invisibles, cash loans and debt service to
come under the official rate, with all other transactions under the parallel
market rate; (iii) Agreement to allow residents and nonresidents to have
current accounts with Sudanese banks denominated in foreign exchange. Funds
in these accounts may be freely used for transfers abroad or for sale in
the parallel market. As an incentive for the holders of these accounts to use
their funds to finance the importation of goods, Government has agreed to
provide them preferential treatment in the granting of import licenses for
goods financed in the parallel market. It is believed that this will encour-
age the flow of private sector funds to Sudan.
43.       The Executive Board of the IMF approved these changes on September
21, 1979 and, in addition, approved (i) a drawdown of a second 15 million
SDR tranche under the EFF (the first tranche of 15 million SDRs was pro-
vided in May, 1979); and (ii) a purchase by Sudan of about 17 million SDRs
under the first credit tranche. On November 7, 1979, the Executive Board of
the IMF approved purchases of 36 million SDRs under the Compensatory Financing
Facility, largely on account of the decline in cotton export earnings.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
44.       An essential ingredient in the Government's stabilization program
is a concerted drive to generate greater foreign exchange revenue through
increased exports. This is being carried out under a new Export Action
Program (EAP), initiated in mid-1979 and now formally endorsed by Government.
The EAP, which is described in Annex VI, is designed to raise the volume of
cotton exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period
1979-91. Investments and actions towards this goal would also contribute to
larger exports of groundnut and sorghum, since these crops also would capture
some of the benefits of the program. The EAP comprises (i) a series of
urgently needed investments aimed mainly at satisfying immediate requirements



- 16 -
for spare parts, replacement equipment and inputs of various types, princi-
pally in the major irrigation schemes where the chief export crops are grown;
proceeds of the proposed Agricultural Rehabilitation Program Credit would help
fulfill this aspect of the EAP; (ii) a series of rehabilitation projects to be
carried out is the 1980's, also in the irrigated subsector; (iii) policy and
other actions such as institutional reform, revision of cost recovery systems
intended to provide a conducive framework for accelerated production. Some of
these actions have already been taken, others will have to be implemented as
part of the proposed Program to be financed under the Credit, still others
will be done in the context of the planned rehabilitation projects.
45.       The EAP calls for improvement in allocational efficiency, better
performance levels in parastatal organizations, development of sound depre-
ciation and maintenance mechanisms, increased productivity of factors of
production as well as expansion of their supply. Some of these measures have
already been enacted -- e.g. new pricing arrangements have been introduced as
part of the understandings with the Fund (ref. para. 41). Additional measures
will be required if the EAP is to be successful; for example, the transfer of
services and functions to the private sector in certain areas would help
improve implementational capability; changes in tenure arrangements and sizes
would stimulate more productive use of land; the exchange rate for the
imported inputs and exports of the agricultural sector should be unified;
closer linkages need to be established between costs charged for various
irrigation and agricultural services and the real cost involved in providing
these services. Most of these additional measures have been endorsed by
Government as items for future action; in any event, they will all be included
in our future policy dialogue with the Government.
46.       Simultaneously with the EAP, Government has reduced the overall
development program, as reflected in the six year plan, to a more realistic
framework consistent with expected external and domestic financial resources.
The Government has recently completed such an exercise for the period 1978/79-
1980/81; it is called the Three Year Public Investment Program and it was
formally endorsed by Government at the time of the submission of the new
1979/80 annual budget. A central objective of the new program is to redirect
emphasis to those development activities that hold greatest promise for
increasing exports and revenue. To that end, a new interim strategy has been
adopted which sets essentially two criteria for the selection of development
projects: (a) concentration on the completion of ongoing projects, partic-
ularly those in the most productive sectors, and (b) limiting new undertakings
to those that rehabilitate existing production schemes or that help alleviate
the major infrastructure bottlenecks. Bank staff have reviewed the new three
year program and consider its size and composition both realistic and appro-
priate.
47.       This change in emphasis represents a significant redirection in
Sudan's development effort. The revised three year program provides for a
substantial reduction in the total investment that had been envisioned in the
plan for the 1979-81 period; it also readjusts priorities within and between
sectors. The six year plan for the period 1977/78 to 1982/83 envisaged a



- 1 7 -
total investment of LSd 2.7 billion, of which LSd 1.6 billion would be in
the public sector and the remaining LSd 1.1 billion in the private, coopera-
tive and mixed sectors. The new three year program, on the other hand,
provides for an almost 20 percent lower level of investment (including self-
financed projects) than is implied in the six year plan. It also provides for
significant redirection of resources, particularly in the public sector.
Agriculture, which under the six year plan, accounted for about 25 percent
of the total allocations is now, under the three year program, slated to
receive more than 30 percent. Transport and infrastructure also have been
given more emphasis in the three year program. Conversely, the proportion
of resources allocated to services was held to 12 percent in the three year
program, compared with 17 percent in the plan.
48.       In an effort to generate greater domestic resources, the Government
introduced, as part of the new 1979/80 budget, a number of new revenue mea-
sures including a 5 percent levy on imports and increases in excises and
sugar prices. In addition, the budget subsidy on wheat was eliminated and
fees and charges, both in Government and in public enterprises, were raised
substantially. Domestic prices of petroleum products also have been in-
creased and electricity and water tariffs were raised by almost 100 percent
in July, 1979. The Government is also undertaking a comprehensive review of
the tax system with a view to increasing revenue substantially in future
years.
(c) Management of External Debt
49.       The inefficiency in the management of foreign borrowings and
external debt (ref. para. 17) has been ameliorated recently through the
decision to vest sole authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry
of Finance. Also, a new debt management unit in the Ministry of Finance
became operational in 1979.
50.       Equally significant, however, are the recent moves to deal with the
severe debt and arrears problems. On November 12 and 13, 1979 a Paris Club
meeting was held on the rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries
(Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands,
Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached
agreement on (i) a rescheduling or a refinancing of amounts falling due
before October 1, 1979 and not paid (arrears); and (ii) a rescheduling or
a refinancing of amounts payable between October 1, 1979 and June 30, 1981
inclusive and not paid (future debt service obligations). This will apply
to loans from governments or public agencies which had original maturities
of more than one year and which were concluded before January 1, 1979.
51.       The conditions of payment of the arrears are a seven year payment
period with no grace, according to the following schedule: 7 percent of
the arrears to be paid in 1980, 7 percent in 1981, 14 percent in 1982, 14
percent in 1983, 17 percent in 1984, 20 percent in 1985 and 21 percent
in 1986. The conditions of rescheduling of future debt service payments
are as follows: 15 percent of those obligations will have to be paid as



- 18 -
scheduled originally and the remaining 85 percent will be rescheduled or
refinanced with a 10 years payment period, including 3 years of grace.
Interest rates will be established at subsequent bilateral negotiations.
Also, the rescheduling package is contingent on the Government fulfilling
understandings with the Fund under the EFF (ref. paras. 41-43)
52.       According to preliminary estimates, the Paris Club accord involved
rescheduling of the following aggregate amounts: about $350 million worth
of arrears (out of a total of about US$1.2 billion) and about $150 million
of future debt service obligations. The Government is also currently nego-
tiating with a consortium of commercial banks in an effort to achieve addi-
tional refinancing.
53.       While the Paris Club agreements were more generous in terms of
period and percentage of debt service covered than other such Paris Club
agreements and will reduce the country's financing gap to manageable propor-
tions in 1980 and 1981, they still fall short of resolving Sudan's medium term
external payments problems. Even if all external debt not covered by the
Paris Club were to be rescheduled on the same terms as those agreed by the
Club in November, Sudan's debt service ratio for 1980 would be 20-25 percent.
More conservative estimates of the terms on which the part of Sudan's debt
not covered by the Paris Club is likely to be rescheduled indicate a debt
service ratio of around 35 percent. Under either set of assumptions, there
would be a substantial improvement compared to the ratio of nearly 50 per-
cent that the nation would probably otherwise have faced.
(d) Public Corporations
54.       For more than a year a special inter-ministerial committee has
been discussing the recommendations of the study group on public enterprises
(ref. para. 16); recently, the Government has begun to take some action to
help remedy the situation. For example, in September, 1979 the Government
announced the abolition of a cumbersome and overly centralized corporate setup
in agriculture and, at the same time, decided to replace it with fewer, more
autonomous agricultural entities. Organizational changes are expected shortly
in the industrial and commercial sectors. This is only a beginning, however,
and much more reform will be required (para. 67).
The Case for Agricultural Rehabilitation Assistance
55.       The impact of Sudan's current economic crisis has been felt most
severely in the agriculture sector, particularly the irrigated subsector,
where the lack of adequate foreign exchange has left the major irrigation
schemes, which grow the chief export crops (cotton and groundnuts) critically
short of spare parts, fertilizers, pesticides, pumps, equipment of all sorts.
These shortages, in turn, have begun to affect production adversely; if the
shortages persist they will have long term damaging implications for the
entire economy.



- 19 -
56.       The proposed Agricultural Rehabilitation Program will help support
a crucial part of the Government's Export Action Program (ref. para. 44 and
Annex VI) and will aim at (a) supporting required policy and structural
changes already initiated or required to be taken, and (b) providing urgently
needed foreign exchange in the irrigation subsector which, for the near term
certainly, holds the only real opportunity for generating the real resources
required to support the stabilization program. The proposed credit should
also be viewed as an essential first step to specific Bank Group lending (ref.
paras. 20, 21) aimed at assisting Sudan through a very difficult period.
Finally, it should also be seen as part of a series of measures which include
the rescheduling of debt, provision of program assistance by other donors and
the continued use of IMF resources. Already, in addition to the IMF programs,
several bilateral donors have either committed or begun to disburse balance
of payments assistance or special program aid. Saudi Arabia has provided
almost US$400 million. The United Kingdom has approved program assistance
totaling US$30 million equivalent on grant terms, mainly to purchase spare
parts and equipment for the railway system. The United States Agency for
International Development has recently appraised a program assistance grant
totaling US$50 million to be used for the purchase of spare parts, raw
materials, and equipment for small and medium industries, as well as for the
transport and communications sectors. The Netherlands Government is consider-
ing program assistance totaling US$25 million equivalent.
57.       This package of assistance would help Sudan overcome, to some
extent, its external financing problem and, at the same time, provide the
resources required to implement: (a) the Three Year Public Investment Program;
(b) the Export Action Program; and (c) the series of corrective actions taken
recently to restore internal and external equilibrium. Given the magnitude
of the financing gap (ref. Table 2), this package alone will not suffice.
The projected financing gap averages more than US$150 million a year during
1980-82. After 1982, the gap is projected to increase steeply to more than
US$500 million by 1985 and 1986. After 1986, in which year the last amount of
the arrears is assumed to be paid, the gap financing needed would fall off
gradually. Additional program-type assistance will be required along with more
debt rescheduling in the first half of the 1980's. However, given the steps
that Sudan has taken thus far, and the response of the international community,
it is reasonable to assume that if the Government persists in the stabiliza-
tion effort, further assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources will
be forthcoming. In this connection, a Consultative Group Meeting for Sudan
has been scheduled for early April in Paris.



- 20 -
Table 2
Sudan: Balance of Payments, FY1980-85 (Summary Projection)
($ million)
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Exports (including NFS) /1         996    1193    1369    1557    1768    2012
Imports (including NFS)           1831    1975    2199    2448    2727    3037
Resource Balance                  -835    -782    -830    -891    -959   -1025
Investment Income, net            -195    -247    -282    -287    -296    -307
of which interest
Public MLT /2 Loans           -70    -127    -167    -184    -204    -230
Interest Arrears             -96      -89      -83     -69      -56     -39
Private Transfers                  391     424      459      498     539      585
Balance on Current Account        -639    -605    -653    -680    -716    -747
Private Direct Investment           30       45      55       61      67       73
Short-term, net                     30      33       36       40      44       48
Public Grants and MLT Loans
Grants, disbursements               75       83      91      100     110      121
MLT loans, disbursements           530      587     608      626     649      704
MLT loans, repayments             -118    -250    -305    -354    -444    -455
Disbursements, net                 487      420     394      372     315      370
Decrease in Arrears                -84      -84    -168    -168    -204    -240
Use of IMF Resources                70       75      75      -18     -34      -41
Change in Reserves
(- = increase)                   -        -        -       -       -37     -41
Gap Financing Needed               106      116     261      393     565      578
/1   Non-factor services.
/2   Medium- and long-term.
The Program: Objectives and Scope
58.       The proposed program was appraised by a mission that visited Sudan in
July 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 5 to February 8,
1980. The Government of Sudan was represented by a delegation headed by
the Minister of Agriculture, Abdalla Ahmed Abdalla.
59.       The broad objectives of the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program are
to support the Export Action Program of the Government by: (a) providing
foreign exchange financing for high priority imports to help increase util-
ization of productive capacity in the irrigated subsector of agriculture from



- 21 -
whence Sudan derives the bulk of its export earnings, mainly from cotton; (b)
encouraging and supporting macro-economic and sectoral policy reforms aimed at
alleviating the underlying causes of Sudan's balance of payments problems; (c)
providing financing for special studies and technical assistance to help
implement the program.
60.       The Program is planned to start in time to influence output in the
crop season commencing in June 1980. In order to support this broad objective,
the proposed credit will provide foreign exchange financing for spare parts,
materials, equipment already identified and urgently needed, particularly in
the main irrigation schemes -- Gezira, Blue and White Nile pump schemes,
Rahad--where the bulk of Sudan's cash and export crops are grown. The inputs
would support the following operations: (a) Irrigation Activities: De-silting
of canals and drains and repair or replacement of pumps and engines; (b) Land
preparation: Deep ploughing and harrowing; (c) Associated Activities: Timely
placement of fertilizer and pesticides on site; urgently needed workshop equip-
ment; spares, repairs or replacement of machinery (cotton ginning equipment,
Gezira Light railway, etc.) provision of some storage capacity. An illustra-
tive list of inputs is shown in Annex V.
The Policy Focus
61.       Over the last year or so, a close and constructive dialogue has
taken place between the Bank, the Fund and the Government on policy reforms
required to help strike at the root causes of Sudan's balance of payments
crisis. Government has begun to take significant steps in implementing these
reforms. The proposed credit, in addition to providing urgently needed
foreign exchange, would have an equally important objective of supporting
these reforms and others needed to help restore internal and external equili-
brium and to attack the key constraints affecting the agricultural sector.
These measures include steps to reinforce recently introduced corrective
actions or new initiatives aimed at improving (a) incentives for the productive
sectors; (b) resource mobilization and allocation; management of debt; (c)
performance of public enterprises.
(a) Incentives for Productive Sectors
62.       As part of its recent agreements with the Fund (paras. 41-43) and
through its new Export Action Program, the Government has begun to reform
pricing and incentive policies that have adversely affected exports generally
and irrigated cotton in particular. Export taxes on cotton--10 percent on
long staple; 8 percent on medium staple--have been abolished. These changes
will substantially increase growers' returns from cotton. Though the exchange
rate applied to cotton exports is now more favorable, further changes are
needed so that the same exchange rate will apply to both the imported inputs
and the exports of the agricultural sector. In addition to these changes, a
new cost recovery system, including land and water charges, has recently been
introduced in the Gezira scheme on non-cotton crops (excluding sorghum), which
should over time increase the tenants' interest in maximizing cotton yields.
There has been some tenant resistance to these charges but Government agreed
at negotiations and subsequently confirmed that (a) the system will remain in
force and (b) all charges will be collected. The Government has also agreed,



- 22 -
in light of the plethora of cost recovery and tenant charge systems now in
effect in the various public irrigation schemes (ref. paras. 17-20 Annex IV),
to undertake a study of the various systems and their actual impact on
production, tenant receptivity, etc. Draft terms of reference were discussed
during negotiations and Government has agreed to furnish to the Association
not later than September 30, 1980 the final report of the study, including
recommendations and a specific action program (ref. Section 3.06, Draft
Development Credit Agreement).
(b) Resource Mobilization and Allocation; Debt Management
63.      Raising revenues is essential for servicing existing assets in the
public sector as well as for generating public savings. A central objective
should be to consider ways in which Government revenue could be increased over
the next four years, so as to attain levels more consistent with anticipated
expenditures. This will require, among other things, a rapid rise in the base
and rate of direct taxes especially to capture the growth in the modern
agriculture sector, and development of broad based consumption taxes and
extension of foreign trade taxes on an ad valorem basis.
64.       In recent months the Government has taken measures to help strengthen
the framework for improved domestic resource mobilization and allocation. A
special ministerial committee for the economy has been established which
reports directly to the President; its scope of work covers all areas of
production, consumption, taxation, mobilization of resources and investments.
Also, as part of its understandings with the Fund under the EFF, Government
has, with assistance of the Fund, initiated a comprehensive review of the
tax system with the principal objective of increasing resources during the
stabilization program and afterwards. To complement and support this step,
Government has agreed to develop before December 1, 1980, a specific action
program based on the recommendations of the tax review study, which should be
completed earlier in 1980. (ref. Section 3.10, Draft Development Credit
Agreement). A central objective would be to begin to bring revenues more into
line with expenditures, thereby reducing the gap for deficit financing.
65.       A revised and updated three year public investment program is
essential for the execution of an effective program of assistance, and
domestic resource mobilization, during the stabilization period. Such a
program has already been formulated and enacted (ref. para. 46). However, it
is important that this program be a realistic, dynamic blueprint, updated and
revised as changing conditions warrant. Central objectives should be to
preserve the essential development program and to develop a public investment
program in the context of forward budgets, in order to help avoid over commit-
ment and to ensure proper allocation between capital and recurrent expend-
itures. In this connection, the Government has agreed to provide the Associa-
tion by April 30, 1980 the general strategy and sectoral allocations of an
updated three year investment program for review, covering the years 1980/81-
1982/83 (ref. Section 3.09, Draft Development Credit Agreement). The Export
Action Program is a logical complement to the Three Year Public Investment
Program and to the package of stabilization policies enacted in recent months.
As presently formulated, the action program focuses predominantly on policies
and investments required to increase production in the main irrigation schemes,



- 23 -
where the principal export crops are grown. Given the urgent need to increase
export earnings, this is inevitable. As indicated earlier (ref. para. 44),
the EAP consists of (a) policy and other actions already taken, or required to
be taken, to provide a conducive framework for increased production of cotton
and other export crops; (b).,the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program, to be
financed from proceeds of the.proposed Credit and designed to meet immediate
needs for spare parts, inputs and replacement equipment in the major irriga-
tion schemes; and (c) a series of projects to be carried out in the 1980's
aimed at rehabilitating and/or modernizing existing irrigation schemes. So
far as this last component is concerned, a tentative list of projects has been
identified and is shown in Annex VI (para. 17). This list and the details of
the EAP were discussed and agreed during negotiations. Subsequently, the EAP
has been formally endorsed by Government.  In addition, Government has agreed
to initiate a study of cotton marketing problems and opportunities that would
deal with financial and technical aspects as well as international constraints.
Terms of reference for the study were finalized with Government at negotiations
and agreement was reached as follows:  That Government discuss the findings and
recommendations of the study with the Association before September 30, 1980
with a view to developing a specific program of measures to be taken to enhance
cotton marketing (ref. Section 3.08, Draft Development Credit Agreement).
66.       The new debt management unit in the Ministry of Finance (ref. para.
49) has only just become operational and will warrant close monitoring during
its early period. It is proposed that operations of the unit be assessed
again during the mid-term review for the Program (ref. para. 70) to ensure
that it is functioning as intended (ref. Section 3.12, Draft Development
Credit Agreement.)
(c) Parastatal Reform
67.       As part of its understanding with the Fund under the EFF, the
Government has agreed to conduct a comprehensive review of the financial
positions of the major public enterprises and entities, concentrating in the
early stages on those bodies which are major users of bank credit. Pricing
policies and incentive patterns will also be reviewed frequently and efforts
will be made to increase output levels by eliminating bottlenecks in the
production and distribution sectors. Government has agreed to discuss with
the Association an action program for effecting administrative reform in
its parastatal bodies in the agriculture sector. Consultants would be
retained under the program to assist in this effort and the main focus would
be (a) to devise a plan for the terms of reference and staffing of a new
administrative unit in the Ministry of Agriculture, recently established to
provide guidance and monitoring for new semi-autonomous entities that are
being set up to replace the old, deficit-ridden public corporations in the
agriculture sector; (b) to help institute a commercial accounting system for
the Ministry of Irrigation's two public corporations and to devise better
administrative arrangements within the Ministry in order to ensure the timely
provision of maintenance to the public irrigation schemes. An action program
incorporating all of these elements, would be prepared by Government, with the
aid of consultants, and discussed with the Association not later than Sept-
ember 30, 1980 (ref. Section 3.07, Draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 24 -
Administration of the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
68.       The Program would be administered through a new Program Procurement
Committee responsible to the Minister of Finance. The Committee would be
chaired by the Minister of Finance, or his designate, and would include re-
presentatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Irrigation, National Planning,
among others, as well as a representative of the Bank of Sudan. The Committee
would have a small secretariat that would include specialists and/or consult-
ants hired under the Program to initiate and coordinate all tendering and
procurement as well as Government operational staff. The Secretariat's main
function would be to agree with representatives of the beneficiary agencies
the packages of inputs to be procured and the timing and mode of delivery. In
addition, the secretariat would formulate a plan, for review by the Association
and the Government, for (a) coordinating all program type assistance from
external agencies; and (b) streamlining government tendering and procurement
procedures generally. Terms of reference for the committee and consultants
were agreed at negotiations. The Committee has now been formally established
by Government and it will submit a plan of action for streamlining government
tendering and procurement procedures for the Association's review by September
30, 1980 (ref. Section 3.11, Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Allocation of the Credit
69.      All but US$1.0 million of the Credit would be used to help finance
imports of spare parts, fertilizers, pesticides, replacement parts for a
variety of equipment and machinery, all in the irrigated agriculture subsector.
The proposed allocation would be as follows:
US$ million
Agricultural operations, including                     21.5
replacement parts, spares, inputs
Transport, motor vehicles, light railway                11.3
Ginneries, spares and replacement parts                 4.0
Workshop and Storage Facilities                          9.2
Irrigation and Drainage, including
pumps, engines, canal maintenance equipment          18.0
Technical Assistance, studies                            1.0
Total        65.0
Annex V contains a more complete indication of eligible imports. The proposed
Credit would finance 100 percent of the foreign cost of the inputs and equip-
ment. Local costs associated with the progam -- transport, local labor -- are
estimated at about US$15 million equivalent and would be provided by the
Government. The main beneficiaries of the Program would be the major irriga-
tion schemes, and their support agencies. Distribution of Credit proceeds are



- 25 -
reflected in a Supplemental Letter to the Draft Development Credit Agreement
and would be as follows: Ministry of Irrigation, US$5.85 million; Earthmoving
Corporation, US$3.70 million; Sudan Gezira Board, US$29.80 million; Blue Nile
and White Nile Corporations, US$19.30 million; Rahad Corporation, US$5.35
million. All of these entities are public corporations or agencies and
Government would pass on proceeds of the Credit to each in the form of equity
contributions. Technical assistance funds totaling US$1.0 million would be
used to finance about 110 man-months of consultancy services to assist with
tendering and procurement and to carry out the various studies (land and water
charges; export marketing, administrative reform in the Ministries of Agri-
culture and Irrigation). It is anticipated that the Credit will be completed
by September 30, 1981. A completion report will be prepared by the Government
within six months thereafter (ref. Section 3.04(b) Draft Development Credit
Agreement.)
Procurement and Disbursement
70.       Assuming an 18 month disbursement period, it is proposed that the
program be deployed in two tranches as follows: (a) immediately upon effective-
ness, US$40 million would be made available; (b) the remaining US$25 million
would be made available on October 31, 1980 after a performance review by the
Association (Schedule 1, para. 2(e) and Section 3.12, Draft Development Credit
Agreement). This review would, among other things, examine progress in
implementing the updated Three Year Public Investment Program and the Export
Action Program; in collecting new land and water charges in the Gezira
scheme; performance of the new debt management unit; fiscal reform; progress
in executing all agreed covenants under the Credit. All of these issues for
mid-term review were discussed and agreed at negotiations and incorporated
into a Supplemental Letter. It is proposed that up to US$6 million of the
first tranche be made available to finance retroactively those sections of the
Export Action Program related to the irrigated subsector for which Government
had either provided foreign exchange financing or had made financial commit-
ments after September 1, 1979. This is proposed in order to help facilitate
advance procurement for the 1980 growing season, starting April 1980. Pro-
curement would have to be in accordance with agreed procedures and conform to
the agreed list of import items.
71.       Eligible bulk imports by beneficiary public sector enterprises
or agencies, approved by the Program Procurement Committee and costing
US$1 million equivalent or more, will be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding procedures consistent with Bank Group Guidelines.
Eligible imports contracted by beneficiary agencies and costing between
US$250,000 and US$1 million equivalent will be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding with at least three offers from major suppliers in Bank
member countries and Switzerland. Contracts for $250,000 or less will be
awarded under normal procurement rules of the Government of Sudan and the
major sectoral enterprises (e.g. Sudan Gezira Board); these rules are satis-
factory and in line with Bank Group Guidelines. Spare parts will be procured
on the basis of either competing offers, or negotiation, depending on the
number of potential suppliers and the need for compatibility with existing
equipment. Withdrawal applications will be prepared by the Program Procure-
ment Committee secretariat, cleared with the Central Bank, and forwarded to



- 26 -
IDA. To simplify disbursement procedures, a minimum contract size of
US$100,000 has been set. To help speed Credit withdrawals, prior review of
specific tendering documents, evaluation reports and proposals for award would
not be required. However, the following procedures would be followed: (a)
With respect to all contracts, the Government would, before bids are invited,
submit to the Association for its comments the text of the form or forms of
invitations to bid and of other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed; (b) With respect to all contracts,
the Government would submit to the Association before submission of the first
withdrawal application for any given contract, two conformed copies of the
execution order, or other information as the Association may require; (c) With
respect to any contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2 mil-
lion or more on which there may be a disagreement with respect to evaluation
of bids, between either the procurement consultants, the Program Procurement
Committee or the beneficiary agencies, the Government, before a final decision
on award of contract, would submit the matter to the Association for review
(ref. Schedule 3, para. B.1-3, Draft Development Credit Agreement). Procure-
ment of pesticides which would present a high environmental risk would be
ineligible for financing under the Credit (ref. Schedule 3, para. A.3, Draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Risks
72.       The major risks involve transportation delays (mainly the Sudan
railway system) between Port Sudan and the major irrigation schemes; the
sometimes cumbersome tendering and procurement procedures of the Government;
above all, the Government's ability to continue to implement effectively the
full catalogue of structural and policy reforms that are essential for
restoring internal and external equilibrium. Some of these risks -- e.g.,
those associated with transport from the port -- can be mitigated somewhat
through the special program assistance being provided by the United Kingdom
(ref. para. 56) and through the Third and Fourth railway projects (Credit
457-SU; Loan 1467-SU and Credit 727-SU). The Government also intends to
give transportation of inputs under the program top priority. The proposed
specialized assistance (ref. para. 68) are intended to help overcome tender-
ing and procurement deficiencies. As for the policy momentum required to
implement the stabilization effort, this will be determined largely by the
resolve of Government itself. However, the range of special financial assis-
tance either approved or contemplated by the international community is
designed to encourage and support Government in this task.
Benefits
73.       The proposed Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (ARP) would con-
stitute an integral part of the Government's Export Action Program (ref. para.
44 and Annex VI), which in turn is the critical core of the stabilization
effort. By providing urgently needed foreign exchange and by supporting long
overdue policy and incentive changes, the ARP represents an essential first
thrust in the campaign to achieve a 7 percent per annum real growth in
cotton exports over the 1979-91 period. The scope of this effort, and the
requirements needed to achieve its main objectives, are set forth above and
in Annex VI. The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program's specific contribution
to this effort would be as follows: Valued at current prices, the total
capital investment in Sudan's 4 million feddan irrigation subsector is around



- 27 -
US$4 billion equivalent. The ARP would provide for agricultural inputs and
hardware purchases of about US$64 million, or about 1.6 percent of total
investment. Funds would be used mainly to finance deferred maintenance and
replacement in the major irrigation schemes. The ARP would activate sunk
capital and raise the volume of cotton exported by 15 percent per annum during
the period 1979-82 and by about 5 percent per annum for the period 1979-86.
To achieve the 7 percent target for the longer period 1979-91, other elements
of the Export Action Program would have to be implemented, particularly
projects during the 1980's to help rehabilitate the major irrigation schemes.
Since proposed investments under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program would
activate substantial sunk capital, the economic rate of return is estimated to
exceed 100 percent.
74.      Equally important institutional and sectoral benefits can be antic-
ipated; these could be particularly helpful in providing a more advantageous
framework for the execution of other projects that are contemplated in the
irrigated subsector. By supporting policy and structural reform, both in the
macro-economic sphere and in the irrigation subsector, the Program holds the
promise of affecting long overdue change in areas that strike at the root
basic causes of the country's economic malaise. In addition, the Program
supports a range of policy and institutional changes -- costing and incentive
systems, parastatal reform, organizational streamlining -- that are important
for the long term success of Sudan's economic development effort.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, and the recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Additional
conditions of the proposed IDA credit have been referred to in Part IV and are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 3, 1980



- 28 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A'yERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMA-E) -
TOTAL           250S.8                                                 SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    315.0                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b     REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 150.0      180.0    320.0            306.1      467.5      1097.7
ENERGY CONSlIMPTION PER CAPTTA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     52.0       130.0    143.0             80.6      262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, aID-YEA  (MILLIONS)    11.3        14.1      16.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 10.0       16.0      20.0            17.1       24.6        49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     31.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       89.0
YEAI STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2135
POPUtATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Lm.                       5.0         6.0       7.0            18.4       45.3        44.6
PER SQ. YM. AGRICULTURAL LA1ND   37.0        46.0      54.0            50.8      149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.3        45.3      45.0            44.1       45.2        41.3
15-64 YES.                        53.0        52.0      52.0            52.9       31.9        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.7         2.7       3.0             2.8        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.9         2.3       2.6             2.7        2.7         2.4
URBAN                              ..         6.9       6.9             5.7        4.3         4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    45.0        45.0      45.0            46.3       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    25.0        21.0      19.0            17.2       11.7         9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         3.4       3.2             3.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MAlR7ED WOMEN)   ..          ..        ..              ..       13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         86.5       100.0    103.0             94.3       99.6       104..
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  81.0        72.0     U8.0             89.5       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         55.0        63.0/h   65.1             55.8       54.3        64.4
OF WHICR ANIMAL AND PULSE        ..        23.6      23.1            17.9       17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    46.0        38.0      31.0            22.3       11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 3IRTH (YEARS)    39.0       43.0      46.0            47.0       54.7        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       132.0        ..              ,.       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      46.0            20.3       34.4        60.8
URBAN                              ..          ..      49.0            53.9       57.9        75.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      45.0            10.1       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ,,        16.0      22.0            22.5       40.8        46.0
URBAN                              ..                    .             62.5       71.3        46.0
RURAL                              ..                                  13.9       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        31000.0    13660.0   9760.0           17424.7    6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2940.0/f   1940.0   1260.0            2506.6    1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1000.0       930.0    960.0            502.3      726.5       453.4
URBAN                              ..          ..    260.0            201.4      272.7       '53.1
RURAL                              ..          ..   2580.0           1403.6    1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..      16.9            23.4       27.5        22.1
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                         5.1        ..             4.9        5.4         5.3
URSAN                              ..         5.7/1      ..             4.9        5.1         5.2
RURAL                                                                   5.5        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         1.9
URBAN                              ..         2.5/I      ..              ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICI7Y (PERC7NT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        26.4/i      ..              ..       28.1        50.0
URASA                              ..          ..        ..              ..       45.1        71.7
RURPAL                             ...                   ..,                       9.9        17.3



- 29-                                              ANNEX I
-                                  Page  2
tELEJ 3A-
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIVATE) 41
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INcoME        LiCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
AJUSTED E.YROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLMARY:     TOTAL                  25.0         33.0       39.0             59.0        82.7        102.5
MALE                  35.0         41.0       49.0             64.2        37.3        108.6
FEMALE                14.0         26.0       30.0             44.2        75.8         97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0          7.0       13.0              9.0        21.4         33.5
MALE                   5.0          9.0       18.0             12.0        33.0         38.4
FEMALE                 1.0          4.0        8.0-             4.4        15.5         30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)   3.0            1.46I      1.0/1, k         7.0         9.8         11.5
PUPIL-FEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             41.0         47.0       39.0             42.2        34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                           20.0         17.0       22.0             22.9        23.4         22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         13.1         15.0/1    20.0              20.8        54.0         64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4          2.0        ..               4.0         9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0         79.0         *              44.3        76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          2.9        6.0              2.9        13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
'-EREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    4.0           ..        8.0              5.6        18.3         40.0
CLNEtA ANVUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8             ..        1.4              0.4         2.5          3.7
LAOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3700.0       4500.0    4733.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     9.6         10.2       10.6             31.9        29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               85.7         82.0       79.0             77.6        62.7         43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   6.2          7.8       10.0              7.9        11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
MOTAL                                 33.0         32.1       31.5             40.8        37.1         33.5
KALE                                  59.1         56.9      55.8              53.9       48.8         48.0
YEKiLE                                 6.4          6.6        6.7             25.6        20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPEN-DENCY RATIO               1.4          1.5        1.8              1.2         1.4          1.4
INCOME DIST'RIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.9/m           ..         ..               ..        15.2         20.8
HICGHST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.17;         49.2/n       ..               ..        4. 2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.0/u          5.1/n       ..               .          6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.97;i        14.57w       ..               *-        16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
Ulti3AN                               ..           ..      137.0            187.6       241.3        270.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..       80.0             96.8       136.6       IS3.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE P?0V1TY INCOIO=
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      115.0            138.4       179.7       282.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..      100.0             71.0       10397       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BElOW ABSOLUTE
FOVlERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
U?BAN                                 ..           ..        ..              34.5       24.8         20.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..       83.0             48.7        37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-eighted Seometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depende on availability of data and is noc uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   Id  Lover Middle Income (5281-550 per capita, 1976);   /e  Intermediate Middle
Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);   If  1962;   Li  1970-73 average;   ih  1972;  7i  1965;    i  Begin-
ning 1970, the duration of general socondarv education was reduced from 8 to 6 years;   /k  Includes programs
of 5 training centers operated by Dept. of Labor and 17 short-term canters operated by Mi.. of Youth and
Sports;   /1  1966;   I.  1963, Ondurman (urban);   /n  1967-68.
Most Recent Escimate of 5N? per capita is for 1978.
AuguSt, 1979



- 30-                                                             ANNEX I
a      nnm ySaU mnxcno                                                 Page 3
Note.  A.tag   hedte           draem fin  eaomse gacerair jedged the mest eathitati- eand reLlble, it -bcal ale  he ntotd that they my ott be intrer-
U~iy   mynke heseeofthe leak of stederdlead defttisex aed concpts usd by different countries to co1.eetieg the data. The date era, eentaleas.,
fuefL. t. desrtb. orders of aiftde, Indicate trends, ud chacatetee crtain ejor differment   beteso eoaotris..
Th.ajse  coaes.  for each Indiate  ar peoLatioe-weOdhtd ge...tria  esma, noloding the extra eloe  of the  ndicator end the met  popslated
ontryi  ahgrn.fo  to Leek of dat, group aveage  of en1 indicators for Capital Soc-pl  Oil spe-rter  tad of iodicat-r  of tacos. to Wet.-  ad 2--rta
Dibe.-I, boelo, Inoen  Maribotia and Povrty for other  OnAtry gromsapeare ppsltion-oeightsd gsatri.c msea  eithosst eauisi of the extra value. and
the caet poplated hotry.  Sines the colvreSa of ... etresM        a the luinloatre dnedst o0 aelahility~ of data  edisat. -0.  n ato   x   ecr tee
in relatin' aveaes of one indictor to another. Th"e evres   ra saetlc oafal  e aopproadestions  feoee    -bs   h   cpro  thevle  of one
USdAMA (t sseed s-A t.)    ,cce ttbry    Deoed -fe-c  o  ppunton  -toaluranen cra 
Teaej in-rase.  -re  chriedng land ecaend mined  ie.t                         Dae   fpol   toa,ubn   n   ,oadecrdb  eceedsoa 
WioaLtnraj -  lbet rhoat acticte of sga-ietuler.  -c teed t-prarifl                   pe-ceetegee of their eepectie pouaios.brate. disposa. eay maInto
nr peet-atl  f-orncep, peetree,  rket ad flicks garde   or to                       the conlectind end dispoen, nith or  litout treetat, of lameen ea-rai
lie teflon,                                                    en~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d eet-atar by eatr-b one .  yeset  or the use of pit priv-ie.shad e.s.LLa
imetLLetiona.
G" F    CAM  (s$)- noP per cmoita eatist-eet carrot  -ret                         42ce,Pwatc perrician- Popelation divided by -mate  of prectiolog payeliene-
celo,uleteay aee  cene-rois, thod en boLd I.  Atlas (1976-78 basis);                   Im3l'7rIa    heat at oni-reaity leve.
1960, 1970, ad L9?73 date.                                                          PocAletc  c   tots  Perso  - PoPaiatioe dIvIded by maber of practicing ale
eeews  fCN1ayyjC  m   CP    - Amol. coseption of oin e.1                                            cWsftsgaute crs,Practi-al mcse, end ae.itetntorea
tchesa electrIcity  La      '              as  brte-, mis- asd r--                  PcouLatioo II   e..ital Set - otl, urban, end -rrl - Poplation (total, uirban,
th-..L .1hilspaof an.1 eqeivaset pc capta  1960,                                end  -uca   divie  hr thirrottv- to-ter of hoaplani bade avilablei
1970, as 1976 data                                                                    public end private geeral and opeomLined inotpital and rolatliantiroOcto
FtepitelA ar  eotblideents pereenantiy stffed by at iseot on  phy' ician.
PPUmLArIOg AND VTTAL 7TAflSf=t                                                          getbliseeshte w prrdkg Priboipa.ily cuetodial   are e   ot  -ico dis   Rural
Total  0pulatoo. le-roar jalllEe) - Ae of Jaty L; 1960, 1970, as             boepital, bont,itd    elhseadol  etr   o   eunnl   tto
1977 data,                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~by a pbeictebt by a sedloal atotettnt, nuroc,  idvife, eco.) objet offer
DoMen  tmlati  rpnen  of total) - Setio of chan to total PpeplatIon;                  in-patient -.eaadetion end Proide a 1halted range of aetielL taititiec,
difforatdaiati         I ofure  erx  my efec  amyrehilItY of data                 Adiesion   per SEe,pttl Zed - Total oue   f adieaato or diecirgee toe
eag counr         96; p, 1970, as 1973 data.                                        bnopttasdivided by the moutr of bed..-
?.VW.ti           ~- 0orrent pepuAtio  pmeoletioes ens bees en             sPsc
195Witilphp95iitd  by ego asd . emnd their anrtlity and fertility              Avertee sloe of  tnbl(erosprhuhld-tta.ranednoa-
rates. Pojection pecactere for artaity ratse owtsei  of treta                     A boucehld  oio."te  fagopo P indvidusleto% shr  U-g  oetricr  and
Ilevel  ostglife expectanCy at birtIh increasing with conuntry' e                 their min ael..  A boarder or lodger my or my out be inclded in tbh
par _pit. Inc_  leve, end fain. life  _xp_oay  tahilli.n  at                      tareohoitf. taretastia-tl Purpoa.a.
77.5 yar-    The persetera for fertility rate alec bar  thre  Levels            A- eccae   f  seo   err oo.-ttal, urban, and  -orl - Averag  oteb.r
ase.-ing belne in fertility acordlag to ien-a level at past                       of person  Per- ro  in al  rbnadcoa  occpied ro-vetio-l dooclliogo,
f-eenip oLsceLogpefrae,bb country is tbse aeigoed. ana of thsee                   respoetivey,  DNeh1inga occlde o-peeanat otruturee  nd unorpicd purto.
else outinatiome of criality utd fetitlity tsende for prhojetlha                A..".e to flettricity (cre   fdeloe      oa,ubn                    rrl-Coo
purposes.                                                    ra~~~~~~~~~~,tional dnll.ge is lcrct   nlro    rctr  en pervctuM  of
Stetiar-  oulttn-   neotetineey popletien thee to c  growt                          total, urb, end  rurl dealing. respootivoly.
since tbe birth rate is equa to the death rate, as also the ope
.tator  r""la       . toesnst. TM.is isachievd only after fertility rates     EoCATfIRe
decine an the ropleasa leve of -it mt -eprouctie  rate, ohm                     A-tLutd Earollmt Retire
eah geratlon of --   replees Itself exatly.  Do etationasy pope-                 Pa-icc-  school -  total, sal  nd fealo  - rones total,  le. and freo   orl.l-
tabl=  coc  -   eatiseatd on tha hacle of the projected ohsretariotio               at of al ag.ee  t tie pritary to-i us prvvtsgoe of oepetive pricery
of the poleltico, in the yea  200, asd the rats of doeline of fertility             echol-age pp`,lat toos; ourclty includes ohildree egd 6-ti yceo but
ra,. on cepleomet Level                                                             adjusted for differ,,,  1eogtbe of pricyodotio  for  -cutrie   iii
fear staticy cacaticn is reached - The year cha etetteary poPsaattn                   anivreaL  ducatiot  _nrulmt mey oaoed 100 p.-vot  tooc sue  pupils
cit  ta beneahdar  below or shor  the uffoial school ag..
Peopultoso Density                                                                    S-vdar  scholi- total  -le end f.sale - Cepstod asas.;  eonuaY
Per to. he. - Mid-year popaatien per sac  blister (10 beeterse) of                    educationrqie    tie, st four yoars of approved pri.ory eostrootioe
total area                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~pr-idee  enra  voctional, or tonber tralojg iutruti... for popIl.
Per o.  e.  griultralitad - C.ated an  bo"v for  griculturl lend                usully of  2 to i7 pearo of Mg.; oorce,ccvoaoaeg_o_rly
only,                                                                               exclded.
As. oode  Stosse   orst) - Childrs  (0-lb pece *                                                 =t--gePntoalcelct (eret of  -eodery) - Vocati .oal intitoion    -tolde
15.5. Ycr),  s retired (5year  ad ove) as b.-catege  of Mid-year                     techoical,idtra,oohe  prog-   htloh oprato indpenuc-tyorn
opalatien; 1960, 190, and 1977 dt.                                                    dpert-cta of scendacy toatitutio-s
Pe.. atin tooh bin (peaot) - total -boAnl-  centh reate  of total add-                Pocloebrrto-oi .ad oo'oedry7  - Totl etudet  en-voi.te  i
yea  poaaic   o   9060  po7,a    9077                                                  rer   n   codry  -cls dirdtby orat_r  of t heaore in tievore
pepulatis oot  taepr-et) - Urhn    a.sel ga-osth rate  of urban                         epedioglels
pool Tou   or1506,.1960-70, te  1970-75.                                    Adut literacy rato 'cer- t  -Literate adILta (sole to read and c-ic.) us
Cl.d. Brth Rt    mr t     - bna  live births par thoasend of aid-               apereoage of total  dlt popoutio  aged 15 year    d ..ver.
yeaijijiItiex; 196l 1970, ad 1977 data
Crude Death PaSqjpr.lthuend) -dAmsel death  Per thousas of eld-pee                c nossmptli
P'phlg5Ii;-lI9bO, 7M, -d 1977 data.                                                PscnrCr  ortuon  ouaio)-Peegror   op:eatro
MosRenodo.btion, Ratc - Aesrge mats  of denebtaro a n   ill boar                   setig .ac  than 0ht perso...; -oLud.e aebanoc, c-r.o and o2-itery
inbe unreal reproductive period if eke eaperiences present 5g.-ehlcs
specific frility retee  usueli  fie-ea  ncao  stun   to 1950,                     Oei   eovre(o  hnen   eoltoo(-Altpe=frcier-o   ai
1970, end 1975.                                                                     baductogorlplipe   otsdof peclto;    ldeilic-t-d
really Pienon"e - Acocetoro- manul toen1              A- aun eater of                 recivers in contirsoend to y-ar  uhea regiotratio  of vait set,, one in
aroptor  of bloth-oetret d-vion  -oerepi... of hetlonen  fenily                     effect; data for retet Year  my tot bo -oapable oboe a-tc,ie
pls_niog poran-                                                                     aboLished li-ocing.
Feebly PloiFg-jco(evo  ofc"ed                           "')    oectage of co-,e TI  Ruivr  (ocr,tbossad ocolatin) - TV reoi-r  for broudran t to gooe..-L
to alt eriot ne   In .c ae go-cP.                                                   sat in ycar  the  rgiatratino of TV soOt oa  to effeot.
teesnee  Cirvulaion, cc, tboxd pooo,l.nto) - Shon  iRe avrae  icoaco
FOOD AND0 IP'yTrflpe                                                                    of   aiygorlotceoepa                  , deindusa  ei-tIe  Pdbitiralc
.dco of rood  i tI..tc   prfCpita (i6g;n-1.10) - ne f per capita                     ductei  prnenrily in rshocrdtg geneoer. on..scnidered to be  daily'
aa-L prodution ofLall food  -74ditise  Produtin, einde .o...d ad                    if it acocar  at loan; fou  trace aeen
toedan  Ic on oaadar yea  basic. C-dlitie ouvo  polary goods                      Cinc Aon,al Attendance Pr Capita oar rear-  ouBsed on thc cater it  toickta
(g.sogaron  inetcad of sugar)  hi  en edible- as . etoi.onctricta               oold during too year  -ool1dig edal.oolo  to chive-in rIne   and -i,lc
(e  .g.offs  In  te  sen esnlded). Aggreate production of eah countr                ito..
Is based ventoolaenepodrrp-to ights.
Per oacita sItpl ofclre   orof          froiato  - Cooputed foe                 1.633  FORCE
eaor " -uise    f otfond spleavibeincutyerapita                             Total ebur Poe   thocnd    &-moolo.Lly active percoo, i-o1dio  ove
Per day. Avalbles supiscers                tie  pr-dution,ltrses                  faresCadf unsplo,yca but oooigtueie,enct,eo   cilot
experts,and chnge, In stok.  Sot eupplie. colude amle  feed, seeds,               in vaious cosines ar  sot -oeparble.
qootiis  used to food proceas..Ing, as Ioe..o in dlctoib,tioa. Requir-       Feapyqpp)            ele Lbor Coneu  pe-octge of total labnr forc.
at .a-eeticted by PAO booed en physiological.. neds for hoa-Ia            t            7ibIlidYr Iet  - labor tone 10 foeln, for-atry, tanotiog and
antivty sonOcath ---eidevio cvir,         ua  teap-rnor, body ecights,            f_tig  .peootge of tota  tar foo.-
age and  c  di.tributicos of prpultioe, end aino  10 parent fnr                industry (parent) - Lb-fr ton i- In iin, oootrootloo,  -nfactrlog cod
s_U-t athueod  ee.ectri-rty, catr end gs us pra-ctag  of total mOor ton.
Pe  aIta supy  fo     -oi  conle per dey) - Protein contnt of pea-            Perutoietio  et  (ocrpont) - wtoa   sal, end tenele - Participation o
capita ne  supply of fond per dey. Set capply of food is defioed an               actiity ratee ar  -optdu  oa,ale, and tccle~.w lab   to es0 pe.-
above. Wequirsct  for all cotries eetoLhlibd by USD  proide f or a                cxtges of total, talc and fen1e popultiro of oIl ugee reprtively;
dolma alloanc  of 60 grps  f total protein per day end 20 groe  of                1960, 15CR, ad 1975 dave. Thooc  -r  IlCu Pati-patina rates retlctiog
anIeni Ad paole  protein, of tldhi  10 greme should he oiLa  protein,             age-sex otrtr  of the poplttioo, usd tong tine treed.  A fecetteo
Three ooadLd  a-  bee  then tbouc of 75) grua  of total protein end               ar  troe extionl  oroo
25 grass of sniael pretici  usanavrge for the enod, proposed by PAR             P-eneicPcond y Rtitt  - Ratio of popnltro radar 15 and 65 and ove  to
inteTirdWold Pond So-cy                                                      tie lao  tn    Iaag  group of 15-64 Yeare.
Per reitel erIci  erply Io  an          W o  o,ul- - Prtice supply of tooed            "
derive  trteoas  n   sle  i   rn   e  day.                                    DU    ODT0fInO
StdCao   -)  o-atyot  c   huad)           - A--Ia deeth  per tbhuo5d          P-eroetaed  ofPrivate~ to-(uti  aiad kotnd) - Receive  by vines;t
In aes  cron  PI-nyar, t  ott-re  in tie age group; for -st douvl-                  5S p-eost, reheRpret   orst   oR p-oet, nod poorest -0 p-et
oping oonntriee data derived Ir  life tables,                                       of losaebolds.
HEALTH                                                                              POVERTY TARGiff 1ROM7S
Life -etcy at Rirth (re-r) - Averge teb.e  of yoare of lis.                         Etiated Absolute Roecty 1oo    leve   fi   errc b,)            o  and rurl 
rean   ty Rtint  190 M17, and 1977. data.                                     Abenlote. povrty loo-  loon1 i  thei tocc  re-blsoooainc
Infoot Wortalit  Rae(rtosnd) - bonual deaths of Infants under  ..o                   hotitincally adequate diet pin  es.....tial ant-fond -equiv      to  -i cot
yaof age pro thousand fLoe birth..                                               eff-rdbt..
Acesto daeWae  (cone,; o toocltic- tota   urban ,ad rura  -                       stisted Relative  ovrtr los    oni (Uid ccv  -aite) - urban end  -ul
tae  of fpeople (tota, urbanf, an  rrl)oth veceble aoeso to                         Rural relativ  poery loos  leve  Is en-thid of averge per capita
safe eeae  cnply (includes treatd suface   tera or untreated  ot_                   persenal inos  of the c-utry.  yRben leve  i derived Iro  the rura  beei
uacotsaoated  atr ouch an that f~ro  prerotetd boeon   prings,                      oit sdjoteent for Sigher cot of tiing in urbanaen
and sanitry vells  us p-enetagse  f their respective poPolttoot. to               tletitd PPooseltica bolos Absolute Pev-ry  oorlvlceot(-ubaad
W urban area a public fonataia ur etsndpcst located not cre than                     -ra  - Per-ct of popultino (urban and rua)_7aeabooepo
aeeetr  ta-e a ho .so sa  be osciderd us being vithin rasesa-blc
usosee  f that luse.  Lana.  aro ee reasnbl. aces  -cad iepiy
that the-.u-eid. or aer  of tho bon_obed doot tan to spend a                                                             coocic sad Ssi.1 late Dioruix
danrtinetc pert of too day infthing tha ftsn_ly-s enter nede                                                   foooi Ra.lycie nod ?0rcjotie D.prat
t"Agut 1979



-31-                            ANNEX I
Page 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1974/75 1'                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mn.         Z                               1972/73-1977/78 (estimates)
GDP at Market Prices          4,338.4        100.0                                          4.5
Gross Domestic Investment        761.0        17.5
Gross National Saving            230.5         5.3
Current Account Balance        -530.5        -12.2
Exports of Goods, NFS            486.5        11.2                                         -2.0
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,041.5         24.0                                         10.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974/75
Value Added-/                 Labor Force-/                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.         _                Mln.       %                    US $          x
Agriculture                     1,681          41.2              3.25      68.7                    517         59.9
Industry                          657          16.1             0.30        6.3                  2,190       253.8
Services                        1,745       . 42.7              1.18       24.9                  1,479       171.4
Total/Average               4,083         100.0              4.73      100.0                   863        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1978/79
(LSd. Mln.)                          % of GDP37
Current Receipts                     520                                 14.6
Current xpenditure                  607                                 17.0
Current Surplus                      -87                                 -2.4
Capital ExpendituresAl               198                                  5.5
External Assistance Cnet)             91                                  2.5
Sept.
MNEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                 1974         -1975          1976         1977        1978         1979
Tmillion LS outstanding end period)
Money Supply                           277.1          329.5        412.1       588.7       *750,6        903.2
Bank Credit to Government              130.9          199.5        293.6       487.7        592.8       685.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector          141.9          296.6        250.9       287.6        366.2       432.0
(Fercentages or Index Numbers)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)         26.0           24.0         10.0         17.0        25.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector            37.1           52.4         47.2        66.1         21.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector           43.6           45.6         21.4        14.6         27.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ This is the last year for which reasonably reliable GDP data by expenditure are available.
2/ Total labor force; umemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ At market prices.
4/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
Not available
Not applicable
EA2DB
February 1980



-32 -Ai    '
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TIADR 16-ANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES                                           HERCMANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76-77/78)
1975   1976   1977   1978                                           US $ Mln.       %
(Millions US $)
Cotton                      294.0      52.0
Exports Goods, NFS              515    696    782    800                  Qum Arabic                   33.4        5.9
Imports Goods, NFS           1,202  1,304  1,492  1,550                   Groundnuts                   99.6      17.6
Resource Gap                   -687   -608   -710   -750                  Sesame                       50.2        8.9L
Livestock and Products       20.7       3.7
Interest MLT Debt               -57    -65    -84    -80                  Other                        67.2      11.9
Other Factor Payments             1    -34    -29    -25                     Total                    565.1     100.0
Transfers                       102   18    296    330
Current Balance                -641   -519   -527   -525
Public Grants                    32     21      20     30               EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Public MLT Loans, disb.         489    493    156    265
Public MLT Loans, amort.        -79   -119.  -141   -150                                                     US $ Mln.
Total Public, net               442    395      35    145
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed       2,075.5
Increase in Arrears               5    245    445    270                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt             ..
Total Outstanding and disbursed
Change Net Foreign Assets
(_ - increaes)      362    104      -      73              1)flT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978              x
Irrors and Omissions b/        -168   -225    47       37                 Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        35.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)        36     24    23       28                 Total Outstanding and Disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE  c/                                     IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Nov. 30, 1979) (Million US $):
Annual Average    End Period                                            IBRD       IDA
1977    1978   Aug 79  Sep 79
Outstanding and Disbursed         82.4     144.3
Official:                                                   Undisbursed                       32.0      200.6
LSl = US$            2.872   2.662   2.500   2.000       Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  114.4        344.9
Effective:
LS1 = US$            2.500   2.225   2.000       -
Parallel market:
LS1 - US$              -       -       -      1.250
a/ Includes use of IMF resources.
b/ Includes short-term and private capital movements.
c/ Prior to September 1979, the official rate differed from the effective rate by the amount of export tax/
subsidy charges. After September 1979, these were abolished and a parallel market rate was established
for transactions other than a limited category including government purchases and a few "essential" items.
not
EA2DB         -
February 1980



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of January 31, 1980)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellations)
Credit No.       Year    Borrower   Purpose                  Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Six Loans and five Credits fully disbursed:                   127.2  77.2
Credit 311       1972    Sudan       Mechanized Farming II           11.3       5.0
Credit 331       1972    Sudan       Highway I                        7.0       0.4
Credit 364-1    1975    Sudan        Rahad (Supplement)              20.0       8.0
Credit 457       1974    Sudan       Railways III                    24.0       3.0
Credit 547       1975    Sudan        Education II                   10.0       6.0
Credit 564       1975    Sudan        Power II                       23.0       1.3
Credit 589       1975    Sudan        Industrial Bank of Sudan II   7.0         2.6
Credit 614       1976    Sudan       Technical Assistance             4.0       2.3
Credit 643       1976    Sudan )                                      9.0       8.6
Loan 1287T       1976    Sudan )    Domestic Aviation          20.0    -       20.0
Credit 718       1977    Sudan        Savannah Development           17.0      17.0
Credit 727       1977    Sudan )                                      8.0       5.7
Loan 1467T       1977    Sudan )    Railway IV                 12.0    -       12.0
Credit 781       1978    Sudan       Port                            22.0      20.4
Credit 782       1978    Sudan       Livestock Marketing             25.0      24.6
Credit 804       1978    Sudan       Mechanized Farming III          16.0      16.0
Credit 834 /1   1978    Sudan        Agricultural Research           15.0      15.0
Credit 882       1979    Sudan       Highway II                      41.0      41.0
Credit 904 /1   1979    Sudan         Southern Region
Agriculture Project          15.0      15.0
Total                                                   159.2 351.5    223.9
of which repaid                                        78.2   6.7
Total now outstanding                                    81.0 344.8
Amount sold                                   5.8
of which repaid                             5.8          -     -
Total held by Bank & IDA /2                              81.0 344.8
Total Undisbursed                                        32.0 191.9    223.9
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of January 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                  Obligor                            Loan   Equity   Total
1964 and     Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972         Textiles                                    1.9    0.3       2.2
1976        Cotton Textile Mills                          8.7    1.3      10.0
1978        Seleit Food Production                       11.2    1.2      12.4
1978        Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.               6.7    1.4       8.1
Total gross commitments                     28.5    4.2       32.7
Less cancellations,
repayments and sales:                     6.9      -       6.9
Total commitments now held by IFC           21.6    4.2      25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC                     4.0    0.6        4.6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and twenty-two credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975-
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The first education project (Credit 122) has been completed and
undisbursed funds ($200,000) have been cancelled. The second project is some
25-30 months behind the original 1975 appraisal schedule. The delay is due
to the lack of a viable construction industry, transportation difficulties
and weakness in project management. Some change in project scope has been
necessary in surmounting these difficulties. Physical execution of the
project is improving, with the award of the bulk of the construction contracts,
although transportation remains as a constraint.   Close monitoring of the
project is to continue.
Credit No. 311   Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 million Credit
of June 12, 1972; Effective Date: April 24, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since October 1977, the total number of farms allocated has remained
stable at about 245 (88% of appraisal estimate) although steps are now being
taken to bring this up to the full 280. The road construction program has
made little progress due in part to difficulties in getting spare parts for
MFC's heavy equipment. Repayment of loans by farmers at Umm Seinat has
improved but remains unsatisfactory at some 22%. Explanations given by
management include adverse climatic conditions and unwillingness by farmers to
repay loans received. Repayment at Habila is said to be satisfactory however
- more than 95%. The Tozi Farm Machinery Training Center has made some
progress. Management is now concentrating on an implementation schedule for
disbursing the remainder of the Credit.
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62.0 million Credit of March 30,
and            1973 and July 11, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
364-1          and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The Rahad Irrigation Project commenced agricultural production
in 1977 with cotton grown over 50,000 feddans (15 percent of the total
project); cotton yields for the first year were already close to the appraisal
estimate for full project development. Major project civil works have now
been substantially completed on some 206,000 feddans, with 154,000 feddans
under cultivation; both are short of the planned target of 300,000 feddans.
Further delays are expected in project implementation in light of continuing
managerial, financial and logistical problems. A revised allocation of funds
to priority activities is being considered, with a perhaps necessary reassess-
ment of project size or deferment of some less essential project components.
The project is undergoing careful review in an effort to identify mechanisms
to minimize the risks to this and other projects in the agricultural sector in
the future.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 million Credit
of June 24, 1977; Effective Date: August 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Due to organizational delays and logistical and financial con-
straints, the project as well as the parallel ODA/Abu Dhabi Fund-supported
Southern Darfur project, could not be implemented as envisaged at appraisal.
The Government proposed that both projects be rephased, reduced in scope and
consolidated into a single operational unit. Details on this proposal have
been finalized and are now under consideration.
Credit No. 331   First Highway Project; US$7.0 million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective Date: February 6, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Due to escalation of costs for equipment purchases and feasibility
studies, the project's scope had to be reduced to keep it within the original
credit amount. Major components of the project have been completed; progress
on the balance of the project and compliance with the covenants of the Credit
Agreement are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 457   Third Railway Project; US$24 million Credit of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: July 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement, installation and construction for Sudan Railways
Corporation has largely been completed, as has procurement for the Sea Ports
and River Transport Corporations.  The first phase of the Railway Training
School started operating May, 1979. The project should be completed by June,
1980. Locomotive availability rose from 50 percent last year to 57 percent in
October, 1979, and was expected to rise to 73 percent by February, 1980.
Improvement in locomotive and wagon availability led to an increase of 16 per-
cent in freight traffic in the first five months of FY 1980 as compared to
the same period last year. Progress toward the operational objectives for
the railway had been slow due to technical and managerial constraints but this
situation is now improving.
Loan No. 1467T   Fourth Railway Project; US$12.0 million Loan of July 8, 1977
and           and US$8.0 million Credit of July 8, 1977; Effective Date:
Credit No. 727   January 12, 1979.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Procurement under the project is progressing well, with nearly two-
thirds of the credit/loan already committed. Rapidly rising prices, along
with a protracted delay between signing and effectiveness of the project,
may necessitate some reduction in project scope. Co-financing is being
provided by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi Fund, and European Develop-
ment Fund.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 1287T   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20.0 million Loan of
July 7, 1976 and US$9.0 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Credit No. 643   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
Management problems have resulted in delays in project implementa-
tion. The project is now moving forward, but has encountered serious financial
problems. Tenders for construction of the three airports came in at levels
far above the appraisal estimate. Potential changes in project scope are now
under consideration.
Credit No. 589   Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:  US$7.0 million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Funds under the first Credit (447) have been fully disbursed, and
the project was closed on June 30, 1979. Under the second Credit (589),
US$5.3 million has been committed and US$4.4 million disbursed. There have
been problems with overall management responsibility and effectiveness within
IBS and doubts about IBS' future role in the industrial sector. These issues
have been brought repeatedly to Government's notice but no appropriate action
has been taken. Consequently, consideration of a proposed third line of
credit for IBS has been postponed indefinitely. The IBS issues will be
discussed again with Government at the next Country Implementation Review in
Khartoum, at which Bank staff will be represented.
Credit No. 564   Second Power Project; US$23.0 million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Contracts for supply, erection and commissioning of generating
plant, transmission lines and ancillary equipment were placed mostly accord-
ing to the program, but delays in award of contracts for civil works at the
Burri diesel station, Roseires hydroelectric station and delayed mobilization
by PEWC's staff for civil works at the Juba diesel station are likely to
delay commissioning of various components of the Project by about two years.
The project cost estimate is now 53% higher than at appraisal and the Govern-
ment has received a loan of US$9.5 million from the OPEC Special Fund to help
meet the foreign exchange cost overrun. PEWC has increased its electricity
tariffs by 100 percent and its water supply tariffs by 200 percent. The
Government changed the composition of PEWC's board of directors, removed
PEWC's departmental managers from the board and replaced them with the
ministerial undersecretaries related to PEWC.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project;  US$4.0 million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 5, 19,6;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project, supported by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, is helping
to finance preparation studies of high priority projects to facilitate Sudan's
public investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established but is
only moderately effective. Overall project progress has been good, however.
Credit No. 781   Port Project:  U$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides for expansion of the capacity of the existing
berths in Port Sudan and mechanization of cargo handling and movement, improve-
ment of layout and working surfaces, improvement of bulk, container and roll
on/roll off facilities, as well as management assistance and training.
Design of project civil works has been completed, and the contract for con-
struction awarded, with the work scheduled to begin in early 1980.
Credit No. 782   Livestock Marketing Project:  US$25 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: July 9, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Project provides market and transport infrastructure, technical
assistance, a headquarters building and additional staff for the Livestock
and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC), which is implementing the project.
Construction of the ILMC headquarters is 50 percent completed and selection of
sites for 13 markets and 10 holding yards has been finalized. The Sudan
Railways Corporation has contracted to purchase livestock wagons, vans and
underframes and bids for locomotives are now being evaluated.
Credit No. 804   The Third Mechanized Farming Project:  US$16 million
Credit of July 13, 1978; Effective Date; August 13, 1979
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project objectives are to (a) help present users of mechanized
farming methods become more productive, and (b) support programs designed
to develop mechanized farming methods for smallholders. These objectives
will be pursued through improvement and expansion of the extension activities
of the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC), programs of adaptive trials and
related research, access road building, importation of spare parts for the
mechanized dryland farmers and reorganization and strengthening of the MFC.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 834   Agricultural Research Project; US$15.0 million Credit of
July 27, 1978; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and strengthen ARC's new Khartoum
headquarters. The research program would be concerned with integrated live-
stock and crop production systems, pure livestock production systems and water
and land use management.  USAID is co-financing the project and a contract has
been signed with the Consortium for International Development for the pro-
vision of a technical assistance package.
Credit No. 882   Second Highway Project; US$41.0 million Credit of
March 16, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project would facilitate the transport and export of agri-
cultural production through construction of the Jebel Aulia to Ed Dueim road
along the White Nile; improve accessibility of currently settled but isolated
areas; provide access to new areas of agricultural development; develop appro-
priate organizational, planning and technical skills in the Roads Department
of the Southern Regional Ministry of Communications, Transport and Roads,
particularly with respect to highway maintenance; and provide detailed
engineering for future priority roads.
Credit No. 904   Southern Region Agriculture Project:  US$15.0 million
Credit of May 11, 1979; Effective Date; February 14, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project, a follow-up to the earlier rehabilitation project
(Credit 476), would assist the Southern Regional Government to implement part
of its regional agricultural development program by strengthening agricultural
services, planning capacity and management and improving physical infrastructure.
Technical        Planning Assistance and Training:  US$1.8 million Credit;
Assistance       Effective Date:  July 1, 1977;  Termination Date:
December 30, 1980
This technical assistance project, funded by the UNDP and executed
by the Bank, provides the services of seven advisers to the Ministry of
National Planning to assist in national, sectoral and annual planning and
improved project identification and preparation. The advisers have encoun-
tered some difficulties in trying to introduce appropriate systems for annual
planning and monitoring, as required by their terms of reference, but other-
wise the project is making satisfactory progress.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) First presentation to IDA: September, 1978
(b) First IDA mission to identify and prepare the project: June, 1979
(c)  Departure of appraisal mission:  July 4, 1979
(d)  Completion of negotiations:  February 8, 1980
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:  April 25, 1980
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
1.   A condition of disbursement for the second tranche of the
program would relate to Government progress in fulfilling
various agreed policy and structural changes. The Asso-
ciation would review progress before October 31, 1980
(para. 70).
III. Special Conditions
1.   A study of cost recovery systems in public irrigation schemes
would be undertaken by Government, with the aid of consultants,
and a specific program of action would be presented to the
Association by September 30, 1980 (para. 62).
2.   The Government will prepare by not later than December 1, 1980,
a specific action program based on its on-going tax system review
with the objective of including a wider range of taxpayers and
of improving the elasticity and incidence of the system (para.
64).
3.   The Government will carry out a study of cotton marketing problems
and opportunities with a view to developing a specific program
of action to improve cotton marketing to be discussed with the
Association by September 30, 1980 (para. 65).
4.   The Government will present to the Association not later than
April 30, 1980, a draft of the revised Three Year Public Invest-
ment Program for the years 1980/81 through 1982/83 and, by Sept-
ember 30, 1980, present a final version of the Program (para.
65).



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
5.   The Government will develop a plan of action for the new adminis-
trative unit in the Ministry of Agriculture that was recently
established to provide guidance and monitoring for the semi-auto-
nomous entities that are being set up to replace the old deficit-
ridden public corporations in the agricultural sector. The Govern-
ment will also develop an action plan for administrative reform in
the Ministry of Irrigation with a view to facilitating adequate
and timely maintenance for canals and other facilities in major
irrigation schemes and to introduce commercial accounting into the
Ilinistry's two public corporations - the Earthmoving Corporation
and the Irrigation Works Corporation. Such action plans would
be discussed with the Association not later than September 30,
1980 (para. 67).
6.   The Borrower will establish a Program Procurement Committee to
supervise procurement under the credit, and to develop a program
for coordinating all program-type assistance and for improving
the efficiency of tendering and procurement procedures (para.
68).
7.   Retroactive financing of up to $6.0 million equivalent is proposed
for eligible imports after September 1, 1979 (para. 70).



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
SUDAN
THE IRRIGATED SUBSECTOR
1.        Over the last 50 years, Sudan has developed about 4 million feddans
of irrigated lani, principa:Lly from the Nile waters; it 1as accomplished this
by using 16.8 km /year of water of her share of 20.35 km /year as measured
at Sennar under the 1959 Ni:Le water sharing agreement with Egypt. The irri-
gated area comprises Gezira'-Managil (2 million feddans), pump schemes (1.4
million feddans), New Halfa (400,000 feddans), and Rahad (planned 300,000
feddans); a remaining 200,000 feddans is almost all from streams in the
Savannah belt, including the Gash and Tokar deltas. Only 18,000 feddans, or
less than half a percent of the total, is estimated to be irrigated from
groundwater. The principal irrigation schemes are shown on IBRD Map 14729
(Attached).
2.        The irrigated agriculture schemes employ gravity, flood and pump
techniques. Rotation requirements, the necessity to organize water distri-
bution, and the economies associated with the consolidation of small plots
under one crop into large areas led to the establishment of central management
boards which undertake the major production decisions, prescribe the cropping
pattern, and provide the necessary inputs. The degree of cooperation demanded
between the boards, the farmers and the Central Government involves a complex
system of relationships, particularly with regard to the sharing of benefits.
These relationships can be illustrated in the case of the Gezira Scheme.
3.        The Gezira Board is responsible for organizing crop rotation, crop
distribution, land preparation and crop spraying, as well as the provision of
seed, fertilizers and the necessary agricultural equipment. The Board also
extends to the farmers production financing for certain crops. The land and
the irrigation services are supplied by the Government, to which the Gezira
Board is responsible. Government is the recipient of a share of the Board's
profit or the underwriter of its deficit. The farmers are alloted "tenancy
units" varying in size from 15 to 50 feddans (a feddan is equivalent to
1.04 acres), but since they neither own the land nor rent it, they are
effectively sharecroppers. They are in charge of individual field preparation,
crop cultivation and harvesting, and they provide labor as well as managerial
supervision.
4.        Historically, these schemes were conceived for the cultivation of
cotton as the only cash crop. Two other crops were cultivated for subsistence
purposes, either complementing cotton in the rotation (a fodder crop), or
using marginal land for cereal production. However, after a sharp rise in the
world prices of cereals in 1974, a decision was made to expand the production
of wheat and rice to promote self-sufficiency in basic foodstuffs and to
expand the output of high-value cash crops, most notably groundnuts. The



- 43 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
decision to expand the output of alternative cash crops was accommodated by
cutbacks in irrigated land used to support cotton. Groundnut production has
gradually displaced the fodder crop in the Gezira's cropping pattern and has
also been expanded upon new acreage, while wheat has been expanded in competi-
tion for acreage with cotton and sorghum. In the meantime, the profit sharing
relationships remained unchanged. In return for land, irrigation and other
preparation and managerial services, the Government and the Board take from
the tenants a share of the net cotton proceeds while allowing them the full
benefits of the other crops. This has encouraged the tenants to neglect cotton
and concentrate upon other cash crops which they can market independently of
the Board and for which they can obtain immediate cash payment on the private
market. This tendency appears to have contributed to a substantial reduction
in cotton yields over the last two years.
5.        While alternative crops are more profitable to the individual tenant,
a study of the international competitiveness of Sudan's various crops indicates
that the profitability of cotton to the economy is higher. Thus, the incentive
pattern now facing individual farmers departs markedly from the incentive
pattern necessary to permit full use of Sudan's comparative advantage, and has
resulted in a substantial misallocation of resources. In addition, the shift
in the cropping pattern away from cotton within the existing profit sharing
arrangements has resulted in a shrinking revenue base for the production
boards in contrast to their rising costs and expenditures. They have been
experiencing heavy losses which have necessitated increasing recourse to the
banking sector to cover their deficits and practically eliminated any revenues
for the Government. In the past year the Government has attempted to deal with
these problems by restructuring cost price relationship and by instituting new
incentives for tenants.
Cotton
6.        Sudan produces three distinct types of cotton.  The most important
variety is long staple cotton (LSC) 1/ which accounted for about 70 percent of
total cotton acreage up to 1974/75, followed by medium staple cotton with
about 18 percent and short staple with some 12 percent. Total cotton acreage
until the 1974/75 season remained largely unchanged at about 1.2 million
feddans. In recent years, however, the area devoted to cotton has shown a
tendency to fall to about 1 million feddans and there have been marked shifts
in the distribution between the three different staples with much of the
reduction in acreage falling upon the long staple variety. While Sudan was a
major producer of LSC up to 1974/75, accounting for about 27 percent of world
output, the decline in LSC output following the acreage cutbacks reduced its
world share to about 16 percent. Its share in world trade of the long staple
varieties, which accounted for about 40 percent of world exports during the
1973-75 period, also declined.
1/   Extra-long staple cotton (by international trade terminology) with a
staple length of 1-3/8 inches and over.



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3
7.        Long staple cotton is cultivated in the Gezira scheme and on the
pump schemes along the Blues and White Niles. Its technology is labor and
water intensive. In the 1973/74 and 1974/75 seasons, large stock accumulations
of long staple cotton resulted from slackness in world demand. This induced a
reconsideration of Sudan's specialization in this variety and led to sharp
cutbacks in the areas allocated to long staples in the Gezira and the pump
schemes. While in 1974/75, LSC was sown on some 830,000 feddans, in the
following two seasons acreage was reduced to 630,000 feddans and 680,000
feddans, respectively, which accounted for only about 60-65 percent of the
total acreage devoted to cotton. Most of this cutback occurred in the Gezira,
where sown acreage fell by 35 percent in the 1975/76 season.  In 1976/77 this
trend was partly reversed with the experimental planting of 74,000 feddans of
a new long staple variety (Huda) in the Gezira, but an offsetting fall in
acreage of 40,000 feddans in the pump schemes in that season made the net
effect only marginal.
8.        Medium staple cotton is mostly grown under irrigation, although it
is less water demanding than LSC. Unlike LSC, it can be harvested mechani-
cally. Recently, the market value of the medium staples has been about 20-25
percent lower than LSC with only small savings in its input costs, but it
enjoys a firmer market than LSC, which adds a stabilizing influence to the
profile of foreign demand for Sudan's cotton exports. Partly because of its
strong market abroad and partly in response to the stockpiling of LSC, the
Government promoted an expansion in medium staple cotton cultivation, yet the
acreage planted in 1976/77 was somewhat lower than had been anticipated.
Plantings at Khashm el Girba recovered after a setback in the 1975/76 season,
which was due to damage from excessively heavy rains, and a new rainfed
variety (Acrain) was planted on some 9,000 feddans at the mechanized farms.
Government strategy toward an expansion of medium staple cotton is oriented
around the new Rahad project where initial plantings of 65,000 feddans were
made at the opening of the 1977/78 season.
9.        Short staple varieties are grown in the rainfed areas, mostly in
the Nuba Mountains, and they do not compete with either the long or medium
staple varieties. While their yields are low, input costs are also low,
particularly with respect to land use which has a low opportunity cost in
terms of alternative crops. These schemes have contributed significantly
to the rural development of the western and eastern regions and, since the
crop is used in Sudan's expanding textile industry, increasing emphasis
has been attached to the expansion of short staple cotton production.
Successive droughts, however, have militated against much progress being
made so far.
10.       Over recent years cotton output in Sudan has tended to decline.
From 1970/71 to 1974/75, olutput fluctuated between 1 million bales and
1.2 million bales, with the long and extra-long staple varieties accounting



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4
for about 80 percent of the total. Output fell sharply, by almost 50 percent
in 1975/76, with about 90 percent of the reduction occurring in the long
staple varieties. Part of the decline in LSC was planned since, as indicated
above, the area planted in the Gezira scheme was reduced by about 200,000
feddans. However, only marginal lands were taken out of cotton cultivation so
that average yields should have increased. In fact, yields in the Gezira fell
to 2.8 kantars per feddan which was the lowest level recorded since 1963/64.
In the 1976/77 season, output recovered to 834,000 bales, but it remained well
below the level of earlier seasons and the yield, although higher than in
1975/76, was still historically low at 3.6 kantars per feddan for the long
staple varieties. The combined loss in output over the last two growing
seasons, when measured against a hypothetical yield of 4.5 kantars per feddan,
can be calculated to have been some LSd 29 million (valued at average 1976/77
prices).
11.       A major factor underlying the recent decline in yields appears
to have been the increased demands made upon the canal irrigation systems,
which are in poor state of repair and have therefore been unable to satisfy
the higher demand for water. Another major factor is the shortage of foreign
exchange which has meant a scarcity or absence of needed inputs (spare parts,
fuel, fertilizer, etc.) at the proper times.
Groundnuts, Wheat, Other Crops
12.       Although most groundnuts are grown under rainfed conditions, 25
percent of production is now under irrigation on some 500,000 feddans. Two
major varieties are grown -- Barberton and Ashford. Barberton produces small
nuts with slightly higher oil content fetching higher prices than Ashford.
Ashford, on the other hand, is more vigorous with a spreading habit and
larger pods and nuts. The optimal growing period for both varieties is
approximately 17 weeks of irrigation followed by three to four weeks of
drying out when plants are spaced at 15-20 cm. In the irrigated areas,
planting should start from mid-June, enabling the harvest to be completed
by the end of December.
13.       Wheat has been grown for many years along the main Nile in Northern
and Nile provinces traditionally under the basin flooding system, and more
recently on pump irrigation schemes. With the drive for self sufficiency
and increasing intensity on the major schemes, wheat has become a major crop
in the rotation in the Gezira and New Halfa schemes and on some of the White
Nile pump schemes. The planting season starts from mid-October to mid-
November. The best sowing date is as soon as possible after the winter wind
has arrived in the hope of maturing the crop before the return of summer.
All ploughing, discing and sowing is done mechanically in the large irrigation
projects. In general yields are low and over the past 10 years have varied
from 400 to 650 kg/fd.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5
14.       Only about 9 percent of the total sorghum production is grown under
irrigation but this still represents some 500,000 feddans out of a total of
6 million. Since sorghum is the major staple, most farmers prefer to grow
some to satisfy their subsistence needs rather than purchase it with proceeds
of their cash crops. Under irrigation planting starts in June/July; lands
are ploughed and ridged and a pre-watering is recommended. Irrigation yields
around 430 kg/fe. Horse beans are the major grain legum (apart from ground-
nuts) grown under irrigation. They are principally grown in Nile, Northern
and Khartoum provinces and they form an important component of daily food,
and a valuable protein source. Some rice has been grown under rainfed and
flood conditions in the south, but since the country has been a net importer
of rice, it has been introduced into the Gezira under irrigation.
Marketing
15.       Cotton exports are marketed by the government-owned Cotton Public
Corporation (CPC) for the account of the production boards. They receive
the f.o.b. export price less various deductions (commission to the CPC and
reserve fund contributions) and taxes (export tax and development tax).
Until fairly recently export proceeds had been surrendered at the official
exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.87 for cotton in contrast to other crops which
benefited from an effective rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50. The production boards
thus received only about 70 percent of the f.o.b. export value computed at the
effective rate of exchange. This system has now changed; cotton now uses the
official rate of LSdl=US$2.00. At the same time, the exchange rate applicable
to a variety of agricultural inputs including machinery and spare parts come
in at the parallel rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25, which makes these inputs expensive
relative to the price received for the exported crops. A new marketing policy
was adopted in March 1977 to take advantage of the buoyancy of the world
cotton market. It is based upon a system of announced prices. The method of
payment consists of either the opening of a letter of credit 15 days before
shipment is to be made, or the payment of a deposit of 10 percent of the value
of the cotton purchased, or of a cash deposit of US$25 per bale.
16.       Cotton is picked between December and March, and the marketing
season for the crop begins in March. The total supply available for sale
consists of the new crop and any stocks of unsold cotton which are carried
over from the previous marketing season. The cotton is then put up for
sale, but payment is usually not made until it is shipped to the destinations
assigned by the buyer. The lag between the conclusion of a sale and shipment
often extends up to six months. As a result, payment for cotton sold early
in the marketing season and shipped with the minimum delay can accrue during
the fiscal year which coincides with the marketing year. On the other hand,
payment for cotton sold later in the marketing season for which a long delay
occurs before shipment may not accrue until the following fiscal year.



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6
Water Charges
17.       The capital and recurrent costs of irrigation schemes are an expensive
form of agricultural investment. Hence the charges made for
irrigation water is an important issue in the formulation and operation of
irrigation projects. At present most tenant farmers in the Sudan are paying
an indirect charge on land and water in the form of a crop sharing arrangement
based on the cotton crop. The recent introduction of water charges in Gezira
has been confined to groundnut, wheat and vegetables.
18.       A system of water charges was introduced in the Northern Province
Government schemes (36,000 feddans) as early as 1948. They were first
scheduled to cover running expenses only and were fixed at LSd 4 per feddan of
wheat crop (at 1949 prices) with an index for other crops according to water
requirements. They were modified in 1952 to allow for replacement, deprecia-
tion and extraordinary expenditures due to floods and other reasons. They
range from LSd 3.2 to 6.4 per feddan according to the crops (with extremes of
LSd 16 and 20 for onions and berseem) at 1952 prices or from LSd 7.9 to 15.7
at 1977 prides.
19.       The Suki Scheme (see map) was the first recent scheme to base its
production relationship with tenants on land and water charges. These charges
are at present LSd 8 per feddan for groundnuts and LSd 12 per feddan for
cotton; so with 5 feddans of each crop the tenant pays LSd 100 per year. Of
this 93% is direct revenue to government, 2% goes to local government, and
5% to the Suki Development Fund, which is used for social welfare. These
charges were calculated to cover capital, depreciation and maintenance costs
of the scheme. Originally it was intended that these charges would be periodic-
ally reviewed to keep pace with inflation. However, as this has not yet been
done, the Government now finds itself subsidizing a profitable scheme.
20.       The Rahad project, in its first phase of 300,000 feddans, represents
a major attempt to introduce a water charge. It is, in fact, a "Land and
Water Charge" based on a flat rate per holding which will be fixed from
time to time, having regard to the following: (a) provision for adequate
funds to meet the depreciation of assets; (b) provision for covering the
annual expenses of the Corporation; (c) provision for adequate returns to the
Government on its investment; (d) methods of enhancing the productivity and
creation of incentives for the tenants to maximize their profits. The Rahad
land and water rate is LSd 2.85 per irrigation.



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7
Organization and Management
21.       The management and organizational responsibility in the irrigation
subsector is shared between MOI and MAFNR; MOI considers the supply of irriga-
tion water as a service stopping at the field output pipe (FOP) without any
partnership with the farmer; the FOP is, therefore, the focal point of the
irrigation regime.
22.       The Ministry of Irrigation is responsible for the control, regulation
and development of water resources in the Sudan. The Ministry has the follow-
ing tasks: (a) surface water hydrology and hydraulic research; (b) formulation
of projects for the optimumt utilization of Sudan's share of Nile Waters
and other riverine sources and for the increase of the Nile yield; (c) civil
engineering for storage, irrigation, flood control, river training; (d)
operation and maintenance of dams and other control works. The Ministry
comprises 150 professional engineers, 250 graduates from the Khartoum Poly-
technic, 130 technicians and 14,000 laborers.
23.       Under MOI are the Permanent Joint Technical Commission (PJTC) for
Nile Waters and the Jonglei Development Commission. PJTC has been set up
since the 1959 Agreement between Egypt and Sudan to undertake jointly the
gauging of the Nile, to formulate plans for the increase of the Nile yield,
to draw up an operation schedule for any works to be constructed on the Nile
and to consider and reach a unified view regarding the Nile control claims
of the other riparian countries.
24.       Within the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
(MAFNR), the Soil Conservation, Land Use and Water Programming Administration
(SCLUWPA) has a section responsible for water programming. Its duties are
to plan and oversee implementation of national program for rural water
supply both for domestic and livestock use and also for small-scale irrigation
projects using groundwater or seasonal local streams. This department is
part of the Natural Resources Administration. In the Services Administration,
the Agricultural Inspectorate issues licenses for private pump schemes, and
enforces regulations.



- 49 _                    ANNEX IV
Table 1
SUDAN
Cotton Yield Performance 1961/62-1975/76
Long staple           Medium staple
Country total              Egyptian cotton        Acala cotton
(irrigated +               (irrigated)             (irrigated)
Year         rainfed)
area        yield           area          yield       area        yleld-
'000 fd     kg/fd          t000 fd        kg/fd       '000 fd     kg/f4
1961/62   1,132.6      540             691.3         809            7.9      49-8
1962/63   1,056.0      446             711.9         580           8.1       516
1963/64   1,049.5      295             732.8         365           7.7       484
1964/65   1,067.5      414             749.0         516          22.3       500-
1965/66   1,050.0      427             748.1        537           40.7       388
1966/67   1,158.4      463             775.4        595           60.4       518&W
1967/68   1,149.0      458             784.0        561           89.4       660
1968/69   i,..8.G      586             720.2        762          112.9       648
1969/70   1,256.3      537             823.7        681          125.0       638
1970/71   1,209.6      604             837.0         741         129.7       643
1971/72   1,219.4      561             830.6        697          158.6       494
1972/73   1,140.9      487             825.3        566          164.8       329
1973/74   1,140.9      562             824.3        670          196.3       520
1974/75   1,227.6      524             847.5.       616          219.6       475
1975/76     987.9      326             622.5        380          202.8       309-
Average      -         482              -           605           -          508



- 50-                          ANNEX IV
Table 2
SUDAN
Existlng Irrigation Schemes
Irrig.                           Net commanded        Percent
method        Schemes            area (feddans)       of total      Source of water
Gravity       Gezira               1,114,000            26.5        Blue Nile (Sennar Dam)
Gravity       Managil                946,000            22.5        Blue Nile (Sennar Dam)
Gravity       Rahad (stage 1)         150,000            3.6        Blue Nile (Rahad barrage)
Gravity       New Halfa              390,000             9.2       Atbara (Khashm el
2,600,000           61.8                Girba dam)
Pump          Kenana (sugar)-         40,000             1.0        White Nile
Pump          Hagar Asalaya
(sugar)          18,000            0.4        White Nile
Pump          Abu Na'ama               30,000            0.7        Blue Nile
Pump          Es Suki                 85,000             2.0       Blue Nile
Pump          NW Sennar               49,000             1.2        Blue Nile
Pump          Hurga-Nurel Din         22,000             0.5        Blue Nile
Pump          Guneid                  85,000             2.0        Blue Nile
Pump          Nationalized          (435,000            10.3)      White Nile
schemes               (270,000             6.4) 19.0 Blue Nile
(805,000 f)           (100,000 /1          2.3)      Main Nile
Pump          Private schemes 2/      63,000             1.5        Blue Nile
i'  "   235,000    5.6        Main Nile
1,432,000           34.0
Flush         Gash delta              50,000             1.2       Gash R.
Flush         Tokar delta             60,000             1.4       Baraka R.
_10,000            2.6
Basin         North.Prov.Sch.         50,000             1.2       Main Nile
Tubewell      Sag el Na'am             3,000             0.1       Groundwater (nubian)
Tubewell      Private schemes          15,000 /3         0.3       Groundwater (alluvial)
18,000            0.4
GRAND TOTAL                        4,165,000
/1   35,000 f were already Government schemes.
/2   Uncertain, estimate given (+ or -5%).
/3   Estimate (+ or - 20%).



- 51 -
ANNEX V
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Illustrative List of Eligible Imports
1.        The imported items that may be financed out of the proceeds of the
Development Credit will be limited to those included in Schedule 1 to the
Draft Development Credit Agreement. The general categories of items to be
financed will be as follows:
A.   Agricultural Machines and Implements
-    Crawler tractors and spares; wheel tractors and spares;
-    Heavy implements for land preparation and land preparation
machines;
-    Sowing machines for seeds and fertilizers;
-    Pesticide sprayers;
-    Harvesting machines;
-    Trailers of various kinds; agricultural manual tools;
B.   Agricultural Inputs
-    Seeds;
-    Nitrogen fertilizer, phosphate fertilizer, potash fertilizers;
-    Herbicides; other chemicals or inputs;
C.   Agricultural Equipment for Organization
-    Communications system (telephone radio, telex);
-    Tents and water supply for outside yards;
-    Field electricity supply unit;



- 52 -
ANNEX V
Page 2
-    Well boring equipment;
-    General domestic water supply facilities.
D.   Transport Equipment for Agricultural Services
-    4 Wheel drive cars and pick ups;
-    Trucks for general transport; trucks with tanks and containers;
caravans.
E.   Railway Equipment (primarily Gezira Light Railway)
-    Rails and other accessories (sleepers);
-    Wagons and trolleys (motor and hand);
-    Locomotives and inputs for maintenance.
F.   General Production Equipment and Spares
-    Ginning machinery parts; leather rolls for ginneries;
-    Baling hoops and jute material for transport;
-    Storage sheds and equipment.
G.   Pumps and Engines
-    Generators for electrical pumping;
-    Horizontal diesel motors;
-    Vertical diesel motors;
-    Mobile workshops.
H.   Canal Maintenance Equipment
-    Bulldozer (angle and tilt variety);
-    Graders and scrapers;
-    Draglines and excavators;
-    Spares for canal maintenance equipment of all types.



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1
SUDANI
EXPORT ACTION PROGRAM
Background
1.        The Government's draft Export Action Program, prepared by the
Ministry of National Planning in collaboration with the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, the Ministry of Irrigation and the Sudan Gezira Board, was presented
to the Bank Group in June, 1979 at the time of the appraisal of the proposed
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program. The appraisal team reviewed the Export
Action Program and concluded that it represented a sufficient basis for
completing appraisal and, in addition, provided a foundation upon which
the rehabilitation program could be based. Comments and suggestions were
provided by the Bank team and these were incorporated into a revised Export
Action Program which subsequently was formally endorsed by Government.
2.        The Export Action Program was conceived by Government as an integral
and vital component of its overall stabilization effort, designed to restore
financial equilibrium. The stabilization effort, in turn, is reflected--so
far as its financing dimensions are concerned--in the new Three Year Public
Investment Program. Thus, the Export Action Program, to the extent that
it can help generate more government revenues, greater export volumes, is
crucial to the realization of the main objectives of the Public Investment
Program. The two are mutually reinforcing.
3.        The broad objective of the Export Action Program (EAP) is to bring
about a 7 percent per annum real export growth for cotton during the 1979-91
period. The percentage target was arrived at after a thorough analysis of
Sudan's growth prospects as reflected in the latest economic memorandum (ref.
Memorandum on the Economy of Sudan, October 24, 1979, Report No. 2652-SU).
The memorandum assumed for projection purposes, and on the basis of a reason-
ably successful start on the Government's economic stabilization effort,
a GDP growth of 4 percent a year in real terms through 1982. Thereafter,
a real growth rate of 5 percent a year was assumed, possibly accelerating to
5.5 percent towards the end of the decade.
4.        The economic memorandum notes (para. 76) that a main assumption
underlying the projections are that exports would grow at a sustained rate
of 7 percent a year in real terms.  This, in turn, assumes that the Export
Action Program would be successful and that the macro-economic environment
and the incentive framework would remain conducive to rapid export growth.
Admittedly, the choice of a 7 percent growth rate in exports was somewhat
arbitrary. Sudan would appear to have the potential to achieve an even
higher growth rate of perhaps 10 percent or more, but in view of past fluc-
tuating patterns and the more recent disappointing performance, a more
conservative estimate was selected.



- 54 -
ANNEX VI
.1gef 2
5.         Cotton was selected as the crop for central emphasis in the Export
Action Program because it accounts for 50 percent or more of total exports.
Scope of Program
6.         The EAP consists essentially of three elements:  (a) Policy changes
and structural reforms already taken, or required to be taken, by Government
in order to provide a conducive framework essential for increased production
in the irrigated subsector, where the major export crops are grown; (b) Infu-
sions of foreign exchange needed almost immediately to purchase spare parts,
replacement equipment, inputs of various types urgently needed to increase
production and/or arrest deterioration in the major irrigation schemes; (c) A
series of development projects in the medium term designed to affect funda-
mental rehabilitation and modernization of the major irrigation schemes.
(a) Policy Changes, Structural Reform
7.         The Government has already, in the past 18 months, taken several
significant policy decisions which are critical for the success of the EAP
and, indeed, for the entire stabilization effort. These decisions, so far as
they affect agriculture and the irrigated subsector, included: (i) In March,
1979, Government imposed land and water charges on wheat (LSd 6.5 per feddan);
groundnuts (LSd 5.5 per feddan); rice and vegetables (LSd 9.0 per feddan) in
the Gezira scheme. Sorghum was exempted because the intended policy is to
phase out its cultivation in the irrigated schemes. Due to tenant resistance,
the new charges were not actually collected when scheduled but Government has
agreed with the IMF to initiate collections; (ii) Export taxes on cotton were
removed starting with the 1979/80 season; (iii) On July 1, 1979 the exchange
rate applicable to cotton export proceeds was changed from LSd 1=US$2.50 to
LSd 1=US$2.00, which placed cotton on par with all other exports; (iv) The
prices of cotton lint sold to the domestic textile mills were raised in June,
1979 to the world export price level; (v) Also in June, 1979 the price of
wheat sold to the mills was increased from about LSd 55 per ton to LSd
123 per ton, thus eliminating the budgetary wheat subsidy; (vi) The ambitious
targets of the six year development plan were scaled down to more moderate
proportions and the revised program reflected in the Three Year Public Invest-
ment Program (1979/80-1981/82), which concentrates on the rehabilitation of
existing capital stock and the completion of ongoing projects. In keeping
with this strategy, the agricultural sector received about one-third of total
allocations under the new program (by far the largest single allocation);
(vii) In September, 1979, Government dissolved certain money-losing public
sector enterprises with a view to having some of their functions either
reorganized or liquidated; a mong these was the Agricultural Production
Corporation which had been sastaining losses in recent years.



- 55 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3
8.        In addition to these policy changes, further measures are required
in the immediate future to enhance the incentive framework and these are
proposed to be taken in the context of the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
(ref. para. 10 below). These changes include: (i) Introduction of a more
adequate cost recovery system in all public irrigation schemes; a study is
proposed that would result in a specific reform package; (ii) Confirmation
that land and water charges already agreed in the Gezira scheme are actually
being collected; (iii) Establishment of new organization entities in the
agriculture sector to replace the recently dissolved Agricultural Production
Corporation (ref. para. 7), introduction of commercial accounting systems in
the two corporations under the Ministry of Irrigation; (iv) Reorganization of
the Ministry of Irrigation in such a manner as to ensure that the ministry's
maintenance support operations are readily available in a timely fashion to
the public irrigation schemes; this would involve, among other things, estab-
lishment of more direct lines of command and clearly understood patterns of
responsibility; (v) Finalization of the Export Action Program, particularly
with respect to the list of rehabilitation projects required in the 1980's;
this component of the EAP does not directly affect the Agricultural Rehabil-
itation Program but would be required to achieve the 7 percent growth in
cotton exports; (vi) Updating of the Three Year Public Investment Program;
(vii) Improvement of cotton marketing activities; and (viii) Establishment of
a new services unit in the Ministry of Agriculture that would oversee new
semi-autonomous entities that are being established.
9.        In the near to long term, other policy actions and structural
changes will be necessary, and it is envisioned by Government that these would
be undertaken, after careful analysis and discussion, in the context of
specific rehabilitation and modernization projects planned for the irrigated
subsector as part of the EAP. These would include: (i) Bringing domestic
relative prices of principal crops into closer alignment with world prices.
This aspect is being handled to some extent under Government's agreement with
the IMF; the proposed export marketing study to be executed under the Agri-
cultural Rehabilitation Program should result ultimately in an improvement in
cotton prices secured by growers and also enable sound decisions to be taken
in regard to allocation of growing area between long and medium staple cotton;
(ii) Transfer of more services and functions to the private sector in certain
*           areas in an effort to improve implementational capability; (iii) Improvement
in parastatal performance, particularly with respect to training, motivation,
accounts, decentralization of functions; (iv) Development of closer linkages
between costs charged for various irrigation and agricultural services and
the real costs involved in providing such services; (v) Changes in tenural
arrangements/sizes in order to stimulate more productive use of land. Smaller
land holdings would expand the supply of family labor; (vi) Application of a
unitary exchange rate for the imports and exports of the agricultural sector.
(b) Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
10.       The proposed Agricultural Rehabilitation Program, to be financed by
IDA, represents an essential ingredient of the EAP by (i) providing foreign



- 56 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4
exchange for the purchase of assorted inputs and spares urgently needed to
increase capacity utilization in the irrigated subsector, and (ii) supporting
policy changes and structural reform needed to improve the incentive framework.
11.       Valued at current prices, the total capital investment in Sudan's
4 million feddan irrigation subsector is around US$4 billion. The Agricul-
tural Rehabilitation Program (ARP) envisions agricultural inputs and hardware
purchases of about US$64 million, or about 1.6 percent of total investment.
Funds will be used mainly to finance deferred maintenance and replacement in
the major irrigation schemes. Therefore the injection of investment could
have immediate effects, although longer term benefits to the country could be
realized through appropriate cost recovery policies. Obviously, therefore,
the ARP investment program by itself cannot fulfill the goal of a 7 percent
per annum real export growth for cotton during the period 1979-91. However,
ARP by itself would activate sunk capital and raise the volume of cotton
exported by 15 percent per annum during the period 1979-82 and by 5 percent
per annum for the period 1979-86. Sustained growth or 7 percent per annum for
the period 1979-91 would depend on implementation of rehabilitation projects
(ref. paras. 16,17).
12.       The ARP investment package of US$65 million comprises US$64 million
on equipment, spares and current inputs and US$1.0 million on technical
assistance and studies. There are about 700 different items included in
the list of equipment, spares and current inputs to be purchased under the
ARP. This list is based on changes made during appraisal to a list originally
furnished by the various public sector entities and will be reviewed by the
Program Procurement Committee before orders are actually phased.
13.       It should be noted that the investments proposed under the ARP
will be reinforced by program type assistance that is being considered or has
been approved by other donors. For example, the United Kingdom has provided a
grant of US$30 million equivalent in a rapidly disbursing program aimed
mainly at improving the performance of the Sudan Railway system, crucial for
the transport of agricultural inputs and crops. The Netherlands Government is
considering a program grant of US$25 million, partly for telecommunications
improvements which will also benefit the agriculture sector. The United
States has approved a program grant of US$40 million for other agricultural
sectors and small industry.
14.       The broad allocation of the proposed US$65 million under the ARP
is intended currently to be carried out as follows:
(US$ million)
1.  Agricultural Operations,                  21.5
including machinery, inputs
2.  Transport, Motor vehicles,                11.3
light railway
3.  Ginneries                                  4.0
4.  Workshop Facilities and Storage            9.2
5.  Irrigation and Drainage, pumps            18.0
and engines, canal maintenance
equipment
6.  Technical Assistance, studies              1.0
Total                             US$65.0



- 57 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5
15.       The tentative distribution of the above mentioned allocation would
be as follows:
(US$ million)
1.  Ministry of Irrigation                      5.85
2.  Earthmoving Corporation                     3.70
3.  Sudan Gezira Board                         29.80
4.  Blue Nile, White Nile Corporations         19.30
5.  Rahad Corporation                           5.35
6.  Technical Assistance                         1.0
Total                               US$65.0
(c) Rehabilitation/Modernization Projects
16.       The final component of the Export Action Program is a series of
investments required during the course of the 1980s to rehabilitate and/or
modernize the major public irrigation schemes, and thereby achieving the 7
percent per annum real increase in cotton exports. Because of Sudan's
current economic crisis and earlier attempts either to diversify the agri-
culture base or to place more emphasis on import substitution activities in
agriculture, the major schemes have been allowed to deteriorate. In some, the
situation has become critical. Unless a program of long range rehabilitation
can be initiated, the prospects for achieving a 7 percent real increase in
export of cotton will not be realized.
17.       At negotiations for the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program,
Government agreed, among other things, to (i) the goals and policy actions of
the EAP, of which the ARP is but a part; (ii) undertake specific investments
required to rehabilitate existing irrigation schemes over the 1980's--invest-
ments that also constitute an important part of the EAP. The provisional list
of investments, still subject to further review, is as follows:
Projects in the EAP
Approximate Size
Project                             FY               (in US$ million)
a
New Halfa                                80                       150
White Nile Rehabilitation I              81                        50
Blue Nile Rehabilitation I               81                        60
Gezira Rehabilitation I                  82                       150
Blue Nile Rehabilitation II              84                        90
Gezira Rehabilitation II                 84                       300
Rahad II                                 85                       200
White Nile Rehabilitation II             85                        80
Total                                                      1,080
Undoubtedly, further assistance from the international community will be
required to carry out these projects.



20                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~35'                           350
M AS                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25'
0       00      23      323    400       300
SUDAN                                          ALMRR
IRRIGATION SCHEMESI
=50I  110510302151 AN( NET COVIVIA0ED AREAS, 10307ANS X ,0
RIVERS, PERENXIAC1SEASONAL
DAVIS                                                           ARAB         REPUBLIC) /oF'  EGYPT
IVAlES SUFIJPES                                                                     ,
GENOPO ERNSIrR,ION SLikiOIE    .                ........                                                                       
RAILIVAYS 
   ---PROVISCIAE 1AOENSARIESr                                                                              /
1ZTE1RNARIONALE ROUNDA P 55 
A/  O R  TA/EFRA/K                                   \ '\                 R       D2
I  I     S        A             F~~~~~~~~~~~orf SI,don
I                                                      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
/  /'   Atbar         S                                 '2~~~~~~~~~'Tka
PUMPSCEE ,,                                       '         ,
\KHATOI-'iN
I                                                          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,114,  IA' A
0     A'   T  R    A/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'RP                                        'RAHAD
~~-  D  A  R  F     LI    P         \A/9RT HRN~~~/v   o                                       -    ZS SLKIR  Ge8 e 
D  A  P  F  U                                      -~~~~~~~~~~Baru   Ed   I,
5                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~ED DJE W RUMP S1IIEMEd'arf 
Geneino/,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Po ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~~'
~~~,    ~~~~~    El FeSher                             DO        F  A    A/AAM
oZahngei         N, En NRRud                                                             P-'M
N                     Dsbe,bot'           U'-' ~~~Du270                        <      <
5DlIir ~ P351 EENII II                                    A,  ').A02 
Nyala   ~ ~ ~ S                          Kdoigi      K         ,'T  HeRrN
7  \D   AR        F    LI   R              K O R D OFA~~~~~~~~~~~0U   H 5 R A/                ROSIRF
0    U   T   H F   R   N          ab____                                                                                  U-'z
I, A-- A'                                            R.BO"                  Mloa AI     UTHOI
RA    --- AFR HCANFL                                                              '-"-onj  0    
F5-
WOL        S~~~~~~~~B
CPNTRAL  AFRiCAN                           J~~~~~~~~~_FS   T ~FL RN         LI/(  LA, T E
REP{3BL~~~~~C  "-  ---A/~~~~~~~7D'---~~~~ B ILIHERYRA~~4~ r
Lc O~~;-A   T    I  *A'
--'A  ~         oR                                                      Ye,OIAT  R/A     LLITRA ~ T 
R E P U B L C   0 FN  TZAI R4E
Ye  i                  7   '.              /               '
"2                                                  5'V~~~~~~~~ '~~~~&4~~~~mu~~~~e~UG ND                      !KENY4         --



