CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1000 SU
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Rehabilitation Program)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 4, 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1000 SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 4, 1980, between the DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter. called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the .Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Three Year Public Investment Program" means the Bor-
rower's statement of priority capital and recurrent expenditures
to be undertaken by it in connection with its development effort,
as prepared and updated by the Ministry of National Planning;
(b) "Export Action Program" means the Borrower's statement
of policy actions and investment decisions to be undertaken
by it in connection with its effort to increase the volume of
cotton production by seven per cent (7%) per annum over the
1979-91 period; and
(c) "Program Procurement Committee" means the Committee
referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit


﻿-2-
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to sixty-five million dollars ($65,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Assoc-
iation, for expenditures made (or if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost in foreign
currency of goods and services required to carry out the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 1990, and
ending March 15, 2030, each installment to and including the
installment payable on March 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-3
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, economic and technical prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, including
local currency, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants with
qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall assign to its Ministry of
Finance the responsibility for the coordination and collection of
relevant documentation, and the preparation of withdrawal applica-
tions, under the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall complete the study compris-
ing Part C (1) of the Project pursuant to terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association and shall furnish, not later than
September 30, 1980, to the Association, for its comments, the
final report of said study, including its recommendations and the
action program for implementing said recommendations.      I
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, with the assistance of
the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement,
formulate an action plan for effecting administrative reform in
its agricultural sector, beginning with its Ministry of Agri-
culture and its Ministry of Irrigation, including in the latter
changes as shall be required to facilitate adequate and timely
maintenance for canals and other facilities in its major irriga-
tion schemes and the introduction of commercial accounting into
the Ministry of Irrigation's two public corporations -- the
Earthmoving Corporation and the Irrigation Works Corporation. Such
action plan shall be discussed with the Association not later than
September 30, 1980.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1980, discuss with the Association the findings and recom-
mendations of the study comprising Part C (2) of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, not later than April 30,
1980, furnish to the Association for its review, its Three
Year Public Investment Program, updated for the years 1980/81
through 1982/83.
Section 3.10. The Borrower undertakes to develop, not later
than December 1, 1980, a specific action program based on the


﻿-5-
recommendations of the Borrower's on-going tax system review
with the objective of including a wider range of tax payers
through improving the efficiency of the collection activities of
the Borrower's Tax Department and of improving the elasticity and
incidence of the system.
Section 3.11. In order to assist the Borrower in coordinating
all its programs of assistance from external agencies, to stream-
line the Borrower's procurement procedures, and to carry out Parts
A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall establish within
its Ministry of Finance a Program Procurement Committee which
shall include specialists and consultants employed under this
Project and shall furnish to the Association the program referred
to in Part B of the Project for its review by September 30,
1980.
Section 3.12. The Borrower and the Association shall, prior
to October 31, 1980, exchange views on: (i) the progress to date
in implementing the Three Year Public Investment Program and the
Export Action Program; (ii) the performance of the Debt Manage-
ment Unit of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance; (iii) progress
towards achieving the fiscal objectives referred to in Section
3.10 of this Agreement; and (iv) progress in effecting institu-
tional reform in parastatal bodies.
ARTICLE IV
Termination
Section 4.01, The date June 4, 1980 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of National Planning or the
Undersecretary of the Ministry of National Planning of the Bor-
rower are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-6-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of National Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Cable Address:                     Telex:
EIMAR                              324
Khartoum
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ Omar S. Eissa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the alloca-
tion of amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Categor                                    Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Agricultural                                   21,540,000
machinery, replace-
ment parts, spares
and inputs
(2) Transport equipment                            11,350,000
and spares, in-
cluding motor vehi-
cles and light
railway equipmen
(3) Ginneries, replace-                             4,000,000
ments and spares
(4) Workshop and stor-                              9,150,000
age facilities
(5) Irrigation and                                 17,960,000
drainage equip-
ment, including
pumps and engines
(6) Consultants' and                                  500,000
experts' services,
Part B of the "ro-
ject
(7) Studies, Part C                                   500,000
of the Project
TOTAL            65,000,000


﻿-8-
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for
goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof;
(c) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement,
provided, however, that amounts not exceeding $6,000,000 equiva-
lent may be withdrawn to finance expenditures for sections of the
import program related to the irrigated sub-sector made prior to
such date but after September 1, 1979;
(d) payment for contracts of less than $100,000 equivalent;
or
(e) expenditures in excess of $40,000,000 equivalent in
the aggregate unless and until the Association shall, on the
basis of the exchange of views conducted under Section 3.12 of
this Agreement, determine that satisfactory progress has been made
in the implementation of the Three Year Public Investment Program
and the Export Action Program, that the performance of the Debt
Management Unit of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance is satisfac-
tory and that satisfactory progress has been made towards achiev-
ing the fiscal objectives referred to in Section 3.10 of this
Agreement.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet such estimated shortfall,, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures.
4.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿-9-
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:
The procurement of imported goods, including spare parts,
fertilizers, pesticides, tractors, cotton ginning equipmenit,
assorted machinery and replacement parts for use in the irrigated
agricultural sub-sector.
Part B:
The operation of the Borrower's Program Procurement
Committee, including the development of a program for coordi-
nating all program-type assistance and improving the efficiency of
tendering and procurement procedures.
Part C:
Carrying out studies, (1) on various systems of recovery
of the costs of investments in irrigation schemes, (2) on cotton
marketing problems and opportunities with a view to developing a
specific program of action to improve cotton marketing, and (3) on
administrative reform in the Ministries of Agriculture and Irri-
gation.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1981.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
eligible bulk imports by public sector enterprises and agencies
approved by the Borrower's Program Procurement Committee
estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more shall be let in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions:
(a) contracts awarded by public sector enterprises for
imports for agriculture estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more but less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 shall
be let on the basis of competitive bidding with at least three
offers from major su)pliers in Bank member countries or Switzer-
land; and contracts Estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$250,000 shall be awarded on the basis of normal procurement
procedures of such public sector enterprises or of private sector
firms, as the case may be; and
(b) whenever the Borrower and the Association shall be
satisfied that goods of specific type, design or manufacture shall
be required in the interest of equipment standardization or other
valid considerations relating to the efficient utilization of
existing productive capacity, such goods may be procured on a
negotiated basis on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
3.   Pesticides shall be procured with due regard to the
risks inherent in widespread aerial application. Contracts for
pesticides which, in the opinion of the Association, present a
high environmental risk, will be ineligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts, before bids are invited, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, the


﻿- 12 -
text of the form or forms of invitations to bid and of other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the forms of said documents and in the said
procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the forms of bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before bidding documents are
issued to the prospective bidders.
2.   With respect to any contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more in respect of which there is
disagreement, in regard to evaluation of bids after bids have been
received and evaluated,,between either the procurement consultants
included in Section 3.02 of this Agreement and the Program Procure-
ment Committee or between the Program Procurement Committee and
the tendering organ of the Borrower:
(a) the Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award
is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which
it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination; and
(b) two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph 2, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.


