Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16669
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMBODIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit No. 2550-KH
June 10, 1997
Country Operations Division
Country Department 1
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cambodian Riel (R)
At appraisal = US$1 = 2000 Riel
At completion = US$1 = 2500 Riel
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
CMEA          Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
ERC           Emergency Rehabilitation Credit
DC            Direct Contracting
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICORC         International Committee for the Reconstruction of Cambodia
IDA           International Development Association
IDF           Intemnational Development Fund
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IS           International Shopping
IGF           International Grant Facility
NBC           National Bank of Cambodia
NGO           Non-Govemnment Organization
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SIDA          Swedish International Development Agency
SDR           Special Drawing Right
SNC           Supreme National Council of Cambodia
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNHCR         United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNTAC         United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
Vice President:      Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director:           Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, EAI
Division Chief:      Sanjay Dhar, Acting, EAICO
Task Manager:        Guy Darlan, EAlCO



i               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ..........................................................                    iii
Evaluation Summary ...........................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives ....................................................1I
B. Achievement of Objectives ...................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .......    2
D. Project Sustainability ...................................................3
E. Borrower Performance ...................................................4
F. Bank Performance ...................................................4
G. Assessment of Outcome ...................................................5
H. Relevance of Project Objectives and Design .          .......................................   6
I. Future Operations .....................................................6
J. Key Lessons Learned .....................................................6
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments.                                              9
Table 2:   Related Bank Operations .10
Table 3:  Project Timetable .11
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements .11
Table 5-6:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation    12
Table 7:   Studies under the Project .14
Table 8:   Project Costs and Financing .14
Table 9:   Economic Cost and Benefits .15
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .15
Table 11:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .15
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .16
Table 13   Bank Resources: Missions .                                         17
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Completion Mission Aide Memoire .19
Appendix B: Borrower's Evaluation Report submitted as a contribution
to the Implementation Completion Report .20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMBODIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT No. 2550-KH
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Cambodia
Emergency Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2550-KH) in the amount of SDR 45.2 million,
which was approved on October 26, 1993 and made effective on January 13, 1994. Two
consultant trust funds, granted by Japan and Sweden and managed by the Bank, were
made available to support project activities.
Project activities were completed on schedule on June 30, 1996. However, a six
month extension was granted to give the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) sufficient
time to process all outstanding withdrawal applications and cover related expenditures.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place on April
30, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Guy Darlan (EAICO) and Anton Rychener
(Consultant), and Ms. Annie Green (EAlCO), and was reviewed by Mr. Walter
Schwermer, Project Adviser, EA1DR. The borrower conducted a separate evaluation of
the project and provided a copy of the evaluation report to the Bank. This report is
included as Appendix B.
During the preparation of this ICR, a number of Cambodian Government officials
were interviewed and gave their opinions on the project and the services it rendered. A
limited number of indirect project beneficiaries such as rice farmers, villagers, ordinary
citizens of Phnom Penh, railway, water and electricity workers were also interviewed.
Their observations are contained in this report.






v
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMBODIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit No. 2550-KH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
(i)    After 25 years of war and internal conflict, the Paris Peace Accords were signed in
October of 1991.  The Accords established the Supreme National Council (SNC,
representing the four major Cambodian political factions) as the transitional vehicle of
Cambodia's sovereignty.  They also established the United Nations Transitional
Authority for Cambodia (UNTAC) to maintain peace and develop a neutral political
environment in which free and fair elections could be held. The elections took place in
May 1993 and a national government was established in September 1993 within a
framework of parliamentary democracy, under a new constitution, with a constitutional
monarch as head of state. International assistance resumed. A Ministerial Conference
held in Tokyo in June 1992 endorsed the priorities identified in the UN Secretary
General's Appeal for Cambodia's Immediate Needs and National Rehabilitation and
pledged some US$ 880 million for the country's rehabilitation. The World Bank
contributed to this international effort through the Emergency Rehabilitation Project.
The Emergency Rehabilitation Project (ERP)
(ii)   This was the first credit extended by IDA to Cambodia, and the first substantive
lending operation by any official donor to the elected government following the
resumption of aid to Cambodia. It was identified, prepared, and appraised during two
missions in September 1992 and January 1993.
(iii) The project was consistent with the Bank's policy on emergency operations. It
was designed to have an immediate impact as opposed to a longer-term development
impact. The design and scope of the project were decided on the basis of Cambodia's
overall financing requirements and a viable fiscal strategy. It took into account ongoing
rehabilitation activities, pledges and commitments of other donors, as well as the likely
disbursements of these pledges and commitments during the first 18 months of the new
government. The project was negotiated in Cambodia in January of 1993. However, due
to diverging views of the four political parties of the SNC on the draft Credit Agreement,
negotiations could only be completed in September 1993, with the representatives of the
newly formed Royal Government.



vi
Project Objectives
(iv)   In support of the reconstruction effort, the ERP was designed to help restore and
maintain capacity and production in key sectors during the first 1S months of the new
government. and provide budget support through the counterpart funds generated by the
Credit. The project provided for: (a) imported goods for specific rehabilitation activities
in the transport, agriculture, health, education, power, and water supply sectors; and (b)
critical imports required generally for the rehabilitation of the Cambodian economy.
Implementation Experience
(v)   The choice of an emergency rehabilitation operation--as opposed to an investment
operation--to address the priority needs of post-conflict Cambodia was judicious, as an
investment operation would have exceeded the institutional capacity of Cambodia at the
time. The project substantially achieved its objectives. The equipment installed under
the project is currently in use and the budget support protected critical expenditures
during the recovery period.
(vi)  In line with Bank guidelines on emergency rehabilitation operations, the ERP
retained the necessary flexibility during implementation to, on the one hand, address the
most pressing needs and, on the other hand, consider in the indicative list of equipment
and goods prepared at appraisal only those that could be procured and delivered
expeditiously. This meant that activities that took too long to prepare had to be dropped.
This was particularly the case in agriculture and road transportation, where detailed
technical specifications could often not be prepared within the project timeframe. It also
meant that equipment and goods for which it was clear that there would be insufficient
local capacity for operation and maintenance upon delivery had to be dropped as well.
(vii) Fast disbursing components--General Critical Imports, in particular--benefited
from this situation. Because other donors experienced delays in delivering the budget
support that they had pledged to Cambodia on time, and as a result of the pressure on the
new government to re-establish public authority over the country, this component
disbursed far ahead of schedule and was allocated almost twice as much as initially
planned. Implementation in the Health, Power, and Water Supply components was
carried out essentially as initially planned.
(viii) The technical assistance support provided under the two trust funds enabled the
beneficiary agencies to carry out important parts of the reconstruction programs that fell
under their responsibility. It also provided the PIU with the support needed to manage
the project satisfactorily.



vii
Borrower Performance
(ix)   The performance of the Borrower was commendable. By allocating the necessary
time and effort to the project, the beneficiary agencies were able to compensate for their
weak implementation capacity and lack of experience with Bank procurement procedures.
Bank supervision missions had easy access to the key Cambodian authorities in the
beneficiary agencies and the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the authorities
provided feedback to the Bank in a timely manner.
Bank Performance
(x)   The Bank must be given credit for having prepared the only type of Bank
operation that could deliver much-needed services quickly and efficiently in the wake of
25 years of internal conflict in a country without an effective administration. A normal
Bank investment operation would have been much more difficult to implement in that
context. The supervision performance of the Bank was also good. Client satisfaction
with the Bank's performance is high. Overall project supervision was effective in spite of
the complexity resulting from the numerous sectoral components that were monitored by
sectoral team members. It was noted that, early in the project, when the turnover of the
Task Managers (three in rapid succession) had some effect, a number of supervision
problems were identified and resolved before they had a negative impact on the project.
It was also noted that Bank missions were staffed with experienced Bank staff who
understood the needs of the country at that particular point in time. Early in the project,
some of the consultants recruited under the Trust Funds, and who were accustomed to
investment projects, had difficulty understanding the special nature of this operation and
the streamlined procurement procedures that applied. However, this had a minimal
negative impact on the operation. It simply translated into longer periods than needed to
prepare technical specifications for equipment to be procured.  Project reports and
documentation were well prepared and maintained by the Task Managers and sector
specialists throughout the duration of the project.
Sustainability
(xi)  In view of the government's extremely weak implementation capacity and limited
resources for O&M, the Bank is continuing its assistance beyond the life of the ERP to
help ensure sustainability. Due to the nature of the ERP, little or no training took place
under the project. The government weaknesses and limited resources were identified as a
major risk of the project and addressed during ERP appraisal and in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Cambodia. As a result, several follow-up operations have
been prepared.



viii
Key Lessons Learned
(xii) There are three main lessons learned in this project. First, priorities do not
necessarily qualify as emergencies. Greater selectivity should have been applied during
project appraisal when identifying the types of priorities that could be carried out in the
very limited time frame of the ERP. Second, in post-conflict countries where operating
conditions are very different from what international contractors are accustomed to,
construction activities that rely on foreign expertise should be left out of emergency
rehabilitation projects.  And third, government commitment to the project and its
responsiveness to our requests in the course of project implementation compensated for
the borrower's weak institutional capacities. This has had a favorable impact on both the
outcome of the project and time elapsed during implementation.



I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMBODIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit No. 2550-KH)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Project Objectives and Scope
1.   In line with Bank guidelines on emergency rehabilitation operations, the ERP's
main objective was to restore the functioning of basic economic activities after the
cessation of hostilities. The project helped restore capacity utilization and production in
key sectors. As evidenced by appeals to the donor community by the UN Secretary
General and the UNTAC Administrator, there was considerable pressure to support the
government that would come out of the UN-sponsored elections of May 1993 with a
quick infusion of capital. The Bank in particular was believed to be in the best position
to intervene first. The project provided for: (i) imported goods for specific rehabilitation
activities in the transport, agriculture, health, education, power, and water supply sectors;
and (ii) budget support through the counterpart fund generated under the General Critical
Imports component.  Implementation efforts were essentially devoted to achieving
physical objectives. The expected result was to help establish an enabling environment
for private sector activities and further international assistance.
Evaluation of Objectives
2     Project objectives as defined in the MOP and the DCA were simple and
straightforward, and were substantially met. They were nevertheless ambitious, since at
the time of project preparation and appraisal, and for the most part of the project life, the
Cambodian Government's implementation and supervisory capacity was close to non-
existent. This extreme situation, characteristic of post-conflict countries, seemed to be
well understood by the appraisal team and was clearly identified in the MOP as part of
the project risks. Yet, the Technical Annex (called Implementation Volume) used for
several project components contained unrealistic indicators of performance measurement
(see Table 5-6). Many of these indicators would have been appropriate for investment
operations rather than emergency rehabilitation projects. This was particularly the case
for the Agriculture and Transportation components.



2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.   Insofar as the emergency nature of the operation was meant to address the need
for Cambodia to obtain quick external financial and technical assistance to help restore
critical economic assets, the ERP has successfully met its objectives. In addition, in
many ways the operation paved the way for renewed private sector activity and for the
donor community to prepare its assistance program to the Government. All major
donors--the European Union, USA, Japan, France and Germany--have cited the Bank's
presence as a determining factor in their decisions to accelerate their respective aid
interventions. The Bank itself benefited immensely from the ERP in preparing its
assistance strategy and developing its lending program for Cambodia. In particular, the
sectoral interventions of the ERP highlighted the extremely weak human, physical, and
regulatory environment within which project activities were carried out.  These
weaknesses have since been taken into account in the preparation of the CAS and in
follow-up IDA-assisted projects in agriculture, power, water supply, roads, and balance of
payments support.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
4.   Implementation progress was good at all times. Audit reports were submitted
annually and on time. Project activities closed on schedule; however, a six month
extension was granted to give the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) sufficient time to
process all outstanding withdrawal applications and cover related expenditures. The PIU
was established in the Ministry of Economy and Finance to manage, administer, and
coordinate the project. It efficiently handled procurement of all goods to be imported,
monitored the proper allocation and distribution of these goods, carried out the financial
control of all sub-projects, and kept excellent records throughout the project. The Project
Director was the Secretary of State for Finance.  Such a high level government
representation significantly facilitated project coordination and implementation. The
Project Accountant was an expatriate Khmer whose input and professional rigor was key
to the project's success.
5.    On the other hand, the internationally-recruited Sr. Procurement Expert had
difficulty grasping the true nature of this emergency rehabilitation operation at first,
although he had extensive knowledge of Bank procurement procedures. This was the
main cause for the disbursement lag during the first twelve months of the project.
Another cause of the disbursement lag was the optimistic assessment that the beneficiary
agencies would be able to identify their own priorities from the indicative lists prepared
during appraisal. This was not the case for the following reasons: (i) central government
services, in Phnom Penh particularly, had been seriously affected by the prolonged



3
internal conflict; (ii) the new government had just been established after a two-year
government vacuum partially filled by UNTAC; and (iii) during its mandate, UNTAC did
not attempt to strengthen capacity in line ministries. As a result, the international experts
played a more important role than anticipated in identifying priorities, preparing technical
specifications, and monitoring the work done by contractors.
6.    The disbursement lag was more pronounced during the first twelve months of the
project, but were not a cause for major concern. The disbursement lag did not exceed 13
percent (i.e., actual cumulative disbursements representing 87 percent of estimate). Once
the learning period passed, the disbursement lag closed.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
7.    As explained in Para. 5 above, misunderstandings on the nature of the operation
and the special procurement procedures that applied were the most significant factors that
affected the speed at which project activities were implemented. Another important
factor was the limited government resources available for counterpart funding. During
the first part of the project, the budget support generated by the reimbursement of General
Critical Imports was not sufficient to service all of the pressing needs. Understandably,
the new government considered the payment of salaries for civilian and military
personnel a priority at a time when it was striving to establish its authority over the
country, following years of vacuum at the central government level. The situation
improved after the first year, as Credit funds were reallocated to faster disbursing
components such as General Critical Imports. However, this was done at the expense of
project activities that took longer to prepare.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
8.    In view of the Government's extremely weak implementation capacity and the
limited resources for O&M, the Bank decided to extend its assistance beyond the life of
the ERP to help ensure sustainability. The concern has been two-fold. First, will the
beneficiary agencies be able to continue to make good use of the imported equipment
after the project closes ? And second, will the Government develop an effective planning
and budgeting mechanism for resource allocation for consumables and O&M ?
9.    Due to the nature of the ERP, little or no training took place under the project,
except at the PIU. Although local counterpart staff were assigned to the foreign experts
who were called upon to identify equipment needs, prepare technical specifications, and
monitor suppliers' contracts, those counterparts were not formally trained to ensure
sustainability. This, and the fact that the capacity of the newly elected government to
mobilize resources for O&M would remain extremely limited for several years, was
identified as a major risk of the project and was addressed during ERP appraisal and
preparation of the CAS for Cambodia. As a result, the Bank and UNDP provided support
in the areas most likely to require skilled training for maintenance, namely power, water



4
supply, roads, and agriculture. Two UNDP-financed, Bank-executed technical assistance
projects were implemented in parallel to the ERP and helped build capacity in the power
and water supply sectors. Later, in the context of the CAS, the Government and the Bank
agreed to address the sustainability issue by preparing a series of second-generation
projects designed to provide the support that the emergency rehabilittion operation could
not provide. Follow-up operations are now being implemented or prepared in five of the
six sectors supported under the ERP: agriculture, health, power, transport, and water
supply. These second-generation projects all have strong capacity-building components
to complement their investment components. Furthermore, with regard to resource
allocations for O&M, the Bank has continued to provide budget support through the
follow-up Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC), now fully disbursed, and is preparing a
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). The ERC enabled the Government to increase its
allocations for O&M, though at a lower level than anticipated. The SAC would serve the
same purpose, this time with stronger conditionality to ensure that the Government will
make a stronger effort to cover recurrent expenditures in the priority areas.
10.   The PIU experience was better than that of the beneficiary agencies. In spite of
the temporary character of the PIU, the hands-on experience gained by the local staff in
that unit benefited procurement management under subsequent IDA operations and other
aid programs. As the ERP was closing, many of these local staff were assigned to IDA-
financed project management units as well as the Government's newly established central
procurement unit.
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
11.   Given the situation that prevailed in Cambodia during project appraisal, the
Government had a limited role in preparing the project. However, once the newly elected
Government was in place, the Borrower participated actively in its implementation and its
performance was commendable. The Minister of Economy and Finance explained the
project objectives to his sectoral colleagues during a lengthy session of the Council of
Ministers and succeeded in mobilizing their attention and support as soon as they took
office. By allocating the necessary time and efforts to the project, the beneficiary
agencies were able to compensate for their weak implementation capacity and lack of
experience with Bank procurement procedures. Bank supervision missions had easy
access to the key Cambodian authorities in the beneficiary agencies and the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, and the authorities provided feedback to the Bank in a timely
manner.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
12.   The Bank staff who helped prepare the ERP deserve credit for carrying out their
work in a difficult context. They encountered unusual difficulties during identification,
appraisal, and negotiations. When identification started in 1992, the security situation in



5
Cambodia was extremely volatile and discussions with the representatives of the four
parties of the SNC were difficult. Cambodia was under UJNTAC command as the parties
were preparing for general elections. Each party felt that it had to secure some of the
benefits of the project for its own camp. None of the party representatives had prior
experience with donor-financed projects. Negotiations started in January 1993 in Phnom
Penh, during the electoral campaign, under military protection. They broke down due to
the conflicting views of the four SNC parties and were not completed until after the
elections, with the representatives of the newly formed Royal Government.
13.   During implementation, Bank staff inputs were much higher than budgeted. This
was due to unreasonably low budget allocations for this operation. The staff who
participated in the project supervision strongly felt that, as recommended in the
guidelines for emergency rehabilitation operations, the work load implications should
have been recognized, and adequate provision made for staff time and supervision
budget. It was initially felt that the consultant trust funds could help alleviate the
administrative budget constraint. It turned out, however, that the consultants had
difficulty grasping the special nature of this emergency rehabilitation operation. This was
particularly the case for the PIU's Procurement Adviser whose role was critical. As a
result, substantial delays occurred during the first twelve months and additional Bank
resources had to be spent on supervision by the Bank's Task Manager and sectoral team
members. The arguments often raised by the consultants, and sometimes by the Bank's
sectoral team members, were that: (a) the Cambodian beneficiary agencies were not able
to perform the tasks expected of them during project implementation, and (b)
sustainability would become a major problem after project closing. The Task Manager
and the Country Lawyer responded by reminding Bank staff and consultants concerned
that the DCA had clearly underlined the emergency nature of the ERP, and that the
project would therefore not be implemented as a traditional investment operation unless
the DCA was amended. The Government fully supported that view and never considered
amending the DCA. It was finally agreed that activities that could not be implemented
satisfactorily in an emergency mode be dropped from the indicative list prepared at
appraisal in favor of those that could. This led to significant Credit reallocations toward
the end of the project, which is not unusual for an emergency rehabilitation operation.
Furthermore, to address the sustainability issue, the Bank and the Government agreed to
prepare a series of follow-up operations.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
14.   The project objectives were successfully achieved.  The ratings on Project
Development Objectives and Implementation Progress were ranked Highly Satisfactory
or Satisfactory throughout the project. The factors that contributed to the success of the
operation are: (i) the strong commitment of the Government to the project; (ii) the
institutional support provided through the Japanese and Swedish Trust Funds; (iii) the
flexible design of operation and the special procurement procedures that applied; and (iv)
the close, albeit expensive, supervision by the Bank.



6
15.   Sustainability was potentially an issue. However, the Government and the Bank
have taken the appropriate steps in the context of the CAS to address it. Several follow-
up operations are now being implemented or are being prepared in five of the six sectors
covered under the ERP. The Borrower values this outcome of the project in particular
(see the Government's Evaluation in the Annex).
H. RELEVANCE OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
16.   An emergency rehabilitation project was the only type of Bank operation that
could have delivered the much-needed services quickly and efficiently in the wake of 25
years of internal conflict in a country without an effective central administration. A
normal Bank investment operation would have been much more difficult to implement in
that context. However, contrary to the DCA and the MOP, the Technical Annex (or
Implementation Volume) did not always respect the emergency nature of the operation. It
sometimes was drafted like an SAR for investment operations (see Para. 2), which took
away the flexibility in project design that is recommended for emergency rehabilitation
projects.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
17.   There are several follow-up operations to the ERP: the Phnom Penh Power
Rehabilitation Project and the Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project, both now
under implementation; and the Water Supply Rehabilitation and Road Rehabilitation
projects, under preparation. These "second-generation" projects all have strong capacity-
building components to complement their infrastructure rehabilitation components,
something that could not be done under the ERP. Furthermore, with regard to subsequent
balance of payment support, the Bank extended the Economic Rehabilitation Credit
(ERC) and is now preparing a SAC.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
18.   There are three main lessons learned in this project. First, priorities do not
necessarily qualify as emergencies. Greater selectivity should have been applied during
project appraisal when identifying the types of priorities that could be carried out in the
very limited timeframe of the ERP. Too often, activities were included in the list of
project activities simply because they were considered critical for Cambodia's
rehabilitation. Many of them were in agriculture and had to be dropped during project
implementation, either because they took too long to prepare or would have required, for
their maintenance, a level of skills and operating budget that were not immediately
available.  Second, in post-conflict countries where operating conditions are very
different from what international contractors are accustomed to, construction activities



7
that rely on foreign expertise should be left out of emergency rehabilitation projects.
Bank procedures, although adjusted for this operation, did not allow to screen out
contractors who did not have the experience to operate in difficult environments. For
example, major delays were incurred by the contractor during construction of the Phnom
Penh Floating Port in spite of close monitoring. This situation also applied in the case of
the installation of the power generators. On the other hand, construction of the school
buildings was carried out on time mainly because it relied on local expertise that knew
how to operate efficiently in the country's situation. And third, government commitment
to the project and its responsiveness to our requests in the course of project
implementation compensated for the borrower's weak institutional capacities. This has
had a favorable impact on both the outcome of the project and time elapsed during
implementation.
19.   The lessons learned from the ERP helped shape the portfolio of subsequent Bank
operations in Cambodia. It was fortunate that the sectoral team members who were
involved in the ERP were also those who prepared the fo]low-up operations. The sectoral
interventions of the ERP helped to highlight the extremely weak environment within
which those investments were made. Throughout the project life, trained manpower to
look after investments was almost completely absent. Also, there were no operational
policies with respect to such matters as procurement, cost recovery, beneficiary
participation, and environmental standards. The follow-up operations have been designed
to address these deficiencies. For example, all have strong capacity-building components
and attempt to remedy the institutional, legal, and regulatory weaknesses characteristic of
the Cambodian environment. Finally, all have strong project management units that
slowly build relationships with the rest of the host ministry or agency in the course of the
project as capacity develops in the administration.






9
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives      Substantial          Partial           Vegligible       Not applicable
Macro policies                   LII                [ZC
Sector policies                                                                           F7I  O  [Ii
Financial objectives                                                                      FIII
Institutional development                            E                  E                   El
Physical objectives             [                    EL                L                    K]
Poverty reduction                [                  E                     O                L
Gender issues                      O                     ]              K                  CL
Other social objectives            O                 K                  K                   K
Environmental objectives        I                    E                 L                   E
Public sector management          I                  K]                 K                 EL
Private sector development        K                   hi                  O                E
Other (BOP support)               K                  K]                 K
B. Proiect sustainability               Likelv                  Unlikely                 UJncertain
IZ/I                      I] -I                     I  I
C. Bank performance               Highly satisfactorv          Satisfactorv               Deficient
Identification                    |        | 
Preparation assistance                     ||                        |l
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower performance          _Highly satisfactory         Satisfactorv               Deficient
Preparation                              ]                  [                         |     ]
Implementation                             |                |iii]
Covenant compliance                   W
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome       Highly satisfactorv   Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory    Highlv unsatisfactory
K]l   EL  0K]



10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title                            Purpose          Approval   Status
Preceding operations
None
Following operations
1. Economic Rehabilitation Credit   Balance of payments support    1995    Closed
2. Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation   Rehabilitate energy in      1995      On-going
Phnom Penh and strengthen
implementation capacity of
power utilitity company
(EDC)
3. Agriculture-Productivity Improvement  Increase agricultural   1997      On-going
productivity, strengthen
implementation capacity of
Ministry of Agriculture and
help rehabilitate agricultural
training institutions
4. Structural Adjustment Credit      Balance of payments support            Under
preparation
5. Water Supply Rehabilitation       Rehabilitate water supply              Under
station in Sihanoukville and         preparation
Phnom Penh and strengthen
implementation capacity of
water authorities
6. Road Rehabilitation               Rehabilitation of selected             Under
main and secondary roads             preparation
and strengthen
implementation capacity of
Ministry of Public Works
and Transportation



I1
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle            Date planned           Date actual
Identification                               May 1, 1992          May 29, 1992
Preparation                                   May 1992            June25, 1992
Appraisal                                   June 25, 1992       September 2, 1992
Negotiations                               January 11, 1993    September 30, 1993
Board presentation                          March 30, 1993      October 26, 1993
Signing                                       April 1993        November 5, 1993
Effectiveness                                 June 1993         January 13, 1994
Midterm review                                   n.a.             October 1994
Project completion                          June 30, 1996      December 31, 1996
Loan closing                               October 31, 1996      April 30, 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR million)
FY 1994        FY 1995        FY 1996          FY 1997
Appraisal estimate                   22.6           40.6            45.2
Actual                               20.7           35.5            43.2            45.2
Actual as percent of estimate        91.6           87.4            95.6           100.0
Date of final disbursement                                                 April 30, 1997



12
Table 5 - 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
I.  Key implementation indicators in SAR/          Estimated
President's Report                              Target             Actual
Establish and Maintain Project Implementation Unit    December 1993  December 1993
Funds generated from sale of goods financed under     n.a.           Completed
the project to be allocated as counterpat funds
Agriculture:   - number of and area covered with   300,000 ha       inappropriate
rice field demonstration plots
- number of agricultural samples
collected, estimates of rice produc-
tion
- number of hectares cleared for land  800,000 ha;    inappropriate
reclamation and number of used      500 tractors
tractors repaired and operating
Rubber:      - number of hectares stimulated and   62,000 ha        inappropriate
data on amount of production
- number of hectares of immature      10,000 ha       inappropriate
trees weeded and fertilized
- data on production grading        not available     inappropriate
Fisheries:   - production of fish fingerlings     not available     inappropriate
- number of fishing lots marked     not available     inappropriate
- 1,000 m3 and area of canals       not available     inappropriate
dredged                             June 1995
Livestock:    - number of heads vaccinated by     not available     inappropriate
provinces
Land titling:   - number of fields registered and  not available    inappropriate
titles issued
Education:    - number of textbooks producted    55,000 (total of
monthly by the MOE print shop    I million over the
life of the credit)
- number of textbooks procured on   not available
the international market
- number of textbooks available in   not available
provincial warehouses for distribu-
tion to the districts and education
facilities
- construction of primary schools in  April 1995      October 1995
selected villages
Health:      - distribution of essential drugs and  October 1995    October 1995
medical equipment
Power:        - restoration of sufficient power  December 1993       May 1996
supply and improve reliability of
power system in Phnom Penh



13
Transport:    - kilometers of road rehabilitated    620 km         inappropriate
and maintained
- meters of bridges repaird or reha-  1100 meters    inappropriate
bilated
- numbers of geotechnical tests     not available    inappropriate
performed
- amount of cargo handling equip-   not available    inappropriate
ment repaired
- amount of dredging performed      not available    inappropriate
- number of navaids replaced or     not available    inappropriate
installed
- number of railway rolling stock   not available   December 1996
repaired
- number of railway locomotives     not available   December 1996
repaired
- construction of floating port in     n.a.            May 1996
Phnom Penh
Water Supply: - rehabilitation of 20 kms of pipe-  mid-1994
lines in Phnom Penh and Siha-
noukville                          mid-1994
provision of a drilling rig and 300
hand pumps for rural water supply
II. Other indicators
n.a.



14
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Not applicable
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)             Actual estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign                  Local      Foreign
Source           costs       costs       Total       costs        costs      Total
IDA                     -          62.7        62.7          -          62.7        62.7
SIDA Grant              -           2.3         2.3          -          2.3         2.3
Government              8.1          -          8.1         8.1          -          8.1
Total                  8.1         65.0        73.1         8.1         65.0        73.1
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            Actual estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign                  Local      Foreign
Source           costs       costs       Total       costs        costs      Total
IDA                                62.7        62.7          -          62.7        62.7
SIDA                    -           2.3        2.3           -          2.3         2.3
Government             8.1           -          8.1         8.1          -          8.1
Total                  8.1         65.0        73.1         8.1         65.0        73.1
Note: A PHRD grant in the amount of JPY 97,500,000 (approximately US$1 million)
was provided for project implementation.



15
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Cove-             Original    Revised      Description
nant   Present    fulfill-    fulfill-         of
Agreement    Section      type    status     ment        ment         covenant          Comments
date       date
DCA for       4.01        I        C       June 30,              Maintenance of    Audit reports
ERP dated                                    1994                 records and       received annually
November                                                          accounts. Audits  from June 30,
5, 1993                                                          of records and    1994
accounts
Table 11: Compliance with Operations Manual Statements
No significant variance with the Operations Manual Statements based on documents in
the project file.



16
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                 Planned                   Revised                   Actual
project cycle         Weeks    US$ (000)         Weeks   US$ (000)        Weeks    US$ (000)
Through Appraisal             0.0          0.0        170.3       425.8         41.9        142.3
Appraisal - Board             0.0          0.0        115.9       289.8         65.3        226.0
Supervision                  41.0        140.3         67.9       200.7        101.5        319.5
Completion                    3.5          9.9          2.8         12.9         0.5          9.3
TOTAL                 44.5         150.2        356.9       929.2       209.2         697.1



17
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Specialized
Number   Days         staff     Implemen-   Develop-       Types
Stage of          Month/         of       in        skills      tation       ment         of
project cycle         year      persons   field   represented     status     objectives   problems
Through Appraisal    Sept. 1992      13        16     E, TR. H,
AG, P, ED,
PR, D, LEG
Dec. 1992      2         9          E
Appraisal through    Feb. 1993       4        14    E, LEG, PR
Board approval
Board approval          -           -         -         -             -           -
through effectiveness
Supervision       March 1994      4               E, TR, AG,       HS          HS
H& ED
Aug. 1994       2        13      TR, AG
Oct. 1994      5        10     E, TR, AG,        S           S          M, F
P, ED & H
March 1995      3        10          E
May 1995       _         12       E, TR
July 1995       1        5          E            S           S
Sept. 1995      1        13        TR
Feb. 1996       1       10          E            S           S
Completion        May 1996         1       10          E
1. Specialization                  2. Performance Rating                  3. Types of Problems
E   = Economist                    HS= Highly satisfactory                F = Financial
TR  = Transport Engineer            S = Satisfactory                      T = Technical
H   = Health Specialist             U = Unsatisfactory                    M = Managerial
AG = Agriculture Specialist
P   = Power Engineer
ED = Education Specialist
LEG = Legal Specialist
PR = Procurement Specialist
D   = Disbursement Specialist






19
Appendix A
CAMBODIA
PROJECT COMPLETION MISSION UNDER CR. 2550-KH
A Bank mission' visited Cambodia in February and May 1996 to prepare the
project for closing. This was followed by a visit from June 11-28, 1996, by the
Consultant recruited to help prepare the ICR.2 A number of Cambodian Government
officials were interviewed during that last visit. They gave their opinions on the project
and the services it rendered. A number of indirect project beneficiaries such as rice
farmers, villagers, ordinary citizens of Phnom Penh, railway, water and electricity
workers were also interviewed by the Consultant. Their observations are contained in
this report. The Consultant left no formal Aide-Memoire. Instead, a first draft of this
ICR was prepared and sent to the Government for comments. The Government also
conducted a separate evaluation of the project and provided a copy of the evaluation
report to the Bank. This report is included as Appendix B.
IThe mission was comprised of Mr. Guy Darlan and Ms. Annie Green (EA ICO).
2Mr. Anton Rychener.



20
Appendix B
CAMBODIA
GOVERNMENT'S EVALUATION REPORT OF CR. 2550-KH
Submitted as a Contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report for the Project
Overall Evaluation
The Emergency Rehabilitation Project (ERP) achieved its objectives, albeit with
some delay in some instances. The rehabilitation operations allowed the Government to
put critical facilities back in service after years of war and lack of maintenance.
As expected, the weak implementation capacity of the technical ministries and
agencies that benefited under the Project constituted a major constraint. Fortunately, the
institutional support provided by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the short-
term missions of international consultants generally compensated for these weaknesses.
One of the most important outcomes of the Project was that the local PIU staff, who had
had no prior experience, received on-the-job training in project management,
procurement, and accounting. At the end of the ERP, they were sent to strengthen other
agencies and project management units of the Government. Units that benefited from
their services include the newly established Procurement Unit and the Financial and
Accounting Unit, both in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Furthermore, most
rehabilitation operations set the stage for follow-up projects that are now being
financed/prepared by the World Bank or other donors. Examples of follow-up projects
under World Bank financing include the Phnom Penh Power Rehabilitation Project,
which is under implementation, and the Water Supply Project and Road Projects, which
are under preparation. The follow-up projects seek a more thorough rehabilitation of the
infrastructure facilities and much needed institutional strengthening and sectoral reform.
This benefit of the ERP is important for the following reason: when the ERP
implementation started in 1993, the newly established Government had no precise idea of
priority needs in many sectors. The ERP helped identify those needs.
Finally, the budget support provided under the ERP proved to be indispensable in
supporting the newly and democratically elected Government which was carrying out a
financial stabilization program with the support of the IMF.
On the downside, the Royal Government regrets that because of the lack of funds
at the end of the Project, some activities had to be dropped. Because those activities took
longer to prepare, they became casualties of the intense competition for the limited funds
available under the Credit. The fact that the whole Credit amount of US$63 million was



21
fully committed within the first two years of the Project shows that the needs for balance
of payments support and rehabilitation had been underestimated during project
preparation.
Specific Problems with Contractors
The selection of suppliers was done mainly on the basis of price; it did not sufficiently
take experience and reputation into consideration.  As a result, the Government
experienced difficulties with several suppliers. The streamlined procurement procedures
and the compressed timetable that applied under this emergency project made these
problems possible.
Power. Electricite du Cambodge (EDC) selected China Huaneng Group Hong Kong Ltd.
to provide four diesel generators. The said supplier offered the lowest bid. The supplier
had some experience in its own country, China, but did not have any international
experience. In its offer, it turned out that the supplier had discounted a percentage of the
total amount. It got the contract. However, during implementation the contractor tried to
stay within the contract amount by trying to save money on installation of the generators.
This led to defective installation, a dispute with the Government, and substantial delays.
Phnom Penh Floating Port. The contract was passed between the Ministry of Public
Works & Transport (MPWT) and Chrun-Chongquing Joint Venture. MPWT selected
that company based on its lowest price. It turned out that the company's experience in
the construction of floating ports was inadequate and it had to hire a sub-contractor. Two
things resulted from this: (i) a seven month delay, and (ii) higher supervision costs.
Health. The Ministry of Health selected the lowest bidders for the supply of drugs.
Many of the suppliers were mere intermediaries who had no connection with drug
companies. The results were: considerable delays in delivery, drugs with expiration dates
that had expired, and the quality of the products often did not meet the Ministry's
specifications.
Other Problems
Agriculture. The main difficulty with the component implemented by the Ministry of
Agriculture was the almost total lack of qualified staff. Many component activities could
not be prepared on time and had to be dropped.
Lessons Learned
This was the first time that post-conflict Cambodia was dealing with the international
market. The lessons learned are extremely valuable and will be taken into account for
future projects. The main lesson with contractors is that the Government should in the
future be more careful when checking the experience of the firm, in addition to taking
price into consideration.















IMAGING
Report No.:         16669
Type:      ICR



