- s
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(r
f.    ReotN:PU0sK
| X, Type: MOP



CURRENCY BOUIVALENT
(September 1993, official rate)
Riel 2600  =  1 US dollar
WEIGHTS  ND MEAS=S
Metriz System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
CMEA        Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
ERC         Emergency Rehabilitation Credit
DC          Direct Contracting
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICORC       International Committee for the Reconstruction of Cambodia
IDA         International Development Association
IDF         Institutional Development Fund
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IS          International Shopping
NBC         National Bank of Cambodia
NCRD        National Committee for Rehabilitation and Development
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
PED         Policy and Human Resources Development Fund of the Japanese
Government
PIA         Project Implementation Agency
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
SIDA        Swedish International Development Authority
SDR         Special Drawing Right
STF         Systematic Transformation Facility
UN          United Nations
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
UNHCR       United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNTAC       United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCAL US ONLY
RINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
EMERGENCY RRHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT A_ND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Kingdom of Cambodia
Amount:            SDR45.2 million  (US$62.7 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard, with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:                Local       Foreign      Total
-------- US$ million ---------
IDA            -           62.7        62.7
SIDA           -            2.3         2.3
Government    8.1                       8.1
Total                                  73.
Economic Rate
of Return:               Not applicable
Poverty Category:        Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:                  Not applicable; Implementation Volume is available upon
request.
mm:                     IBRD No. 24293
This docuiment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the ptrftrmance
of their olficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank atthor2ztion.



KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
PART 1 - RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PRIORITIES  . . . . . . . . . .    1
Recent Economic Developments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  1 . .    I
Sector  Issues   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
Policy Objectives and Medium Term Outlook . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Macroeconomic Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
The External Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Governing Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
The IDA Country Assistance Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Relations with IDA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
objectives of IDA Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Lending   .  .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .  .  .    .    .  .  .    .    .  .   .  .    .    .  .    .    .    .  .  10
Economic and Sector Work  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
institutional Development and Technical Assistance  . . . . .   11
Performance Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Relations with the IMF  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Aid Coordination  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Issues for Board Consideration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
PART 2 - THE CREDIT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Project Objectives and Scope  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Agreements Reached  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Environmental Aspects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Benefits and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Recommendation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
ANNEXES   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  20
AlINXU   1:  Key Economic Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
ANNEX 2:  Core Expenditure Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Table 1: Core Expenditure Program and Other
Rehabilitation Activities . . . . . . . . . .   24
Table 2:  Financing of the Rehabilitation Program . . .   25
Table 3:  External Financing Requirement - 1993-94  . .   26
ANNEX 3:  Summary Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
ANNEX 4:  Implementation Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
Table 1:  List of Goods and Materials to be Imported by
Specific Type . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
ANNEX 5:  Timetable of Key Events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
ANNEX 6:  Status of Bank Group Operations . . . . . . . . . . . .   36



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
FOR AN EMERGBNCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation
on a proposed development credit to the Kingdom of Cambodia for 8DR45.2 million
(US$62.7 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity to
help finance an emergency rehabilitation project. Economic indicators and a map
(IBRD No. 24293) are attached.   An Implementation Volume is available upon
request.
PART 1 - RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PRIORITIES
2.      The signing of the Paris Accords in October 1991 set in motion a peace
process under the aegis of the United Nations, which culminated in the conduct
of free and fair elections in May 1993, the promulgation of a new constitution
and the establishment of an elected government in September 1993. The United
Nations operation, initiated in November 1991 and carried out by the United
Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) is now completed.
3.     Rehabilitation activities were an essential part of the transition
process, so much so that this was the subject of one of the instruments of the
Paris Accords, i.e. the Declaration on the Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of
Cambodia. on April 20, 1992, the Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN)
launched in Pbnom Penh an Appeal for Cambodia's Immediate Needs and National
Rehabilitation, requesting the international community to provide assistance for
humanitarian activities and for the rehabilitation and operation of basic public
services, through project and program aid.
4.     A Ministerial Conference on Cambodia, held in Tokyo in June 1992 pledged
some US$880 million to the country's rehabilitation and endorsed the priorities
identified in the UN Secretary General's Appeal for Cambodia's Immediate Needs
and National Rehabilitation and detailed in a joint document by Asian Development
Bank (ADB), International Monetary Fund (IMP), United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) and World Bank.
5.     The successful implementation of the Paris Accords required restoring a
sustainable degree of economic stability to minimize social and regional tensions
that could frustrate national reconciliation.   A crucial element of this
objective was anti remains the rehabilitation of essential public services and
infrastructure to ensure the maintenance of a functional administration. The
proposed Emergency Rehabilitation Credit is an element of a continuous broad
based international effort to support the rehabilitation program.
Recent Economic Develorments
C.     With the long awaited return to peace, Cambodia can devote its resources
once agair to the goal of development. However, with insufficient resources to
generate productive income, and isolated from the mainstream of world trade,
Cambodia has run down its physical capital and has severely depleted its human
resources. While considerable headway was made in putting the country back to



work after the turmoil of the late 1970s, these efforts are now running out of
steam.   With the loss of aid from the former Council for Mutual Economic
Assistance (CMEA) and only modest amounts of western aid so far, nothing is being
set aside to maintain social capital, and no surplus resources are available with
which to begin the process of rehabilitation and recconstruction.
7.      Thus, in recent years, the authorities have relied primarily on improving
policies to keep the economy afloat. These reforms, however, were undertaken
more as a partial and ad hoc response to emerging difficulties than as a
comprehensive and consistent plan.   They have consequently yielded uneven
results. on the positive side, starting in 1989, agricultural land was returned
to the tiller, which has greatly facilitated the recovery in food production.
On the other hand, the process of enterprise reform has been more uneven. In
late 1989, the authorities launched a new system of financial autonomy for state
enterprises, under which enterprises were supposed to operate without
administrative interference. In practice, however, operational autonomy is still
curtailed by the necessity for the budget to extract as much revenue as it can
from them. More recently, privatization has become another important strategy
of the Cambodian authorities to reform the state enterprise sector. In many
cases the process has, unfortunately, been akin to "spontaneous privatization";
hence it has generated little divestiture revenue for the budget.
8.      Nevertheless, the foundation for a new pattern of development resting
firmly in private hands is being established.   Informal sector industrial
activity and the support sectors of distribution and transport have been growing
rapidly over the past four years. Small private firms have been multiplying and
expanding at a rapid rate. Market reforms have thus brought about a positive,
but uneven, supply response, as the economy remains subject to the vagaries of
the weather, lack of security and to unreliable access to imported raw materials
and spare parts. GDP in real terms (constant 1989 prices) has experienced uneven
growth in recent years, advancing by 3.5 percent in 1989 and 1.2 percent in 1990,
before recovering to 7.6 percent in 1991 and 7.0 percent in 1992 in response to
reforms since 1991. While output of state enterprises was in relative decline,
private activities took the lead in fostering economic growth.
9.      This expansion of private activities, however, is increasingly threatened
by a breakdown in the supply of basic infrastructure services and by growing
macroeconomic imbalances. These have inflicted high inflation on the country,
running at 91 percent in 1989, 152 percent in 1990, 88 percent in 1991 and 177
percent in 1992. Although prices stabilized somewhat during the second quarter,
the price level rose by 93 percent during January - June 1993.
10.     The country's present macroeconomic imbalances are due to the rapid
deterioration in the financial position of the budget.   Even after public
investment and maintenance expenditures were curtailed to negligible levels, the
budget showed a huge financing gap, representing about 36 percent of total
expenditure in 1992.   In 1992, about 46 percent of total expenditures were
financed out of monetary creation. The origins of these developments emerge most
clearly from an examination of the trends of revenues, expenditures and external
financing in relation to GDP. Revenue collection declined from 6.4 percent of
GDP in 1989 to 3.9 percent in 1990, 4.4 percent in 1991 and 6.2 percent in 1992.
Budgetary expenditures remained roughly constant relative to GDP, at around 8-9
percent during the 1989-92 period.   The public deficit thus widened by 1-2



-3-
percentage points of GDP during the 1989-1992 period; in the meantime, the
country lost the assistance of the former CMEA, throwing the burden of finanuing
this deficit almost exclusively on the domestic sector, i.e., largely on monetary
creation.
11.    Two series of factors have contributed to this situation.  First, the
liberalization of the economy starting in 1989 has acted to hinder revenue
mobilization and inflate expenditures.    On the revenue side, Cambodia is
experiencing conditions similar to those in many other formerly planned
economies. Enterprise reform combined with price and trade liberalization has
slashed the economic rents formerly captured by public sector enterprises through
price distortions and budget subsidies, inevitably impairing their capacity to
contribute to fiscal revenues. Owing to lack of appropriate instrwments and
administration, this loss of revenues has not been made up by revenues from the
emerging private sector. The contribution made by public enterprises to budget
revenues (including enterprises leased to the private sector) fell from 36
percent of total expenditure in 1989 to 20 percent in 1992, and the budget
anticipates a further decline in 1993. In an attempt to deal with this problem,
several new taxes have been introduced by the authorities in major tax reforms
since 1991, but these have made only a small contribution to the budget so far.
User charges and other non-tax revenue sources were even less buoyant than taxes
in the period under review, falling from 5.5 percent of budgetary expenditures
in 1989 to 1.6 percent in 1992. Fortunately, the elimination of customs duties
exemptions that benefitted state enterprises and imports from the nonconvertible
zone has allowed these revenues to increase their contribution from 8.5 percent
of expenditures in 1989 to 32 percent in 1992. During the first half of 1993,
despite additional tax measures, total revenues remained disappointingly low as
external trade dampened customs duty receipts and the outgoing Government was
unable to enforce fully tax collection.
12.    On the expenditure side, the gradual elimination of forced procurement
from the productive sector at below market prices has considerably increased the
unit cost of the goods and services that the state procures for operations and
investment.  The attempt to protect the real value of large categories of
expenditure, particularly civil servantsI wages and defense, has put immense
pressures on the total expenditure bill (despite a concomitant reduction in
public employment from 213,000 persons to 151,000), practically crowding out
categories of expenditure, such as public investment and operations and
maintenance; the latter saw their share in the budget reduced from 41 percent in
1989 to 16 percent in 1992. During the first half of 1993, the Government scaled
down current expendituras further by, among others, postponing wage payments in
response to the sharp loss of revenues.
13.    The second factor contributing to the current fiscal situation has been
the elimination of CambodiaIs credit facility under the 1986-90 trade and payment
agreement with the former Soviet Union.   Commodity aid received under this
agreement still financed 15 percent of budgetary expenditures in 1989, but the
agreement was not renewed after 1990. The implementation of a non-humanitarian
aid program from international agencies and Western bilateral donors has only
partially made up for this loss.   Thus, with the important exception of
humanitarian aid, which was about US$20-30 million a year in 1990-92, foreign
assistance under the form of project and commodity assistance declined to an
estimated US$ 26.8 million in 1992.  During the first half of 1993, only US$8



- 4 -
million under the form of project and commodity assistance was disbursed due to
political uncertainties.
14.    A monetized deficit of only a few percentage points of GDP can give rise
to high levels of inflation in Cambodia because the demand for taonetary assets
is as low as 6 percent of GDP. A lingering mistrust of banks and local cu-rency,
resulting from the demonetization of the economy under the Democratic Kampuchea
regime, is obviously at play here, but the fact that official policy maintained
nominal interest rates at unrealistically low levels did not help the situation:
until December 1992, Riel-denominated savings deposits paid 12 percent per annum,
and one-year time deposits 28.8 percent, rates which were well below past,
present, and expected future inflation. Since December 1992, banks are allowed
to offer three month riel - denominated deposits at an interest rate of 6 percent
per month.
15.     In brief, owing to the growing fiscal crisis, key infrastructure, already
crumbling after years of destruction and neglect, is no longer being maintained
and civil servants fail to provide essential services. The authorities cannot
plan for, much less undertake, new activities to accommodate additional demands
placed on infrastructure and services.
Sector Issues
16.    The deterioration is nowhere more visible than at the sectoral level,
where services and infrastructure are already experiencing considerable strain.
Across sectors, fiscal pressures have exacerbated prevailing structural
deficiencies in all the public services. It is now imperative to arrest this
deterioration if any meaningful rehabilitation is to take place. The following
discussion reviews this situation sector by sector.
17.     Transport infrastructure is in a state of great disrepair.  After 10
years of neglect and destruction during the 1970s, transport services resumed in
1980 and managed to operate with a minimal degree of efficiency despite severe
shortages of material, human and financial resources. This has indeed been a
remarkable achievement. Many roads and bridges have been patched temporarily to
allow movement of goods and people. Major ferry crossings of the Mekong and the
Tonle Sap Rivers have been kept open. Ports have continued to function and river
ships and barges have managed to move the freight.   Despite a severely
deteriorated roadbed, rotted sleepers, mangled tracks, and an old rolling stock,
the railways have managed to operate.   At present,  it is estimated that
transportation infrastructure is functioning at about 40 to 50 percent of prewar
capacity. Since 1990, the rapid deterioration of the fiscal situation following
the drying up of Soviet aid put additional pressures on transport services
already subject to considerable strain. Budget appropriations have shrunk and
arrears have accumulated to such an extent that even routine road and bridge
maintenance, let alone new construction, have come to a virtual standstill. The
equipment of transport companies have been cannibalized or rapidly rundown, and
the finances of the railway company have deteriorated to a point where
interruptions of services are a distinct prospect.
18.    Utilities and urban services, which were generally able to meet the
country's requirements in the 1960s, are now woefully inadequate to accommodate
present and fixture demands. Only about 20 percent of the population in Phnom



Penh is served by piped water. Drains are silted and clogged since refuse
collection is almost nonexistent. As a result, sanitation problems and major
health risks are serious. Power shortages are so acute that economic activities
and the provision of essential power-dependent services (water treatmerst and
pumping, telecommunications, hospitals, etc.) are severely curtailed. However,
obsolete equipment accounts for only part of this situation. Rather, the problem
is that the largest consumers of these services (the administration and other
public entities) are increasingly unable to meet their bills, leaving the
utilities with no resources with which to purchase fuel, spare parts, and other
inputs. Moreover, the prevailing scarcity of supply gives rise to widespread
pilferage of water and electricity, further depres,ing the finances of the
utilities.
19.     Social sectors, after their near-destruction in the turmoil of the late
1970s, have shown considerable progress in cuantitative terms, in resurrecting
social services.  Official efforts, supported by the local communities, have
created an extensive education system in which an estimated 82 percent of the
population of school age is enrolled. Similar efforts, although more unevenly
successful, have oeen deployed in the rehabilitation and staffing of basic health
structures, providing one physician per 12,800 population, one nurse per 6,300
population, and one hospital bed per 1,440 population. This is certainly much
lower than overall Asian standards although Cambodia fares better than some Asian
countries which have not experienced any of the devastation that the country
suffered.   Achievements in aualitative terms, while impressive under the
circumstances, are uneve~n by comparison. The dropout rate in education is high,
especially among girls, with only about 40 percent of children enrolled in the
first grade completing education within five years.   The literacy rate is
officially reported at 93 percent, but a more conservative estimate places it at
about 70 percent. Also, while on paper rural health facilities are in place in
most districts, it is estimated that fewer than 53 percent of the population has
access to health services and only 12 percent of the rural and 20 percent of the
urban population have access to a safe and reliable source of water. All health
indicators show the mark of the still insufficient level of services.
20.    At present, due to fiscal pressures, however, the delivery of services
is deteriorating rapidly. Social infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation
have almost ceased; production and distribution of textbooks have virtually come
to a standstill; and suppliers of pharmaceuticals to the public sectors are
stopping their deliveries. While they are still officially illegal, all types
of fees are now charged in education and health that have enabled some degree of
*services to continue - although inequitably.
21.     Aariculture,  which employs 84 percent of the population,  has been
comparatively less affected than other sectors by current pressures.   Crop
production, now largely in private hands, has been able to progress in spite of
the country's problems. However, major constraints persist, including the mining
of large tracts of arable land and the security situation (which still hinders
both planting and marketing), the dilapidated state of transport infrastructure
and the inability (since the cessatiorn of aid from the former CMEAI to import the
level of fertilizers needed. Fiscal pressures have affected those areas in which
the role of public services is irreplaceable -- or as yet unreplaced -- such as
fisheries and forestry management, where the day-to-day operations rely on the



capacity of the administration to charge and retain fees and other payntents,
outside the public finance framework.
Policy Obtectives and Medium Term Outlook
ObiJectives
22.     The immediate objectives of the Cambodian rehabilitation program are to
restore macroeconomic stability, to ensure adequate functioning of the
administration of the newly formed government and to maintain essential services
that were partially restored during the last decade. To this end, the economic
priorities for the remainder of 1993 and 1994 are (a) to frame rehabilitation
activities within a macroeconomic strategy that would bring dowu inflation to
more acceptable levels and (b) to establish the basis for a broader, longer-term
reconstruction effort.   This will be done through the delivery of a core
expenditure program based on a feasible fiscal strategy aimed at (a) ensuring the
rehabilitation of the most critical public infrastructure and (b) maintaining the
delivery of essential services to the j.opulation. This strategy necessitates
renewed efforts at public resource mobilization and monetary restraint, on the
one hand, and the restoration of minimum appropriations for operation and
maintenance of essential services, and public investment, consistent with the
macroeconomic objectives and the availability of foreign assistance, on the other
hand.
Macroeconomic Framework
23.    The macroeconomic framework that underpins the rehabilitation program has
been defined in close collaboration with the International Monetary Fund and the
Bank and is common to the two institutions. It will be supported by a first
tranche release of SDR6.25 million under the Systemic Transformation Facility.
(The key features of the macroeconomic framework are outlined in Table 1, Annex
1) .
24.     It is expected that arowth could accelerate to 7-8 percent during the
initial years of recovery, compared with projected 5.5 percent growth in 1993,
as private sector activity would respond to a more stable environment and the
rehabilitation of key infrastructure would be undert.-ken.    Inflation would
decline to about 10 percent by the end of 1994, compared with 98 percent
inflation in 1993. The implementation of the rehabilitation program would thus
bring about a steady improvement in the living standards and per capita income
of the Cambodian people. It would ensure that the initial boost to the economy
provided by the United Nations' presence will be sustained over the mediun term.
Production in agriculture and in the modern sector is still constrained by (a)
lack of inputs such as fertilizers and fuel, (b) fragile security situation and
(c) decayed infrastructure.   However, the alleviation of import constraints
through program aid, the consolidation of the peace process and the removal of
some of the most critical infrastructure bottlenecks under the rehabilitation
program will help establish conditions under which refugees, displaced persons
and demobilized soldiers can put their resources and skills to productive uses.
An expanding marketable surplus, the resumption of private and public investment,
a recovery in public services, the integration of the economy into world markets,
and the continued development of an active private sector will be the main fuel
for the engine of growth.



- 7 -
25.     Further steps have been taken to stem the macroeconomic deterioration
described in paras. 8-14 and make it feasible to start rehabilitating the
country. The authorities have started to implement a package of economic actions
including (a) new revenue measures in customs, such as a switch to a uniform ad
valorem for the consumption tax on imports, as well as in the area of domestic
taxation, such as the extension of the hotel room tax to cover restaurants, (b)
introduction of a new budget nomenclature and accounting procedures (c)
introduction of reserve requirements for commercial bank deposits and (d)
maintaining the interest rate provided under the three-month Riel deposit scheme
positive in real terms. Adontion of such a package was a condition of Board
Dresentation of the nronosed credit as well as of the IMF program, and has been
fulfilled.
26.     Under present circumstances,  fiscal nolicv remains  the  strongest
instrument available to achieve the twin objectives of rehabilitation and
stabilization. These objectives will be imbedded in the 1994 budget which is
being prepared in consultation with IDA. During project implementation, IDA will
need to be satisfied that the execution of this budget, or any revision thereof,
meets the rehabilitation priorities.   Failure to do so would be a cause of
default. In order to achieve the target of reducing inflation to 10 percent in
1994, this budget will drastically reduce domestic bank financing of the budget
to no more than 0.1 percent of GDP.  With the introduction of the economic
measures mentioned in para. 25, further supplemented by new actions to strengthen
the buoyancy of customs duties and increases in the taxes on petroleum products,
the erosion of budgetary revenues should be arrested and such revenues should
pick up again from 5.0 percent of GDP in 1993 to 6.6 percent in 1994.
27.    With the expected aid disbursements, total expenditures will expand in
1994 to about 15 percent of GDP (including those expenditures in the core
rehabilitation program which may be financed directly by donors), compared to
about 10 percent in 1993. A continued reorientation of expenditure priorities
will, however, be necessary. In particular, a wage restraint mechanism will
remain in place as long as the constraint on the net recourse to monetary
financing of the budget remains binding. As security conditions are expected to
improve, defence and public security expenditures would decrease to 3.3 percent
of GDP in 1994 compared to 3.8 percent in 1993.
28.    As regards operation and rehabilitation, priority is being given to
restoring minimum appropriations for operating expenditures. Within the overall
financial constraint, public investment would recover substantially from about
2.5 percent of GDP in 1993 to about 6 percent in 1993, concentrating on repairing
existing infrastructure and re-establishing critical services.
29.    Monetary Policy will further support the attainment of the inflacion
objective. To contain the expansion of liquidity to 20 percent during 1994
compared to a projected 32 percent during 1993, net credit to government will be
limited to less than 0.1 percent of GDP. To support economic activities, credit
to the rest of the economy will be allowed to grow by 48 percent. Within this
category, though, it is expected that credit to the private sector will continue
to expand fastest, supporting efficient economic activities, with no expansion
in credit to state enterprise.



30.     Monetary restraint will be facilitated by the maintenance of interest
rate guidelines from the National Bank of Cambodia, directing commercial banks
to set term deposit rates above some minima, the level of which exceeds the
inflation target. Commercial banks will be free to set their lending rates as
they see fit, provided they charge a positive spread on all maturities.
Prude..tial rules are also being established to regulate the rapidly expar.ding
banking business.
31.     To encourage the flow of foreign exchange through official channels, the
official exchanae rate will be adjusted flexibly to maintain it within a r
percent range of the market rate through December 1993 and within 3 percent
through June 1994. This policy combined with the expected inflow of foreign
capital should permit a US$ 17.5 million build up in foreign reserves, bringing
them from 2.2 to 2.6 weeks of imports between 1993 and 1994 (excluding transit
trade).
The External Environment
32.     Cambodia should initially benefit greatly from its current opening up to
the world economy, after almost two decades of isolation from the rapidly growing
South-East Asian market.    Trade liberalization has resulted in expanded
transactions with the convertible zone. Until 1987, all foreign trade was under
state monopoly and most transactions governed by annual protocols with Council
for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) countries.   Starting in 1988, private
companies were gradually allowed t'. operate in foreign trade. The expansion of
trade with the Western world was further supported when the port of Sihanoukville
was opened up to international shipping and the coastal provinces of Koh Kong and
Kampot were authorized to trade independently with Thailand and Singapore. The
initial progress in reorienting trade smoothed to some extent the impact of the
abrupt cessation of trade and payments relations with the ex-CMEA countries
(except Viet Nam).
33.     The opening of the economy and the signing of the Paris Accords caused
an immediate surge in foreign investment, for instance in hotels and privatized
state enterprises, coming primarily from Cambodia's trade partners of Thailand
and Singapore. This immediate reaction was facilitated by the earlier adoption
of a liberal foreign investment code and by the links between the Sino-Khmer
community, in Cambodia and overseas, with the business communities of East Asia.
34.     In addition, owing to its low customs duties and weak snforcement, Phnom
Penh has become a hub of sorts for transit trade in the regiL  , especially with
Viet Nam.  It is estimated that about half the imports of _ambodia is being
reexported, primarily to Viet Nam. A further boost to the regional integration
of Cambodia's economy in world business was the lifting in early 1992 of the US
embargo that had been in place since 1975. A future lifting of the US embargo
on Viet Nam, however, may reduce the attractiveness of Cambodia as a transit
point to Viet Nam although this negative impact would probably be counterbalanced
by (a) the consequent boom in the overall volume of regional trade and (b)
initially, the fact that Cambodia has two seaports, whereas Viet Nam does not yet
have any in neighboring provinces. Finally, the return to peace should permit
the full reactivation of the Mekong Community and the development of a water
management policy common to riparian states.



9-
Governing Framework
35.    Cambodia's present governing framework is derived from the implementation
of the provisions of the "Agreements on a Comprehensive Political Settlement of
the Cambodia Conflict" (the "Paris Accords"). The Paris Accords were signed on
October 23, 1991 by representatives of Cambodia's four political factions and
seventeen UN member states.
36.     Following the election of the Constituent Assembly in June 1993 pursuant
to the terms of the Paris Accords, an interim government was formed and a new
Constitution was adopted by the Assembly and officially promulgated by the King
on September 24, 1993.   Upon the promulgation of the Constitution,  the
Constituent Assembly was transformed into a National Assembly.   The King
appointed a Prime Minister and a Deputy Prime Minister charged with forming the
Cabinet to be confirmed by the National Assembly, as required under the
Constitution. The holding of free elections, promulgation of a new Constitution
and subsequent establishment of a new governing framework in Cambodia were
carried out on the basis of the Paris Accords.
37.    The Constitution establishes a system of government based on an elected
Constitutional Monarchy and the separation of powers between the executive,
legislative and judicial branches. Under the Constitution, the King is the
sovereign Head of State, to reign over but not govern Cambodia and is the
ultimate guarantor of the fundamental rights and liberties of the Cambodian
people. The King is elected by a Royal Council of the Throne. The Constitution
also provides for the adoption of a multi-party democratic political regime and
a fr.ee market economic system. The National Assembly is established as a 120-
member legislative organ empowered to, among other things, adopt laws, approve
the national budget and ratify and annul treaties and international conventions.
According to the Constitution, the government comprises of a Prime Minister,
Dept,ty Prime Minister and a Council of Ministers. Moreover, the judiciary is
inaependent and a Constitutional Council is charged with interpreting the
Constitution and opining upon the constitutionality of the laws.
The IDA Country Assistance Strategy
Relations with IDA.
38.    Cambodia became a member of the IMF on December 31, 1969 and joined the
IDA on July 22, 1970. Between the two dates, Prince Sihanouk had been overthrown
and the country was in turmoil. As a result, Cambodia never borrowed from IDA,
although it borrowed from the IF in 1971 and 1972. Relations with the IDA and
the Fund were interrupted between 1975-1992. In September 1992, Cambodia decided
to resume active participation in the IDA, appointing a representative on the IDA
Board of Governors and designating the National Bank of Cambodia as the
depository institution for IDA assets in Cambodia.
Obiectives of IDA Assistance
39.    At the moment, IDA assistance to Cambodia focuses on a "holding strategy"
aimed at helping the country through the rehabilitation period. Success in this
strategy should permit the adequate functioning of the new Government's
administration. As the Government gradually determines its own development



- 10 -
strategy, an appropriate IDA strategy will be firmed up accordingly. Therefore,
the following considerations need to be seen in light of this two stage approach.
40.     IDA lending strategy will develop in two phases - rehabilitation and
reconstruction. During the "rehabilitation" phase which will likely extend over
the next 12-18 months, the main objective is to (a) help maintain a stable
economy  and  functioning  infrastructures,   (b)  help  develop  effective
administrative structures, and (c) provide a firmer basis for the reconstruction
of the country. The proposed Emergency Rehabilitation Credit supports these key
objectives.
41.     A successful rehabilitation will open the way to a second phase of
international assistance, that of reconstruction and development. Bearing in
mind that the new Government has yet to dettz.mine and adopt its own policies and
priorities, it is premature at this stage to single out clearly established
priorities. Nevertheless, the IDA reconstruction assistance is likely to be
deployed on two broad fronts: one is the continued pursuit of economic
stabilization and the other is the building up of physical and human potentials.
42.     Owing to the depth of the country's present financial troubles, it is
envisaged that quick-disbursing balance-of-payments support will be needed for
some years. It is recognized that the success of the reconstruction effort will
hinge primarily on the capacity of the country to set in place appropriate
policies and provide the institutional environment for mobilizing domestic
financial and human resources. Three factors will be critical: (i) the effort
that the administration will undertake to address the public finance problems on
the domestic front, primarily by way of revenue mobilization, and to strengthen
the cost-effectiveness of the administration and the civil service; (ii) the
selectivity of expenditure programs and their complementarity with private sector
endeavors; and (iii) the strengthening of the institutional capacity through
technical assistance. Were the government determined to carry out such policies,
IDA would stand ready to play its part in providing of balance-of-payments
support, through the initiation of adjustment lending. These policy-based loans
would support a strengthening of the market reforms undertaken so far,
particularly in the areas of public finance, enterprise reform and private sector
development, civil service and administration, and financial sector development.
43.     Project work, on the other hand, will seek to boost investment in key
sectors on the basis of well articulated strategies.   IDA assistance would
concentrate on: (i) restoring key transport infrastructure and the rehabilitation
and expansion of water and power utilities destroyed by the war or run down for
lack of repair and maintenance; (ii) recovering agricultural productive
potentials with particular emphasis on (a) ensuring food security and
reintegrating displaced populations through reclamation of rice land, repairing
irrigation networks and providing the required level of imported inputs; (b)
developing cash production primarily in the rubber and fishery sectors; and (c)
defining a policy and institutional framework conducive to the sustainable
exploitation of the country's two largest natural resources, forestry and water
(particularly the Tonle Sap); and (iii) developing severely crippled human
resources, focusing on (a) establishing a conducive policy and institutional
framework for health and education; (b) ensuring the provision of sufficient



- 11 -
inputs (textbooks, drugs, etc.) for these sectors to operate; (c) rehabilitating,
consolidating and selectively expanding sectoral facilities; (d) developing the
productive capacity of and employment opportunities for women, which currently
constitute over 60 percent of the adult population; and (e) expanding the access
of the population, particularly its poorest, rural segment to clean water and
minim=m sanitation.   Taking into account the particular circumstances of
Cambodia, IDA project work will give priority to building up sectoral
institutions and providing inputs, equipment and advisory services needed to
carry on agreed sectoral programs.
Economic and Sector Work
'9
44.     Building up this lending pipeline and developing sound policy advice will
require that IDA expands its knowledge and understanding of the country issues.
Early initiation of our economic and sector work already helped us formulate the
proposed Emergency Rehabilitation Project (ERP). Before the normalization of IDA
relations with Cambodia, staff carried out reconnaissance activities under the
aegis of the United Nations. Following an economic mission in March-April 1992
under the authority of the UN Secretary-General Special Representative for
Cambodia, IDA prepared an economic assessment which was released in June 1992 at
the Ministerial Meeting in Tokyo under the title "Cambodia - Agenda for
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction". IDA also contributed to the joint ADB-IMF-
UNDP-World Bank report entitled "Cambodia - Socio-Economic Situation and
Immediate Needs", tabled at that conference.
45.    A Country Economic Report together with a Medium-Term Investment Strategy
will be prepared in December 1993. This report will provide the analytical
underpinning for the meeting of the International Committee for the
Reconstruction of Cambodia (ICORC) to be held in March 1994. It will also serve
as a basis for a possible first adjustment operation and a Reconstruction Credit
in FY95.   The preparation of a Policy Framework Paper, in parallel to the
adjustment operation, would further deepen our already close relations with the
International Monetary Fund in Cambodia.
46.     The focus of our sector work would be similar to that of the proposed
lending strategy, i.e. infrastructure, human resource development and
agriculture, particularly emphasizing the areas of forestry and water resource
management. Numerous and extremely useful sectoral overviews have been recently
prepared by various international organizations, particularly from the United
Nations system. All have found the quality and availability of data a severe
limitation to the scope of these studies.   Aiming now at moving towards
operational recommendations, IDA program will give priority to more time-
consuming efforts of building of data bases and developing master plans, with
donor financial support.
Institutional Development and Technical Assistance
47.     Despite brave efforts to restore institutions to functioning levels and
train a new generation of cadres after the turmoil of the 1970s, the development
of minimal human and institutional capacities is still highest on the country's
agenda. Compounding the problems linked to the legacy of 1970s, the country has
to (a) make up for the loss of the substantial technical assistance from the now
defunct cMEA, which in some sectors (such as vocational training and health) have



- 12 -
left existing institutions in disarray, and (b) transform its economic
institutions as required by the rapid transition to a market economy and the
implementation of a reconstruction program.
48.     The IDA made an early start in providing technical assistance for
institution building.   Starting in July-August 1992, it fielded two public
finance experts with bilateral financing.   This technical assistance to the
administration for strengthening expenditure programming and public finance
control is now being expanded with support from two grant sources (the Japan PHRD
Fund and the Bank's IDF) for a total of US$1.25 million. It emphasizes those
immediate improvements in expenditure management needed to properly program and
execute rehabilitation activities within a consistent fiscal framework.
Similarly at the sectoral level, two UNDP projects executed by IDA, one for water
and one for power rehabilitation, amounting to US$4.11 million and US$3.8
million, respectively, were approved in November 1992. Implementation of both
projects is proceeding satisfactorily. The technical assistance included under
the proposed project should further help strengthen such functions as
procurement, textbook production and distribution, drugs management, and road
maintenance.
49.     Such assistance, initiated during the rehabilitation period, will fully
develop during the reconstruction and development period. In particular, IDA
will continue to assist beyond that initial effort in helping create a full-
fledged budget management and expenditure programming system. The IDA will also
stand ready to assist in areas such as privatization, civil service reform and
financial sector development.
Performance Indicators
50.     Satisfactory functioning of the Government's administration, and the
subsequent start of the reconstruction period, will be major milestones on the
way towards full-fledged IDA assistance.  Recognizing how critical domestic
policies and capacities are to the reconstruction effort, IDA will pay particular
attention, when determining the scope of its assistance, to (i) the progress
being achieved toward fiscal adjustment; (ii) the strict prioritization of the
overall reconstruction package and the country's track record in implementing it;
and (iii) the effectiveness in aid utilization.
Relations with the IMF
51.     As with the IDA, Cambodia also officially resumed active participation
in the IMF in September 1992. In August 1993, the Cambodian authorities agreed
to a new macroeconomic program (which is reflected in paras.23-31) and requested
an initial purchase from the IMF under the Systemic Transformation Facility
(STF). On September 29, 1993 Cambodia's arrears towards the IMF for an amount
of SDR43 million, on the drawings made by the country in the early 1970s, were
cleared with the assistance of bilateral donors led by Japan and France. In
early October 1993, the Board of the IMF is expected to approve an arrangement
under the STF for Cambodia. Under this arrangement, the first STF tranche in an
amount equivalent to SDR6.25 million (25 percent of quota) is expected to be
disbursed by the end of November 1993.



- 13 -
Aid Coordination
52.     Effective coordination will continue to be critical to the success of
international efforts. Initially, the Paris Accords specifically assigned to
UNTAC the responsibility of coordinating assistance during the transitional
period, a mechanism which has been in place since April 1992 under the
responsibility of the UNTAC Director of Rehabilitation. After UNTAC's departure,
an integrated UN office will be established in Phnom Penh.
53.    The June 1992 Ministerial Conference of Tokyo formally established the
International Committee on Reconstruction of Cambodia (ICORC) contemplated by the
Paris Accords, a consultative body under the chairmanship of Japan.  It was
charged with coordinating aid during the reconstruction period and open to all
countries and international organizations contributing to the long-term
reconstruction of Cambodia.   The first ICORC meeting was held in Paris in
September 1993. The next ICORC meeting will convene in March 1994 in Tokyo. The
IDA has been requested to prepare a report on the analytical underpinnings of the
economic situation in Cambodia for this meeting.
Issues for Board Consideration
54.    At  the moment,  IDA assistance  to Cambodia  focusses  entirely  on
contributing to the international effort to consolidate peace through adequate
functioning of the Government's administration and rehabilitating essential
services and productive capacities. Success in this endeavor will allow the
authorities to devise their development strategy.   IDA will define its own
assistance priorities within this framework. Issue that may arise during this
process would be brought to the attention of the Executive Directors in
conjunction with subsequent operations.



- 14 -
PART 2 - THE CREDIT
Backaround
55.    Responding to the Appeal of the UN Secretary General and to an invitation
from Prince Sihanouk, the IDA sent a mission to Cambodia in September 1992 to
prepare the proposed Credit. On the basis of priorities identified in the UN
Secretary General's Appeal for Cambodia's Immediate Needs and National
Rehabilitation, a core expenditure program (Annex 2) was prepared, reflecting the
macroeconomic  strategy outlined in paras.  22-31.   This program includes
rehabilitation activities selected according to three main criteria: (a) number
of beneficiaries, (b) absorptive capacity and (c) resettlement needs of the
displaced population. Inter-sectoral linkages and the evolving role of the State
in the transition towards a market economy were also taken into account.
56.    The domestic policy measures outlined in paras. 22-31 by themselves are
unlikely to bring about a decisive improvement in the macroeconomic situation or
allow the delivery of the core rehabilitation program without a rapid infusion
of foreign assistance, estimated at US$182 million for 1994 (Annex 2, Table 3;
all foreign assistance numbers exclude humanitarian aid, technical assistance,
and studies). As mentioned in para. 4, bilateral and multilateral donors at the
Ministerial Conference of Tokyo,  expressed strong support for Cambodia's
rehabilitation program, pledging US$880 to be disbursed over the next 2-3 years.
In 1994, about US$67 million would be in the form of program assistance mainly
from IDA, Japan and France. Another US$115 million would be in the form of
project aid (excluding N50s), including US$25 million from IDA.
Proiect Obiectives and Scone
57.    The  proposed  Emergency  Rehabilitation  Project  would  support  the
implementation of critical rehabilitation activities included in the core
expenditure program. The main objective of the project is to help restore and
maintain capacity utilization and production in key sectors during the next 12
to 18 months. This would be achieved by importing and distributing critical
inputs required for ensuring the rehabilitation of economic activities and
critical public infrastructure, and improving the delivery of essential services.
58.    The project scope is derived from the overall financing requirements of
the core rehabilitation program based on a feasible fiscal strategy. It takes
into account existing activities, pledges and commitments of other donors as well
as the likely disbursement of this financial aid during the next two years. The
project would include the provision of (a) critical imports for specific
rehabilitation activities (presently not covered by other donors) in the
transport, agriculture, health, education, power and water supply sectors, as
well as (b) essential commodities required for the Cambodian economy to undertake
its recovery.   The project is consistent with IDA's policy on emergency
operations and is designed to focus on essential repairs and rehabilitation
activities that can be implemented rapidly, as opposed to longer-term development
projects.



- 15 -
Protiect De&crintion
59.    The project would provide critical goods and materials to enable key
sectors of the economy to continue to operate. It would mainly finance priority
imports to the agriculture, transport, power and water supply, health and
education sectors as well as other urgently required goods and services. The
target areas and the list of commodities have been chosen to cover gaps left by
other immediately available external financing sources (see Annex 3, Summary Cost
Table).
60.    The aQriculture component  (US$10.12 million) would include  (a) the
provision of vehicles and demonstration materials (including fertilizers and
pesticides) for extension/demonstration support to farmers in intensive rice
growing areas; (b) equipment to improve the collection of agricultural
statistics; (c) the import of 100 tractors for reclamation of rain-fed paddy
land; (d) essential materials for the repair of two diversion weirs; (e) the
import of chemicals, fertilizers and herbicides to stimulate rubber production
and rehabilitate immature areas; (f) essential materials for capture fisheries
development; (g) equipment and materials for livestock development; (h) equipment
to support land titling and registration; and (i) materials and equipment for the
development of the agricultural training institutions.
61.    The transnort component (US$11.8 million) would include (a) required
material, fuel and equipment to carry out about 60 km of priority road
rehabilitation work, rehabilitation or reconstruction of about 200 meters of
damaged or unsafe bridges, and routine maintenance work by two road maintenance
brigades, (b) spare parts for existing cargo handling equipment at Phnom Penh and
Sihanoukville, (c) spare parts and consumables for the rehabilitation and
operation of two dredges, (d) equipment, supplies and materials for the
resumption of hydrographic surveys and the installation and replacement of
navigational aids and channel markers, and (e) spare parts, supplies, materials,
tools and machinery for the railway workshops.
62.    The nower com_onent (US$7,76 million) would include the provision of four
2.1 MW medium-speed diesel generating sets in Phnom Penh.
63.     The water sunnlv component (US$5.98 million) would include the provision
of (a) distribution pumps and motors to rehabilitate pumping groups of the
booster station in Phnom Penh; (b) pipelines in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville; (c)
small pumps, mechanical and electrical equipment needed to repair production
facilities in four or five provincial capitals; and (d) small semi-mechanized
drilling riggs, tools for digging wells and hand pumps to construct potable water
points.
64.    The education comnonent (US$5.65 million) would include the provision of
(a) spare parts, raw materials and printing equipment for the production of
textbooks, (b) new textbooks, (c) spare parts, consumables, storage and handling
equipment for the distribution of textbooks; and (d) imported construction
materials required for the rehabilitation and construction of primary school
classrooms.
65.    The health component (US$4.15 million) would include the provision of:
(a) essential drugs; and (b) medical/surgical equipment such as laboratory



- 16 -
equipment, mobile x-ray equipment and operating tables, instruments, sterilizers,
etc.
66.     The ceneral administration component (US$2.63 million) would finance
imports of office equipment for the public entities  involved in project
implementation (US$0.33 million) and consultant services for technical assistance
in procurement, project implementation and financial management (US$2.3 million).
67.     The essential commodities com=onant (US$25.0 million) would include the
financing of commodities according to a positive list, including raw materials,
manufacturing and transport equipment and spare parts, essential foodstuffs and
building materials. Details on goods and services to be imported, costs, and
implementation arrangements for the main project components are available in the
implementation volume.
Cost Estimates and Financinc Arrangements
68.    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$73.1 million.  Cost
estimates for the project are expressed net of taxes and duties.   IDA would
provide a credit in the amount of US$62.7 million which would cover 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods under the project components.
The technical assistance component (US$2.3 million) will be financed under a
grant provided by the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA). The
government will finance local expenditures.
69.     The project will generate about US$25.0 million equivalent of counterpart
funds from the sale of foreign exchange and/or commodities to private importers.
The National Bank of Cambodia will apply its official exchange rate for this
purpose.    Counterpart  funds  generated  will  be  allocated  for  budgetary
expenditures satisfactory to IDA.
Project Imnlementation
70.     Key to the successful implementation of the rehabilitation program is a
strengthening of the planning, programming/budgeting and control of central and
provincial expenditures, both recurrent and investment. The expertise required
to carry out these improvements is being provided under two technical assistance
grants: a Japan Grant (PERD) of about US$750,000, to be administered by the IDA,
and an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) Grant of US$500,000 from the IDA.
This assistance (one budget specialist and one treasury specialist) is already
in place at the Ministry of Finance. It will be complemented by former UNTAC
financial controllers previously assigned to the various levels of Cambodian
administration.
71.     The Niational Committee for Rehabilitation and Development (NCRD) will
provide general oversight of the project on behalf of the Government. The NCRD
was established in July 1993 to prioritize rehabilitation needs and ensure
overall coordination of the Rehabilitation Program. The Ministry of Finance will
be the project executing agency, directly responsible to NCDR and IDA for
coordinating and managing project implementation. The various agencies involved
in the project (Ministries of Transport, Agriculture, Health, and Education,
Electricity of Phnom Penh, Municipality of Phnom Penh, and the National Bank of



17 -
Cambodia) will be the project implementing agencies (PIAs) for their respective
components.
72.    Given the multi-sector nature of the project and the need to ensure rapid
implementation, adequate distribution of goods and proper financial control, the
ma .agement, administration and coordination of the project will be the
responsibility of a Proiect Imolementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Finance.
The PIU has been established under the direction of the Vice-Minister of Finance
and staffed with personnel of the Financial Affairs Department.   The main
functions of the PIU will be to (a) manage and administer the project, (b) handle
all aspects of procurement, based on specifications prepared by the PIAs (c)
ensure proper allocation and distribution of goods, (d) coordinate with user-
ministries and agencies, (e) prepare withdrawal requests for disbursements and
maintain project accounts, and (f) prepare quarterly progress reports on the
execution of the project. The work of the PIU will be supported by technical
assistance, financed under a grant from SIDA, in the fields of procurement (30
man-months) and financial management (18 man-months).  Recruitment of technical
experts is already underway.   The PIU will be maintained,  with staffing
satisfactory to IDA, throughout the project.
73.    All procurement of goods and services under the project will be in
conformity with IDA Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits.
Detailed procurement arrangements are described in Annex 4.   IDA would
retroactively finance eligible items procured in accordance with its guidelines
after July 15, 1993 but before credit signing up to a maximum of US$12 million,
or 20 percent of the credit amount. Disbursements will be made on the basis of
100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods. To facilitate
disbursement, a Special Account would be established in the National Bank of
Cambodia (NBC) under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The closing date
of the project is June 30, 1996.
Aareements Reached
74.    The Government has agreed to the following:
a. Satisfactory implementation of the 1994 budget and its program of
economic measures (para. 26).
b. Maintenance of the PIU in a form and with functions satisfactory to
IDA (para. 72).
c. Review by the NCRD and IDA of progress achieved in implementing the
project not later than June 30, 1994 and annually thereafter.
d. Setablishment of satisfactory arrangements for the distribution of
goods under the health and water supply project components.
e. Application by the National Bank of Cambodia of its official
exchange rate to the sale of foreign exchange to private purchasers
of essential commodities financed by the credit.



- 18 -
f.  Allocation of counterpart funds generated by the sale of goods
financed under the Credit to budgetary purposes satisfactory to
IDA.
75.         The following will constitute credit default events.
a.  Failure to carry out the 1994 budget in a manner satisfactory to
IDA.
b.  Failure to use proceeds generated by the sale of goods financed
under the Credit in a manner which is consistent with the objectives
of the project.
Environmental Aspects
76.    The  project  has been placed  in  the C-category with  respect  to
environmental ranking. One potential environmental impact may be from imports
of agrochemicals. Agrochemicals to be financed would be selected and used in
accordance with IDA guidelines in order to minimize their environmental impact.
To be eligible for financing under the credit, their procurement will have to
strictly follow the guidelines established in O.D. l.00, paragraphs 119 to 121.
Benefits and Risks
77.    This  project  constitutes  an  essential  element  of  the  Cambodia
rehabilitation program which is being supported by an internationally broad-based
financing plan. The main benefit to be derived from a successful implementation
of the rehabilitation program will be to restore a more stable macroeconomic
environment to Cambodia at a critical juncture and to arrest a further
deterioration of public services beyond which any meaningful rehabilitation is
unlikely to occur. It would also foster an improved economic climate under which
the consolidation of the peace process can take place. In addition, it would
help the country achieve social and economic benefits the population has lacked
for more than 20 years. Social benefits include (a) improvements in public
health services because of increased availability of essential pharmaceuticals
and medical supplies and better provision of potable water in rural areas, and
(b) improved education services due to greater availability of textbooks and
rehabilitation of facilities. Economic benefits include (a) the recovery of
agricultural production, critical to food security and the absorption in rural
areas of returnees, internally displaced persons and demobilized soldiers, (b)
some recovery in power generating capacity needed to the functioning of essential
services and to economic activities, and (c) basic improvements in transport
infrastructure required to ensure adequate i-tility of goods and services.
78.         The risks associated with the implementation of this first IDA
operation in Cambodia and with the overall rehabilitation program are
substantial.   Uncertainties relating to the security situation, potential
economic policy slippages, and limited implementation capacity sharply constrain
the international community's ability to address needs in a meaningful way and
curtail the authorities' capacity to proceed with necessary adjustments and
implementation in a smooth and coherent fashion. Despite a still relatively
fragile security situation and limited progress on military demobilization, the
international community has reaffirmed its commitment to consolidate the peace



- 19 -
process and its willingness to provide adequate financing for rehabilitation
activities. Concerning the macroeconomic situation, the Cambodian authorities
have already taken stme measures to increase revenues (para. 25) and reaffirmed
their commitment to restore a more stable macroeconomic framework. Given the
fragile institutional framework and limited implementation capacity, the project
focuses on strengthening existing institutions and providing them with only the
necessary inputs required for the functioning of essential services.
Consequently, no new programs and projects are included during this
rehabilitation phase.   Nevertheless,  in order to strengthen implementation
capacity, the project includes technical assistance in procurement and financial
control as well as specialized expertise to ensure that inputs are effectively
procured and distributed and reach the end users for the intended purpose.
Recommendation
79.         I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 4, 1993



U



- 21 -
KINGDOM OF CCAMBODIA
EMERGENCY REHAUXLXTATION PROJECT
Key 8conomic Indicators
1990     1991     1992      1993     1994
Production and Income (% chancae)
Real GDP                                1.2      7.6       7.0      5.5      7.5
Nominal GDP                           148.5    123.2      87.7    122.9    24.8
Population                              2.5      2.8       4.9      4.8      2.8
GDP per capita                         -1.3      4.8       2.1      0.7      4.7
Prices (% chanae)
Consumer prices (period average)      141.8    197.0      75.0    152.5     16.4
Consumer prices (end of period)       152.3     87.9    176.8      98.4      9.0
Public finance (% of GDP)
Current expenditure                     7.2      7.4       9.5      7.6      8.8
o.w.  Civilian                        4.1      3.9      4.8       3.8      5.5
Military                        3.1      3.5      4.7       3.8      3.3
Capital expenditure                     1.2      0.4       0.3      2.5      6.0
Revenue                                 3.9      4.4       6.2      4.8      6.7
Overall deficit                        -4.5     -3.4      -3.6     -5.3     -8.2
Domestic financing                      3.3      2.9       3.5      1.1     -0.1
Foreign financing                       1.2      0.5       0.1      4.2      8.3
Other rehabilitationa                   n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      1.1      1.1
Money and reserves (end of neriod)
Money supply (mil.riel)                61.4     79.0    244.1    321.5    385.0
Money supply (% change)               240.5     28.6    209.0      31.7     19.7
Gross reserves (US$ mil.)                --       --      29.9     33.9    56.4
External financina IUSS mil.)b            n.a.    11.2      26.9     98.1   223.7
o.w. Project aid                        n.a.     0.0      18.1     61.7    139.6
Program aid (CMEA)                16.7     11.2      0.0       0.0      0.0
Program aid (other)                0.0      0.0      8.8      36.4     84.1
a Primarily through NGOs.
b  Foreign assistance figures do not include humanitarian aid (except from
CMEA), technical assistance and studies. Program aid from CMEA in 1991
represents the proceeds from sales of CMEA commodities left after the
cessation of CMTA aid programs.



- 22 -
ANNX 2
Page 1 of 5
KINGDOM OF CAMBBODIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Core ExDenditure Procaram
Key sectoral priorities of the Core Expenditure Program are as follows:
(a)     Transport,  Immediate priorities include providing essential spare
parts, materials and fuel for repairing the most dilapidated
sections of the primary road network including temporary structures
(in particular RNS and RN6) and key provincial roads. Tools, spare
parts and materials are also needed urgently for civil works and
rolling stock of the railways and main ferries. New cargo handling
equipment together with technical assistance in management and
operations must be provided for railways and ports (Phnom Penh and
sihanoukville). Some navigational aids and basic communications for
civil aviation are also required.
(b)     Water and Sanitation.  Immediate action would be taken to do the
following: (i) replace the generators to insure continuous pumping
at the Phum Prek treatment plants; (ii) increase water supply and
complement existing facilities by building and operating deep wells
which would sell water in bulk and retail, and serve as free supply
for fire fighting equipment; (iii) undertake the detailed mapping
and examination of the underground network to plan its
rehabilitation and expansion; (iv) improve rural water supply by
providing drilling equipment, water pumps, and materials and (v)
upgrade sewerage collection to minimum standards. Measures will
also be required to improve the utilities' finances through more
effective collection of user charges and the implementation of a
water loss control program.
(c)     Power.  In order to a-'oid the collapse of the public electricity
services, immediate action would be carried out as soon as possible
to: (i) rehabilitate existing generating sets and acquire four new
2,100 kw diesel generator sets; (ii) undertake critical repairs to
the distribution system on a test and repair field approach; and
(iii) overhaul and replace, when justifiable, existing generating
equipment in provincial capitals.  It will also be essential to
improve the utilities' finances through more effective collection of
user charges and the implementation of an electricity loss control
program.
(d)     Agcriculture.  The priority agricultural sector support activities
include: (i) regaining previous levels of input use (import and
distribution of 50,000 tons of fertilizer mainly for the rice and
rubber subsectors); (ii) reclaiming paddy land, repairing small to
medium irrigation works, and selective river dredging to restore
paddy and fish production to meet critical food supply requirements;



- 23 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
(iii) maintaining animal health standards for the export market
through vaccination programs; and (iv) establishing minimum
agricultural support for resettling the displaced population. For
other subsectors (e.g. annual cash cropping), policy incentives in
place should elicit the necessary supply response.
(e)     Education.  In the short term, top priorities include: (i) producing
and distributing text books; and (ii) selectively rehabilitating and
constructing classrooms to accommodate the ongoing surge in the
population of school age, due to the repatriation of refugees.
(f)     Health.   Short-term priorities are:  (i) restoring the supply of
drugs to the public health system; (ii) supplying critically needed
equipment, medical and surgical supplies and a bare minimum of
either spare parts for existing equipment or new equipment and (iii)
selectively equipping and constructing primary health care centers,
particularly in potential resettlement areas.



- 24 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
Table 1:  CORE EXPENDITURE PROGRAM AND OTHER REHABILITATION ACTIVITIES
(in US$ millions)
1993           1994
A. Core Proaram                                          112.9          238.0
Capital expenditures                               48.5           132.7
o.w. Agriculture                                  6.0            11.9
Transport                                   18.5           65.8
Utilities                                   18.5            33.8
Health                                       1.4             3.8
Education                                    4.3            13.9
Other                                                        3.5
Current expenditures (civilian)                    64.4           105.3
Social sector                                  27.0            44.7
Salaries                                    14.0           28.8
Materials                                   13.0            15.9
Other sectors                                  37.4            60.6
Salaries                                     9.8           23.5
Materials                                   27.6           37.1
B. Other rehabilitation activitiesa                      22.0            24.2
!C. Total                                               134.9           262.2
8  Primariliy  through NGOs;  excluding  humanitarian  activities,  technical
assistance and studies.



- 25 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
Table 2: PINANCING OF      RRBILITATION PROM4
1993           1994
A. Core Pro_ram                                          112.9          238.0
Project aid                                            39.7           115.4
ADB                                                   ---            24.8
IDA                                                   ---            25.0
UNDP                                                  4.8            16.8
Japan                                                 8.7            14.0
France                                                7.0            12.0
United States                                         ---            10.0
United Kingdom                                        6.1             5.6
Austrailia                                            1.2             7.2
Other                                                 0.6             ---
To be identified                                     11.3             0.0
Commodity aid                                          27.4            66.6
ADB                                                   4.s 5--
IDA                                                   ---            25.0
TDMDP                                                 2.2             ---
Japan                                                 ---            20.0
France                                                2.0            20.0
United Kingdom                                        0.4             1.6
Netherlands                                           3.8             ---
To be identified                                     14.5             0.0
Local contribution                                     45.8            56.0
B. Other rehabilitation activitiesa                      22.0            24.2
a Excluding humanitarian aid, technical assistance and studies.



- 26 -
ANNRX 2
Page 5 of 5
Table 3: EXTERNAL FINANCING REOUIREMENT - 1993-94
1993               1994
US$           %   US$
I ? Reouirement                                     98.1              223.7
Core rehabilitation program                    67.1              182.0
Other rehabilitation                           22.0               24.2
Change in gross reserves'                       9.0               17.5
II. Financinf                                       98.1              223.7
1. Project / Specific imports                     61.7    100.0    139.6    100.0
ADS                                          ---       ---     24.8      17.8
IDA                                          ---      ---      25.0     17.9
TINDP                                        9.4     15.2      19.6      14.0
Japan                                        8.7     14.1      14.0      10.0
France                                       7.0     11.3      12.0      8.6
United States                               13.6     22.0      11.1       8.0
united Kingdom                               6.6     10.7       5.6       4.0
Australia                                    2.7      4.4       7.2       5.2
Other                                        2.4      3.9      20.3     14.5
To be identified                            11.3     18.3       0.0       0.0
2. BOP / Budget support                           36.4    100.0      84.1    100.0
ADB                                          4.5     12.4       ---       ---
IMPb                                         9.0     24.7      17.5     20.8
IDA                                          ---      ---      25.0     29.7
tTNIDP                                       2.2      6.0       -
Japan                                        ---      ---      20.0     23.8
France                                       2.0      5.5      20.0     23.8
United Kingdom                               0.4       1.1      1.6       1.9
Netherlands                                  3.8     10.4       ---       ---
To be identified                            14.5     39.8       0.0       0.0
a  Excluding clearance of IMF arrears,  humanitarian assistance,  technical
assistance.
b IMF resources would finance a build up in reserves.



- 27 -
ANNEX 3
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary Cost Estimates
Foreian        Local         Total
US$ million
Pre-Identified Imworts
Agriculture                            7.08         3.04       10.12
Transport                              9.75         2.05       11.80
Water Supply                           5.78         0.20        5.98
Power                                  6.76         1.00        7.76
Education                              4.00         1.65        5.65
Health                                 4.00         0.15        4.15
General Administration                 0.33          ---        0.33
Sub-total              37.70        8.09       45.79
Essential Commodities                    25.00         0.00       25.00
Tecbnical Assistance
Project Implementation Unit            0.84          ---        0.84
Agriculture                            0.45          ---        0.45
Transport                              0.50          ---        0.50
Education                              0.18          ---        0.18
Health                                 0.18          ---        0.18
Water Supply                           0.15          ---        0.15
Sub-total               2.30         ---         2.30
TOTAL COST                            65.00         8.09       73.09



- 28 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 7
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Arranaements
Public Finance Control
1.        Key to the successful implementation of the rehabilitation program is
a strengthening of the planning, programming/budgeting and control of central and
provincial expenditures, both recurrent and investment along the following lines:
(a)  Proframmina and Budcetinc:   The rehabilitation program will be
translated into operational programs in the 1994 budget. To this end,
in August 1993, the Minister of Finance approved and requested the
implementation of new budgeting guidelines, prepared with IDA
technical assistance. Priority improvements are concentrating on (i)
ensuring the efficient and effective deployment of budget resources
consistent with the core rehabilitation program; (ii) establishing a
consolidated budget framework at the natioizal level; and (iii)
overhauling the budget nomenclature to make it an effective instrument
of resource allocation and a firm basis for expenditure monitoring and
control. Sound technical and budgetary norms will also be gradually
introduced in the budget preparation process.
(b)  Monitorincr and Control: Budget execution will be strengthened in four
ways: (i) a system of line-item a Priori control over budgetary
commitments by the Ministry of Finance to ensure their conformity to
budget appropriations will be introduced; (ii) all financial
operations will be brought under the purview of the National Treasury,
requiring the introduction of an improved public accounting system;
(iii) procurement regulations will be formulated, enacted and
implemented to guarantee competitiveness and transparency in public
procurement; and (iv) random checks will be carried out to verify that
inputs have been delivered and services provided.
2.        The expertise required to carry out these improvements is being
provided under two technical assistance grants: a Japan Grant (PHRD) of about
US$750, 000, to be administered by IDA and an Institutional Development Fund (IDF)
Grant of US$500,000 from IDA.   This assistance is already in place at the
Ministry of Finance and will be complemented by former UNTAC financial
controllers  previously  assigned  to  the  various  levels  of  Cambodian
administration.



- 29 -
ANNEX 4-
Page 2 of 7
Project Coordination. Monitoring and Execution
3.        The National Committee for Rehabilitation and Development (NCRD) will
provide general oversight of the project on behalf of the Government. The NCRD
was established in July 1993 to coordinate foreign assistance and prioritize
immediate rehabilitation needs. This Committee will provide (a) policy guidance
during implementation of the project to ensure that inputs financed under the
project are adequately distributed and are available throughout the territory,
and (b) all necessary assistance for quick and efficient project implementation.
The Committee will meet at least once every three months, and, as required, will
consult with designated representatives of the project implementing agencies
(PlAs) on all matters related to the Project. The committee will review with IDA
the progress achieved under the project not later than June 30, 1994 and annually
thereafter.
4.        The Ministry of Finance will be the project executing agency, directly
responsible toNCRD and IDA for coordinating and managing project implementation.
The various agencies involved in the project (Ministries of Transport,
Agriculture, Health, and Education, Electricity of Phnom Penh, Municipality of
Phnom Penh, and the National Bank of Cambodia) will be the project implementing
agencies (PIAs) for their respective components.
5.        Given the multi-sector nature of the project and the need to ensure
rapid implementation, adequate distribution of goods and proper financial
control, the management, administration and coordination of the project will be
the responsibility of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established in the
Ministry of Finance. The PIU will be headed by the Vice-Minister of Finance and
staff with personel from the Financial Affairs Department. The main functions
of the PIU will be to (a) manage and administer the project, (b) handle all
aspects of procurement, based on specifications prepared by the PIAs (c) ensure
proper allocation and distribution of goods, (d) coordinate with user-ministries
and agencies, (e) prepare withdrawal requests for disbursements and maintain
project accounts, and (f) prepare quarterly progress reports on the execution of
the project. The work of the PIU will be supported by technical assistance,
financed under a grant from SIDA, in the fields of procurement (30 man-months)
and financial management (18 man-months). The PIU will be maintained throughout
the project.
Distribution
6.        Distribution of goods required to carry out rehabilitation activities
would be to the respective PIAs in the case of critical imports for specific
sectoral rehabilitation activities and to independent end-users in the case of
other essential commodities.   Specialized technical assistance will also be
provided under the project to PIAs to ensure effective use of inputs for the
intended purposes. Appropriate agreements will be concluded to ensure proper
distribution of goods financed by the credit under the water supply and health
components. Where counterpart funds are generated through the sale of foreign
exchange, the applicable exchange rate will be the official rate of the National



- 30 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
Bank of Cambodia prevailing at the time when payment of local currency is
effected.
Procurement
7.        All procurement of goods and services under the project will be in
conformity with IDA Guidelines for Procurement. IDA would retroactively finance
eligible items procured in accordance with its guidelines after July 15, 1993 but
before credit signing up to a maximum of US$12 million, or 20 percent of the
credit amount. The basic principles for procurement of goods and services under
the proposed Credit are outlined below.
Eligibility of Imoorts for Financina under the Credit
(a) Goods to be imported under the Credit will have their origin in the
Bank's member countries and Taiwan, China.
(b) The goods imported under the essential commodity component of the
Credit will have to be in the positive list of goods.
(c) Goods already financed by other development assistance funds, or
imported goods purchased in the local market, will not be eligible for
financing under the credit.
critical Imoorts for Specific Sectoral Rehabilitation Activities
(a) For large contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$1 million
or more each, simplified international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures will be followed.
(b)  For contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000 equivalent
or more but less than US$1 million equivalent, international shopping
(IS) procedures will be followed.
(c) For any contract, large or small, direct contracting (DC) procedures
may exceptionally be followed, provided that IDA is satisfied with the
justifications for the deviation from the standard procedures. IDA
must be consulted on a case-by-case basis any time these procedures
are proposed to be used.
(d) No financing will be available under the credit for contracts valued
at less than US$10,000 equivalent.
Essential Commodities for Private Importers
(a) For large contracts valued at US$3 million equivalent or more each,
simplified ICB procedures will be followed.



- 31 -
_AM=E  4
Page 4 of 7
(b) For contracts valued US$50,000 equivalent or more but less than US$3
million equivalent, established commercial practices will be followed.
(c) For any contract, large or small, Direct Contracting (DC) procedures
may exceptionally be followed, provided that IDA is satisfied with the
justifications for the deviation from the standard procedures. IDA
must be consulted on a case-by-case basis any time these procedures
are proposed to be used.
(d) No financing will be available under the Credit for contracts valued
at less than US$50,000 equivalent.
IDA's Review of Biddina Documents and Procurement Decisions
(a)  All ICB procurement will undergo IDA's prior review.   All other
procurement will undergo IDA's selected ex-post review.
(b) All direct procurement will be subject to IDA prior review.
Biddinc Documents
The PIAs will use the World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Procurement
of Goods or of Commodities for contracts to be financed under the proposed
Credit and the Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services.
Disbursement
8.        Disbursements will be made on the basis of 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for directly imported goods to be provided under the project. To
facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be established in the National
Bank of Cambodia (NBC) under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The
Special Account will be opened in the name of the Borrower and will be
administered by its authorized representatives. Two signatories will be required
to effect any transaction from the account. The authorized allocation of US$10
million will be deposited as an advance; the account would be replenished
regularly -- preferably monthly -- up to the limit of the initial deposit.
Replenishment would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for
expenditures related to the essential commodities component for contracts under
US$3 million and for contracts under US$1 million for specific imports. Full
documentation will be required for contracts above US$3 million for essential
commodities and US$ 1 million for specific imports. The supporting documents for
SOEs under the essential commodities component would be kept at NBC, and for
specific imports at the PIU.  All related supporting documents would be made
available for review by IDA supervision missions and by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. Withdrawal applications would be consolidated in amounts of
at least US$1 million. The closing date of this Project is June 30, 1996.



- 32 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
Re2orting. Accounting and Auditing
9.        As part of its coordination and management responsibilities, the PIU
will monitor the actual procurement progress and distribution of goods. In case
of problems and delays in implementation, the PIU Director, assisted by the
financial expert and procurement experts, will determine what corrective actions
are needed and instruct the appropriate parties to carry them out. The PIU will
prepare quarterly progress reports to be submitted to the NCRn and to IDA.  The
PIU will also bring any major problems to the attention of the NCRD for its
guidance and intervention if needed.
10.       Relortin.  Throughout the project, the PIU will keep and maintain
records of all procurement actions, decisions and related correspondence with
IDA.  The PIU will also keep copies of all approved contracts.  Upon project
completion, the PIU will prepare a project completion report (PCR) which, among
other things, will cover the planned and actual performance of procurement,
distribution and use of goods, noting problems, the reasons for them and the
decisions and actions that were taken to correct them.
11.       Accountina.  An appropriate accounting system will be put in place
with technical assistance to record information on the use of funds provided in
accord with the Development Credit Agreement. The system will ensure timely and
accurate accounting of all transactions under the credit and presentation of the
financial information. It will identify the use of funds by the categories of
goods imported by the PlAs and for essential commodities. The accounting system
will be supported by arpropriate documentation for review by IDA staff and
auditors.
12.       Financial reporting would follow the specific requirements of the
credit. It would be in accord with the disbursements recorded by the expenditure
categories indicated in the Development Credit Agreement. A separate report for
the special account operation would also be prepared and made available to IDA
and auditors.
13.       Auditing.  The Borrower will be responsible for the selection and
appointment of independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditors will be
financed under the technical assistance component. The financial statements and
reports of the Emergency Rehabilitation Credit will be audited at the end of each
calendar year in accord with the audit covenants included in the Development
Credit Agreement. The audit reports, including specific comments on SOEs, would
be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the calendar year. The
requirement for audits will include the audit of credit accounts as well as the
special account and SOEs.



- 33 -
ANNXfN 4
Page 6 of 7
Table 1:  LIST OF GO0DS AND MATERIALS TO BE IMPORTED BY SPECIFIC TYPE
Sector/Sub-sector    Category Description   Generic Type  Specific Type             Estimated   Method of
Generic Use                  GT                 ST            Cost (USS)  Procurement
Ports                Cargo Handling          Equipment      Spare parts                   400.0        IS
Roads                Communication           Equipment      Radios                        100.0        Is
Roads                Construction            Equipment      Bulldozers, graders,        2,300.0       IC8
etc.
Railways nd Roads  Design/supervision        Equipment      Surveying                      35.0        IS
Agriculture          Dredging                Equipment      Rental                        200.0      IS/DC
Inland Waterways     Dredging                               Spare parts                 1,750.0       DC
Water Supply         Drilling                Equipment      Rigs/tools                    600.0        IS
Education            Electrical              Equipment      Generators                     50.0        IS
Power                Electrical              Equipment      Generators                  6,760.0       ICe
Water Supply         Electrical              Equipment      Generators                    200.0       ICB
Education            Handling                Equipment      Lifter, etc.                   60.0        IS
Agricutture          Harvesting, etc.        Equipment      Tractors                    1,650.0       ICS
Agriculture          Harvesting, etc.        Equipment      Miscellaneous                 381.0        IS
Water Supply         Hydro                   Equipment      Pumps                       1,300.0       ICS
Water Supply         Hydro                   Equipment      Miscollaneous               1,000.0        IS
Inland Waterways     Hydrographic            Equipment      Surveying                     150.0        IS
Agriculture          Laboratory              Equipment      Miscellaneous                 330.0        IS
Roads                Laboratory              Equipment      Testing                       100.0        IS
Inland Waterways     Maintenance/Repairs    Equipment       Workshop                      750.0        IS
Railways             Maintenance/Repairs    Equipment       Workshop                      600.0        IS
Roads                Maintenance/Repairs    Equipment       Workshop                      150.0        IS
Health               Medical                 Equipment      Miscellaneous               1,000.0     UNIPAC
Agriculture          Navigational            Equipment      Boat                          300.0        IS
Inland Waterways     Navigational            Equipment      Aids                          600.0       IS
Multisector          Office                  Equipment      Calculators                    88.7        IS
Transport and Roads Office                   Equipment      Copying Machines                5.0        IS
(Drawing)
Multisector          Office                  Equipment      Data Processing               201.0        IS
Health (Pharmacy)    Office                  Equipment      Packing Machine                 5.0        IS
Multisector          Office                  Equipment      Photocopying Machines          63.6        IS
Multisector          Office                  Equipment      Typewriters                     7.5        IS
Education            Printing                Equipment      Spare Parts                   132.5        IS
Education            Printing                Equipment      Miscellaneous                 150.0        IS
Agriculture          Refrigerating           Equipment      Solar Refrigerator             25.0        IS
Railways             Rolling                 Equipment      Spare Parts                   300.0       DC
Agriculture          Rubber Factory          Equipment      Spare Parts                   500.0      IS/DC
Education            Storage                 Equipment      Miscellaneous                  90.0        IS
Agriculture          Transportation          Equipment      Bicycles                       21.0        IS
Agriculture/Water    Transportation          Equipment      Motorcycles                   156.0        tS
Supply



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 7
Sector/Sub-sector       Category Description  Generic Type   Specific Type        Estimated   Method of
Generic Use                 CT                ST          Cost (USS)  Procurement
Education               Transportation        Equipment      Spare Parts for           200.0      IS/DC
printing
Agriculture, Roads,    Transportation         Equipment      Vehicles                 1,114.0       iS
Water Supply
Agriculture             Soil                  Inputs         Fertilizers                584.0      ICB
Agriculture             Soil                  Inputs         Pesticides                 101.0      ICB
Agriculture             Soil                  Inputs         Weedicides                 297.0      ICe
Agriculture             Soil                  Inputs         Yield Stimulants           327.0      IC8
Agriculture             Training              Material       Books                      105.0       IS
Education               Training              material       Books                    1,200.0     IS/DC
Agriculture             Training              Material       Miscellaneous              150.0       IS
Education               Training              Material       Miscellaneous              100.0       IS
Education               Training              Material       Paper                      517.5       is
Roads                   Construction          Materials      Bitumen                    250.0      ICB
Agriculture/Education   Construction          Materials      Cement                   1,010.5       Is
Agriculture/Education   Construction          Naterials       Iron Bars                 698.0       IS
Agriculture             Construction          Materials      Miscellaneous              358.0       IS
Agriculture             Construction          Materials      Miscellaneous              175.0       IS
Agriculture             Construction          Materials      Miscellaneous              112.0       Is
Education               Construction          Materials      Miscellaneous              240.0      IS
Education               Construction          Materials      Miscellaneous               19.2       IS
Education               Construction          Materials      Miscellaneous              187.9       IS
Education               Construction          Materials      Miscellaneous                2.4       iS
Education               Construction          Materials      Miscellaneous              48.0        IS
Education               Construction          Materials      Miscellaneous               72.0       IS
Education               Construction          Materials      Miscellaneous                2.0       IS
Roads                   Construction          Materials      Miscellaneous              200.0       IS
Water Supply            Hydro                 Materials      Pipes                      800.0       IS
Agriculture             Medical               Products       Drugs                      115.0       IS
HeaLth                  Medical               Products       Drugs                   3,000.0    UNIPAC
Roads                   Construction          Supplies       Fuel                       750.0      ICe
Agriculture (Finance)  Office                 Supplies       Miscellaneous                1.0       IS
Agriculture (Rubber)   Office                 Supplies       Miscellaneous                1.0       IS
Education (Finance)    Office                 Supplies       Miscellaneous                1.0       IS
Education (PrintShop)  Office                 Supplies       Miscellaneous                1.0       IS
Education (Dist. Ctr)  Office                 SuppLies       Miscellaneous                1.0       IS
Finance                office                 Supplies       Miscellaneous               5.0        IS
Health (Finance)        Office                Supplies       Miscellaneous                1.0       IS
Health (Pharmacy)       Office                Supplies       Niscellaneous               12.0       IS
National Bank           Office                Supplies       Miscellaneous                3.0       IS
Multisector             Office                Supplies tech  Drafting tables              8.8       IS
Multisector             Office                Supplies tech  Drawing and others          16.0       Is
Inland Waterways       Office                 Supplies tech  Technical tools             9.0       IS
Railmays                Office                Supplies tech  Technical tools             12.0       IS
Roads                   Office                Supplies tech  Technical tools              3.0       IS
Transport (Tech Dpt)   Office                 Supplies tech  Technical tools              1.4       IS



- 35 -
ANNEX 5
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION CREDIT
Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project                                  3 months
(b)  Responsibility for project preparation                  Ministry of Finance
(c)  Appraisal Mission                                            September 1992
(d)  Negotiations               Started February 1993, Completed September 1993
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness                              December 30 1993
(f)  Expected project completion                                   June 30, 1995
This report is -ised n the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
Cambodia in Sept.mnber 1992, comprising Messrs. /Mmes. A. Guinard (Mission Leader),
B. Funck (Economist), C. Chung and J. Tillier (Agriculture), A. Halajko (Health),
C. Mena (Power), E. Motte (Water Supply), B. Salome (Education), L. Schiffman
(Transport), M. El-Erian (Counsel), M. Melegari (Procurement), M. Khoury
(Disbursement), M. Sin (Macroeconomic Projections), and K. De Gaiffier (Logistics
and Secretarial Support).
The Project documents were reviewed by the Ad Hoc Advisory Group comprising
Messrs. E. Ablo, K. Ahmed, J. Gutman, S. Hassan, K. Ikram, R. Lacey and R.
Ramankutty. Messrs. J. Gutman and C. Madavo are the managing Division Chief and
Department Director, respectively, for the operation.



- 36 -
ANNEX 6
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION CREDIT
Status of Banik GrouR Operations
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS.
As of September 30, 1993, no IDA credits had been made to the Kingdom
of Cambodia.1
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC IWJESTMENTS.
As of September 30, 1993, the Kingdom of Cambodia was not yet a member
of IFC.
In June 1993, IDA approved an Institutional Development Fund (IDF)
Grant in an amount of US$500,000.



IBRD 24293
'-?        104                             106d    
LAO PEOPLE'S
THAILAND                                             RAEMOCTIC RPUBLIC
}    g      '-''    4~RAANAJR
14'
_14*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, Ajt go j@WTNAMR
/ EM aEAY    ,SIEMREAS-0D0DAR ( }-                t      
ME/ CE          MEANCHEY  iXnmTe   .e                    N  
X f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tuO+n                                tHOM   
<    )QATTMBANt       gs  ~\   Ihzoem Rea       KRTli          OOUeR 
a\i t I 
-12* WAW                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12
)           KONG  KItl om pongSPEU  ; 7 P S M   f f fi                  O;
K=K \,IUO-VIET NW
Gulf of                      >                                          \ 
Thailand'                         K                         i                  ''
-1    CAMBODIA                                                                    CPU r   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O&BERS 19. tJ2



