Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2550 KH
(Emergency Rehabilitation Project)
between
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 5, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2550 KH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 5, 1993, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the "Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS: (B) The Borrower intends to request from the Swedish International 
Development Authority ("SIDA") to make available grant funds (the "SIDA Grant"), in an 
amount equivalent to two million three hundred thousand dollars ($2,300,000) and to be 
administered by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("IBRD"), to 
assist in financing Part H of the Project, all on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement to be entered into between IBRD and SIDA; and
WHEREAS: (C) The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower's fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year;
(b)
"NCRD" means the Borrower's National Committee for Rehabilitation and 
Development, established pursuant to the Borrower's Decision No. 8 S.S.R, dated July 
24, 1993, which Committee is charged with, inter alia, the general oversight and 
overall supervision and coordination of the Project pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto;
 
(d)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established by the Borrower 
within the MOF, pursuant to the decision of the MOF No. 003 Dec/MOF/93, dated 
September 28, 1993, which Unit is referred to in Sections 3.02 (b) and (c) of this 
Agreement; and
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to forty-five million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
45,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of Cambodia on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at such other rates as may be 
set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of 
Page  3
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions, or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 2004 and ending October 15, 2033. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on October 15, 2013 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded seven hundred and ninety dollars 
($790) in constant 1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the MOF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, economic, financial, technical and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, for the 
purposes of the rehabilitation of its economy, cause to be implemented with due 
diligence and efficiency a public budget for Fiscal Year 1994, which budget shall 
include an economic program of public revenue generation and expenditure control 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that, 
until the completion of the Project, the NCRD shall be responsible for the general 
Page  4
oversight and overall supervision and coordination of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain, or 
cause to be maintained, the PIU in a form and with such composition and functions as 
shall be satisfactory to the Association, and the Borrower shall ensure that the PIU 
is at all times staffed with qualified staff in adequate numbers and disposing of all 
necessary resources.
(c)
The PIU shall be responsible for: (i) the day-to-day implementation of 
the Project, including, inter alia, the procurement of goods and services required 
therefor; and (ii) informing the NCRD, on a regular basis, until the completion of the 
Project, of the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1994 and in every 
Fiscal Year thereafter, and at such other times as the Association may request, review 
with the Association the
progress achieved by the Borrower in implementing the Project, including the carrying 
out of its public budget for Fiscal Year 1994 referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the results of any of said reviews are not satisfactory to the 
Association, the Borrower shall promptly take all such remedial action, satisfactory 
to the Association, as shall
be necessary to achieve the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, as the case may be, enter into an agreement or 
make appropriate arrangements, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
previously approved by the Association, providing for the orderly and timely 
distribution of all goods to be procured under Parts C and F of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall promptly take all action necessary to ensure 
that: (i) the National Bank of Cambodia, referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement, shall at all times apply its published official foreign exchange rate to 
all private sector purchases of goods or services financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, all in accordance with a methodology and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii) the proceeds derived from the sale of goods imported under the 
Project and financed by the Credit shall be appropriated to budgetary expenditures 
which are consistent with the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
consultants' services required for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower shall have failed to carry out its public budget for Fiscal 
Year 1994, or any part of the economic program of public revenue generation and 
expenditure control contained therein, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall have failed to ensure that the proceeds derived from 
the sale of goods imported under the Project and financed by the proceeds of the 
Credit are used for purposes
which are consistent with the objectives of the Project.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project, including the SIDA Grant, shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, 
or
(B)
Any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any event specified in Sections 5.01 (c) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
Any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Page  6
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
92nd. Street
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Telex:
(583) 1770101 CMPP
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Cham Prasidh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  7
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods under Part A                        100% of foreign
      of the Project             4,700,000      expenditures
(2)   Goods under Part B                        100% of foreign
      of the Project             2,900,000      expenditures
(3)   Goods under Part C                        100% of foreign
      of the Project             2,900,000      expenditures
(4)   Goods under Part D                        100% of foreign
      of the Project             4,500,000      expenditures
(5)   Goods under Part E                        100% of foreign
      of the Project             6,500,000      expenditures
(6)   Goods under Part F                        100% of foreign
      of the Project             3,600,000      expenditures
(7)   Goods under Part G                        100% of foreign
      of the Project            18,000,000      expenditures
(8)   Unallocated                2,100,000
      TOTAL                     45,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed eight million 
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,700,000), may be made in respect 
of Categories (1) through (7) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 15, 1993; and (b) no 
withdrawals shall be made, and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to 
or on order of the Borrower, for expenditures under Categories (3) and (6) in respect 
of Parts C and F of the Project, respectively, unless the Borrower shall have entered 
into the agreements or made appropriate arrangements, as the case may be, necessary 
for the distribution of the goods to be procured under said Parts C and F, pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower rehabilitate its key 
economic activities and public infrastructure and improve the delivery of critical 
public services, so as to help it restore and maintain its economic capacity in key 
sectors of its economy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agriculture Rehabilitation Component
 
Provision of: (1) vehicles and demonstration materials (including fertilizers 
and pesticides) for agricultural extension and demonstration support to farmers; (2) 
equipment for collecting agricultural statistics; (3) about one hundred (100) tractors 
for reclaiming rainfed paddy land; (4) materials for repairing two (2) diversion 
weirs; (5) chemicals, fertilizers and herbicides; (6) materials for capture fisheries 
Page  8
development; (7) equipment and materials for developing livestock; (8) equipment to 
support land tilling and registration; and (9) materials and equipment for developing 
agricultural training institutions.
Part B:
Education Rehabilitation Component
 
Provision of: (1) spare parts, raw materials and printing equipment for 
producing textbooks; (2) new textbooks; (3) spare parts, consumables, storage and 
handling equipment for distributing
textbooks; and (4) construction materials for rehabilitating and constructing primary 
school classrooms.
Part C:
Health Rehabilitation Component
 
Provision of: (1) essential drugs; and (2) medical and surgical equipment, 
including laboratory equipment, mobile x-ray equipment and operating tables, 
instruments and sterilizers.
Part D:
Power Rehabilitation Component
 
Provision of four (4) 2.1 MW medium-speed diesel power generator sets.
Part E:
Transport Rehabilitation Component
 
Provision of: (1) fuel, material and equipment to (a) rehabilitate about sixty 
(60) kilometers of priority roads, (b) rehabilitate or reconstruct about two hundred 
(200) meters of
damaged or unsafe bridges and (c) carry out routine road maintenance; (2) spare parts 
for existing cargo handling equipment in the Borrower's cities of Phnom Penh and 
Sihanoukville; (3) spare parts and consumables for rehabilitating and operating two 
(2) dredges; (4) equipment, supplies and materials for resuming hydrographic surveys 
and installing and replacing navigational aids and channel markers; and (5) spare 
parts, supplies, materials, tools and machinery for railway workshops.
Part F:
Water Supply Rehabilitation Component
 
Provision of: (a) distribution pumps and motors for rehabilitating the pumping 
groups of the booster station in the city of Phnom Penh; (b) pipelines in the 
Borrower's cities of Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville; (c) small pumps, mechanical and 
electrical equipment needed to repair production facilities in four or five provincial 
capitals; and (d) small semi-mechanized drilling riggs, tools for digging wells and 
hand pumps to construct potable water points.
Part G:
General Critical Imports Component
 
Importation of critical goods required generally for the rehabilitation of the 
Borrower's economy, and as previously approved by the Association.
Part H:
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance services to strengthen the institutional 
capacity of the Borrower and the PIU for implementing the Project.
2.
Provision of office equipment in respect of carrying out the foregoing.
 
*  *  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of Goods
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, Contracts for the procurement of goods, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or more each 
under the Project except Part G thereof, and contracts for the procurement of 
essential commodities, estimated to cost the equivalent of three million dollars 
($3,000,000) or more each under Part G of the Project, shall be awarded through 
Page  9
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA  Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the "Guidelines"), subject to the 
following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity to bid.  This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for pre-qualification, or to 
bid; 
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at  least one of 
the following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide international circulation; or
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid price in a single currency widely used in international trade 
and specified in the bidding documents."
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 
of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two (2) pre-disclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one (1) to be applied to all foreign currency components, and the other 
to the local currency component of the bid price. Such increase shall not be taken 
into account in the bid evaluation.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
International Shopping and Direct Contracting
 
Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, goods under the Project except 
Part G thereof, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than one million dollars 
($1,000,000) but more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of thirteen million one hundred thousand 
dollars ($13,100,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three (3) suppliers from at 
least two (2) different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Procurement of Essential Commodities
 
(a)
Essential commodities under Part G of the Project, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of less than three million dollars ($3,000,000) per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent of twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000) may be 
procured by private importers according to established commercial practices which have 
been determined to be acceptable to the Association.
(b)
Subject to the Association's prior approval, goods under the Project, 
except Part G thereof, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of five 
million one hundred thousand dollars ($5,100,000) per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
Page  10
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods (i) under the Project except Part 
G thereof, estimated to cost the equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or 
more, and  (ii) essential
commodities under Part G of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of three 
million dollars ($3,000,000) or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two (2) conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two (2) conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for  purposes of 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (7) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to ten 
million dollars ($10,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
Page  11
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit into the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
