Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCAL USE ONLY
C26 ,&/>5 - C,
Repest No. P-3991-CV
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 4.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
March 15, 1985
Tls document has a resticted distribtion and way be wed by recipients only In the performnce of
leir offical duties. Its contents may not otherise be disclosed without World Bank authortion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 30, 1984,
Currency Unit        -    Cape Verdean Escudo (CVEsc.)
US$1                  -    CVEsc. 89.265
CVEsc. 1             '    US$0.0112
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCV            - Banco de Cabo Verde
CABNAVE        - Esta2eiros Navais de Cabo Verde
CC             - Caixa de Crgdito
CEP            - Caixa Economica Postal
DCSB           - Department of Credit Services
and Branches (BCV)
ECOWAS         - Economic Community of West African States
ID             - Investment Department (BCV)
IM3            - International Monetary Fund
IPU            - Industrial Promotion Unit (SEINE)
SEINE          - Secretaria de Estado da Induistria
e Energia
UNDP           - United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO          - United Nations Ind;strial Development
Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT AMD PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Cape Verde
Beneficiaries:           Bank of Cape Verde (BCV) and Secretariat of State
for Industry and Energy (SEINE) of the Ministry
of Economy and Finance
Credit Amount:           SDR 4.1 million (US$4.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms
Flow of Credit           1. US$3.3 million would be onlent to BCV for a
Proceed3:                22 year term including 4 years grace, at 5.50% per
annum interest. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk and would pay the 0.50% per
annum commitment fee on the undisbur3ed balance of
the credit as well as the 0.75% per annum service
charge on the principal amount of the credit
withdrawn and outstanding. BCV would relend these
funds to. eligible enterprises at interest rates
ranging from 7.50% per annum for very small artisanal
enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding
US$20,000, to 12.50% per annum for enterprises with
fixed assets exceeding US$100,000.
2. US$0.3 million would be passed on to BCV as a
grant to finance technical assistance, studies and
staff training.
3. US$0.4 million would be used by SEINE to
finance technical assistance, studies and staff
training.
Project Description:     The project aims at assisting the Cape Verdean
Government and BCV in identifying, appraising and
financing economically and financially viable
industrial projects and in creating the institutional
structures needed to promote industrial sector
development. The line of credit to BCV would finance
productive investments in small- and medium-scale
industrial enterprises, including artisans and
cooperatives. The technical assistance component
would help set up and operate a new Investment
This document has a resited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
Department within BCV and a new Industrial Promotion
Unit within SEINE. The project would be closely
coordinated and implemented simultaneously
with a UNDP/UNIDO project providing technical
assistance in industrial planning, policies,
sector studies and entrepreneurial training.
.
Benefits and Risks:       The project would help broaden and diversify
the country's economic base, create employment
and establish an institutional structure capable of
undertaking industrial promotion activities. It
would reinforce IDA's dialogue with Government on
selected policy issues affecting the industrial and
financial sectors. The main risks arise from
possible delays in project implementation due to the
need to build up institutional capabilities within an
environment of severe administrative and personnel
constraints, and due to the possible submission of
less than optimal subprojects. The project seeks to
alleviate these risks by putting in place a suitable
technical assistance package and by establishing and
requiring compliance with sound project appraisal
criteria.
Estimated Disbursements: FY86    FY87    FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92
… ----------- US$ million  ---…- _
Annual                    0.39    0.81    0.97   0.89   0.63   0.28   0.03
Cumulative               0.39    1.20    2.17   3.06   3.69   3.97   4.00
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5067-CV, dated March 15, 1985
IBRD 15079R
.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE FOR
AN INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
De7elopment Credit to the Republic of Cape Verde for SDR 4.1 million
(US$4.0 million equivalent) to help finance an Industrial Finance and
Promotion Project.  The Credit would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Cape Verde (5446-CV), dated January
30, 1985, was circulated to the Executive Directors on February 5, 1985.
The report's findings and conclusions are presented in the following
assessment of the state of the Cape Verdean economy and its prospects.
Country data apr.iar in Annex 1.
3.        Cape Verde is one of the world's poorest countries and its
poverty has been exacerbated by a drought that has lasted since 1967, a
very limited endowment of productive land and natural resources and pro-
gressive desertification, a high natural population growth rate and a
location and geographical dispersion which, while favorable for fishing and
international sea and air transport, also inhibit external and internal
communication. Nonetheless, economic management has been prudent and the
limited resources have been distributed equitably; no part of the popula-
tion is subject to extreme hardship. Poverty and drought have caused the
inhabitants to seek opportunities abroad and a migratorv tradition is
strongly embedded in Cape Verdean life. The economy of Cape Verde is
highly dependent on imports with a domestic consumption level approximately
equal to GDP and, consequently, it is very vulnerable to external shocks.
4.        Careful economic management, together with a large flow of
emigrants' remittances and foreign concessional aid, have allowed main-
*           tenance of a modest growth rate.  At the same time, well-managed public
works programs, financed through the counterpart of food aid, and a growth
in social services have moderated the most extreme aspects of poverty and
led to marked improvements in the health of the population.  With appro-
priate policies to influence resource use and population growth, to provide
incentives for entrepreneurs and to attract a steady flow of concessional
aid and remittances from abroad, a continued modest rate of growth should
be possible.



- 2-
Recent Economic Developments
5.        The absence of official national accounts makes a precise evalua-
tion of economic performance difficult. However, estimates show that real
GDP growth over the period 1977-1983 averaged about 2.5% per annum, or
about 1.5Z per annum per capita. In 1983, GDP amounted to US$81 million,
or US$267 per capita, and nominal per capita GNP amounted to US$317.
Between 1980 and 1983, the resource gap has generally been of about the
same size as GDP, and gross investment has been over 80Z of GDP. Large
flows of external assistance and emigrants' remittances have permitted the
maintenance of levels of consumption and investment much higher than
domestic production.                                                                   S
6.        The structure of the economy is overwhelmingly oriented to
services, which provide 50% of value added. The primary sector accounts
for 22% and the secondary sector (including construction) for 28% of value
added. The low share of agriculture (17%) is the result of the persistence
of drought. The structure of employment also reflects the low productivity
of the primary sector which employs about 47% of the labor force. About
42% of workers are employed in services (of wbich 15% in public administra-
tion and the remaining 27% essentially in informal activities). The
secondary sector employs 11% of the labor force.
7.        Wholesale and retail prices of essential goods (basic food
products, cereals, oils, cement and fuel) are controlled; prices of other
goods are either controlled by fixed trade margins (10%-20Z) or are free
(luxury goods, housing). Largely influenced by price developments in
Portugal, the country's main trading partner, the cost of living increased
by about 15% per annum between 1978 and 1980 and by about 20% per annum
since then.
8.        Investment, at an annual average of 64% of GDP in the period
1977-1980, has absorbed a large share of the country's limited domestic
resources. From 1981 to 1983, investment reached over 80% of GDP, due
mainly to the execution of two large, externally-oriented projects, the
expansion of Sal Airport and the construction of the CABNAVE shipyard. As
a result of the latter project, investment which was iritially concentrated
in infrastructure, turned increasingly towards industry. Cape Verde's
First National Development Plan (1982-1985) is currently being implemented.
Most projects are of moderate size and the sectoral orientation is appro-
priate. External financing for 85% of total proposed investment has been
found and is generally on soft terms.
9.        Cape Verde's international trade balance is strongly negative.
Merchandise exports cover only about 4Z cf imports. Main export products
are fish products and bananas. Exports of services (essentially bunkering
and other services sold to ships and aircraft) covered another 27% of
imports. The chronic deficit of the balance of trade, has always been
covered by private transfers and official capital grants. The overall
balance of payments has thus generally been in surplus and a reasonable
level of foreign exchange reserves has been accumulated and maintained.



-3-
10.       External resources (whether remittances, grants or ccpital) have
played an important role in Cape Verde and will continue to do so. They
have allowed consumption to exceed the narrow limits imposed by the coun-
try's poverty and financed almost 100% of investment. These inflows of
external resources have continued because the Government has managed the
economy well, has used foreign assistance efficiently and has maintained
policies, especially on the exchange rate, that encourage remittances from
the large Cape Verdean population abroad.
11.       The Cape Verdean escudo is pegged to a basket of nine currencies,
in which the Portuguese escudo is weighted heavily. The currency does not
seem to be overvalued and there is no significant unofficial market for it.
Imports are subject to licensing which is liberally administered. The
volume of imports is controlled by the Bank of Cape Verde (BCV) and the
Secretariat of Commerce through a foreign exchange budget. in general,
this system seems flexible and to be working reasonably well.
12.       Private entrepreneurship is extremely scarce, and the Government
has consequently played a central role in the economy. Public and mixed
enterprises conduct the bulk of economic activity, and the public invest-
ment program provides the greater part of capital formation. Government
expenditures (recurrent and investment) are approximately equivalent to
GDP.
13.       The financial situation of the Government is healthy, given the
circumstances. The current budget showed sizeable deficits in the early
years of independence but strong financial management brought it to equi-
librium and more recently small surpluses have emerged, although important
public savings cannot be expected. The overall budget deficit is therefore
about equal to investment expenditures and is generally financed by exter-
nal savings (remittances, grants, soft loans) with only occasional moderate
recourse to central bank borrowing.
Development Strategy
14.       Cape Verde's principal development assets are its population,
resident and emigrant, its control over a considerable maritime economic
zone and its location. These resources must be the base on which develop-
ment efforts will have to stand. But it seems clear that good economic
management and careful husbanding of resources, although absolutely neces-
sary, will probably not resolve the problems created by the islands' basic
poverty and their growing population. Cape Verde will therefore continue
for many years to depend on external resources to supplement consumption
and cover investment needs.
15.       The logical economic strategy for Cape Verde is to take advantage
of all opportunities that exist in the productive sectors, especially in
small-scale (labor-intensive) industries and fisheries as well as in the
provision of services to ships and aircraft using the islands as service
stops. Simultaneously, it is desirable to continue exchange rate,



-4-
education and migration policies that favour remittances to Cape Verde; to
embark on a population policy aimed at reducing the natural rate of popula-
tion growth; to establish policies and mechanisms that facilitate invest-
ments by returning emigrants or recipients of remittances; and to continue
the well-structured relief programs and cautious public investment policies
that have enabled Cape Verde to gain and keep the support of the interna-
tional development assistance community.
16.       High unemplovment and the absence of easily exploitable and
marketable natural resources in Cape Verde militate in favor of identifying
and encouraging labor-intensive activities, primarily in manufacturing and
services.  Furthermore, shortages of managerial and technical skills as
well as of production inputs, financing and market size constraints tend to
limit the scale of industrial projects. The proposed project described in
the following sections would emphasize employment creation in artisanal,
small- and, when appropriate, medium-scale enterprises.
17.       Fishing is a significant source of income and employment in Cape
Verde. The current catches, 7,000 - 10,000 tons a year, are small and the
potential for growth is considerable. Catches of 50,000 tons/year would
probably be sustainable. An important expansion of the commercial fishing
fleet is being assisted by Arab countries. Ongoing projects are expected
to double the catch in the short-run.  Artisanal fisheries currently
provide most of the catch and their development should not be neglected,
even if industrial fisheries promise faster growth in catch. Fishing
outside Cape Verdean waters should also be studied and promoted, both to
increase production and to protect Cape Verdean fish resources. Investment
in fisheries has priority because it is based on one of the few resources
available and addresses two of Cape Verde's most vexing problems bv
increasing employment and exports.
18.       Services to aircraft and ships are now providing a significant
and increasing share of foreign exchange receipts. The prospects for
continued growth in these services are not certain: changes in maritime
technology and routes are causing a contraction of sea-related sales, while
aircraft-related activities may be benefiting from temporary factors.
Nonetheless, if reliability and qualitv of service become well-established,
Sal Airport could remain an attractive, convenient technical stop point for
aircraft even if non-economic factors currently favoring the islands were
to lose importance.
19.       Cape Verde's exchange rate policy has been to maintain a roughly
constant real exchange rate which has had considerable success in attract-
ing remittances and avoiding the emergence of a parallel foreign exchange
market. Needless to say, this policy must continue, but it should be
complemented by realistic interest rates and investment incentives.
Positive real interest rates would induce emigrants to hold deposits in
Cape Verde in excess of their immediate need to remit to their families.
Policies, incentives and mechanisms to favor small- and medium-scale
enterprises in sectors of interest to returning emigrants, which the



proposed credit supports, would have the double benefit of attracting
foreign exchange inflows and adding to investment, employment, and economic
growth. On January 1, 1985, BCV made an important move in this direction
by raising its interest rates by about 3.5 percentage points (para 37).
20.       Education investments, while focussed primarily on meeting the
internal needs of Cape Verde for a better educated and trained population,
could also have an impact on the potential for emigration and, hence, on
the level of remittances.  The emigration of skilled manpower (with higher
earning potential) would therefore be a by-product of Cape Verde's increas-
ing level of education. The relatively small number of potential emigrants
would not cause substantial difficulties in receiving countries.
21.       Until recently, the main check on population has been emigration.
Nearly 151 of the population emigrated in the 1970s and at present, the
Cape Verdean community abroad is as large as the population of the islands.
Emigration will continue to provide an outlet for excess population and
thereby also create a source of foreign exchange remittances. However,
such a remedy may not be available permanently. A shorter term emigration
strategy, designed mainly to maximize remittances, should therefore be
pursued but within an overall longer-term population policy aimed at
solving the fundamental population problem. The government and the Asso-
ciation of Cape Verdean Women now provide family planning advice and
materials through health centers.
Prospects
22.       Cape Verde's prospects for the late eighties and early nineties
are encouraging, especially if the current, essentially correct policies
continue to be refined and pursued and if investments are selected in
accordance with sound economic feasibility criteria. On mildly optimistic
assumptions, particularly regarding the availability of foreign aid and
climatic conditions, a growth rate of some 4% per annum in GDP, which would
represent a per capita growth of 2% per annum, could be achieved through
1990. This projection assumes an annual increase of remittances of 5% in
real terms. The current account deficit in the balance of payments is
nevertheless projected to increase to US$55 million in 1990, and capital
inflows required by that year would amount to US$64 million, of which about
half are assumed to be grants. Debt service is still very low (8.3% of
exports of goods and non-factor services in 1984), but there has been a
tendency in recent years for external financing to come increasingly in the
form of loans rather than grants and this phenomenon should be carefully
watched by the Government.  For the foreseeable future, Cape Verde should
continue to borrow at the most concessional terms possible to finance
development projects, including local currencv costs. Under this scenario
of very concessionarv borrowing terms, the debt service ratio would remain
at a reasonable level, reaching 16% in 1990.



-6-
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAPE VERDE
23.       Cape Verde joined the Bank and IDA in November 1978.  While Bank
Group relations have been cordial, they have developed slowly. A first
project, for inter island shipping, was submitted by the Government in
1979, but was later withdrawn since financing for most of its components
was obtained from bilateral sources.  Subsequentlv, the Government re-
quested that priority be given to the reconstruction of the Port of Praia,
for which project a US$7.2 million credit was made in earlv 1983. The
status of this project is shown in Annex 2.  The proposed industrial
finance and promotion project would be the second Bank Group operation in
Cape Verde.
24.       The Bank Group's role in Cape Vorde must naturally be tailored to
the country's priorities and must complement rather than supplant existing
generous flows of aid from other sources. Future Bank Group lending to
Cape Verde should be aimed, to the extent possible, at reducing the coun-
try's unemployment and population problems and reducing dependence on
foreign flows for both consumption and investment, coupled with institu-
tion-building, technical assistance, and training. By increasing employ-
ment, poverty can be reduced and revenues generated to improve the level of
public services. The proposed project addresses a number of these issues.
Besides, the Bank is exploring the possibility of supporting appropriate
Government policies in the fields of population, health, nutrition and
education.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
Structure of the Industrial Sector
25.       Cape Verde's economic strategy during the years after indepen-
dence emphasized infrastructural development.  This is reflected in a
declining share of manufacturing and mining in GDP from 6.92 in 1977 to
4.2% in 1982, while construction increased from 16.5% to 24%.  The share of
the fishery subsector which in its larger units faces problems of an
essentially industrial nature, stagnated at about 52. Manufacturing,
mining and construction employ about 10.5% and fisheries about 8.5% of the
economically active population (91,000).
26.       By far the largest part of industrial production originates from
ten public and five mixed enterprises. The most important among them are a
small ship repair yard (CABNAVE) and a medium-size fishing company which
take advantage of the country's location, produce for export and seem to
have good prospects. There is one more export-oriented enterprise, a
medium-scale garment factory; all others produce goods (e.g. shoes, flour,
animal feed, poultry, pharmaceuticals) or provide industrial services
(repair, construction) for domestic markets. Measured by international
standards, there is practically no large-scale industry sector in Cape



Verde, and public investments in capital-intensive and typical import-sub-
stitution projects have been kept within reasonable limits. Public and
mixed enterprises have largely been self-supporting in the past and four or
five of them are reasonably profitable. At least three companies are in
need of organizational and financial restructuring, rehabilitation or
improved management, and others require marketing and other types of
management assistance. Some have been operating for less than three years
and their prospects are uncertain. Low capacity utilization and weak
a          profitability in a number of the older enterprises indicate that great
caution is needed even in planning projects of medium size, since they may
be too large for the domestic market and experience problems in penetrating
foreign markets.
27.       Modern sector small and medium private enterprises, although
better adjusted to small markets, are few in number. There are about
fifteen companies, each employing less than forty persons, engaged in
fishing and fish processing (export), salt extraction (export), carpentrv,
construction, bakery, etc. They are less capital-intensive than public and
mixed enterprises, but some operate with rather obsolete equipment and
would require financial and technical assistance to modernize and expand
their plants. Informal sector or artisanal type businesses are the most
important segment of the sector in terms of employment. There may be more
than 1,000 such units (only 243 are registered) employing about 6,700
persons in branches such as leather and textiles, food processing, con-
struction, wood processing, etc. Artisanal fishing provides employment for
another 3,500 persons. Production methods in the artisanal sector are
extremely simple and investment per job is very low, but so are pro,ductivi-
ty and product quality.
Policies and Institutions
29.       Industrial policies in Cape Verde are determined by (a) a domi-
nant public sector; Z ) the mor.opolistic or quasi-monopolistic position of
larger- and medium-si.-e enterprises, due to the narrowness of domestic
markets; and (c) the natural protection due to remote location. These
factors tend to reduce the role market forces can play and confer to
Government the possibility of far-reaching interventions. In practice,
however, policies have been pragmatic and quite successful in most areas.
Frequent adjustmentE have kept Government-controlled prices roughly in line
*          with international trends and have helped to avoid subsidization of public
enterprises. The currency does not seem to be overvalued, the level of
import taxes is relatively moderate, and import restrictions have been
imposed cautiously and on a selective basis.  While wages do not seem to
offer a competitive advantage over countries with similar productivity and
skilled manpower is scarce, the Government recognizes the desirability of a
policy of restrained wage increases and of intensified manpower training.
Public sector wage adjustments, which strongly influence the general wage
level, have therefore been moderate since independence, and expenditures
for education, including vocational training, are planned to increase
substantially. Although the Cape Verdean constitution requires Government



- 8 -
to plan and direct the national economy and to assume a leading role in
industrial development, intervention through the creation of public and
mixed enterprises has been pragmatic and reflects the shortage of private
capital, initiative aad talent. The Covernment intends to promote private
as well as cooperative enterprises and tries to encourage joint ventures.
29.       The instruments of industrial policy in Cape Verde are weakly
developed. Fiscal incentives have so far been granted on an ad-hoc basis,
and a study is required to determine whether and how the present policies
and practices can be improved. The tariff system needs rationalization,
including conversion of specific import tax rates into ad-valorem rates and
abolition of the minor taxes on exports.  An income policy aimed at restrain-
ing wage developments and at forestalling the need for sudden large wage
increases needs to be made explicit. Policy guidelines and studies would
also be required on such important subjects as export promotion, small
enterprise development, vocational training and industrial financing. A
UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance project which is linked to the proposed
project (para 52) is expected to include assistance in these areas.
30.       Industrial policy-making is the primary responsibility of the
Secretariat of State for Industry and Energy (SEINE) in the Ministry of
Economy and Finance. To play a more effective role, SEINE recently created
a Division for Studies and Planning which will be responsible for industri-
al planning, sector studies, statistics, etc. and will receive assistance
under the UNDP/UNIDO project. The General Directorate of Industry in SEINE
is responsible for industrial promotion. Due to inadequate staffing, its
impact has so far been limited. It concentrated largely on its tasks as a
supervisor of ten state enterprises and was involved in the preparation and
implementation of some industrial projects. The Government intends to
strengthen the staff of the Directorate which is expected to play a much
greater role in the identification and promotion of viable industrial
projects, in p'oviding technica'l assistance to existing enterprises and in
developing entrepreneurship in Cape Verde. For this purpose, an Industrial
Promotion Unit (IPU), has recently been created within the Directorate and
satisfactory arrangements for staffing the IPU are being made. This unit
will require intensive technical advice and its young staff, mostly direct
recruits from foreign universities, will need specialized training. The
proposed project would provide this assistance.
Strategy and Prospects
31.       In spite of such apparent constraints as severe shortage of
natural resources, small domestic markets and unfavorable factor costs, the
Cape Verdean Government believes that, in the given environment, only the
industrial sector can vitalize the economy by assuming a leading role in
addressing three major objectives: (a) to better satisfy basic national
needs; (b) to reduce unemployment; and (c) to reduce the country's extreme
dependence on foreign aid by improving the balance of trade position. The
Development Plan therefore projected investments in public and mixed
industrial enterprises of CVEsc. 4,6i9 million or 16% of total public



-9-
investments and expected the sector's share in GDP to increase from 4.2Z in
1982 to 11 in 1985. More specifically, the first two objectives were to
be addressed through investments in two relatively large import-subst'tu-
tion projects and one service industry, and through financing and promoting
labor-intensive small and medium enterprises, while the third objective is
being pursued through two export-oriented projects.  In the long run,
industrial development is expected to center around four areas in which it
is felt that Cape Verde has, or can develop, comparative advantages: (a)
fishing, fish processing and processing of some agricultural products; (b)
services to international shipping and aviation (ship repair, bunkering,
etc.); (c) construction materials; and (d) light-metal, electrical and
electronic engineering.  In the latter area, the Cape Verdeans hope to
exploit the islands' human resources to first create an import-substitution
industry and later produce for export.
32.       Implementation of the investment plan has been delayed, not only
because of the doubtful viability of some projects, particularly a small
cement plant, but also due to limited planning and implementation capacity
and the shortage of financial resources. This confirms the general impr6J-
sion that the industrial investment program was too ambitious. Cape Verde
is a member of ECOWAS, a signatory of the Lome Convention and maintains
close ties with Portugal and other former Portuguese colonies. While it
hopes to benefit increasingly from such economic links, a realistic asseds-
ment of this potential and a very cautious approach in eva .uating larger
projects, particularly their market prospects, will be necessary.
33.       Except in cases where export prospects are clearly indicated or
economies of scale and the size of domestic markets justify the creation of
larger capacities, Cape Verde's industrial strategy should attach high
priority to the promotion of small- and medium-scale labor-intensive and
domestic resource-based industries, including artisans and cooperatives. A
number of sector studies prepared during the past four years conclude that
there is a need to assist small production units in modernizing and expand-
ing their activities, and that there is potential for the creation of new
-mall- and medium-scale enterprises which would primarily process domestic
raw materials and provide industrial services. The best investment oppor-
tunities are found to exist in the fishing and fish processing, building
materials, agro-industrial, metal- and woodworking branches. Although the
Development Plan provides for the promotion of "popular production" (infor-
mal sector, small individual and cooperative enterprises), small production
units do not receive any institutional support at present, except when
organized in cooperatives, and the opinions of Government officials seem to
differ regarding the development potential of this sector.  Considering the
lack of appropriate institutional structures and of experienced personnel
to promote small enterprises, no substantial results should be expected in
this area in the short run. However, a beginning has to be made, toward
which the proposed project would contribute.



- 10 -
Structure of the Financial Sector
34.       The banking system of Cape Verde is very small and unspecialized.
It evolved from the branches maintained in the country by Portuguese banks
before independence and consists of three institutions, the Caixa Economica
Postal (CEP), the Caixa de Cr4dito (CC), and most importantly, the Bank of
Cape Verde (BCV). While the operations of CEP and CC are of little signif-
icance. especially for the industrial sector, the assets and liabilities of
BCV account for more than 90% of those of all financial institutions.
The Bank of Cape Verde
35.       BCV combines the functions of a central bank, a commercial bank
and a development bank. It was established in June 1976 and has since been
well managed. The present Governor, who held the position of Minister of
Finance from 1975 to 1976, took office in April 1984. The total staff of
BCV numbers 318, of which about 58% are located in six branches and six
small agencies spread among the islands. With the aim of playing a more
active role in the economic development of the country and of avoiding
operational difficulties resulting from the institution's functional
diversity, BCV - advised by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) - has
decided to separate development finance activities from its central banking
and commercial banking operations.  For this purpose, the Department of
Credit Services and Branches (DCSB), formerly responsible for medium- and
long-term credit operations and for the coordination of the branches'
commercial banking activities, has recently been transformed into a
separate Investment Department (ID) which is in charge of medium- and
long-term lending, has resources specifically allotted for these
activities, separate accounting, and thus operates within a more clearly
prescribed framework. The staff of the ID will be strengthened and the
proposed IDA credit, to be channelled through BCV, will be handled largely
by this department. Arrangements made for staffing the ID and its
operating policy statement have been reviewed and are satisfactory. To
develop the procedures, policies and operations of the new department, BCV
requires intensive technical assistance which will be provided under the
project.
36.       Monetary management conducted by BCV has been cautious.  Credit
expansion has not significantly contributed to inflationary pressures.
Instead, the use of central bank credit to finance public sector invest-
ments has usually resulted in almost exactly matching outflows of external
reserves. To contain these developments, the authorities have attempted to
keep the expansion of domestic credit within reasonable limits. Since this
may lead to a "crowding out" of BCV's private sector clients by larger
public sector loans, BCV has been advised to prepare annual credit budgets
with the aim of facilitating an optimal distribution of credit. Submission
of annual budgets for the ID's operations would be required under the
project (para 53).
37.       On January 1, 1985, BCV raised the level of its interest rates
which had been unchanged since 1973, by about 3.5 percentage points on the



- 11 -
average. Deposit rates now range from 4% per annum for 90-day deposits to
10X per annum for long-term deposits and lending rates from 10S per annum
for short-term credits to 12.5% per annum for long-term credits. Although
the average increase in interest rates conutitutes an important step in the
right direction and the new interest rate regime includes Incentives for
emigrant savings and investments, the new rates are still negative in real
terms, and the spread between deposit and lending rates may not fully cover
the ID's operating expenditures and reserve requirements. However, the
Cape Verdean authorities recognize the adverse effects arising from nega-
tive real interest rates and will continue to review interest rates with
IDA annually (para 48). The long-term interest rate policy, including a
refined incentives scheme for emigrants, will, if necessary, be addressed
under the technical assistance component of the project.
38.       As a central bank which undertakes development banking activities
only as an adjunct, BCV has been passive as regards the identification and
promotion of investment projects. Also its project appraisal and super-
vision procedures need to be upgraded. The technical assistance and
training components of the proposed project are expected to contribute
substantially to an improvement in BCV's procedures and operational stand-
ards.
39.       The evolution and composition of BCV's term loan portfolio
reflect the stage of industrial development in Cape Verde, where private
entrepreneurship and capital are lacking and public investment concentrates
on a few relatively large projects. Total loans outstanding increased
substantially from CVEsc. 1,271 million in 1979 to CVEsc. 2,993 at end-
-1983, when 37% of the portfolio consisted of short-term and 63% of medium-
and long-term loans. Industrial term loans approved from BCV's inception
in 1976 to end-1983, totalled CVEsc. 1,643 million for 42 projects. They
are strongly concentrated on one major project (ship repair yard) and the
transport sector (inter-island ship and air transport) which together
account for 78% of total approvals. While all other industrial subsectors
account for a relatively minor share and enterprises of mixed and public
ownership benefit from the largest volume of term loans (38% and 46%
respectively), lending to small and medium private enterprises is neverthe-
less important in terms of number of loans (54% accounting for 16% of the
volume). Among the latter are fisheries, carpentry shops, bakeries, truck
and taxi operators and hotels; some of them have received loans of less
than US$3,000.
40.       BCV's overall financial position is sound.  Due to a capital
increase in 1981 and capitalization of profits, its capital and reserves
increased by 155% since 1979, totalling CVEsc. 1,845 million at end-1983.
Operating expenses have been kept at moderate levels. Term loans affected
by arrears account for 9.8% and overdue principal and interest for 3.3% of
total term loans outstanding. Only three out of 42 clients have accumu-
lated substantial arrears. Overdue loans are well covered by reserves.



- 12 -
41.       Until 1981, BCV's term lending operations grew much more quickly
than term deposits. Further term lending had to be restricted due to
monetary policy considerations, i.e. the need to contain money supply and
to maintain the countrv's favorable foreign reserves position. In view of
Cape Verde's difficult economic situation, the IMF agrees with Government
that foreign currency reserves should be raised to and kept at relatively
high levels to guard against contingencies (in 1982 they were equivalent to
about six months of imports).  Consequently, if BCV is to ensure a balanced
growth of its term lending to industry, unaffected by overall monetary
considerations and sporadic large Government financing requirements, a
foreign exchange line of credit specifically earmarked for lending to the
small- and medium-scale industrial sector, such as the one to be provided
under this project, would be required.
42.       During the period 1980-1983, BCV's average annual term loan
approvals amounted to CVEsc. 180 million (excluding loans for the ship
repair yard). Considering that under the proposed project the Government
and BCV would for the first time undertake an intensive project promotion
effort, it seems reasonable to assume that approvals will increase by at
least 6% per year and that therefore BCV's foreign exchange requirements
(estimated at 75% of total project costs) will exceed US$7 million for the
next four years. Because of the global character of the estimate of BCV's
resource needs and BCV's ability to continue using part of its equity and
deposit funds for industrial lending, particularly for domestic cost
financing, a line of credit of US$3-4 million to cover a portion of the
projected needs would be appropriate.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project was prepared by IDA missions between July 1982 and
October 1983. The appraisal took place in December 1983. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. from November 12 to 16, 1984 with a Cape
Verdean delegation led by Mr. Terencio Alves, General Director of Industry.
Supplementary data on the project are provided in Annex III. The Staff
Appraisal Report No. 5067-CV, dated March 15, 1985, is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
Objectives and Description
44.       The proposed project aims at assisting the Government and BCV in
identifying, appraising and financing economically and financially viable
industrial projects and in creating the institutional structures needed to
promote industrial sector development. These objectives would be supported
by a credit of US$4.0 million for financing industrial investments (US$3.3
million) and technical assistance (US$0.7 million). The project would be
complemented by a UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance project (US$0.5 million,
para 52).



- 13 -
Line of Credit
45.       Beneficiaries.  US$3.3 million would be onlent to BCV by the
Government. The definition of target groups would be flexible. Eligible
enterprises would include existing and new, private, mixed and public
enterprises in the manufacturing, mining, processing, construction and
agro-industrial subsectors; service industries, like repair shops and
hotels; fisheries and commercial farming, like poultry and pig farms. Higb
priority would be given to the rehabilitation, modernization and expansion
of existing viable or potentially viable enterprises.  Medium-scale enter-
prises would be assisted whenever there are clear export prospects or
economies of scale require and the size of the domestic market justifies
the creation of substantial capacities.  Such considerations would, in
exceptional cases, also allow participation in the financing of larger
investments where the viability of a project is beyond doubt and alterna-
tive sources are not available. However, in order to ensure financing of a
range of small enterprises, cooperatives and artisans, a subloan ceiling of
US$300,000 would be established (Section 2.02 (a), draft Credit Agreement).
46.       In regard to artisanal enterprises, a project identification
study, financed under the credit, would be carried out during the initial
stage of implementation and an adequate portion of the credit would subse-
quently be used for such enterprises. In addition, BCV would establish a
revolving fund of US$500,000 from the proceeds of the first round of
subloans to provide short- and medium-term financing for working capital
and investment needs of very small-scale or artisanal enterprises (Section
2.09, draft Project Agreement).
47.       Onlending Terms and Conditions, Government to BCV.  The Govern-
ment would onlend the investment component of the credit to BCV for a term
of 22 years including 4 years grace, with a fixed amortization schedule.
BCV would be allowed to roll-over the IDA funds. To give BCV a spread
which would be sufficient for it to cover its operating expenses, build up
portfolio provisions and adequate reserves, the onlending interest rate
would be 2 percentage points below the minimum rate charged by BCV on
subloans (para 48), i.e. 5.50% per annum. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk and pay the 0.50% commitment fee per annum on the
undisbursed balance of the credit as well as the 0.75% service charge per
annum on the principal amount of the credit withdrawn and outstanding. The
signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and BCV,
satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
5.01, draft Credit Agreement).
48.       Terms and Conditions of Subloans.  BCV's subloans would finance
up to 75% of the total cost of projects, with the balance to be met by the
subborrowers' equity contribution. Expansion and modernization projects
could be financed up to 100, subject to the subborrowers having an ade-
quate existing equity base. Within these limits, BCV could finance under
the IDA credit up to 100% of the foreign exchange costs of fixed capital
and of permanent working capital and up to 70% (representing the estimated
import component) of the domestic costs of civil works and locally produced
equipment. Repayment periods of subloans would normally range between
three and twelve years, including a grace period of up to three years. BCV



- 14 -
would normally charge not less than 11.5' per ar.num interest on medium-term
and not less than 12.5% per annum interest on long-term subloans. However,
the promotional effort to be undertaken under the project mav not be
successful with small enterprises and artisans, unless special incentives
are provided in the form of reduced interest rates. Consequently, interest
rates for subloans to enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding US$20,000
equivalent could be as low as 7.5Z per annum for medium-term subloans (3-5
years) and 8.5Z per annum for long-term subloans (5-12 years).  Based on
the same rationale, minimum interest rates for medium- and long-term
subloans to enterprises with fixed assets above US$20,000 but less than
US$50,000 would be 8.5% per annum and 9.0% per annum, respectively, and the
rates for enterprises with fixed assets above US$50,000 but less than
US$100,000 would be 10.5% per annum and 11.0% per annum, respectively. BCV
would review the level and structure of interest rates with IDA annuallv.
The purpose of this review would be to periodically adjust interest rates
so that they progressively reach a positive level in real terms (Sections
2.02 (d) and 2.10, draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (a), draft Credit
Agreement).
Technical Assistance to BCV
49.       Under the proposed project, BCV's new Investment Department (ID)
would closely cooperate with the IPIT of SEINE, from which it would receive
subproject proposals; but it would also accept loan applications directly
from prospective borrowers and would develop its own project promotion.
appraisal and supervision capacity. To provide BCV with technical assist-
ance required to establish the ID as a well-managed and effective unit,
US$0.3 million of the proposed credit would be passed on to BCV by the
Government as a grant. This amount would be used for the following pur-
poses:
(a) Up to US$220,000 to finance two man-years of a development
finance expert who would assist BCV in completing the
organization of the ID, developing its policies and pro-
cedures, train its staff on the job, and who would actively
participate in the activities of the ID.
(b)  Up to US$50,000 to finance short-term consultancy ser,ices
and studies as necessary to supplement the activities of the
development finance expert (e.g. study on long-term interest
rate policy, including a refined incentives scheme for
emigrant savings; study on equity financing instruments;
preparation of an operational manual and other operational
guidelines).
(c) Up to US$30,000 to finance training of the ID's staff,
particularly in project appraisal and supervision at other
experienced development finance institutions and relevant
training institutions. Additional training would be pro-
vided under the UNDP/TNIDO project (para 52).



- 15 -
Technical Assistance t. SINE
50.       The main functions of the new Industrial Promotion Unit (IPU) in
SEINE's Directorate of Industry are (a) to identify and prepare industrial
projects; (b) to identify suitable project promoter. and to advise them on
all aspects of project implementation; and (c) to provide technical assist-
ance to existing enterprises. IPU's project preparation work would benefit
from the sector and subsector studies to be prepared with UNIDO assistance
by the Division for Studies and Planning of SEINE.  Its services would be
made available irrespective of enterprise/project size and ownership. It
would provide bankable project proposals to BCV and advice and assistance
to the projects financed.  Although it would for this purpose apply project
evaluation criteria acceptable to BCV (para 54), the latter would review
IPU's project proposals and take independent financial decisions. IPU will
have to establish close working relations with the ID of BCV and other
ministries and institutions involved in industrial sector activities. For
this purpose, it will consider creating a coordination committee which
would meet regularly to coordinate all project-related matters.
51.       To provide SEINE with the technical assistance required to
establish IPU as a well-managed and effective entity, US$0.4 million of the
proposed credit would be used for the following purposes:
(a)  Up to US$220,000 to finance two man-years of an industrial
promotion expert who would assist in completing the organi-
zation of the IPU, developing its operating policies and
procedures, identifying and preparing industrial project
proposals, providing technical assistance to existing
enterprises and training IPU's staff in industrial promotion
activities.
(b) Up to US$150,000 to finance short-term consultancv services.
These would include (i) a study aiming at preparing a number
of projects for the expansion and modernization of artisanal
enterprises. This study would also investigate the need for
and appropriateness of establishing a technical extension
service specifically for small-scale and artisanal enter-
prises; (ii) market studies, technical studies, etc. to
assist existing enterprises in solving their operational
*i                           problems; and (iii) special feasibility studies which cannot
be carried out by IPU and the industrial promotion expert.
(c)  Up to US$30,000 to finance training of IPU staff in indus-
trial promotion, project planning and advisory services.
Additional training would be provided under the UNDP/UNIDO
project.
52.       Coordination with the UNDPIUNIDO Project.  The proposed project
would be closely coordinated and implemented simultaneously with the
UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance project which will concentrate on indus-
trial planning, policies, sector studies and training. Coordination would
be ensured through continued intensive consultation between UNDP/UNIDO and



- 16 -
IDA, started during appraisal, and by using UNTDO as the executing agency
for both the UNDP-financed project and the technical assistance component
described in para 51. With respect to the latter component, IDA would
retain its usual rights regarding the appointment and supervision of
consultants. The arrangements for cooperation between UNDP/UNIDO and IDA,
such as periodic consultation on all important matters concerning technical
assistance to SEINE and joint supervision missions, are spelled out in the
UNDP project document No. CVI/84/002 which has been reviewed and found
satisfactory.
Implementation
53.       Reporting Requirements.  BCV would be required to submit standard
semi-annual progress reports, an annual budget and an annual audit of ID's
accounts. Progress reports on the technical assistance components would be
prepared by the technical experts and would be endorsed or commented on by
BCV and SEINE, respectively.
54.       Subproject Appraisal and Review.  BCV would appraise project
proposals received from IPU or directly from project sponsors in accordance
with appraisal criteria acceptable to IDA. These would normally include
the financial rate of return and an economic analysis applying partial
economic indicators, such as value added, foreign exchange savings or
earnings, and employment. Particular attention would be paid to the
analysis of the capital intensity of subprojects. The economic rate of
return would be calculated for subprojects with total fixed assets above
US$100,000. The cut-off financial rate of return would be equal to the
highest interest rate charged on subloans, which is presently 12.5% per
annum, and the cut-off economic rate of return would be 10% (estimated
opportunity cost of capital). Simplified appraisal procedures for very
small-scale or artisanal enterprises would be worked out with BCV during
the initial stage of project implementation. An individual free limit of
US$80,000 and an aggregate free limit of US$1.6 million would be estab-
lished. However, these free limits would not become operative until IDA
has reviewed and found acceptable five appraisal reports submitted by BCV.
(Section 2.02 (b), draft Project Agreement and Section 2.02 (b), draft
Credit Agreement).
55.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Procedures for the procurement of
goods would follow standard practices for DFC-type projects.  Consultants
would be recruited in accordance with World Bank guidelines. Disburse-
ments would be made for eligible subproject costs, as described in para 48.
Costs of experts and of overseas training would be disbursed 100%.  The
credit is expected to become effective by mid-1985.  The line of credit is
expected to be fully committed by June 30, 1989 and disbursed by December
31, 1991. The technical assistance and training components are expected to
be fully disbursed by June 30, 1989.
Benefits and Risks
56.       The project would support the Government's industrial sector
objectives by providing the sector for the first time with an integrated



- 17 -
package of financial, technical and policy assistance. At the enterprise
level, the line of credit is expected to finance about thirty subprojects
representing some US$4.4 million in total investment and creating or
preserving at least 500 Jobs at an average coat of about US$9,000. The
beneficiary enterprises will almost entirely be small- and medium-scale and
some of them will be export oriented. It is expected that the number of
subprojects to be financed and the number of jobs created by them will
increase as a result of the proposed study on artisanal enterprises. At
the institutional level, the project includes technical assistance for
strengthening the operational capabilities of BCV as a term lending insti-
tution as well as for establishing within SEINE, the Government department
*r           in charge of the industrial sector, an institutional structure capable of
undertaking industrial promotional activities. By introducing into BCV
sound practices of development banking and term lending, the project would
contribute by its demonstration effect to improving the overall pattern of
industrial investments in the country. These institution-building bene-
fits, although unquantifiable, are expected to be significant. At the
sector level, the project would complement the UNDP/UNIDO program which
provides the policy and planning assistance needed by Government to ration-
alize and promote the industrial sector. The provision of such a coor-
dinated and comprehensive assistance program would reinforce IDA's dialogue
with Government on selected policy issues affecting the industrial and
financial sectors.
57.       The project attempts to break new ground in Cape Verde by pro-
viding integrated assistance to small and medium enterprises. There are
some risks inherent in such a new undertaking. The main risk relates to
possible delays in developing the delivery mechanisms for financial and
technical assistance. IPU/SEINE and ID/BCV are largely untested insti-
tutions that still have to build up their operational capabilities over
time within a country environment of severe administrative and personnel
constraints. The project seeks to alleviate these risks by putting in
place a technical assistance package which, while being limited by the
country's absorptive capacity, aims specifically at dealing with the main
institutional and administrative constraints. There is also a risk that
less than optimal subprojects might be envisaged by BCV for financing. By
requiring the compliance of BCV with sound project appraisal criteria, the
project seeks to ensure that only financially and economically viable
subprojects will be assisted.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRIMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Cape Verde and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Bank of Cape Verde, and the Recommendation of the
Committee providee for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Artic'les of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors separately.



- 18 -
59.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex 3.
60.       A special condition of effectiveness of the credit is the signing
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic of Cape Verde and BCV
(Section 5.01, draft Credit Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62. I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed develop-
ment credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
1
Attachments
March 15, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -
AE 1
mm,.umu   so  ,                                    6       .
5~~~~~~~~| @t* (N   U . U)
TOUL                       4 ~~~~~60  6.0         6.0
ASIELTUIL                           0.7        0.J         O..
-w  Q C9     (as)                       *3 530.0                               249.1       ,       1112.9
(KXLOUARS OF OIL EQUIVALUT)      2542.0      1710.0      363.0               62.8                529.0
PONLAUS AU1 VITA  BL TAUU                                        lb
POPULATION,mD-TR (TUS3AN)    191.0            269.0      304.r
U34 POPULAUOE CZ Ol TOTAL)          7.2        6.2         S.41k             19.2                Zb.7
POPULATION PrSECUOI
FOfIJflDO  in wi 20m0 (HiLl.)                            0.5
STTONrA PoPLITIW  (HILL)                                 0.9
POAIJ N UlUhl                                            2.0
POPUTION DNITY
ru sq. M.                        48.9        64.7       7.6.                32.3                53.8
PER IQ. U. AGS. LAWD            303.L       413.8      441.3              11.2                 111.5
POPULATiON AGE ITUDCTUU CZ)
0-14 Yu                         46.6        4.2        37.0                45.6                65.4
1544 YU                          50.7        52.7       40.6               51.5                51.7
65 AN £801                        2.9         3.1        3.1                2.9                 2.9
POUIATION  CON    NS. (K)
TOTL                              3.0         3.1        1.0                2.8                  2.3
URUN                              1.3         1.6       14.4                4.2                  3.2
CRUID SSXTS  MTI (MR T105)         39.8        36.1       ,4.1a              48.6                £7.0
CRU  DEATIt Aun  (M  TIIOD         12.4        10.4        7.5               17.7                153.2
03OSS UIP3o11CTN uATE               2.9         2.2        1.6                3.2                  3.2
USERS ( CZVi -M-=13 WINES
-O S SIS
1110 or FFOOD PROC. Rn CAPITA
(196-71-1O0)                         ..          ..         ..               85.8                91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALRS t CZ OF RSQUINIUNTS)       82.0        32.0      132.0               S6.4                 96.2
RoZEIS (CAM  PRA DOA)            46.0        43.0       85.0               69.9                56.7
OF WNICK ANIMAL AND PULSE      13.0        16.0       34.0 lc             18.3                17.0
CHUL0 (AGES 1-4) ORAtE AT          24.4        13.3       12.9               23.8                13.7
LinE UPSCr- AT BM  (YUE)           3L.9        55.6       61.1               48.4                 51.7
[NFANT HOr. RTc (MR T3O13)        121.t        93.8       73.               1L7.5               102.7
AC*SS TO SASE WATER CnOP)
TaL                                ..          ..         ..               2.8                  35.6
UR                                 ..          ..         ..                L.5                 54.1
RURAL                              *-          --         *.               14.2                 27.3
Actzss TO XCETA DISPOSAL
CZ Or oPPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..         ..                32.0
USA                                ..          ..         ..               69.2                   .
SAL                                ..          ..         ..               24.3
POPUTU  FM P7Q52C511 1          13130.0    11310.0  5530.0 /              27477.5              1194.3
POP. PE  ISIEIG PRSO             4470.0 la  6390.0      1220.0             3396.2               2248.9
POP. PR  HosPT   S3D
r                         TOTAL                            380.0       700.0      500.0 /f           1o0.O                36.9
URER                               ..          ..      i1o.0o             395.2                368.7
RURL                               ..          ..     1120.0 yr           3094.0              4012.1
AD5ss10  PER HOSPrTAL 51m            ..          ..
AVUEK    SZ  or WmIIWD
ma                        ..-         ..                            ...
LIMN
RUAL                               ..          ..
maT>                               ..          ..         .                   ..
AeCESS TO CECT. CY Or mU.wCS)
ma                                 ..          ..         .                    ..
m                                  ..          .. . ..
alm                                ........
7OUL~__ 



- 20 -
ANNE I
Page 2 of 5
MOST                 (MIT RiCh  ITIT        l)b
TUCUNTB      LOW INCONE AFUICAlWL
iwSe    i.,,a-    :nawuL'S- AIOUTH oF SAM"             AFRCA 8. OF IAM
UDUCATO   llOLUSCSS
ADJnsTKD RNRLLNENT SATIGE
PRUIIT  TOTAL                      ..          *.         ..               *9.2                 91.0
LB                      .-          ..          ,.               73.                 10.5
FEALE                   ..          ..          ..               17.6                71.6
SICONDOAR? TOTAL                   ..          ..                          13.1                 17.4
SALE                     .          *.          ..               17. 6               23.7
AL                      ..          ..          ..                .3                 14.1
VOCATIONAL (C Or S COHAT           22.-         8.2         ..                7.2                  5.3
IUPIL-iEANXZA RATLO
NA                               46.0        36.0       .10.0              44.1                 36.6
SECONDART                        21.0        20.0         ..               25.9                 24.3
ADOL? LXTIC   UATZ (2)             26.9        36.9         ..               44.3                 35.6
PASSENGER CARS/TOUSAND FOF          3.0        5.9        10.6 /c             3.8                20.7
tADIO PZUI&CHLSITROUSAID FOP        9.1        16.6      136.5               41.9                100.6
TV RCCIVERS/TOUSAN  Fo               ..          ..         ..                2.0                 i6.3
NIUSPAFU ('DAILY CUEAL
LNERET! CCIRClATION
PER TOUSAD  PULTLON                ..          ..         ,.                5.4                 17.2
ClNDIA AJNUUA ATTEBOANCE/CAPITA     1.0         1.1         ..                1.4                 0.3
TOTAL LASOl FORCE (THOUs)          54.0        73.0       66.0
FINAL  C(PUENT)                   8.3         6.7       10.4               36.5                 33-.
AcRICULTRE (ERcENT)               WU.0       62.0       37.0               77.4                 57.1
UDUSTRT (PR CENT)                L0.0        12.0       14.0                9.8                 17.4
PASTICXPATIS IRATZ (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            27.2        27.2       26.9               41.0                 36.3
H AL                             50.3        50.1       56.4                52.1                47.6
FOnALz                            '.5        4.7         5.6               30.2                 23.1
ELONSIIC DENDEC! RItATO             1.8         1.7        1.4                1.2                  1.4
ISQ= DZSTREIMT
PERCENT OF PRIVATE IlNCtI
RECEIVED BY
HICEST 52   HOUStHOLDS
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSZKOLDS          ..
LOEST 2020 W OUSf OLDS
LOUEST 4OS or eOUSEIOLOS
ESTTATED ABSOLUTE POVERrI INCOME
LEVEL (USS PU CAPITA)
CURAN                                                                      166 3               525 .
RURAL                                                                      90.8                249.0
EST'LMAED RELATIVE POVITY INCOE
LEVCL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBN                                                                       107.7               477.4
RLMAL                                                                      65.0                186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVMRT INCOME LEVEL (2)
2UamN                                                                      34.7
RIRAL=                                                                     65.4                   .
NOT AVALLASLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-wetghted arithmetic mans. Coverage of countriesamg the
indlcators depends on availabilitv of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otheruise noted. "Data for 196G  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Dat for 1970" betwefl 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1980 and 1982.
/c   1977; Id  1979; fe  1962; If  1971; a   Ages 14 and over.
/h   New infomation from the L960 census indicates that the total- population in 1982 was 310.000; urban proportion
was 23.42; and che crude birth rate ts much higher than previoualy estimated (about 40).
June 1984



-21 -
ANNEXl
tusma  AilbagP h l   dam. ass drea. Srm,auegssipjia   br    embaslala.l  a1 wtblthb is. II                            l-b  e abaE   is   a  d  k   9kr asp as ha sanmsias.iw
aasabie beans at ma ltooho .5 aadaediaddarlasiian ai              oap       we  br Elfirmsna  maseli   is maiketlagn kw   s..  Vb  doe a's. nafllea. ashi ts
-issrb. asdss aS agladadtd. lodasa" awas. sad shMmsstms a.srial  saja  dtiftesessa bssale sssttsisas.
iTs  aasarnmi, psoesm. (I) Bk1h  ma.s, easury ass. aS at a e. eleal  esm  sad IS) a aaams  gamp saa  .m.ta   highss a-atl. 6sna abe on.bh tes, Isaep as tim
meijol sasli  gmacu  tat  likimblasm  oil I-Paiaa"a  asep ass  *lms. Imam- ftub  terms sAd Kiddie b , as abase basse  at.%o sisa                     ai-ge"imatl
statrAta.).  Samb Ifte P seas emep des  l  annie as  paealamm   a eight  gtisbemta eames, tar set  tidites  aid  bmmalp .             av  ~  sajotimy at ah.  oenAsri   Is a
dsam  baa doms Int thee    ia0it.  ten   t.mE            ofssg   atdeaimalem  aa  tlbs todteamas  dogpasla a tba samiahglglp of doam gad I. san  afmdb  aeski  mae.atoh
maued  . timiag  vesgm   ml -   iidtmaet ma a.matss. tIme  awameGa  ass ash  aesi  me aparteg sha aslasal -   iad.ee" am a stem  esaao  mb moeasy  Pad
_jsjsT a  atras ease aa.tals, led aem sad malted nissis  IND.                              ehaetsqalttdra     cia  easel a  smalasslap I-L.m
matead tam  data.-                                                                      buJa.a.,Ufjs   Papeas.a  dt"'Ihd by-b ca ts     prmtaste
hqnuL  -Pbasestie aS agitaiterl mom amae aeparssip as pssacaammolp,-.od9 1   rdmet                                           an  eeol   me' sane. psotaal a) tres  as
psa M ,ta    a"ta  ed ktilm . iagasesl ar?S is ts satasa mm.                    settling    Itamleris.
slt  am  lsutAs..                                                                        11a 1maais   atnIRIN09s-aa.sh.  srsltm ltesas.
ainpmhgpiTAlEI * ti  pat mapltasatm    ta e                 .mts                           assl-iah    ta pebltt tad miats eamas  WAd spaasaiiad bamp,it.1miet
UI5TI1l T~  aemsassas nets" as 'rla mas ala  (SONaa s bametmahatlams  nse    t                                          :pitai:as ambis.basem pwmea,mips s1s555
linII t I. ad less deata                                                                       by a6sem  a         ph.ima.    m hitM.s ge &mltg prmotaiglsy aismialaIL.
mes  ass  Leatlcsad.  keals, bamputiala flast-. glcs. baslim
ams   paaa    dapts at  sma-rmi                       e4leal eNttas   an  pasmseaslipeally alfolh    ph" abma  (bat by    de
aid  embai slmasetsslIa biagea atall  qasmlas ead  amlema- 1100                  paid   Claims rada as. oedictu Seiitim,.- t                    eomm.l
IPSIa %aM  t Nt    ost)9 koivmo   1 dam.                                                     .aePrelsti110.Flalseast 1adlease  *9 adesal tabsmattmetem  sdia.s
ltfl. 1:  ifti dt..                                                  Upsif~~~~~~~tebiIfFIl         Im cabs    l  hda.     l"2  Id,M
Casesem papaaite prsJsateaa ass has   asIfi                 phasac5 m     a.-.     itTiearC,ntsasTtsn ro measatee
ass  papa am a  .5y. aasetcan ermaiMiRad  Ssnilb. ta-sasms,                                         f. anstaaiy.1. talip.  sit mpjs                iasssa.n
ras. Psmj'gam paass c    let pamalimpe  aim. aptms at abase                         aeaat5pms
capit  mis - tal as sImaa LIS  mapsasaca romt.bltamsg .   mamma t.ita ea                         l  dsoarst..       iasslyu   lm.qnss-pamsa
I-Lt. emld.8 Lit. mame tar       bst itp  a  1-aleas  a   basbl                             5mea,i aat  .  T j1:tfj__ Iea  daIla  assaasaesol 1.U;             .
aese.T.daaitmm ii         sarItim    tarim     Iat isaa bas medrm et S.I altl   F-     all.
miawasi  pastetesa. Malaush mantis is the aemian, -..   atd mbai  rt  Ji,f
slehiemia  55 ac,Siati   ae" rsfiiim         maad  mI." pamitof  pese.aatMtarjreleqtt
-.1alhoa t              it ead is  Iut ags       , a 1 a-peis1e eImiitprm                           %                                  bsamet.nS  a   Sa
raebs    lnammmly laasa  a  sapwadmmea  isas  Sma                                    psiesy msamei.ads smaoiatian;l emIL, tcad.1   "hsr M aa  a-s
smahta  Ints-il.  ta uA   papanaatiat. lb. bsirtl 1 a  Le maemeanit                   peas ham sdjesid tsr d9Isamee baatea   S1 sties    s"mieil Is.
ealI a. aba data rams  it. age sattass mm elaa t-aa . a 1 s"'aWit    t  etaelasie  siete    ne  slo" sat
asm Math si  is as. lb. stattmedra  Psymesitte ais an   atmtad -iel-ee   sabit  eat bIas- as abas mta ssftcaim                                          ea
be       dbof a. r3etd   snanss e5S               pisto iaba:: eF1_Z A.ia, e                                                      ae    apt a   hn   asdr
5DNt  e   h. rams.  dmsie or Martsm   smi.       i  Iaimse                                                         iss5sps              asee   pes.caais
!LTBL!lhiliM lE   is Sb. aseests  tat. 'aPaises- 6-t  ta  -teeme                               p5ttida  jmasrl. aaa5al a    aatba  tssmslee Imnesmislame Ms
is, en   lisS   set apssdAstia  rta.. hasl, sshad seimy.            , bba                   g"PsLip-I,fI eid ..1  erPI               s    . odamM
ee.nas .1vr a m "'Cst "is"I"l pas  ±    :essrd asIalai he as sat.                                             iJpasn.issd anML-I     l  - tasea    eastiaise
a.Ilema, siaitsaem    P". Imm- ta Sb pameleim  as itsm s-r_ inSt-                                        a              a.iCa   sIr srsssaa  ibid  ari
aaa.sike ibm  saslitis  -sni-   sWI-. e          -i iseel  r   Lsr                 tdwedsdasa1y asas daasesla at sIantiatpliit
P55 Cite.                                           rseti-saabar tease - aasass. edss¶msL.  -1. aUhl. ..adaa  -aeid s1.
7EiE7ib .vaupassie  m  sseehie- a 15W   as                         -m)                   P I`tt  -pedtsd  imasis.5~-  ed 
M!5 s. bt  rttlma itad   - CaNe1ta  as ab    ass , -glslsra   iaa5ptsegaa   aa   hmpesai   an i   asa   es
'"eIa m, MUs. seIlls. tasta L"    O...lra  tI-M kar) *en.-.  n-                                                   m iipw
pastls  se,aa  i wiq   F. gaas.                                                    sam s.   ma W Isa  mat alma mess-uam  Asis -e shiasa           . baa.,  -d.
amltaCret'  -aeau.ssl-  eal-asa  asi'  at   m  talst-astayI..iia
psas papsiame ass ant-s, same-re  a  mast-el.matti bssI emsta bed  Iamd .sial)-C ess5aeassrtsde
~smiameCssh. .e  trsee  -atas-  t.aigati'. sain  stak                             .eiss   mgeee-ets  smsesaa   sssie                          eid
luss  ime. as (a   ssmssd  -tens   m-sblst -e  msssa  s  sin-                       et        easc.di -        sr ue-C,pesaA e    -TV    enmsesiea
par spsleissi  taaa Lis.sd  sac: daIs.                                               ,s1mtrla sbIsbt  iksasciam.p
CsdSasmaiAsrt.a  4      es    at,  a  isai 1st-esasssl-ir  ¶t-sd s'..                                                     IV ssaest.   -  iif =.t-1-      I     .-bssda -da
F!9 iM iiTiiiTTt  m    Isia                -.         -I                                         st la ieC5Tht pa2 tspitm    ,atIataatssdI   asem
asses Wesedasil  .e. -  trg  sta   er dasattat a eas  stI-m basisi   esra  adtissea' st :LgiiTi-  .1Item.  bme attasi
p-1ars  asssrastit  5aa-qrlse  eei  g-sstied-ssr  it5ams  n   saad-elais)-Se   bs                                                                          -rg
Fa oir ssais  -  ar  i-armsetatt arist ease  -6. Fastsea   sia                                 s   asa
psareiet.s5 may fast at cearamesessa seals ersiad  mae,  tea a?  Lass 1.M-1 51
= :x.-"    ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ armala.  eI  a.. PIsrlmts  ass                            at.4 I... at.
-       - aeyt   -sa-athis  sea, mt                                                                                  sps has
essi   rhaitin'sttsaesli. Msadissl-arsaa a, s cap ImW                                 IanIad- 7iI  eas      - lab   tap   ma: laala  samss baie 
sea a   Is a  saldas r arpset..  MLdute  s-..       ergd   s..nm.atrasat.   saias   eaes  mteuIa sad html %d.s
saa     -"Lmte  t-mr   ad  ass- adile set s,sal  cars- m   ts.-                     ldIo"r rames -4 Momst 5d .5 as11   sasl-d e       Iaasa.e p-sts1 est   ta
dams.                                                                               ars ciaL-as-I..&f-1s-a  -d     sa-i. ae. se  Issi-s-rirse
-esaleL, a   mega  5s1 stat.1f  bm.nis.srea  an                1e, a-M...                    attm teg  ad-s   seeim   iS    eaais.same   Iessts
asshas_    aanctb VmS teed0 s.. s'masi.i..et  lrse                                      lsa.sea  a.ssT dsersm    ss-al "mseasaadr  tadS  a    e
as   5 C   dlIti.ia m-tl  ssas     , ast les   It14 sars  sar sas
aS1 hPahi  isei  Ibm-hi,8 bilt .    mim  dea-1                                           tOt tiela_l
ataws mI      tspl e    he er.-I,       - w Sad I_.. dre        bs,i,                        st ade-rsai  sltam   05ass       reasa  zt isssal  sad ; psati tOsr
saisassafarall  cetle eSatIsba  hr51Stpreida- I    . -5 el I'a l                        -Uatid.    - 4          I        1a 
alse  eetae, s slas'. t ars  shed  b   ilelpasela.  Tea               sereS  Tatad? "oIs
eladr.       n  es  he p -asa -5 aressI  esta  smeeri   a lit   si-a                          tsIilsecaiai .5. aP   paasesleasee  rsrt                             -I,  e
hit.                  e--4mrdst-1                                                           .
0us   Z.tIt   5t  e me      ess- sba.   t     esi. d= bsi      -~ ihcaa  Isttee    asl   esalve   em  tiercre)-ak    srti
55gnsi  pr,  estlse   s  ts  *c5e. e  etd-1ndaitslseamasa-e  laasiea   s  aetr  5   sete  e  t-a
elah.sth. uems sa'.I:a,ail.staassrs,alln sYlscass.eeein                                                                             dred msatss
mr.h.-  f tb. :=   to -  -  h.- A                                    Isl  ii  .tisae   55  igesmat fmaiam.stt  ese



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
CAPE VERDE
ECONOHIC INDICATORS
Gross Domestic Product in 1983                                                                              J
Annual Rate of Growth (Current Dollar Prices)
USS aln            %               1979-83
GDP at Market Prices             81.1          100.0               9.2
Gross Domestic Investment        64.9           -80.0             12.9
Gross Domestic Expenditures    142.6           175.9               4.2
Exports of Goods, nfs            35.4           43.7              32.3
Imports of Goods, nfs            97.0          119.6               6.3
Current Account Balance         -33.4          -41.2              23.5
Output, Employment and Productivity, 1982:
Value Added           Labor Force   Value Added per Worker
USS mln       S'000                %         USS       %
Primary Production          16.9      21.7        43      47.4      393.0      45.4
Secondary Production       21.8       28.0         9      10.5    2422.2      279.8
Services                    39-.2     50.3        38      42.1    1031.6      119.1
Total Average               77.9     100.0        90     100.0      865.6     100.0
Government Finance
Central Government
CVEsc mln                        of GDP
1983                1983                1979-82
Current Revenues                    1623.7               27.9                 31.5
Current Expenditures                1623.4               27.9                 31.1
Current Surplus                        0.3                 -                   0.4
Capital Expenditures                4295.0               73.9                 61.9
Overall Deficit                    4294.7                73.9                 61.5
External Borrowing and Grants       4180.3               71.9                 58.7
Money. Credit and Prices
1978      1979      1980      1981       1982      1983
(in millions of Cape Verde escudos outstanding end year)
Monev Supply (and quasi-money)        1709      2014      2658       3180      3989      4151
Claims on Central Government            11        77         34       452       347       486
Claims on the Private Sector           531       712       684        937      1032       807
(percentage or index numbers)
Money as % of GDP                       61.9      65.1      61.2       65.7      66.9      59.8
Consumer Price Index                   146       168       192        232       280       340
Annual Growth Rates:
General Price Index                     17.7      15.1      14.3       20.8      20.7      21.4
Net Claims on Government               109.7     600.0      -54.1    1229.4     -23.2      40.1
Claims on the Private Sector            34.6      34.1      -3.9       37.0      10.1     -21.8



-23 -
AlIUEX 1
ra6e 5 of 5
CAPE WED
TRADE PATMENtS AND CATAL .FLOS
Balance of Payments
1980      1981      1982      1983
(Million. ISS)
Exports of Goods, nfs                  19        24        32        36
Imports of Goods, nfs                  88       103       101        97
Resource Cap (Deficit - -)            -69       -79       -69       -61
Private Transfers                      40        36        32        33
Net Factor Services                     3         -        -3        -5
Balance on Current Account            -26       -43       -40       -33
Official Flows
Tran'fers                            29        21        27        19
Borrowing (Set)                       2        19        19        14
Other Items, Errors and Omissions       1         4         6         4
Increase in Reserves (C)                6         1        12         4
Net Reserves (end year)                44        37        43        34  1/
Equivalent tMoths imports               6.0       4.3       5.1       4.2
Rates of Exchange
Annual Averaes
1975   1976  1977   1978   1979.  1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
USS1 - CVEsc          25.6  30.1  34.1  35.5  37.4  40.1  48.7  58.3  71.7  84.'
External Debt, December 1982
USS iln
Public Debt Including Guaranteed          60.5
Non-Cuaranteed Private Debt                --
Total Outstanding and Disbursed           60.5
Net Debt Service Ratio for 1982 2/
Public Debt Including Guaranteed           4.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                --
Total Outstanding and Disbursed            4.9
IB1D/IDA Lendint as of December 31. 1983
(USS '000)
IBID            IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed                  --             209
Undisbursed                                --            6805
Oustanding Including Undisbursed           --            7014
1/ Doe not inlude financial institutions other than the Bank of Cape Verde.
21 Debt service as a percentage of exports of goods and non-factor services.
-- Xo*awailable



- 24 -
ANNEX 2
SWTS OF BAN      P O  'DATMS I CAE VUE
A. Statmt of mA Credits (as of Deober 31, 1984)
uJs$ mno
Fisal                                      hAunt (les cancellatlimm)
Credit No.       Yew         Borror         Purse         B          1/ I/ Udlaxusdld 2/
1322-C           1983       Cape Verde   Praia Port             7.20          5.36
Of which has
been re--d
Total now held by IDy                          7.20
1/ Captedat the rate of approal date.
2/ CaWted at the Deaber 31, 1984 rate of $0.98021 - 1ISR



- 25 -
ANNEX 3
CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
f                              SUPPLEMEN1RY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I:     TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Time to prepare project:          15 months
(b) Project identification mission    July 1982
(c) Pre-appraisal mission:            October 1983
(d) Appraisal mission:                December 1983
(e) Negotiations:                     November 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:    June 1985
SECTION II:    SPECIAL IDA IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None.
SECTION III:   SPECIAL CONDITIONS
(a) Establishment of a revolving fund of US$500,000 to
provide short- and medium-term financing for working
capital and investment needs of very small-scale or
artisanal enterprises (para 46);
(b) Annual review of interest rates with the Association
(para 48).
r:






