Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                           ILECPY
Report No. 5067-CV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
March 15, 1985
Western Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 30, 1984)
Currency Unit          Cape Verdean Escudo (CVEsc.)
US$1              =    CVEsc. 89.265
CVEsc. 1               US$0.0112
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCV                   -    Banco de Cabo Verde
CABNAVE               -    Estaleiros Navais de Cabo Verde
CC                    -    Caixa de Credito
CCCE                  -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique
CEP                   -    Caixa Econ6mica Postal
DCSB                  -    Department of Credit Services and
Branches (BCV)
ECOWAS                -    Economic Community of West
African States
FAO                   -    Food and Agriculture Organization
ID                    -    Investment Department (BCV)
IMF                   -    International Monetary Fund
IPU                   -    Industrial Promotion Unit (SEINE)
NGO                   -    Non-governmental Organization
SEINE                 -    Secretaria de Estado da Industria
e Energia (Ministry of Economy and
Finance)
UNDP                  -    United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO                 -    United Nations Industrial
Development Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUME      NTSCOAINED IN PROJECT FILE ........................   i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SU MARY .      . ............................... ii
I.     THE ECONOMIC SETTING .     . .............................
II.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ..a.....................     .       2
A.  Structure and Performance ...........    2
B.  Policy and Institutional Framework.                    4
1.   Objectives and Investment Plan.                  4
2.   Policies ........................                 5
3.   Institutional Framework     .      .              7
C.  Strategy and Prospects .     . .......................    8
III.   THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ...............................       9
A. Structure.                                              9
B.  Bank of Cape Verde .............................   10
1.   Functions and Organization ....     ............   10
2.   Lending Policies and Procedures .... .......   10
3.   Lending Operations and Financial Position-    12
4.   Prospects and Resource Requirements .......   13
IV.    THE PROJECT .........     ...............................    14
A.  Description    .................. ..................    14
1.   Objectives .......      .........................    14
2.   Line of Credit ......      ......................    14
3.   Technical Assistance to BCV ....     ...........   16
4.   Technical Assistance to SEINE ....     .........   17
B.  Implementation        ..................   18
C. Benefits and Risks   ...............................    19
V.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....     ..........   20
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited
Cape Verde in December 1983 and was composed of Messrs. Moritz and Joseph
(IDA) and Poldermans (consultant).  It was drafted by Mr. Moritz and typed by
Miss Tsang.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
2-1    Gross Domestic Product by Sector of Origin
2-2    Industrial Production
2-3    Public and Mixed Enterprises
2-4    Exports and Imports of Principal Products
2-5    Revised Public Investment Plan
2-6    Government Industrial Investment Program
2-7    Institutions Involved in Industrial Sector Activities
3-1    BCV - Organisation Chart
3-2    BCV - Operating Policy Statement (draft)
3-3    BCV - Interest Rate Structure
3-4    BCV - Balance Sheets
3-5    BCV - Analysis of Loan Portfolio
5-6    BCV - Analysis of Approved Industrial Term Loans
4-1    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4-2    Project Execution Time Schedule
MAP
IBRD No. 15079R: Republic of Cape Verde



CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE NO. 220586
A.    Selected Reports and Studies on the Industrial Sector
1.  "Perspectives Industrielles a Long Terme, Cap-Vert",
ONUDI, November 1980.
2.  "'Le Developpement de la Petite Industrie aux Iles
du Cap Vert", ONUDI, April 1982.
3. "Perspectives de Developpement des Petites et Moyennes
Activit6s ... Cap Vert", OIT, April 1979.
4. "Missao a Cabo Verde" (Mission Report with investment
opportunity studies), IAPMEI, February 1983.
5.  Opportunitv Studies on Building Materials in the
Republic of Cape Verde, UNIDO, February 1982.
6.  Report on Artisanal Fisheries in the Sotavento Islands,
Aurora Associates Inc., October 1982.
B.    Selected Reports and Studies on the Flnancial Sector
1.  Survey of the Cape Verdean Banking System, Mission
Report IMF (draft), November 1982.
2. "Anteproyecto para la Institucionalizacion de un Sistema
Bancario en Cabo Verde", Koencke, 1980.
3.  "Definition d'une Structure Institutionnelle de Credit
Agricole, FAO", 1980.
4.  "Informe de la Consultoria de Credito y Financiamiento",
PNUD, August 1983.
C.    Selected Reports and Documents Relating to the Project
1.  "Assistencia Preparatoria para.... Apoio ao Desenvolvi-
mento do Sector Industrial", ONUDI, February 1984.
2.  "Rapport de la Mission Tripartite d'Evaluation ....
Assistance au Developpement Industriel" (draft), ONUDI,
April 1984.
3.  "Assistance a la Planification et au Developpement Industriels",
(document du projet CV1/84/002), PNUD, 1984.
4. "Developpement des P1eches" (project agreement), PNUD,
May 1983.
5. "Relat6rio de Analise sobre as Potencialidades de
Desenvolvimento da Pequena Empresa e do Artesanato
en Cabo Verde" J. 0. de Oliveira, July 1982.
6. Miscellaneous background information on BCV,
including Organic Law, detailed description of the
organization and the functions of departments, sample
of appraisal reports, loans agreements, etc.
7. Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to BCV.



- ii -
CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Cape Verde
Beneficiaries:            Bank of Cape Verde (BCV) and Secretariat of State
for Industry and Energy (SEINE) of the Ministry
of Economy and Finance
Credit Amount:            SDR 4.1 million (US$4.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms
Flow of Credit            1.  US$3.3 million would be onlent to BCV for a
Proceeds:                 22 year term including 4 years grace, at 5.50% per
annum interest. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk and would pay the 0.50% per
annum commitment fee on the undisbursed balance of
the credit as well as the 0.75% per annum service
charge on the principal amount of the credit
withdrawn and outstanding. BCV would relend these
funds to eligible enterprises at interest rates
ranging from 7.50% per annum for very small artisanal
enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding
US$20,000, to 12.50% per annum for enterprises with
fixed assets exceeding US$100,000.
2. US$0.3 million would be passed on to BCV as a
grant to finance technical assistance, studies and
staff training.
3. US$0.4 million would be used by SEINE to
finance technical assistance, studies and staff
training.
Project Description:      The project aims at assisting the Cape Verdean
Government and BCV in identifying, appraising and
financing economically and financially viable
industrial projects and in creating the institutional
structures needed to promote industrial sector
development. The line of credit to BCV would finance
productive investments in small- and medium-scale
industrial enterprises, including artisans and
cooperatives. The technical assistance component
would help set up and operate a new Investment



- iii -
Department within BCV and a new Industrial Promotion
Unit within SEINE. The project would be closely
coordinated and implemented simultaneously
with a UNDP/UNIDO project providing technical
assistance in industrial planning, policies,
sector studies and entrepreneurial training.
Benefits and Risks:       The project would help broaden and diversify
the country's economic base, create employment
and establish an institutional structure capable of
undertaking industrial promotion activities. It
would reinforce IDA's dialogue with Government on
selected policy issues affecting the industrial and
financial sectors. The main risks arise from
possible delays in project implementation due to the
need to build up institutional capabilities within an
environment of severe administrative and personnel
constraints, and due to the possible submission of
less than optimal subprojects. The project seeks to
alleviate these risks by putting in place a suitable
technical assistance package and by establishing and
requiring compliance with sound project appraisal
criteria.
Estimated Disbursements: FY86    FY87    FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92
------------ US$ million -----------------
Annual                    0.39    0.81    0.97   0.89   0.63   0.28   0.03
Cumulative                0.39    1.20    2.17   3.06   3.69   3.97   4.00
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Map:                      IBRD 15079R
WAPID
March 1985






CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
I. THE ECONOMIC SETTING
1.01     Located about 600 km off the coast of Senegal, the Republic of
Cape Verde, independent since 1975, is an archipelago composed of nine inhab-
ited islands and a population of about 300,000. The volcanic and rugged
surface of the islands totals about 4,000 km2 (see Map).  The country belongs
to the Sahel zone and has been plagued by constant drought cycles, the present
one having lasted for about seventeen years. Water availability is the major
determinant of its development. A very weak agricultural base, poor endowment
of natural resources, costly transport links and small domestic markets are
other adverse factors that contribute to low productivity reflected in a per
capita GDP of US$267. 1/
1.02     National income data for recent years show the GDP (US$81 million in
1983) to be roughly equal to consumption, and exports of goods and services to
be about 30% of imports. Close to 40% of basic food needs have been met by
international donations and more than 80% of investment needs by foreign
grants and credits. This high degree of external dependence is expected to be
a feature of the country's economy in the foreseeable future. Emigration has
been the consequence of desertification and poverty. The number of
Cape Verdeans residing abroad is higher than that of the population (which is
growing at a rate of 0.9%). Public works programs absorb part of the labour
force, and yet, unemployment is about 30% (temporary employment about 40%).
1.03     The continued growth of the Cape Verdean economy under the most
adverse conditions is partly explained by the ability of the country to take
advantage of its location and of its people. Services provided to foreign
shipping and aviation are the fastest growing source of income. In 1983, the
value of services was twelve times greater than in 1978 and eighteen times the
value of exports of goods. The locational advantage is enhanced by the wide
geographic dispersion of the islands, which creates an exclusive maritime zone
of 630,000 km2 and provides considerable potential for developing the fishing
industry. The country also possesses certain non-metallic mineral resources
whose exploitation can be increased by the industrial sector. Furthermore,
there is a widespread consensus among the international community, that the
economy is managed well by a committed and competent Government and that the
quality of its human resources is Cape Verde's most valuable asset. These
factors and humanitarian motives explain the continuous generous international
aid. Concessional aid and substantial inflows of emigrant remittances allowed
maintenance of a balance of payment surplus and of a strong foreign reserve
1/   This figure for 1983 represents an increase of 66% relative to that
of US$161 for 1977. From 1977 to 1983, the average annual rate of real
GDP growth was 2.5% and 1.5% per capita.



-2-
position, in spite of substantial and increasing investments in development
projects since independence. Given the limitations the agricultural sector is
facing, the Government's strategy, outlined in the First National Development
Plan (1982 - 1985), aims at building an independent economy through investment
in the industrial sector and services linked to Cape Verde's location.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Structure and Performance
2.01     In 1981 and 1982, the manufacturing and mining industries contri-
buted only about 4.2% to Cape Verde's GDP (Annex 2-1) and employed about 6.5%
of the economically active population (91,000). 1/ Although national accounts
data are very scarce and unreliable, it appears that the share of these
industries in GDP has been declining since 1977, when it was estimated at
6.9%. This reflects the country's strategy during the years after
independence which emphasized investments in infrastructure. Accordingly, the
construction industry's share in GDP increased during the same period from
16.5% to 24%; its share in total employment is estimated at 4%. The fishery
sector which in its larger units (industrial fish-ing) faces problems of an
essentially industrial nature, contributed about 5% to GDP and about 8.5% to
total employment. Within the manufacturing sector, flour and flour products,
f'ish products, cigarettes, clothing and beverages accounted for the bulk of
production (Annex 2-2).
2.02     By far the largest share of industrial production originates from ten
public and five mixed enterprises (Annex 2-3) which account for about 90% of
total industrial investments and about 70% of the industrial work force
(excluding the informal sector). These enterprises are, with two exceptions
(CABNAVE and INTERBASE), medium-scale units with total assets between US$0.2
million and US$4.0 million, employing between 20 and 200 persons. Some of
them are relatively capital intensive. Four operate at high levels of
capacity utilization and profitably, six operate at less than 40% of installed
capacity and with poor or negative financial results, and five have only
recently started operations. At least three companies are in need of
organizational and financial restructuring, rehabilitation or improved
management, and others require marketing and other types of management
assistance. Six medium-sized companies are typical cases of import
substitution, depending heavily on imported inputs; the others are service
industries or are based on domestic resources. The public and mixed
enterprises have some degree of independence from Government. The Government
has, however, to approve their budgets and to audit their accounts. The
Government intends to prepare a national accounting framework which would
1/   In all Sub-Saharan countries, the average contribution of manufac-
turing to GDP was 8.2%, and the average share of industry (including
manufacturing, mining, construction and public utilities) in employment
was 11.7% in 1980.



- 3 -
standardize the accounting systems of public, mixed and private enterprises.
This would be a step in the right direction since such a framework would
provide valuable information on the efficiency of public investments. In
general, public and mixed enterprises are self-supporting although the
Government contributes to the investment expenditures of these enterprises.
2.03     The two largest enterprises, which are both export oriented and make
full use of the country's locational advantage, seem to have good prospects:
CABNAVE 1/ is expected to be competitive with ship repair services available
at Dakar and Las Palmas and to have a substantial impact on the economy,
mainly through generating foreign exchange earnings and through creating back-
ward linkages (small enterprises providing services and producing inputs).
INTERBASE, the largest fishing and fish exporting company (9,000 t cold
storage capacity, 180 employees), presently operates at low capacity, but is
expected to improve its performance after renewal of its fishing fleet in 1985
(12 boats of up to 18 m length, financed by a loan of US$6 million from Arab
lenders). A third export oriented enterprise, a medium-scale garment factory
(MORABEZA, established 1978), had good initial success in exporting part of
its production, but is presently unable to export, in spite of apparently
competitive prices and quality (needing marketing advice). With the exception
of CABNAVE and INTERBASE, public investment in industrial enterprises has been
modest. Measured by international standards, there is practically no large-
scale industry sector in Cape Verde, and investments in typical import
substitution projects have been kept within reasonable limits.  However, the
low capacity utilization by a larger number of public and mixed enterprises
indicates that great caution is needed, even in planning projects of medium
size, since they may be too large for the domestic market and experience
problems in penetrating foreign markets (example: garment factory), or may be
unable to compete with imported products (example: shoe factory).
2.04     Modern sector small- and medium-scale private enterprises, although
better adjusted to the needs of Cape Verdean markets, are very weakly
represented (about 15 companies). Some fishing companies, operating small
fish freezing, canning and fishmeal plants and two salt extraction facilities
produce for exports. Carpentries, bakeries, repair shops and a cigarette
manufacturer, supply local markets. Most of these enterprises employ less
than 40 persons. They are less capital intensive than public and mixed
enterprises, but some operate with rather obsolete equipment and would require
financial and technical assistance to modernize or expand their plants.
2.05     The most important segment of Cape Verde's industrial sector in terms
of number of production units and employment, are the very small-scale,
informal sector or artisanal type of businesses. The total number of such
1/   CABNAVE, the largest project ever undertaken in Cape Verde, is a small
ship repair yard with 6 slipways of 110 m length each, capable of handling
ships of up to 6,000 dwt. Inaugurated in late 1983; total cost US$40 m,
financed by Government, BCV, EIB, AfDB and Portuguese and Dutch partners;
employment presently 400, to be increased to about 700 in 1986; estimated
value added about CVEsc. 540 m or 50% of industry's contribution to GDP in
1985; expected gross foreign exchange earnings about CVEsc. 500 m in 1985.



- 4 -
enterprises may be much higher than 1,000 (only 243 were officially registered
in 1982), and employment offered by them is estimated at 6,700 (2,200 leather
and textiles, 1,400 agro-industry, 1,000 construction materials, 1,000 wood-
processing and 1,100 other activities, e.g. pottery, black- and tinsmithing,
basket-making, carving and other handicrafts). Employment in artisanal
fishing, which accounts for nearly 80% of all fish landings in the country, is
estimated at about 3,500. Artisanal enterprises often are one-man units; some
employ up to five assistants. They often engage in seasonal or part-time
activities, use simple hand tools and produce on order for local markets.
Some of them are organized as cooperatives, employing up to ten working
members. In this sector, investment costs per job are extremely low, but
mostly so are productivity and product quality. Contrary to public, mixed and
formal sector private enterprises which receive financial resources from
Government, BCV or foreign donors, artisans have no access to institutional
financing. Technical assistance and entrepreneurial training schemes are not
yet available.
2.06     Besides the products mentioned in paras 2.03 and 2.04, Cape Verde
exports only bananas and very small quantities of animal hides and artisanal
artifacts. It has in the past also exported pozzolana cement and some coffee
and oils. In contrast to exports, imports cover a wide range of goods.
Intermediate goods imports still have little importance because of the small
size of the industrial sector (Annex 2-4).
B. Policy and Institutional Framework
1.   Objectives and Investment Plan
2.07     The First National Development Plan (1982 - 1985) sets three major
objectives for the industrial sector:
a)  to better satisfy basic national needs;
b)  to reduce unemployment; and
c)  to reduce the country's extreme dependence on foreign aid by
reducing the balance of trade deficit.
According to the Development Plan, these objectives are to be addressed in the
short to medium term through an ambitious investment plan which projects
industry to become the fastest growing productive sector and the "motor" of
economic development. Investments in public and mixed enterprises are
expected to increase (in current prices) from CVEsc.858 million in 1982
(actual) to CVEsc.2,240 million in 1985. The sector's share in total public
investments during the plan period is projected at CVEsc. 4,619 million or 16%
(Annex 2-5), and its contribution to GDP is expected to increase from 4.2% in
1982 to 11% in 1985. More specifically, the Government intends to address the
first two objectives through investments in two relatively large import
substitution projects and one service industry and through financing and
promoting labour intensive small- and medium-scale enterprises, while the



- 5-
third objective is being pursued through two export oriented projects, CABNAVE
and a salt extraction facility (Annex 2-6)D
2.08     Apart from CABNAVE and two medium-sized projects (SONACOR and FAMA),
all other projects listed in Annex 2-6 are still in the planning or initial
stage of implementation. The Government has been cautioned regarding the
viability of some of these projects, in particular the cement project which
has been reviewed by IFC and found unviable under cost and market consi-
derations. Implementation of the investment plan has been delayed, not only
because of the doubtful viability of some projects, but also due to limited
planning and implementation capacity and shortage of financial resources. 1/
This confirms the general impression that the industrial investment program is
too ambitious and that the Government may have been ill-advised when it
included some of the larger projects (cement plant, brewery) in the investment
plan, since this diverted the attention of the very limited planning staff
from projects and activities of relatively greater economic significance,.
2.   Policies
2.09     Industrial policies in Cape Verde are strongly determined by (a) a
dominant public sector; (b) the monopolistic or quasi-monopolistic posit-ion of
larger and medium-sized enterprises, due to the narrowness of domestic
markets; and (c) the natural protection of domestic markets due to the remote
location of the country. All these factors tend to reduce the role market
forces can play as a regulating mechanism and confer to Government the possi-
bility of far-reaching interventions. Another factor determining industrial
policies, is the country's overall political orientation. The Cape Verdean
constitution requires Government to plan and direct the national economy and
to assume a decisive role in all its domaines. Enterprises of public and
mixed ownership will therefore continue to be important. However, the Govern-
ment is not opposed to the existence of a private sector. It intends to pro-
mote private as well as cooperative enterprises. It tries to encourage joint
ventures and does not rule out fully foreign-owned enterprises, although some
Cape Verdean participation is preferred (with very few exceptions, no private
foreign investments were attracted after the 1975 independence). Government
intervention through the creation of publ-ic and mixed enterprises has been
pragmatic and reflects the shortage of private capital, initiative and talent.
2.10     The success of industrial development policies will depend to a large
extent on the degree to which domestic labour resources can compensate for the
country's competitive disadvantages, above all on the degree to which competi-
tive wages allowing for low initial productivity can be ensured. At present,
wages do not seem to have a competitive advantage compared with wage levels in
countries with similar productivity. However, the Government recognizes the
desirability of a policy of restrained wage increases, not fully following
1/   About 85% of public industrial investments are expected to be
financed from concessional foreign aid. At end-1983, about 34% of total
financing was assured, while 56% fell in the "probable" and 10% in the
"tunknown" categories.



- 6 -
improvements in productivity.  Public sector wage adjustments, which strongly
influence the general wage level, have therefore been moderate since
independence, and the future policy is expected to be one of caution. 1/
The Government is also aware of the need for intensified manpower training.
Average annual expenditures for education and vocational training are planned
to be five times as high as during the pre-plan period. For these reasons,
enhanced competitiveness may be expected from greater stability of wages
relative to other countries and from increasing productivity.
2.11     Prices of essential goods (basic food products, cereals, oils, cement
and combustibles) are subject to a regime of controlled wholesale and retail
prices, those of other goods are either controlled by fixed trade margins
(10% - 20%) or are free (luxury goods, habitation). Through frequent adjust-
ments, the Government has attempted to keep prices in line with international
trends and to avoid subsidization via public enterprises. This policy has
been quite successful and realistic, considering the many inelasticities
existing in the economy. Induced by international price developments,
particularly those in Portugal, the country's main trading partner (about 50%
of imports and exports), the cost of living increased nevertheless by about
15% per annum between 1978 and 1980 and by about 20% per annum during the
following years. 2/
2.12     The Cape Verdean Escudo is pegged to a basket of nine currencies.
Because of the strong weight of the Portuguese Escudo which follows the
crawling peg system, the currency does not seem to be overvalued. Imports are
subject to licensing which is liberally handled for priority imports like
pharmaceuticals and capital goods. The volume of imports is controlled by BCV
and the Secretariat of Commerce through a foreign exchange budget. In
general, this system seems sufficiently flexible and to be working reasonably
well. A mixed regime of ad-valorem and specific taxes on imports is applied,
with ad-valorem rates ranging from 3 - 18.5% for machines and equipment to
30 - 100% for automobiles, and specific rates ranging from CVEsc. 0.56/liter
for gasoline to CVEsc. 110.0/liter for whisky.  On the average, the level of
import taxes is moderate, but the tariff schedule needs rationalization,
including abolition of specific rates and an increase in tariffs on luxury
goods. The very minor taxes on exports should be abolished completely.
Investment incentives are provided mainly in the form of income tax exemptions
for exporters, for new small and medium industries entirely owned by residents
1/   Public sector wages were increased four times since independence
(1975). The weighted average of the wage schedule increased from
CVEsc.6,470/month in 1979 +o CVEsc.7,031 in 1981, CVEsc.7,734 in 1982
and CVEsc. 9,386 in 1983. The average real wage in the public sector
declined in 1982.
2/   An official price index does not yet exist.  The above estimates
are based on a rough weighing system prepared by BCV.  Because of the
stabilizing effects of food aid and anti-inflationary policies in
Portugal, the rate of inflation is expected to come down slightly over
the next 3 years.



- 7 -
and for larger Industries exempted through specific legislation. Imports of
capital goods, agricultural inputs and imports under the draw-back regime can
be exempted from import duties.  Quantitative import restrictions have been
imposed cautiously and on a selective basis to protect some of the public and
mixed enterprises. A study on investment incentives is required to determine
whether and how the existing system can be improved (para 2.13).
2.13     Tn relation to the magnitude of functions the Development Plan
expects Government to assume in controlling and guiding the economic sectors,
industrial policy instruments are weakly developed. In the context of the
Economic Memorandum on Cape Verde, policy issues, including the import and
export tax system referred to in the preceding paragraph, were discussed with
Government which is considering to make the necessary changes.  A UNDP/UNIDO
technical assistance project which is linked to the proposed project (para
4,10) is expected to include assistance in this area, in reviewing the
incentives system and in formulating an income policy aimed at restraining
wage developments and at forestalling the need for sudden large wage
increases. It will also provide policy guidance on such important subjects as
export promotion, small enterprise development, vocational training and
industrial financing.
3.   Institutional Framework
2.14     The administrative and institutional support and control system for
industry is also insufficiently developed.  The Ministry of Economy and
Finance is responsible for formulating and implementing industrial policy. To
strengthen this function, a Secretariat of State for Industry and Energy
(SEINE) was created in 1983, and the former General Directorate of Industry
and Energy was split into two general directorates, both of which report to
SEINE. The impact of the Directorate has been limited since it had a small
and inexperienced staff (director, three engineers, two economists).  It con-
centrated largely on its role as a supervisor of ten state enterprises and was
involved in the preparation and implementation of some industrial projects.
2.15     To play a more effective role, SEINE recently created a Division for
Studies and Planning which will be responsible for industrial planning (second
development plan), sector studies, industrial statistics and similar
functions. In these areas it will receive assistance under the UNDP/UNIDO
technical assistance project. The Development Plan provides also for the
creation of a Promotion Center for Small Industries.  However, while the
intention to promote small enterprises deserves support, the establishment of
a separate promotion center should not be precipitated because of the severe
shortage of experienced personnel. Instead, an Industrial Promotion Unit
(IPU) has just been set up within the Directorate of Industry which will
expand its staff and use the staff and expertise already available. With an
initial staff of three professionals, IPU is expected to form the nucleus of
an independent industrial promotion center to be created possibly after five
to six years. Through IPU, the Directorate would be expected to play a much
greater role in the identification and promotion of viable industrial
projects, in providing technical assistance to existing enterprises and in
developing entrepreneurship in Cape Verde. For this purpose, it requires
intensive technical advice and its young staff, mostly coming to it directly



-8-
from foreign universities, needs specialized training. The proposed IDA
project would provide this assistance. In addition to the Miinistry of Economy
and Finance/SEINE, a number of other ministries and Government institutions
are involved in industrial sector activities.  Their functions are discussed
in Annex 2-7.
C. Strategy and Prospects
2.16     In spite of such apparent constraints as severe shortage of
resources, restricted domestic markets and unfavourable factor costs, the
Cape Verdean Government sees the role assigned to industry as one which, in
the given environment, only this sector will be capable of assuming. In the
long run, industrial development is expected to center around four areas in
which it is felt that Cape Verde has, or can develop, comparative advantages:
(a) fishing, fish processing and processing of some agricultural products;
(b) services to international shipping and aviation (ship repair, bunker-
ing); (c) construction materials; and (d) light-metal, electrical and
electronic engineering. In the latter area, the Cape Verdeans hope to exploit
the islands' human resources to first create an import substitution industry
and later to produce for export. Fortunately, the Government has so far
abstained from implementing large capital intensive projects based on imported
inputs.  Through the  establishment of industries like the ship repair yard,
the garment and shoe factories, some calculated risks have nevertheless been
taken. These risks could reach unmanageable levels, if some of the projects
included in the Development Plan were implemented without more intensive and
realistic analysis (para 2.08). Cape Verde is a member of ECOWAS, a signatory
to the Lomb Convention and maintains close ties with Portugal and other former
Portuguese colonies. It hopes to benefit increasingly from these economic
links and markets in the future. However, a realistic assessment of this
potential and a very cautious approach in evaluating larger projects will be
necessary, if it is to benefit from the lessons learned by many other devel-
oping countries which overestimated the market potential and the international
competitiveness of relatively large, especially government supported projects.
2.17     Except in cases where export prospects are clearly indicated or
economies of scale and the size of domestic markets justify the creation
of larger capacities, Cape Verde's industrial strategy should attach high
priority to the promotion of small- and medium-scale, labour intensive and
domestic resource based industries, including artisans and cooperatives.  A
number of sector studies prepared during the past five years by bilateral and
international aid agencies conclude that there is a need to assist small
production units in modernizing and expanding their activities (tailors,
carpenters, shoemakers, bakers, basket makers, foundries, smithing, potteries,
car repair shops, etc.). They also see a reasonable potential for the
creation of new small- and medium-scale enterprises which would primarily
process domestic materials and provide industrial services. The best
opportunities for new activities are found to exist in the fishing and fish
processing, building materials, agro-industrial, metal- and wood-working



- 9 -
branches. 1/  FAO is presently carrying out an intensive technical assistance
program for the fishery sector, including artisanal fisheries, CABNAVE needs
services and inputs (e.g. paints and varnishes) that can be produced
domestically, and some NGOs and bilateral assistance schemes are experimenting
with new building materials and agricultural products. Project ideas have
already and will continue to emanate from these and other activities. There
are therefore clear lndications that investment opportunities on which to base
a strategy of small- and medium-enterprise promotion do exist in Cape Verde.
2.18     While the best short- to medium-term prospects seem to exist in the
expansion and modernization as well as in the creation of small enterprises,
they do not presently receive any institutional support, except when organized
in cooperatives (Annex 2-7). Although, according to the Development Plan, the
Government intends to promote "popular production" (informal sector, small
individual and cooperative enterprises), modern medium- to larger-sized
projects appear to have attracted more attention and the opinions of
Government officials seem to differ regarding the development potential of the
artisanal sector. Considering the lack of appropriate institutional
structures and of experienced personnel to promote small enterprises, it is
understandable that no significant results are expected in this field in the
short run. However, a beginning can be made. Small enterprises need not only
access to institutional finance, but also technical assistance in improving
their technologies and products, in marketing, bookkeeping and overall
management. Apart from supporting export oriented projects whenever a viable
opportunity can be identified, promotion of small- and medium-scale enter-
prises, including informal sector or artisanal enterprises, would therefore be
an important objective of the proposed project.
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Structure
3.01     The banking system of Cape Verde is very small and unspecialized.  It
evolved from the branches Portuguese banks maintained in the country before
independence and consists of three public institutions, the Caixa Economica
Postal (CEP), the Caixa de Credito (CC), and most importantly, the Bank of
Cape Verde (BCV). The CEP is a postal savings institution which, through an
extensive network of post office branches, mobilizes small savings and makes
personal loans. The CC has in the past provided term financing, mainly for
fisheries, agriculture and housing. Its financial position has been eroded by
non-recoverable loans, and it has ceased making new loans while retaining only
a small core staff. While the operations of CEP and CC are of little
1/   E.g. ceramic articles, brick stones, tiles, gravel, pozzolana lime,
school chalk, paints and varnishes, nails and screws, doors and windows,
wheel barrows, shovels, watering cans, windmills, maize grinders, small
fishing boats, leather tanning, fish conserves, fishmeal, oils, wine,
coffee, tobacco, tomato concentrates.



- 0 -
significance, especially for the industrial sector, the assets and liabilities
of BCV account for more than 90% of those of all financial institutions. For
this reason and since the proposed credit is to be channelled through BCV, its
organization, operations and policies have been analyzed in some more detail.
B. Bank of Cape Verde
1.   Functions and Organization
3.02     BCV combines the functions of a central bank, a commercial bank and a
development bank. It was established by Organic Law of June 1976 and has
since been well managed. Its management is entrusted to a Governor and a
Deputy Governor who are appointed by the Council of Ministers. The present
Governor, who previously held the positions of Minister of Finance and of
Ambassador to the United Nations, took office in April 1984. He presides over
an Advisory Council which comprises the members of the Board of Directors and
representatives from five ministries. The Board of Directors consists of the
Governor, the Deputy Governor and three other members appointed by the Prime
Minister. The total staff of BCV numbers 318, of which about 58% are located
in six branches and six small agencies spread among the islands. The present
organizational structure of BCV is presented in Annex 3-1. Commercial banking
operations (short-term lending, deposit taking, etc.) are carried out by the
branches and have in the past been coordinated by the Department of Credit
Services and Branches (DCSB) at head office. This department had also the
central responsibility for medium- and long-term credit operations. The
functional diversity of BCV had created some operational difficulties, the
DCSB was weakly staffed (four young professionals with a university degree,
bachelor level, of whom only one has significant banking experience, plus five
assistants) and its procedures had been barely developed.
3.03     For these reasons and in order to play a more active role in the
economic development of the country, BCV - advised by the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) - decided to separate development finance activities from
its central banking and commercial banking operations. In conformity also
with the proposals of the IDA project appraisal mission, it has recently
transformed the DCSB into a separate and self-contained Investment Department
(ID) which is in charge of medium- and long-term lending, has resources
specifically allotted for this purpose, separate accounting, and thus operates
within a more clearly prescribed framework. The staff of the ID will be
strengthened and the proposed IDA credit will be handled by this department.
Arrangements made for staffing the ID and its operating policy statement
(Annex 3-2) have been reviewed and are satisfactory. To develop the
procedures, policies and operations of the new department, BCV will require
intensive technical assistance which would be provided under the proposed
project.
20   Lending Policies and Procedures
3.04     Monetary management in Cape Verde has been cautious.  Credit expan-
sion has not or not significantly contributed to inflationary developments.
Instead, the use o-f central bank credit to finance public sector investments



- 11 -
has usually resulted in almost exactly matching outflows of external
reserves. To contain these developments and to maintain the country's strong
foreign reserve position, the authorities have attempted to keep the expansion
of domestic credit within tolerable limits. Government borrowing is limited
by BCV's Organic Law to 15% of the previous year's revenues, but the Law
authorizes BCV to accommodate the Government for specific development
projects, and this regulation was invoked in 1981 to obtain financing for
CABNAVE. To facilitate an optimal distribution of credit among the private
and public sectors, the IMF recommended in 1982 an annual credit-budgeting
exercise, but this has not yet been instituted. A well-balanced credit budget
would be important to avoid a "crowding out" of BCV's private sector clients
by large public sector loans. Submission of annual budgets would be required
under the proposed project (para 4.11).
3.05     The interest rates applicable for deposit and lending activities in
Cape Verde had not been adjusted since 1973 and had become highly negative in
real terms. As a first step towards achieving positive real interest rates,
BCV agreed during project appraisal to increase its rates by at least 2
percentage points. The new interest rate regime which was announced on
January 1, 1985, represents an average increase of more than 30% and an
increase in long-term deposit and lending rates of 3.5 percentage points
(Annex 3-3). It includes for the first time an incentives scheme for emigrant
savings and investments. Although the average increase in interest rates
constitutes an important step in the right direction, the new rates are still
negative in real terms, and the spread between deposit and lending rates may
not fully cover the ID's operating expenditures and reserve requirements.
However, the Cape Verdean authorities recognize the adverse effects arising
from negative real interest rates and will continue to review interest rates
with IDA annually (para 4.05). Cape Verde's long-term interest rate policy,
including a refined incentives scheme for emigrants, will, if necessary be
addressed under the technical assistance component of the project.
3.06     As a central bank without clearly articulated development banking
objectives, BCV has hitherto been passive as regards the identification and
promotion of investment projects. Given the shortage of bankable projects in
Cape Verde, there is ample room for a more dynamic approach by BCV in addition
to the promotion capacity to be developed in SEINE. Project appraisal
standards also need improvement in several areas. In general, the staff of
the ID have still to develop the experience and the judgement of questioning
data and making their own interpretation of facts. Specifically, they do not
have the expertise for evaluating technical aspects and rely on partial
indicators such as value added, incremental employment, exports, etc. to
assess the economic viability of projects. Furthermore, very little project
supervision has been undertaken to date. The internal management information
system, as regards term-lending operations, is poorly developed. As lending
operations expand and some clients experience operational problems, a
preventive system of supervision and problem-solving/advisory work will have
to be established, and the information system has to be improved to provide
the data consistency, frequency and detail, necessary for timely and well-
informed management action. The technical assistance and training components



- 12 -
of the proposed project are expected to contribute substantially to an
improvement in procedures and operational standards.
3.   Lending Operations and Financial Position
3.07         The development and composition of BCV's portfolio reflect the
stage of industrial development in Cape Verde, where private entrepreneurship
and capital are lacking and public investment concentrates on few relatively
large projects. It is also the result of the lack of foreign exchange
resources specifically earmarked for industrial financing and of a dynamic
approach towards project promotion. During the period 1979 - 1983, BCV's
overall lending operations increased substantially from CVEsc. 1,271 million
to CVEsc. 2,993 million (Annex 3-4). In real terms, the growth is less
impressive, considering that the average rate of inflation was between 15% and
20%. At end-1983, the public enterprise sector accounted for 46%, central and
local governments for 24% and private enterprises for 30% of total credit
outstanding (Annex 3-5). About 37% of the portfolio consisted of short-term
and 63% of medium- and long-term loans.
3.08     BCV's term loan approvals to industry are analyzed in Annex 3-6.
From 1976 to 1983, 57 such loans totalling CVEsc. 1,643 million were granted
for 42 projects.  Their sectoral distribution shows that CABNAVE accounts for
the largest share of approved loans (44%). 1/ The transport subsector (mainly
inter-island ship and air transport) has received the second largest share
(35%).  While all other subsectors account for relatively minor portions of
total lending and enterprises of mixed ownership (including CABNAVE) and of
public ownership benefit from the largest volume of term loans (38% and 46%
respectively), lending to small and medium private enterprises is nevertheless
important in terms of number of loans (54% compared to only 16% of the
volume). Among the small private projects financed are fisheries,
carpentries, bakeries, truck and taxi operators and hotels; some of them have
received loans of less than US$3,000.
3.09     BCV's overall financial position is sound (Annex 3-4). 2/  Capital
and reserves have increased by 155% between 1979 and 1983 as a consequence of
a capital increase in 1981 and capitalized profits.  Excluding currency in
1/   Since part of the CABNAVE loans were granted to Government to
finance its shareholding in CABNAVE, BCV's direct exposure to this
project was much lower (about 27% of term loans outstanding at end-
1983).
2/   A detailed analysis of BCV's financial position is not meaningful
in connection with this project because lending activities and
activities particular to a central bank are intermingled in its
accounts. Only one income statement (1982) was released by BCV which
pointed to its activities as the treasurer of Government, which are not
normally disclosed in all details. For these reasons, it is not
possible to determine with certainty whether BCV's lending operations
were profitable in the past.



- 13 -
circulation and items in transit, the total debt/equity ratio which for a
central bank is of limited significance, has been relatively stable and was
2.4:1 at end-1983. In 1982, profit after provisions and reserves accounted
for 2.2% of average assets and 12.7% of average capital and reserves. The
largest portion of income was derived from foreign exchange holdings and
transactions (85%); revenues from lending operations accounted for only 10% of
total income.  BCV's operating expenses have apparently been kept at moderate
levels.  Administrative expenses accounted for 2.4% of average assets and
interest and commission costs for only 1.5% of average deposits and other
liabilities. In spite of low interest costs, the interest spread BCV received
on all lending operations was less than 2% in 1982.  This indicates that
lending operations must have been subsidized by non-lending activities. The
separation of accounts for development banking activities (para 3.03) will
allow a better assessment of BCV's financial revenues and expenditures and
thus create a better basis for future adjustments in the level and structure
of BCV's interest rates. BCV's term loans affected by arrears account for
9.8% and overdue principal and interest for 3.3% of total term loans
outstanding. Only three out of 42 clients have accumulated substantial
arrears. Overdue loans are well covered by reserves.
4.   Prospects and Resource Requirements
3.10     Since BCV's industrial lending operations have a rather short track
record, BCV did not build up a project pipeline through promotion and did not
budget specific resources for lending to the industrial sector, it is pre-
sently not able to forecast its term lending to industry and to demonstrate
its need for external financing through the usual resource-gap calculation.
During the period 1980-1983, BCV's average annual term-loan approvals amounted
to CVEsc. 180.0 million (excluding CABNAVE). Considering that under the
proposed project the Government (SEINE) and BCV would for the first time
undertake an intensive and systematic project promotion exercise, it is safe
to assume that approvals will grow by at least 6% per year and that therefore
BCV's foreign exchange requirements (75% of total project costs) will be at
least US$7.0 million for the next four years. A recent UNIDO study roughly
confirms this estimate. The study estimates the costs of all private and
public industrial sector projects likely to be implemented during 1985 - 1987
at US$64.0 million. Even if two critical projects (cement plant and brewery,
US$35.0 million) are excluded and it is assumed that BCV will finance only 20%
of the projects in foreign exchange, its foreign exchange requirements would
amount to almost US$6.0 million for the next three years.
3.11     Up to 1981, BCV's term lending operations grew more quickly than term
deposits. Further term lending had to be restricted due to monetary policy
considerations, i.e. the need to contain money supply and to maintain the
country's favourable external reserves position. Because of the high import
component of industrial investments, the use of BCV's own funds for such
investments has in the past resulted in almost exactly matching drains on the
country's external reserves. In view of Cape Verde's critical economic
situation, the IMF agrees with Government that foreign currency reserves
should be raised to and kept at unusually high levels to guard against
contingencies (in 1982 they were equivalent to about six months of imports).
Consequently, if BCV is to ensure a balanced growth of its term lending to



- 14 -
industry, unaffected by overall monetary considerations and by sporadic large
Government financing requirements, a foreign exchange line of credit
specifically earmarked for lending to the small- and medium-scale industrial
sector would be required 1/. Because of the global character of the estimate
of BCV's resource needs and BCV's ability to continue using at least part of
its equity and deposit funds for industrial lending, particularly for domestic
cost financing, a line of credit of US$3-4 million would be justified. The
Government and BCV are of the opinion that a credit of this size would not be
sufficient to ensure uninterrupted term lending to industry during the next
four years. BCV has therefore contacted the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) with the aim of securing additional funds.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
1.   Objectives
4.01     The proposed project aims at assisting the Cape Verdean Government
and BCV in identifying, evaluating and financing economically and financially
viable industrial projects and in creating the institutional structures needed
to promote industrial sector development. These objectives would be supported
by a credit of US$4.0 million to the Government of Cape Verde which would
finance industrial investments (US$3.3 million) and technical assistance
(US$0.7 million). The project would be complemented by a UNDP/UNIDO technical
assistance project (US$005 million, para 4.10).
2.   Line of Credit
4.02     Beneficiaries.  US$3.3 million would be onlent to BCV by the
Government of Cape Verde. The definition of target groups would be flexible
since industrial development in Cape Verde is in its initial stage, investment
opportunities are limited and industrial support services have still to be
developed. Accordingly, existing and new, private, mixed and public
enterprises in the manufacturing, mining, processing, construction and agro-
industrial subsectors; service industries, like repair shops and hotels;
fisheries and commercial farming, like poultry and pig farms, would be
eligible for financing. High priority would be given to the rehabilitation,
modernization and expansion of viable or potentially viable existing
enterprises. Medium-scale enterprises would be assisted whenever there are
1/   The only foreign lines of credit available to BCV are two export
credits from a Portuguese bank (US$33.0 million, interest of various
components between 7% and LIBOR + 3/4%, terms from 270 days to 10
years). According to BCV, they are difficult to utilize because of
their complex conditions, including the limitation of their use to
procurement of Portuguese goods.  Only a minor part has been disbursed,
although the credits became effective in 1980/81.



- 15 -
clear export prospects or economies of scale require and the size of the
domestic market justifies the creation of substantial capacities. 1/
Such considerations would, in exceptional cases, also allow participation in
the financing of larger investments where the viability of a project is beyond
doubt and alternative sources are not available. However, in order to ensure
that the line of credit will finance a range of small projects, a subloan
ceiling of US$300,000 would be established.
4.03     Otherwise, the project would aim at promoting a larger number of
small enterprises, cooperatives and artisans. Since the prospects for
developing artisanal enterprises are considered uncertain at this stage
(para 2.18) and the institutional framework for promoting them is not yet in
place, a project identification study, financed under the proposed credit,
would be carried out during the initial stage of implementation and an
adequate portion of the credit would subsequently be used for sublending to
artisanal enterprises. In addition, BCV would establish a Revolving Fund of
US$500,000 from part of the proceeds of the first round of subloans. This
fund would provide short- and medium-term financing for the working capital
and small investment needs of very small-scale or artisanal enterprises.
4.04     Onlending Terms and Conditions, Government to BCV.  Under a Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement between the Government and BCV, to be concluded as a
condition of effectiveness, the credit component of US$3.3 million would be
onlent to BCV for a term of 22 years including a 4 years' grace period, with a
fixed amortization schedule. BCV would be allowed to roll-over the IDA funds.
To provide BCV with a spread which allows it to cover its operating expenses,
build up provisions against portfolio risks and adequate reserves, the on-lending
interest rate would be 2 percentage points below the minimum rate charged by BCV
on subloans (para 4.05), i.e. 5.50% per annum. The Government would pay the
0.50% commitment fee per annum on the undisbursed balance of the credit and the
0.75% service charge per annum on the principal amount of the credit withdrawn
and outstanding. It would also assume the foreign exchange risk without charging
any fee to the subborrowers, in view of the lack of sophistication of small and
medium enterprises and in line with the Government objective of facilitating
their access to credit at a reasonable cost.
4.05     Terms and Conditions of Subloans.  BCV's subloans would cover up to
75% of the total cost of projects. Expansion and modernization projects could
be financed up to 100%, subject to an adequate existing equity base
(para 4.06). Within these limits, BCV would finance under the IDA credit up
to 100% of the foreign exchange costs of fixed capital (imported machinery and
equipment) and of permanent working capital (imported raw materials and spare
parts) and up to 70% (estimated import component) of the domestic costs of
civil works and locally produced equipment. Other domestic currency
1/   A definition of enterprise sizes does not yet exist in Cape Verde.
Exclusively for this project's operational purposes, the following
definitions, expressed in upper limits for total fixed assets before any
proposed expansion project, would apply: medium-scale: US$1.5 million; modern
small-scale: US$320,000; artisans: US$20,000. The capital intensity of
subprojects will be analysed in BCV's appraisal reports (para 4.12).



- 16 -
expenditures would be financed from the project sponsors' contribution and/or
BCV's own funds. Repayment periods of subloans would normally range between
three and twelve years, including a grace period of up to three years. BCV
would normally charge not less than 11.5% per annum interest on medium-term
and not less than 12.5% per annum interest on long-term subloans.  There is,
however, a high risk that small entrepreneurs and artisans who have never
dealt with financial institutions, may not be attracted by the project and
that the promotional effcrt to be undertaken under the project may not be
successful with such enterprises, unless special irncentives are provided in
the form of reduced interest rates. Consequently, interest rates for subloans
to enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding US$20,000 equivalent could be
as low as 7.5% per annum for medium-term subloans (3 - 5 years) and 8.5% per
annum for long-term subloans (5   12 years).  Based on the same rationale,
minimum interest rates for medium- and long-term subloans to enterprises with
fixed assets above US$20,000 but less than US$50,000 would be 8.5% per annum
and 9.0% per annum, respectively, and the rates for enterprises with fixed
assets above US$50,000 but less than US$100,000, would be 10.5% per annum and
11.0% per annum, respectively. As noted in para 3.05, the Cape Verdean
authorities are aware of the adverse effects arising from relatively low and
negative real interest rates and will continue to review interest rates with
iDA annually. The purpose of this review would be to periodically adjust
interest rates so that they progressively reach a positive level in real
terms.
4.06     Equity Financing.  BCV's subborrowers would be required to make an
equity contribution of at least 25% toward financing total project costs. In
the case of expansion and modernization projects, existing equity, accounting
for at least 25% of total assets after the project, could be accepted as the
subborrowers' contribution in kind. Since it is expected that many small
subborrowers will experience difficulties in raising sufficient equity
capital, and since equity financing instruments do not yet exist in
Cape Verde, IDA will, in exceptional and justified cases, consider financing a
portion of total project costs higher than 75%. The creation of an equity
participation fund appears to be premature at this stage, but this possibility
is recommended for further study under the proposed technical assistance.
3.   Technical Assistance to BCV
4.07     Under the proposed project, BCV's new Investment Department (ID)
would closely cooperate with the IPU of SEINE from which it would receive
project proposals; but it would also accept loan applications directly from
prospective borrowers and would develop its own project promotion, appraisal
and supervision capacity. To provide BCV with technical assistance required
to establish the ID as a well-managed and effective unit, US$0.3 million of
the proposed credit would be passed on to BCV by the Government as a grant.
This amount would be used for the following purposes:



- 17 -
(a) Up to US$220,000 would be available to finance two man-years of a
development finance expert who would assist BCV in completing the
organization of the ID, developing its policies and procedures in all
stages of the project cycle, train its staff on the job, and who
would actively participate in the activities of the ID.
(b) Up to US$50,000 could be used to finance short-term consultancy
assignments and studies for which the development finance expert is
lacking the time or the specialized expertise (e.g. study on interest
rate policy, including a refined incentives scheme for emigrant
savings; study on equity financing instruments; preparation of an
operational manual and other operational guidelines).
(c) Up to US$30,000 would be available to finance training of the ID's
staff, particularly in project appraisal and supervision methods, at
other experienced development finance institutions and relevant
training institutions. Additional training would be provided under
the UNDP/UNIDO project (para 4.10).
4.   Technical Assistance to SEINE
4.08     The main functions of the new Industrial Promotion Unit (IPU) in
SEINE's Directorate of Industry are: (a) to identify and prepare industrial
projects; (b) to identify suitable project promotors and to advise them on all
aspects of project implementation; and (c) to provide technical assistance to
existing enterprises (para 2.15). IPU's project preparation work would
benefit from the sector- and subsector studies prepared with UNIDO assistance
by the Division for Studies and Planning of SEINE. Its services would be made
available irrespective of enterprise/project size and ownership. It would
provide bankable project proposals to BCV, and advice and assistance to the
projects financed. Although it would for this purpose apply project
evaluation criteria acceptable to BCV (para 4.12), the latter would review
IPU's project proposals and take independent financial decisions. IPU will
have to establish close working relations with the ID of BCV and other
ministries and institutions involved in industrial sector activities. For
this purpose, it will consider creating a coordinating committee which would
meet regularly to coordinate all project-related matters.
4.09     To provide SEINE with the technical assistance required to establish
IPU as a well-managed and effective entity, US$0.4 million of the proposed
credit would be used for the following purposes:
(a) Up to US$220,000 would be available to finance two man-years of an
industrial promotion expert who would assist in completing the
organization of the IPU, developing its operating policies and
procedures, identifying and preparing industrial project proposals,
providing technical assistance to existing industrial enterprises and
training IPU's staff in industrial promotion activities.
(b) Up to US$150,000 would be used to finance short-term consultancy
assignments. These would include (i) a project identification and
preparation study aiming at preparing a larger number of projects for



- 18 -
the expansion and modernization of artisanal enterprises. This study
would also investigate the need and appropriateness of establishing a
technical extension service specifically for small-scale and
artisanal enterprises; (ii) market studies, technical studies, etc.
to assist existing enterprises (e.g. the garment and shoe factories)
in solving their operational problems; and (iii) special feasibility
studies which cannot be carried out by IPU and the industrial
promotion expert.
(c) Up to US$30,000 would be available to finance training of IPU staff
in industrial promotion, project planning and advisory services.
Additional training would be provided under the UNDP/UNIDO project.
4.10     Coordination with the UNDP/UNIDO Project.  The proposed IDA project
would be closely coordinated and implemented simultaneously with the
UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance project which will concentrate on industrial
planning (Second Development Plan), policies, sector studies and training.
Coordination would be ensured through continued intensive consultation between
UNDP/UNIDO and IDA, started during appraisal, and by using UNIDO as the
executing agency for both the UNDP-financed project and the technical
assistance component described in para 4.09. With respect to the latter
component, IDA would retain its usual rights regarding the appointment and
supervision of consultants. The arrangements for cooperation between
UNDP/UNIDO and IDA, such as periodic consultation on all important matters
concerning technical assistance to SEINE and joint supervision missions, have
been spelled out in the UNDP project document No. CVI/84/002 which has been
reviewed and found satisfactory.
B. Implementation
4.11     Reporting Requirements.  BCV would be required to submit (a) standard
semi-annual progress reports, including an analysis of the ID's operations,
its financial statements, details on loans in arrears and on subprojects
encountering serious operational difficulties; (b) an annual budget and an
annual audit of ID's accounts, the latter to be prepared by IDA-approved
auditors in accordance with IDA guidelines for audits of DFCs. Progress
reports on the technical assistance components would be prepared by the
technical experts and would be endorsed or commented on by BCV and SEINE,
respectively.
4.12     Subproject Appraisal and Review.  BCV would appraise project pro-
posals received from IPU or directly from project sponsors in accordance with
appraisal standards acceptable to IDA, and would base subproject approvals
exclusively on criteria of financial and economic viability. These would
normally include the calculation of the financial rate of return and an
economic analysis applying partial economic indicators, such as value added,
foreign exchange savings or earnings and employment. Particular attention
would be paid to an analysis of the capital intensity of subprojects. The
economic rate of return would be calculated for subprojects with total fixed
assets above US$100,000. The cut-off financial rate of return would be equal
to the highest interest rate charged on subloans, which is presently 12.5% per



- 19 -
annum, and the cut-off economic rate of return would be 1010 (estimated
opportunity cost of capital). Through the proposed technical assistance and
careful subproject review, strong efforts will be made to identify and select
projects with rates of return well above the cut-off rates.  Simplified
appraisal procedures for very small-scale or artisanal enterprises would be
worked out with BCV during the initial stage of project implementation. An
individual free limit of US$80,000 and an aggregate free limit of US$1.6
million would be established. These limits would allow IDA to review a
sufficiently large number of subprojects. However, the free limits would not
become operative until IDA has reviewed and found acceptable five appraisal
reports submitted by BCV.
4.13     Procurement.  Procurement would be in line with standard practices
for DFC-type projects. For imported machinery and equipment, at least three
quotations would normally be required. For off-the-shelf purchases of
materials and for civil works, BCV would satisfy itself that purchases are
suitable and reasonably priced. Consultants would be recruited in accordance
with World Bank guidelines and their terms of reference would be subject to
prior approval by IDA.
4.14     Disbursements.  Disbursements would be made for eligible  subproject
costs, as described in para. 4.05. Disbursements for consultants' services
and overseas training will be made at 100% of expenditures. All disbursements
will be initailly fully documented; statements of expenditure will be
introduced as disbursement experience warrants. Disbursements will be made
under the reimbursement procedure, withdrawal applications for which will be
submitted monthly or in minimum amounts of $100,000 equivalent. The credit is
expected to become effective by mid-1985. Disbursement projections (Annex 4-1)
are based on the Bank-wide disbursement profile for IDF operations. 1/  The
line of credit is expected to be fully committed by June 30, 1989 and disbursed
by December 31, 1991. The technical assistance and training components are
expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1989 (Annex 4-2).
C. Benefits and Risks
4.15     The project would support the Government's industrial sector object-
ives by providing the sector for the first time with an integrated package of
financial, technical and policy assistance. At the enterprise level, the line
of credit is expected to finance about thirty subprojects representing some
US$4.4 million in total investment and creating or preserving at least 500
jobs at an average cost of about US$9,000. The beneficiary enterprises will
1/   Given that intensive promotional efforts would be made under both
the UNDP/UNIDO and the IDA projects, that the IDA credit would pre-
sumably be BCV's only external source of foreign exchange which would
not fully cover its estimated resource requirements for 1985 - 1988 and
that the largest part of the relatively high technical assistance com-
ponent of the credit (17.5%) would be disbursed within two years, the
regional disbursement profile does not apply.



- 20 -
almost entirely be small- and medium-scale and some of them will be export
oriented. It is expected that the number of subprojects to be financed and
the number of jobs created by them will increase as a result of the proposed
study on artisanal enterprises.  At the institutional level, the project
includes technical assistance for strengthening the operational capabilities
of BCV as a term lending institution as well as for establishing within SEINE,
the Government department in charge of the industrial sector, an institutional
structure capable of undertaking industrial promotional activities. By
introducing into BCV sound practices of development banking and term lending,
the project would contribute by its demonstration effect to improving the
overall pattern of industrial investments in the country. These institution-
building benefits, although unquantifiable, are expected to be significant.
At the sector level, the project would complement the UNDP/UNIDO program which
provides the policy and planning assistance needed by Government to
rationalize and promote the industrial sector. The provision of such a
coordinated and comprehensive assistance program and the initiation of a
dialogue with Government on selected policy issues affecting the industrial
and financial sectors, constitute the main justification for IDA involvement.
4.16     The project attempts to break new ground in Cape Verde by providing
integrated assistance to small and medium enterprises. There are some risks
inherent in such a new undertaking. The main risk relates to possible delays
in developing the delivery mechanisms for financial and technical assis-
tance. IPU/SEINE and ID/BCV are largely untested institutions that still have
to build up their operational capabilities over time within a country
environment of severe administrative and personnel constraints. The project
seeks to alleviate these risks by putting in place a technical assistance
package which, while being limited by the country's absorptive capacity, aims
specifically at dealing with the main institutional and administrative
constraints. There is also a risk that less than optimal subprojects might be
envisaged by BCV for financing. By requiring the compliance of BCV with sound
project appraisal criteria, the project seeks to ensure that only financially
and economically viable subprojects will be assisted.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENTATION
5.01      During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)   With Government, that it will
(i)   onlend the financing component of the IDA credit to BCV
on terms and conditions specified in para 4.04;
(ii) pass on to BCV as a grant the BCV technical assistance
component of the IDA credit (para 4.07);
(iii) implement the SEINE technical assistance component and
recruit consultants according to IDA guidelines (paras
4.09 and 4.13).



- 21 -
(b)   With BCV, that it will
(i)   open separate accounts for the ID which will be made
available to IDA for review (para 3.03);
(ii)  establish a Revolving Fund of US$500,000 from part of the
proceeds of the first round of subloans to finance the
working capital and small investment needs of very small-
scale or artisanal enterprises (para 4.03);
(iii) onlend the financing component of the IDA credit to its
clients on terms and conditions specified in paras 4.05
and 4.06;
(iv)  annually review with IDA the level and structure of its
deposit and lending interest rates (para 4.05);
(v)   carry out the reporting requirements specified in
para 4.11;
(vi)  comply with the subproject appraisal criteria specified
in para 4.12;
(vii) observe the procurement procedures specified in
para 4.13.
5.02     The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA
(para 4.04), will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
5.03     With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$4 million equivalent.
WAPID
March 1985



CAPE VERDE
INJUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
CROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT BY SECTOR OF ORIGIN
(CVEsc. million, current prices)                            Shares
Sector          1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982          1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Agriculture      260   390   5,9   650   583   749          16.4   20.5   24.1   25.0   17.8   16.5
Fishing           82    82   109   175   193   227           5.2    4.3    5.1    6.8    5.9    5.0
Nini;ig            7     7      7     9      9    ii         0.4    0.4    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.2
I;anuf'acturing   103   119   118   125   130   182          6.5    6.3    5.5    4.9    3.9    4.0
Construction    261   317   326   335   685 1,091           16.5   106.7   15.2   12.9   20.9   24.0
Commercn         580   692   700   852 1,120 1,602          36.7   36-4   32.6   32.8   34.2   35-3
Public Services 290   293   369   450   558   683           18.3   15.4   17.2   17.3   17.0   15.0
G.D.P.         1,583 1,900 2,148   593,278545 4100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Source: IBRD, Economic Situtation and Prospects, January 30, 1985
WAPID
March 1985



CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCR AND PROMOTION PROJRCT
INDUSTRIAL PRODIICTIOt 1976 - 1984
Product                                  t976       I 9776    1978        1 979      1980       l'31       I 1182     19115    6/1 984
Salt                 Tons             13,701     31,317    16,891      16,196    22,134       6,445         n.s    13,340       5,829
1,000 Ese.         906      7,845      4,110    13,225    45,658        7,658       3,485    20,594      11,774
Pozzolana            Tons                789        940
1,000 Enc.         316        376  --------------------------------- n.a. - ----------------------------
Canned Tuna           Tons                191        183        28?        250        346         15        n.a.       288         55
1,000 Esc.       4,830      6,798      7,121    19.287    ?4,36?    45,542    4H,959    45,573    10,328
Frozen Fish          Tons                 593        256     1 ,459      ,?12         3 55     1,300       n.s.      1,1?0       n.e.
1,000 Enc.       2.733      4,869    3-t,1 5/    54,r155      n.a.         n.e    86,699         n.e.      n.A.
Fish PMeal           Tone                 395         97      n.e.          07        2?2        143       n.e.        308         60
1,000 Esc.       2,061        518       n.A.        1115     2,597      ?,05(      2,194       4,100      1 ,232
Sugar Cane Syrup    Liters              1,997     2,158        n.e.     5,778      5,933      6,6Ti        n.e.      4,314      3,650
1,000 Eec.          160       236       n.e.        512         596        661        612        449        38H
Aguardente            Liters          48,524   150,308         n.n.   125,232   174,107   207,979          n.a.   195,036   160,600
1,000 Enc.       4,389    14,401        n.e.    13,081      18,074    21,763    23,663    23,535    22,772
Soft Drinks           Liters         0o6.368    86,580    88,962   122,257   136.907    79.732             n.a.   132,954    21,380
1,000 Eec.       1,096      1,32?      1,837      5,122      4,279      2,540       5,053      6.254        835
Flour                 Tons             2,989      7,593       9.493      6,076     9,958       7,941       n.s.      9,986      5,981
1,000 Esc.      28,754    70,349    94,930    60,760    98,490    93,852    106,973   161,078   106,419
Flour By-products   Tons                1,025     2,768      3,694       1,834      3,'535     2,841       n.e.      3,054      1,834
1,000 EYc.       2,071      6,701      7,350      3.750    10,715    10.415       10,966      13,090    10,536
Wheat Bread           Tons                748      1,053       n.s.      1,546      1,961      2,210      1,420      2,058         991
1,000 Esc.      11,616      7,029       n.eA.    25,306    35,894    51,901       55,051      62,64-7    30,767
Mixed Grain Bread   Tons                   Sl        15       n.e.        172        178        130       n.e.        273         110
1,000 Enc.          345       882       n.e.      2,834      3,210      3,030        n.e.      8,189      4,163
Biscuits             Tone                 120        239      n.a.         277        343        432       n.e.        429        201
1,000 Eec.       2.749      4,337       n.e.      6,506      7,900    12,959       14,829     17,3575     8,522
Cigarettes            Tons                  6          7         17         12         16         13       n.a.         37          29
1,000 Eec.         722        965      2,640      5,764      9,085      8,166    24,654    42,579    39.860
Cut Tobacco          Tone                   2          I          4          2          2          '       n.e.          2       n.e.
1.000 Esc.         272        265        347        309        680         484         8tt     1,120        184
Clothing             Tone
1,000 Esc.    ------------- n. a.- ---------                30,764       n.e.    43,725    61,127    22,239
Shoes                 Pairs                                                                                n.a.    22,616    14,893
1,000 Fsc.    ------------------------- n.s. -__________________________          17,204      21,247    13,907
Nota:    Data not available for: concrete blocrks and tiles, furniture, gypsum plaster, quicklime and handicrtfts.
Source:  Bol-tin Trimentral de Entatiatica (several editions), Documents de ls Table Ronde our la Developpesent industriel,
March 1984, and S9INE.
WAPID, March 1985



- 24 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 2
CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
PUBLIC AND MIXED ENTERPRISES
A. PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
Ministry of Economy and Finance
1.  SCAPA      - Sociedade de Comercializacao e Apoio a Pesca Artesanal   *
(provides assistance to artisanal fisheries and
operates a small fish conserve industry)
2.  INTERBASE  - Empresa Caboverdiana das Infrastructuras de Pesca            *
(large-scale fishing industry)
3.  MAC        - Empresa Puiblica de Materials de Constru9ao                  *
(distributes construction materials and operates three
small- to medium-scale building material industries)
4.  EMPA       - Empresa Publica de Abastecimentos de Cabo Verde
5.  ONAVE      - Oficinas Navais de S. Vicente                                *
(small ship repair yard)
6.  CABMAR     - Empresa Publica de Estaleiros Navais (holding company)
7.  ELECTRA    - Empresa Pablica de Agua e Electricidade
8.  ISPS       - Instituto dos Seguros e Prevedencia Social
9.  ENACOL     - Empresa Nacional de Combustiveis
10. SONACOR    - Sociedade Nacional de Conservac,ao e Reparagao de            *
Equipamentos
(medium-scale vehicle and equipment repair shop)
Ministry of Transport and Communication
11. TACV       - Transportes Aereos de Cabo Verde
12. ARCA VERDE - Companhia Nacional de Navegacao ARCAVERDE
13. ANV        - Agencia Nacional de Viagens
14. ENAPOR     - Empresa Nacional de Administracao dos Portos
15. CTT        - Empresa Publica dos Correios e Telecomunica,oes
Ministry of Rural Development
16. ENAVI      - Empresa Nacional de Aviculture                               *
(medium-scale poultry farm)
17. FAP        - Empresa Publica de Fomento Agro-Pecuario                     *
- (medium-scale animal feed plant)
18. J. LOPES   - (medium-scale slaughterhouse, meat products)                 *
*   Industrial enterprises and enterprises which, among other
activities, engage in industrial operations.



- 25 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 2 of 2
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
19. EMPROFAC   - Empresa Nacional de Produtos Farmaceuticos                   *
(small-scale pharmaceutical plant)
Ministry of Public Works
20. EMEC       - Empresa Estatal de Construcao                                *
(medium-scale construction industry)
21. TRANSCOR   - Empresa de Transportes Rodoviarios de Passageiros
(has public enterprise status - capital held by
municipalities and Instituto de Solidaridade)
B. MIXED ENTERPRISES a/
1.  CABNAVE    - Estaleiros Navais de Cabo Verde, SARL                        *
(large-scale ship repair yard; 33% Government,
33% Portuguese shipyard, 33% Dutch shipyard,
1% Manager)
2.  MORABEZA   - Confeccoes Morabeza, SARL                                    *
(medium-scale garment factory; 51% Government,
A9% held by 104 private Cape Verdean shareholders)
3.  SOCAL      - Sociedade Industrial de Calgado, SARL                        *
(medium-scale shoe factory; 51% Government,
49% held by 44 private shareholders)
4.  MOAVE      - Moagem de Cabo Verde, SARL                                   *
(medium-scale flour mill; 51% Government, 49% private)
5.  HOTELMAR   - Sociedade Hoteleira de Cabo Verde, SARL
6.  FAMA       - Fabrica de Massas de Cabo Verde, SARL                        *
(medium-scale pasta factory; 25% Government,
75% MOAVE)
a/   Percentages in parentheses refer to distribution of share capital.
Source: Ministry of Economy and Finance
WAPID
March 1985



CAPE VERDE
INDPJSTRTAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
EXPORTS AND IMPORTS OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS
(CVEsc. million)
1970     1915      1976      1977     1978      1979      1980      1981      1982a/   1983b/
EXPORTS AND RE-EXPORTS
Fresh fish c/                             -         -         -        -       7.5      27.5     37.6       7.4         _      60.4
Fish meal                                 -       6.6      6.2       5.1       0.1       0.5       1.3       1.4        _         -
Shell fish                              8.4      4.3       7.6       5.5       7.4       7.1     10.8       7.6       3.0       7.3
Canned ftsh                            11.3      3.5       4.9      15.3       9.1      14.3     32.5       8.7       1.0      25.4
Fresh water supplied to ships           3.1       1.9      1.0       1.1       0.7       0.7      0.4       0.3       0.3       1.1
Salt                                    1.7       1.6      4.4      14.5      12.9      21.6     14.9      11.1       3.2       7.7
Bananas                                10.0         -      9.0       8.7       7.1      10.0     20.0      53.7       5.0      33.3
Hides and skins                         0.6       0.2        -       0.3       2.7       0.9      0.2       1.1          -      1.7
Pozzolana                               1.7         -         -        -         -         -         -
Coffee                                    -         -        -       2.5         -         -         -         -        -         -
Oils                                    0.6         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -        -
Others d/                              10.3     43.2      14.9      21.7      27.6       9.6     52.8      56.7       6.7      n.a.
Total                47.7      61.3      48.0      74.5     75.1      92.2    170.5    148.0        19.2    136.9
IMPORTS
Food and beverages                    115.9    560.7    308.9    631.2    980.6    537.5    888.1    824.7    274.3    501.0
Petroleum products                     14.9     70.6      79.5      97.4      95.4    142.8    174.5    375.6        80.0    580.0
Textiles and shoes                     23.4     95.8      34.7      43.3    104.0    120.8    168.5    191.9         65.0    140.0
Transport materials                    12.0     22.5      19.5      39.9    186.8    127.4    152.5    230.8         35.6    304.0
Cement                                 15.1     20.5      24.1      41.8      48.4      95.5     88.6    132.1       73.2    170.0
Wood                                    6.0      15.8     16.4      15.3      29.2      20.0     40.4      51.2       8.5      51.4
Others                               279.1    224.9    428.,3    415.9    463.8    942.8  1,229.7  1,645.3    333.5  2,303.5
Total               466.4  1,010        911.4  1,284.8  1,908.2  1,986.8  2,742.3  3,451.6    870.1  4,049.9
a/  Available for January - March  only (affected by lags in accounting and seasonal fluctuations)
b/ Available for January - Septemoer only
c/  Fresh fish included in fish meal up to 1977
d/ Mainly re-exports
Source: National Directorate of Statistics (various editions) and SEINE.
WAPID
March 1985



CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
REVISED PUBLIC INVESTMENT PLAN 1982 -1985
(CVEsc. million)
------Actual------         ---------------------Programmed-
SECTORS             1982        1983            1982        1983        1984        1985       Total
Rural Development       825.9       801.8           976.4    1,188.9    1,624.7    1,626.8    5,416.8
Fisheries                55.8        66.8           169.0       256.5       453.2       133.9    1,012.6
Industry                858.1    1,351.2            491.3       974.0       913.9    2,240.9    4,619.2
Energy                  411.4       325.9           474.9       398.9       448.2       151.0    1,473.0
Construction             43.5       172.6           179.7       346.4       137.1       143.1       824.3
Transport               489.3       657.0           619.9    1,391.8    2,271.2    2,056.7    6,339.6
Commerce                202.0       175.4           193.8       199.3       155.6        94.7       643.4
Tourism                  10.7          1.9            6.0        63.0       162.9       341.4       573.3
Education               195.0       281.5           279.1       455.5       595.2       561.0    1,891.7
Health                   48.0       141.9            48.5       129.5       328.2       429.9       936.1
Housing                 179.4       205.8           262.4       278.6       807.8       697.7    2,046.5
Administration          267.1       313.0           228.9       448.1       706.3       693.4    2,076.7
Total       3,586.2    4,494.8          3,947.9    6,130.5    8,604.3    9,170.5   27,853.2    >
Source:  First National Development Plan 1982-1985 and Secretariat of State for Dlanning and
C.operation.
WAPID
March 1985



CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM 1982 - 1985
(CVEsc. million)
Projects/Programs                                ----Actual----                  Programmed------
1982     1983    1982      1983        1984        1985       Total
1.   Cement plant and port, Maio                                      -        -        -         -      515.2    1,376.0    1,891.2
2.   Salt plant (salines), Maio                                       -         -       -         -       59.2       132.6       191.8
3.   Ship repair yard, San Vicente (CABNAVE)                      807.5  1,164.7   400.0    803.0             -           -    1,203.0
4.   Rehab. of ship repair yard, San Vicente (ONAVE)                  -         -       -         -        16.8       37.6        54.4
5.   Mechanical repair shops, Fogo and Brava                       15.0      0.8    18.0        6.9         8.3         9.3       42.5
6.   Exp. of mechan. repair shop, Santiago (SONACOR)               24.4    113.7    45.0      97.6        12.5         8.7       163.8
7.   Light metal engineering plant                                    -         -       -         -       26.9        62.7        89.6
8.   Rehab. of printing press (Impresa Nacional)                    4.2       1.2     7.1       6.7       35.3        27.0        76.1
9.   Carpentry cooperatives                                           -         -       -         -       25.1        28.1        53.2
10.  Carpentry for civil construction and
production of construction components                            -        -        -                 18.6        20.8        39.4
11.  Brewery and mineral beverages                                    -        -        -         -      100.0       350.0       450.0
12.  Development of wine production, Fogo                             -        -        -         -          -        66.0        66.0
13.  Rehab. of coffee peeling units, Fogo                             -        -        -         -          -         1.6         1.6
14.  Farinaceous products, San Vicente (FAMA)                         -     57.0    16.8      48.6        15.0           -        80.4
15.  Production of gypsum and gypsum boards                           -        -        -         -       13.0         7.0        20.0
16.  Exp. of pozzolime production                                  3.3         -        -         -          -        25.0        25.0
17. Center for the promotion of artisans and
small industries                                                 -        -        -         -       30.0        15.0        45.0
18.  Promotion and realisation of small projects                    0.3        -        -         -       16.8        56.1        72.9
19.  Support to producers of wooden artifacts                       1.1        -        -       1.7       11.7         7.0        20.4
20.  Support to various industries                                  2.3     13.8      4.4       9.5        9-5         9.5        32.9
Total                                             858.1  1,351.2   491.3    974.0        913.9    2,240.0    4,619.2
.....  _ ......   .....=    ==5==      = === =  ~  = =a ===   ===:|s;^
Source: First National Development Plan 1982-1985 and Secretariat of State for Planning and Cooperation.
txl
WAPID
March 1985



- 29 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 1 of 2
CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE ANb PRO1OTION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONS INVOLVED IN INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ACTIVITIES
In addition to SEINE, the following institutions are involved in
industrial sector activities:
1.       Secretariat of State for Planning and Coop ration
This Secretariat which comes under the Office of the Prime Minister,
is responsible for economic planning (national development plans) and
internlational cooperation.
2.       Ministries of Rural Development, of }-ealth and Social Affairs and of
Public Works
These ministries sunervise a number of public enterprises in their
respective sectors ZAnnex 2-3)!
3.       Secretariat of State for Fisheries
This Secretariat which comes under the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, is responsible for formulating and implementing policies for
the fishery sector and for promoting industrial and artisanal
fishing.
4.       National Cooperative Institute (INC) and National Handicraft Center
(CNA)
INC, which is heavily supported by foreign non-governmental orga-
nizations and bilateral aid, is responsible for the promaotion of
cooperatives which receive particular emphasis in the Development
Plan. Of the 32 cooperatives and pre-cooperatives presently working
with INC (most of which have about '1 to 15 working members), 7 are
active in manufacturing (carpentry and tailoring), and the rest in
construction, fishing, coamerce and agriculture.  By creating, orga-
nizing and partly managing cooperatives, as well as by providing
cost-free equipment financed from foreign donations, INC has in the
past operated in a rather paternalistic fashion. It is now consider-
ing a change in its policy, aiming at maore efficient and self-
financing operations. Its Fund for the Support of Cooperatives (FAC)
will in th m future grant soft term loans to the few "graduated"
cooperatives. Overall, the institution's impact on small enterprise
development has been inodest.  Some minor as;.istance to artisans arid
cooperatives is also being provided by the National Handicraft Center
(CNA) whose main concern is to coniserve and revive artistic handi-
craft traditions.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 2 of 2
5.       Training Institutions
Vocational training for industrial employees is offered by the
Industrial and Commercial School at Mlindelo which runs three-year
courses in basic commercial and technical subjects, like bookkeeping,
carpentry, metal work, etc. (enrollment in 1982/83, more than 700
students).  The school is presently being upgraded and a similar
school is planned for Praia.  The only other institution offering
vocational training for the industrial sector is the Cape Verdean
Solidarity Institute which trains students in carpentry, electricity,
rural extension and automobile mnechanics (presently about 100
boarders). The Center for Training in Administration (CENFA)
provides two-year courses for public servants in general and labour
administration, economics and finance.  University education can only
be obtained abroad.
6.       EI~MPA- National Procurement Agency
EMPA has the exclusive right of importing essential staple foods, and
it imports also industrial equipment and materials. Whiile larger
industrial enterprises can import directly, small companies often
depend on EMPA or other agents, in particular concerning imported raw
materials.
Source: Prepared by IDA staff
WAPID
March 1985



CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
Bank of Cape Verde
Organization Chart
Office ot the Goverror
Council of
Administrators
Advisors
(Legal. Technical)
Central         InTvestment Dept.,                                Studies &           InteCol Audit               ntrol
Adminlstrative      former Dept. of       Foreign Exchange         OrSganization          & Inspection          Accounting
Services        Cre.it & Branches        Mr. M. Cardoso         Mr. Hilario Cruz     Mr. A Magalhoes         Mr. A Almeida
Mr M Lima    Mr.N. Costa                                                                                M.A4ned
Internotionaol                                                                                                                                               Money i
Relactins &                                                                                                                                                M os Issue
Emigronts
Branches
(6 Bronches &
6 Aeorcies)
Source:  bank  of  Cape  Verde
World Brnk-262361
WAPID, March 1985



- 32 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 4
CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
BANK OF CAPE VERDE
OPERATING POLICY STATEMENT (DRAFT)
The Bank of Cape Verde (BCV) combines the functions of a central
bank, a commercial bank and a development bank. It conducts development
finance activities separately in the Investment Department (ID) in accordance
with the following policies adopted by the Board of Directors.
I. General Objectives
BCV, through its ID, shall assist in the economic development of
Cape Verde. To this end, it will encourage productive investments in the
country by providing medium- and long-term financing in conformity with its
Organic Law and with the development priorities stipulated in the National
Development Plans and other official documents.
II. Types and Areas of Activities
2.01     The instruments used by BCV in supporting economic development shall
include:
(i)   the provision of finance, namely short-term credits provided
by BCV agencies, and medium- and lonig-term loans provided by
the ID, which may include finance for permanent working
capital;
(ii)  the supervision and monitoring of the performance of
projects financed, which shall consist of a mix of financial
control on the one hand and problem identification and advisory
services on the other hand; and
(iii) the identification and promotion of projects, either by the
ID itself or in conjunction with other institutions, e.g. the
Industrial Promotion Unit of the Secretariat of State for
Industry and Energy (SEINE) in the Ministry of Economy and
Finance.
2.02     The instruments used by BCV in supporting economic development shall
be reviewed from time to time and suitably adapted to provide a more diverse
multi-purpose banking service, as and when required and feasible. In parti-
cular, the possibility of introducing equity financing, loan guarantee opera-
tions and hire purchase and/or leasing shall be considered.



- 33 -
A4NNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 4
2.03     The clients of BCV shall include public, mixed and private enter-
prises. These clients may be of different size groups, ranging from very
small borrowers (e.g. artisans) to medium and large enterprises. The size
categories shall be interpreted in a flexible manner and in a perspective
which adjusts their magnitude to the local conditions. For the time being, it
is not considered necessary to define these size categories more precisely.
2.04     The ID may evolve into a separate financial institution, with a full
range of financial and promotional functions. In undertaking its developmental
role, a key objectlve for such an institution will be the mobilization of
domestic and foreign financial resources.
III. Financial Policies
3.01     BCV, through its ID, shall undertake its lending  operations in
accordance with sound management and banking principles and practices. This
shall include suitable management in all areas of the project cycle
(promotion, appraisal and supervision) as well as other important areas of
development finance such as portfolio management, credit securities, and all
internal operational aspects.
3.02     BCV shall provide development finance only for projects which after
thorough analysis appear to be viable from financial, economic, technical,
marketing and management points of view.
3.03     BCV shall provide its clients with the necessary support in all
stages of the project cycle, ranging from project identification and
formulation to feasibility evaluation, appraisal and supervision. BCV will
place particular emphasis on the project supervision activity, which shall at
all times be prudent and constructive and embrace both control and problem-
solving advisory activities.
3.04     BCV shall extend finance in accordance with its general terms and
conditions which define the maturity, grace period, interest rates and other
credit charges, currency, repayment features, proportion of project cost
financed, and all other relevant aspects of its lending operations.  BCV shall
not normally deviate from these terms and conditions, unless the project
characteristics justify it and BCV's Board of Directors decides to make an
exception.
3.05     The terms and conditions will be reviewed individually or
collectively as the financial climate in Cape Verde changes.  Interest rates
shall always be fixed under due and careful consideration of
-   the rate of interest paid by BCV on borrowed funds,
-   the operating expenses of the ID, the need to maintain adequate
reserves and to maintain at all times sound financial conditions,



- 34 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 4
-   inflationary trends in the country and the structure of
prevailing interest rates,
-   the opportunity cost of capital and the financial prospects of
projects to be financed.
BCV shall not assume the foreign exchange risk resulting from the ID's lending
operations in foreign currency. This risk shall either be passed on to the
final beneficiaries of such operations or be borne by the Government.
3.06     BCV shall take suitable preventive as well as follow-up measures to
avoid a build-up of portfolio arrears. Should a client be in default, BCV
shall take appropriate remedial measures and impose suitable penalty fees.
BCV shall not normally extend new loans to clients which are in arrears on
existing loans.
3.07     BCV shall exercise independent decision making regarding the provi-
sion of credit, and shall base its decisions exclusively on project merits and
the suitability of project sponsors.
3.08     BCV shall manage its portfolio in a prudent financial manner.  It
shall diversify its portfolio across different clients and sectors as is
prudent from an exposure point of view.  It shall also pay particular
attention to matching its resource availability and liquidity position to the
maturity profile of its loan portfolio.
3.09     BCV shall not acquire a controlling interest in any enterprise, nor
participate in the direct management of client firms, except as necessary to
protect its own interests.
3.10     BCV shall secure its loans with appropriate security and collateral
in accordance with sound banking practices. In doing so, it shall however,
have due regard to its promotional role.
3.11     BCV shall not normally invest, except in exceptional circumstances,
in any one company an amount which exceeds 20% of the capital and free
reserves allocated to development finance activities.
3.12     BCV shall not normally finance more than 75% of the total cost of a
project.
3-13     BCV shall conduct its development finance activities in a clear
planning framework. This shall include projections of ID's operations; its
financial position and an annual credit budget. Objectives, operations and
portfolio quality shall be reviewed on a regular basis, which will result in a
more detailed re-formulation of this Operating Policy Statement.



- 35 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 4
IV. Staff, Accounting and Provisions
4.01     BCV shall acquire, train and maintain suitably qualified staff for
its development finance activity in the ID.
4.02     BCV shall maintain separate accounting records which accurately
reflect the development finance operations undertaken by the ID. Such
accounts shall consist of balance sheets, profit and loss statements, cash
flow and resource statements and shall be prepared annually and semi-annually.
4.03     BCV shall engage qualified and independent public accountants to
audit the records and financial statements of the ID, in conformity with its
Organic Law.
4.04     BCV shall make adequate allocations to a provision to protect itself
against losses from doubtful loans. For this purpose, it shall make a general
provision of at least 20% of the existing portfolio and maintain this
provision at any point in time. In addition, specific provisions shall be
made, as necessary.
Source: Bank of Cape Verde
WAPID
March 1985



- 36 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 2
CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
INTEREST RATE STRUCTURE
A.  DEPOSIT RATES                                               % p.a.
Sight deposits                                                - a/
Term deposits
90 days                                                4.0
91 days - 180 days                                     5.5
181 days - 360 days                                     8.5
361 days and longer                                    10.0
For amounts withdrawn prematurely the following
rates apply:
within 90 days                                           -
after 90 days for deposits of
91 days - 180 days                                      4.0
181 days - 360 days                                      5.5
1 year -   5 years                                     8.5
B. LENDING RATES
Up to 90 days                                          10.0
91 days - 180 days                                     10.5
181 days - 360 days                                     11.0
1 year -   5 years                                    11.5
longer than 5 years                                    12.5
C.  CENTRAL BANK DISCOUNT RATE                                  10.0
D. SPECIAL INTEREST RATE REGULATIONS
1.   Emigrants' accounts (see E.);
2.   Housing Credit
For low cost housing, interest rates below
those stated under B. will be fixed;
3.   Export financing
Special interest rates will be fixed for
short-term export credit;
4.   Financing of specific sectors under
bilateral or multilateral credits administered
by BCV (see F.).
a/   The CEP may pay interest of 4% per annum on sight deposits up to
CVEsc. 200,000 and of 1.75% on the part of such deposits that exceeds
this amount



- 37 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 2
E.  EMIGRANTS' ACCOUNTS
To encourage emigrants' savings and investments, BCV
will offer them three types of accounts. With the
exception of Savings and Loans Accounts, the lending
rates generally charged by BCV will also be applicable
to emigrants.
1.   Foreign Exchange Accounts
For these accounts, deposit rates are fixed in
accordance with interest rate levels prevailing
in the country in whose currency the deposit
is made (October 1984):
% p.a.
US$                 180 days - 1 year             9.5
above 1 year                 10.0
DM and NF           180 days - 1 year             5.75
above 1 year                  6.25
FF                  180 days - 1 year            10.0
above 1 year                 10.5
2.   Domestic Currency Accounts (converted
foreign currency)
Sight deposits                                          4.0
180 days - 1 year                                      10.5
above 1 year                                           12.0
3.   Savings and Loans Accounts
6 months fixed                                          5.5
if extended to 1 year                                  10.0
term lending up to two times the deposit                8.0
F. INTEREST RATES APPLICABLE UNDER THE IDA CREDIT
Enterprises with fixed assets up to US$20,000:
3 years -  5 years                                      7.5
5 years - 12 years                                      8.5
Enterprises with fixed assets between US$20,000
and US$50,000:
3 years -  5 years                                      8.5
5 years - 12 years                                      9.0
Enterprises with fixed assets between US$50,000
and US$100,000:
3 years -  5 years                                     10.5
5 years - 12 years                                     11.0
Enterprises with fixed assets of more than
US$100,000:
3 years -  5 years                                     11.5
5 years - 12 years                                     12.5
Source: nank ot Cape vet ue
WAPID, March 1985



- 38 -
ANNEX 3-4
CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
BANK OF CAPE VERDE
BALANCE SHEETS
(CVEsc. million)
ASSETS
1979          1980          1981           1982          1983
(Proforma)
Domestic
Advances to Treasury                   128.0          60.0          81.8           87.1         702.0
Loans to Government                       -           56.3          56.2          514.8
Short-term loans                       197.8         209.7         298.6          431.3         473.0
Med.- and 1g.-term loans              410.5          931.4       1,658.8        1,562.1       1,780.5
Other                                  534.6         367.3           44.1          12.5           37.9
1,270.9       1,624.7       2,139.5        2,607.8       2,993.4
Foreign
Reserves                            1,623.6        1,789.4       1,739.2        2,626.3       3,549.4
Investments                              3.8           4.2            5.1           6.3           8.0
Intern. institutions                  130.7           74.3         119.4          146.6         297.6
1,758.1       1,867.9       1,863.7        2,779.2       3,855.0
Other assets
Premises and equiment                   21.9          37.7           45.9          90.7           98.3
Items in transit                    3,922.4        2,938.2       1,551.5        2,351.4       3,192.2
3,944.3       2,975.9        1,597.4       2,442.1        3,290.5
TOTAL ASSETS                        6,973.3        6,468.5       5,600.6        7,829.1      10,138.9
LIABILITIES
Domestic
Currency in circulation               734.5          870.0       1,037.8        1,279.2       1,330.1
Deposits                            1,385.1        1,738.6       1,998.0        2,586.5       2,984.2
Government                        (612.8)        (775-0)       (685.4)        (875.2)     (1,312.2)
Private sight deposits               2.3         (709-5)       (826.5)      (1,095.3) )
Private term deposits             (772.3)        (254-1)       (486.1)        (616.0) )  (1,672.0
Other liabilities                        1.0         103.5         166.4          387.5         469.1
2,120.6       2,712.1       3,202.2        4,253.2       4,783.4
Foreign
Foreign curr. liabilities               67.3          43.3          130.0         155.1         670.4
Liab. to Intern. Organ.                114.4          50.0          94.6          110.7         231.9
181.7          93.3         224.6          265.8         902.3
Items in transit                        3,948.1       2,782.0        1,171.6       1,951.4       2,608.7
Capital and reserves
Capital                                100.0         100.0          400.0         400.0         400.0
Free reserves                           19.6          19.6           49.6          69.7         129.7
Contingency reserves                  262.3          315.5         425.6          732.0       1,149.6
Profit                                341.0          446.0          127.0         157.0          165.2
722.9         881.1       1,002.2        1,358.7       1,844.5
TOTAL LIABILITIES                   6,973.3        6,468.5       5,600.6        7,829.1      10,138.9
Source:   Bank of Cape Verde
WAPID
March 1985



CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
BANK OF CAPE VERDE
ANALYSIS OF LOAN PORTFOLIO
(CVEsc. million)
Short-term         Medium-term         Long-term             Total             Total in %
1982    1983       1982    1983        1982    1983        1982    1983        1982    1983
GOVERNMENT
Current financing                          30.0    30.0          -        -          -        -        30.0    30.0         1.2      1.0
(Article 14 of Organic Law)
Central Government Credits                 64.8      4.4       35.7       -       437.0   638.7       537.5   643.1        20.7    22.0
Local Government                              -       -         4.6      4.2       29.8    28.9        34.4    33.1         1.3      1.0
'94.8    34.4      40.3      4.2      466.8   667.6       601.9   706.2        23.2    24.0
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
Agriculture and Fishing                    199.0   205.7       62.9    10.9          -      31.9      261.9   248.5        10.1      8.5
Commerce                                  566.1   433.7        27.5    83.9          -      13.7      593.6   531.3        22.9    18.1
Construction                               82.4    65.4         1.5       -          -       1.5       83.9    66.9         3.2      2.3
Public Utilities                              -       -          -        -        11.4    35.1        11.4    35.1         0.4      1.2
Industry                                    4.0    21.5        93.3       -          -    197.1        97.3   218.6         3.8      7.4
Transport                                     -      0.5         -        -       279.4   261.5       279.4   262.0        10.8      8.9
Other                                        1.3      1.1       8.8       -          -        -        10.1      1.1        0.4       -
852.8   727.9       194.0    94.8      290.8   540.8   1,337.6 1,363.5           51.6    46.4
PRIVATE ENTERPRISES
AND INDIVIDUALS
Agriculture and Fishing                      3.2    95.7        3.6    11.5          -       0.3        6.8   107.5         0.2      3.7
Commerce                                  167.1   138.7        20.4    21.9         8.2      7.0      195.7   167.6         7.6      5.7
Construction                               22.2    26.1          -       7.4         -      14.1       22.2    47.6         0.9      1.6
Housing                                     0.3      0.4       19.4    21.5        77.3    90.6        97.0   112.5         3.7      3.8
Industry                                    4.8    44.7        31.9    86.8        12.2    24.0        48.9   155.5         1.9      5.3
Transport                                   2.6      6.0        4.3      3.8      102.3    96.8       109.2   106.6         4.2      3.6
Tourism                                     0.9      0.7         -        -       165.6   158.2       166.5   158.9         6.4      5.4
Others                                      1.3      8.0        6.5      4.9         -        -         7.8    12.9         0.3      0.5
202.4   320.3       86.1   157.8       365.6   391.0       654.1   869.1        25.2    29.6
Total                      1,150.0 1,082.6       320.4   256.8   1,123.2 1,599.4   2,593.6 2,938.8 a/  100.0   100.0    Z
a/   The minor deviation from the corresponding balance sheet figure (Annex 3-4) is due to accounting procedures.
Source:   Bank of Cape Verde
WAPID
March 1985



- 40 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 2
CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
BANK OF CAPE VERDE
ANALYSIS OF APPROVED INDUSTRIAL TERM LOANS
A.   By Term of Loans a/
Year                       No. of      Long-Term       Medium-Term       Total
Loans      --CVEsc. million-----------
1976                          1            60.0                           60.0
1977                          -              _               _              _
1978                          5              -             33.8           33.8
1979                          4            67.5            24.0           91.5
1980                         13           245.6            71.1          316.7
1981                          8           207.4 b/        183.4          390.8
1982                          8             6.0           129.0          135.0
1983                         18           479.8           135.1          614.9 c/
57        1,066.3            576.4        1,642.7
B.   By Subsector
No. of     No. of             Loans           % of
Loans     Projects      CVEsc. million        Total
Shipyard c/                   4             1             716.4           43.6
Transport                    16            13             568.2           34.6
Hotels                        6             5             108.5             6.6
Energy                        4             2             102.9             6.3
Manuf./Process.              14             9              82.9             5.0
Fishing                      10             9              54.2             3.3
Construction                  1             1               3.8             0.2
Others                        2             2               5.8            0.4
57            42           1,642.7          100.0
a/   Term loans are classified by BCV into loans with maturities from 1-7 years
(medium-term) and loans, with maturities longer than 7 years (long-term).
b/   These are two loans granted to Government to finance its shareholding in
CABNAVE.
c/   This includes two loans totalling CVEsc. 509 million, granted directly to
CABNAVE.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 2
C.   By Size of Loans
No. of                Loans              % of
(CVEsc. million)          Loans            CVEsc. million          Total
0.2 -    5                  26                   46.0                 2.8
5  -   10                  11                   83.7                 5.1
10  -   20                   8                  117.3                 7.2
20  -   50                   4                  140.2                 8.5
50  -  212                   _8               1,255.5                76.4
57                1,642.7              100.0
D.  By Ownership of Enterprise
Public                      18                  754.6                45,9
Mixed                        8                  632.9                38.6
Private                     31                  255.2                15.5
57                1,642.7              100.0
Source: Bank of Cape Verde
WAPID
March 1985



CAPE VERDE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
US$ thousand)
DA !azad
Quarter         By quarter        C lative           %
86      I              60                  60            1                 CUMMULAniVE PERCENT
II            )8                  140            3                                                                    --0
III             120                260            6
IV             130                390           10               o                                                /
160~~~~~~~~~~~/ 5H ANK-WIDE 
e,7   II              160                 550           14                    ESTMATED PROJECT                    /      STORCA
II  200         750           ig              00-  ~~~~~~~~~DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE----_"L
III             220                970           24                                                    / /             /
IV             230              1,200           30              70                                 /    /        /
83      I             240               1,440           36
II             240              1,6eo           42
III             250              1,930           48                                            /           /
IV            240               2,170           54s/                                                   /     REGION-WIDE SECTOR
/         /        HISTORICAL PROFILE
89      I             240               2,410           60                                        /       /
II             230              2,640           66              40                      /       /4
III                              2,860           72
IV            200               3,060           76                                     /    /
90      I             190              3,250            81                                 /  /
II            180               3,430           86              20/
III             160              3,590           90                               /   /
IV            100               3,690           92              /0
91      I             1C0              3,790            95
II              5)              3,876           917              0                                                                                
III             60               33,89370        998              o   1  111II  IV    I   11  111 IV   I  11  III IV    I  11 III IV    I  11  III IV    I    11  III IV     I  11  III IV    I    11  III IV    I  11  III IV    I    11  III IV
IV             40               3,970           99                   1986    1987    198      1989    1990      1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
IDA FISCAL YEAR
92      I              20              3,990           99
II              10              4,0C0          10
Note.  See para 4.14 for explanation of accelerated disbursements comnared with region-wide
sector nrofile.  The credit is expected to become effective in June 1985.                                                                                              x
Source: World Bank data (historical profiles).
WAPID
March 1985



CAPE VERI)E
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND PROMOTION PROJECT
PROJECT EXECUTION TIME SCHEDULE
1985  1986 1987  1988   1989  1990   991
_____1  2  1  2  1  2  1  2  1 21   21  2
I.    Investment Financing
Commitments                                                 -     _         - _ _
Disbursements                                               _   _     -  -  - _    _   _  -  -  -
II.   Technical Assistance
BCV - Development Finance Expert
BCV - Various Consulting Assignments
SEINE - Industrial Promotion Expert
SEINE - Various Consulting Assignments
III.  Training
BCV- Staff
SEINE - Staff
Source: Staff estimates
WAPID
March 1985






.ha               ,                                                                                           24e                                                                                    23! BRB                                15079R
/K4,teedsds Morse              1' SANTO ANTAO                                                                                                        CAPE VERDE
TerrOts                                                                                                                                               DUI CAP  VERDE
~~tNPtL0~        ~AO VICEr-NTE7w riI
eN-          4K>     0SANTA  LUZIA                                                                                                                                           Pstrrne
Ntam d                                     SACO  NlfOlAU                                                                                       lmlerfoli NICOLAU
-  -eco               rr e>r,-
Rtaso                         Poto
T- rf                   -~~ae
d       / a n / /
Mator p rPorte her-d sfac; reway length of 900            o more
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6 .7 i. i? .'
-,    A,rsfrnrs - Length of runway e, mewers (,00)        ...
/ISs/e daoeemr11.1-ro     - /.e.   o101. 
' Mmports
i    :                  t      IM~~~PerOR  ip,ortseord sN-Y,u.ylnt  f90mteso  nrEt-|s                                                                                                                              g       pm
Other ports                                                                                                                                                      i'
A rlrin po?rt9, j                                                                                                                                                                i K           _    tueiO 
Depth corours i? meters
Co,,hs as profowdeu' edt rwems                                                                                                                       //  J
rr    Reefs                                              N
Wrecks                                                                                                                                                                   .
IMpett rootd, 
ryoc/segr 4?rtr,t/p7es                                                                                                                                |    N
e^    Nertiorrol caft3tolr                                                                                                                                                    .
captfole d'dtot                      KItOMETER0  2. 0M                           40     0        600
? Trws                                      M                             20           3u           40                                 ,:
Elecetiors in enters                                                                                                                /9                   '    ,-  
Prw/c/s esn  etneres                                                                                                           r-.e.                   /X          %  
L00 ''0                                                                                                                                             JI:
8 3Sht?r B.^ 74 Ctl-=S500-1000                                                                                   FOGO PorSANTIAGO Q'
l  t-w1/ ., t- ........ 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
s         C.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CtoesM  slsl                                                  y     1
C.. i-r.                               N                                                                                   i93i
cuA  I I            w LptOew      r        L                                                   ooseort                                          ~ C~ e   Ot 4~ o
'F                                                                                 ,e.~  Scrne,                                                                                                                       ros oer   re,BRAVAee
ceo,          i/Ott   ~             Senos         500. 9,0,                                                          N,'          n          osse~nha,~.c s                                          rrneocee,eeee24ae2e`
N                             erue                                                                      e                                                   re,rte-e,,ete.eru,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBRAY 9



