Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22420
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-44650)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 85.21 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS, POST AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
June 21, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham
100 MAD = US$ 8.40336
US$ 1.00 = 11.9 MAD
FISCAL YEAR
June 30  July 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          -      African Development Bank
ANRT          -      Agence Nationale de Reglementation du Secteur des Telecommunications
BAM           -      BaridAl-Maghrib (postal operator)
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CAGR          -      Compounded Annual Growth Rate
ESW           -      Economic Sector Work
EU            -      European Union
GMPCS         -      Global Mobile Peronal Communications System
GOM           -      Government of Morocco
GSM           -      Global System for Mobile Communications
IAM           -      Itissalat Al-Maghrib (former name of Maroc Telecom, incumbent
telecommunications operator)
ICT           -      Information and Communication Technologies
IDF           -      Institutional Development Fund
IISDL         -      Information Infrastructure Sector Development Loan
INPT          -      Institut National des Postes et Telcommunications
IT            -      Infornation Technology
LDP           -      Letter of Sector Development Policy
ONPT          -      Office Nationale des Postes et T6lecommunications
PHRD          -      Policy and Human Resources Development
SEPTI         -      Secretariat d'Etat aux Postes et Technologies de l'Information
TPI-SAL       -      Telecommunications, Post and Information Technology Sector Adjustment Loan
VSAT          -      Very Small Aperture Terminal
WAP           -      Wireless Action Protocol
WTO           -      World Trade Organization
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:    Rajesh Pradhan
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Carlo Maria Rossotto



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS, POST AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    10
6. Sustainability                                                                        11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       14
9. Partner Comments                                                                      15
10. Additional Information                                                               15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    23
Annex 8. Best Practice Note                                                              24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID. P058128                                          Project Name: MA-TELECOM, POST AND IT
Team Leader: Carlo Maria Rossotto                            TL Unit: CITPO
/CR Type: Core ICR                                           Report Date: June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: MA-TELECOM, POST AND IT                          L/C/TF Number: SCL-44650
CountrylDepartment. MOROCCO                                                 Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region.
Sector/subsector. BI - Institutional Development; DI - Private
Infrastructure
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/05/1998                                Effective:  05/14/1999          05/20/1999
Appraisal:  10/01/1998                                  MTR:
Approval:  05/06/1999                                 Closing:  12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/ImplementigA.4gen2cv.  KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/MINISTRY OF AFFAIRES GENERALES;
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/ANRT; KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/BAM AND
SEPT]
Other Partners:  African Development Bank
STAFF                 Current                                      At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib                           Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:      Christian Delvoie                            Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:       Rajesh B. Pradhan                            Emmanuel Forestier
Team Leader at ICR:   Carlo Maria Rossotto                         Michel Kerf
ICR Primawy Author:   Carlo Maria Rossotto; Anupama
Dokeniya; Catherine T. Doody
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance. S
Borrower Perfbrmance. S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entrv:                          S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The $101 million two-tranche Telecommunications, Post and Information Technology Sector Adjustment
Loan (TPI-SAL) was approved by the Board on June 6, 1999. The loan followed investment operations
completed by the Bank in the sector during the 1990s. The main objectives of TPI-SAL were: (1)
introducing competition in Morocco's telecommunications sector; (2) developing effective regulatory
capacity in telecommunications; and (3) preparing the incumbent operator for privatization. The operation
also aimed to broaden access to communications in poor and rural communities, improve competitiveness
of postal service provision, and assist in the development of a national information technology (IT) strategy
to facilitate Morocco's integration into the global information society.
The operation was designed to support telecommunications liberalization, through the implementation of
the provisions of Law 24-96. The objectives of the operation were also designed to assist the Government's
coimnitment to the World Trade Organization (WTO) to liberalize the sector. TPI-SAL was also
consistent with the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objective of increased private participation
and competition in most infrastructure services, through network modernization, tariffs reduction, and
competitiveness enhancements.
The operation sought to leverage the synergies between the telecommunications, postal and IT sectors
arising out of a common institutional legacy and teclnological convergence. The operation also recognized
the different institutional capacity present in each of the sub-sectors. It set specific goals for each of them -
more ambitious in telecommunications, where liberalization and the promotion of private investment is
international best practice; and more guarded for the postal sector, where the global move for reform is at
a nascent stage. Recognizing the importance of including Morocco in the information society, the operation
also supported the Government effort to elaborate a national IT strategy.
3.2 Revised Oblective:
The original objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The components of the operation were intended to operationalize the liberalization agenda introduced by
Law 24-96, which was adopted in 1997. Under Law 24/96, the operating ann of the ministry, the Office
Nationale des Postes et Telecommunications (ONPT) was divided into two separate operating entities,
Itissalat al Maghrib (IAM) for telecommunications, and Barid Al Maghrib (BAM) for posts. IAM was
transformed into a joint-stock company. BAM was transformed into a public entity with financial
autonomy. A regulatory body, the Agence Nationale de Reglementation des Telecommunications (ANRT)
was created, separate from both operating entities and from the government. In IT, the Government had
created a state secretary for infonnation technology, the Secretariat d'Etat charge de la Poste et des
Technologies de l'Infonnation (SEPTI). The Government's Letter of Sector Development Policy (LDP),
dated February 24, 1999, laid out in further detail the actions that would be taken to implement the
provisions of Law 24-96 and the coimmitments under TPI-SAL.
The main components of TPI-SAL were designed to meet the objectives described above, and included the
-2 -



following:
(a) introducing effective competition in telecommunications.
This project component was mainly designed to assist the govermment's decision to introduce competition in
wireless telecommunications. The Bank agreed that a strong, privately-owned wireless competitor could
exert pressure on the incumbent, enhancing the overall sector performance of mobile and fixed
services. Under TPI-SAL, the government comnmitted to licensing a second GSM (Global System for
Mobile Communications) operator, through a competitive and transparent bidding process. The new GSM
operator would be allowed to build its own long-distance infrastructure and, after January 1, 2002, build
and operate its own international gateway. It would also be able to offer fixed wireless services in rural,
suburban, and industrial areas. The government also committed to grant at least two VSAT (Very Small
Aperture Tenninals) licenses, and to study how to enable owners of alternative telecommunications
infrastructure (for example, the electricity company), to become full-fledged telecommunications operators.
(b) Strengthening the telecommunications regulatory framework.
The operation included the following measures: a) establishment of a fee structure for ANRT, to be
covered by a predetermined percentage of license fees collected from operators; b) elaboration of
interconnection rules and introduction of a dispute resolution mechanism to solve interconnection
disputes; c) adoption of an optimization plan for use and allocation of frequencies guaranteeing similar
treatment to both the first and second operators with respect to access to GSM frequencies, and reserving
frequencies which could possibly be granted to other operators; d) completion of a study on legal issues
pertaining to the imposition of sanctions or penalties adapted for violations; e) submission to the
WTO of a Revised Schedule of Cormuitments on Basic Telecommunications, including the standard
Regulatory Anlex.
(c) Preparing IAM's privatization.
On privatization, the government committed to take preliminary measures for privatization of the
incumbent, Itissalat-al-Maghrib (IAM). Steps included: a) adoption of a privatization strategy; b) selection
of auditors for IAM's accounts; c) adoption of an action plan to reduce the arrears owed by the
administration to IAM, and d) implementation of a recruitment procedure for financial advisors to
implement the privatization transaction.
(d) Enhancing rural access.
This component included: a) the elaboration of a pilot project in the poor or remote areas of the Northern
Provinces; and b) adoption of a decree requiring telecommunications operators' contributions for public
service obligations and introducing the use of market mechanisms for meeting public service obligations.
(e) Modernizing the postal sector.
This component included: a) the elaboration of an action plan for public service obligations of the postal
entity; and b) the completion of a study on private provision of postal services to rural areas.
- 3 -



(f) Formulating a national IT strategy.
This component consisted of the support to a strategy that would incorporate policy guidelines on
e-commerce, e-govemment, and indications on how to promote IT investment and entrepreneurship.
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised.
3.5 Qualitv at Entrv.
The operation was not reviewed by the Bank's Quality Assessment Group (QAG). At the time of this ICR,
the Quality at Entry is considered to have been satisfactory for the following reasons:
* The objectives and components were in line with the capacity and commitment of the Government of
Morocco (GOM) to implement the refonn program, especially since Morocco had already adopted a
satisfactory legal framework and put in place a sector regulator.
- A comprehensive TA program, funded by EU and PHRD, provided advise to the Government on key
policy and regulatory issues, enabling it to successfully implement reforms.
-   The operation had a significant degree of client ownership and commitment. The client was very
involved in project preparation, and, overall, was responsive to Bank suggestions. The Bank team had
ample access to key draft doculnents, such as the draft GSM license and the bidding documents for the
GSM tender. ANRT, and other counterparts were available for frank and open discussions on different
options related to the tender process and the rights to be granted to the second GSM operator.
3   The objectives built on the success of past World Bank telecommunications operations in Morocco,
thus ensuring steady and sequential Bank assistance in developing the sector.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievenment of objective:
Overall, the operation was very successful, with significant development impact. Its outcome is rated
highly satisfactory. The operation achieved all its objectives, especially in the telecommunications sector.
The three major components of the project (increasing competition in telecommunications, strengthening the
regulatory regime, and preparing IAM's privatization), are all rated highly satisfactory. The successful
tender for the GSM license, which led to the selection of MediTelecom, was the most remarkable
achievement of the reforn program as it attracted strong interest from world class strategic investors and
had a tremendous impact on sector development, accelerating access and reducing prices. The newly
formed regulator, ANRT, led the GSM tender and licensing process in a transparent and competent way,
generated record revenues for the State, and emerged as an effective arbiter of the conflicts between the
new and the incumbent operator. The GSM tender in Morocco had a strong demonstration effect on
- 4 -



similar refonns in the MENA region and in Francophone Africa (Algeria, Mauritania, Senegal and
Tunisia). The operation also accelerated the privatization agenda, by completing necessary preparatory
tasks, and by stimulating the incumbent operator to improve performance by introducing effective
competition.
In post and infonnation technology, the gains were more modest, as the objectives in these sectors were also
quite modest. Two studies indicated strategic options to increase the efficiency of the postal entity, BAM.
SEPTI successfully completed the fonnulation of an information infrastructure strategy. The preparatory
work done for post, information technology and LAM's privatization, is being followed up in the subsequent
Information Infrastructure Sector Development Loan (IISDL), presented to the board on May 31, 2001.
TPI-SAL also developed synergies with other World Bank Group activities, such as a $400 million IFC
loan to MediTelecom and Information for Development (infoDev) grants for Y2K remediation activities
and for the development of a Cyber Park. The achievements of this operation, successful introduction of
competition in telecommunications, and significant preparatory work in post and IT , have put Morocco on
the road to information society development.
4.2 Ozutputs by components.
(a) Increasing competition in the telecommunications sector.
The achievements of the competition component of the operation were highly satisfactory (see Annex 8,
Best Practice Note). In particular, the measures related to the award of a second GSM license were fully
implemented. The Government awarded a second GSM license through an open, competitive and
transparent international bid, led professionally by ANRT. International operators showed considerable
interest, and MediTelecom, a consortium of Moroccan and intemational investors led by Telefonica of
Spain and Telecom Portugal, emerged as the winner. Second, following an international competitive
bidding process, three VSAT licenses were awarded in May 2000. VSAT operators are expected to exert a
significant downward pressure on international capacity prices, key input for data and internet providers.
Third, two studies on alternative infrastructure also contributed to the understanding of the necessary legal
requirements for owners of alternative telecommunications infrastructures to lease capacity to service
providers.
The successful GSM license triggered strong sector impact. The license brought substantial revenues to
the Treasury (around $1.1 billion upfront, plus expected additional mid-term fiscal revenues up to $3.5
billion, in net present value). The price paid for the license related to potential market size was higher than
the equivalent measure for other transactions in emerging markets (Turkey, Hungary, Egypt), as well as in
developed economies (Italy, Spain, Belgium). Austria was the only country where the license price per
inhabitant was higher than Morocco. An important factor explaining the success and the high financial
offer was the design of the license, which allowed the new operator to build its own long-distance
infrastructure and, after January 1, 2002, build and operate its own international gateway. The new
operator was also allowed to offer fixed wireless services in rural, suburban, and industrial areas, subject
to ANRT approval.
5-



Graph 1: Price paid for a second GSM license for transactions occurred in the years 1997-1999.
2656000 1
The entr o000000'00f ffthe fi,k000''000 second GSM operator led toS increase serv0icei qult an invesments Itasdceeae
in.:00fS000C00d0001 respose t thecompti.ftive,X ;threat of MediTelecom. Tariffs, '    were;0000000000 modiedainurg200folwg
fff 25,0000
20,0003
dStS"S 15000I
maretngefors nda eter distribueo ner workhresulted n (US$1] r,i  6  e cn nces i h
Souce:ANR, Wol BAnk.
effective competition. Tm 604 per cent pinrice reducion i npwirels0s7 ervices, cul  to0  Reen agessive
Indae ethato the secondtGS contnedao ined01 to inreased overvc 4quality expctd cuvstoments. In June. aclrthis
marketing efforts and a better distribution network resulted, in a single year, in a 66 per cent increase in the
number of customers. This means that, at least over I million additional Moroccans having direct access to
a      phone. The number of GSM  customers increased from  149,000 in June 1999, to over 3 million
subscribers by end 2000, for a record 1,250 per cent Compounded Annual Growth Rate (CAGR), raising
mobile penetration from  0.4 per cent in 1998 to approximately 10.7 per cent in 2000. Recent estimates
indicate that the growth continued in 2001, to reach over 4,000,000 expected customers in June. This
strong growth has been achieved both by the incumbent operator (retainer of a 60 per cent market share),
and by the new competitor. This result is remarkable, considering that the fixed line network, developed in
over 20 years by the incumbent in a monopoly regime, accounts for just 1.6 million customers.
The introduction of a second GSM operator and the enhanced performance of the incumbent, raised
teleconmmunications revenues as a percentage of GDP from 2.04 per cent to 3.7 per.cent in just two years.
New services were introduced, for example Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) services. The operation
also had a positive impact on job creation. Following MediTelecom's entry - which has already recruited
3,000 people - 20,000 new jobs will be created by 2004 (this includes also a major call center run by
Atento, a subsidiary of Telefonica). The following Tables show the impact of competition on tariffs and
- 6 -



penetration.
Graph 2. Comparison of Tariff Cuts in Response to Competition
Cost of 360 minutes (240 peak)
D .
if As.    *<$  0000  000) 000
Operator
Source: lAM, other mobile operators.
Graph 3. Increase in Mobile Penetration
Mobil* penetration
2
t95  1996    tB997     199S     1909      2X00
Source: ANRT, lAM, MediTelecom.
(b) Strengthening the telecommunications regulatory framework.
The achievements for this component were highly satisfactory. The successful GSM tender raised ANRT'
s intemational prestige, leading the Economist Intelligence Unit to rank it as one of the best regulators in
Middle East and Africa, second only to the Israeli Ministry of Communications. Progress was made on
ensuring autonomy, competence and transparency for ANRT. To create an adequate regulatory framework
for competition, ANRT established and implemented fair and transparent rules and procedures to resolve
interconnection disputes and allocate frequency. A test of the sustainability of the regulatory measures,
- 7 -



supported by TPI-SAL, was the satisfactory resolution of two complex interconnection disputes between
IAM and MediTelecom.
All but one of the measures of the regulatory component of TPI-SAL were successfully implemented by
ANRT and the Government. The only outstanding issue is related to the financial autonomy of ANRT.
Although ANRT's success was also due to an adequate budget resources, its full financial autonomy was
not secured. To ensure independence, Law 24-96 stated that each year's Finance Law should determine the
operators' contribution to ANRT (fraction of the license fee). However, Fiscal Law 1999-2000 did not
provide for this allocation, on the grounds that ANRT's real needs were already covered. On the other
hand, the Institut National des Postes et Tlecommunications (INPT), a training institute originally
attached to ANRT by Law 24/96, to which a specific budget allocation is provided, remained under
ANRT's control.  This decision might embed the risk of having training resources cross-subsidizing
regulatory activities. As a result, the long term financial autonomy of ANRT is still an outstanding issue.
(c) Preparing SAM's privatization.
The achievements for this component were highly satisfactory. The threat from an effective wireless
competitor forced IAM to accelerate introduction of private sector management practices. In addition,
competition strengthened the constituency in favor of IAM's privatization. The specific conditions for
privatization set under TPI-SAL were all achieved. A privatization strategy was adopted. LAM accounts
were audited and the Government adopted a timetable for reimbursing the arrears due to IAM by the Public
Administration. A reputable investment bank (JP Morgan) and legal experts (Clifford Chance) were hired
to assist the Government with preparation and execution of privatization.
The preparatory work done under TPI-SAL was followed by specific measures under the subsequent
operation (IISDL), that assisted in the sale of 35 per cent of LAM's shares to a strategic investor in
February 2001. This is a significant achievement, given the tight conditions of capital markets for
telecommunications operations in 4th Quarter 2000 and 1st Quarter 2001 Morocco and Jordan were the
only cases of successful telecommunications privatization in the region in 1999-2000.
(d) Enhancing rural access.
Progress on this component was overall satisfactory although along different lines than originally expected.
The pilot rural project in the North was indefinitely postponed as the government, sensibly, wanted to first
define more broadly the policies and implementation mechanisms to be used for universal service generally,
including rural.  To this end the government engaged consultants to review  options and make
recommendations, but never came to closure on these. A draft implementation decree has been in
preparation for some time but not processed within the government. A regime to extend service to rural
and low-income urban population groups, as outlined in the letter of development policy, is thus still not in
place.
On the other hand, three important developments not initially envisaged were achieved. First, competition
for the second GSM license resulted in bidders exceeding the tender documents' minimum requirements for
territorial coverage. Meditel, the winner, committed to cover 90 percent of Morocco in four years. In
practice, it achieved this target in only 1-1/2 years. While this by itself does not ensure widespread access
to service, and it is unknown how many poor rural people actually use GSM service, it provides a network
that enables extending access to unserved population groups at low marginal cost. Second, with the advent
- 8 -



of GSM competition, pre-paid service was introduced and grew very fast. This extended voice service from
premium users to many lower income urban inhabitants who could not afford a fixed monthly charge, need
tight control over call expenditure, and are not creditworthy for regular post-paid service. Third, the limits
of IAM's obligations to provide or finance unprofitable services were clearly established in the draft cahier
des charges before privatization. This contained investor risk and also defined how continuity of current
service in potentially unprofitable areas would be maintained or modified in the future.
(e) Modernizing the postal sector.
this component had a satisfactory outcome.  The operation supported the launch of two studies. The
studies define a postal sector strategy, including definition of universal service obligations, determination of
a market liberalization path, and evaluating BAM's future strategic reorientation and private participation.
These studies, which are nearing completion, combined with a number of seminars and workshops held in
conjunction, have strengthened BAM's restructuring efforts.
(f) Formulating a national IT strategy.
The outcome of this component was satisfactory. The Govermnent published a national IT strategy
reflecting the potential of IT as an engine for major growth and job creation. The IT Action Plan -
published on the Internet (www.septi.gov.ma) - aims at: (a) establishing high-capacity links among
administrative and business centers, hospitals, and universities ("Administration on Line" initiative); (b)
developing an adequate regulatory framework and promoting e-commerce; (c) promoting IT investment
and entrepreneurship; and (d) promoting the use of IT within firms. The Government obtained infoDev
grants to undertake Y2K-related activities and fund the business plan for a Cyber Park, a high tech pole for
Moroccan firms in IT and telecommunications. Since the completion of the project, the Borrower has
undertaken steps to implement the strategy (see Annex 9).
4.3 Net Present Valie/Economic rate o return:
NA
4.4 Finianzcial rate of returnz:
NA
4.5 Institutional dlevelopnment impact:
Institutional development of the telecommnunications regulatory framework was a major focus of the reform
agenda in order to ensure the success of both the licensing of the second GSM operator, as well as the
success of later liberalization in the local, long-distance and international markets. Technical assistance
helped develop the capacity of ANRT to regulate the complexities of the telecommunications sector, and
strengthened its autonomy to ensure a level playing field, conducive to increased competition. ANRT had
also relatively large jurisdiction over the sector, being entrusted, for instance, with the licensing of the new
GSM operator. As described above, the GSM license allocation process was handled with transparency and
high professionalism by ANRT. ANRT was also able to elaborate spectrum allocation rules, undertake a
-9-



relatively complex spectrum monitoring process, as well as speedily resolve interconnection disputes.
There was fair play and transparency in the awarding of licenses for GSM and VSAT operators.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Certain key extemal factors substantially affected the positive outcome of the project:
*   Availability of fluds in global capital markets in developing countries: 1998 and 1999 were strong
years for telecommunications investment, with global capital markets booming and channeling much of
the new investment into telecommunications and high tech industries, in both developing and developed
markets.
* The attractiveness of the GSM market elicited large license fees in GSM auctions across countries,
although not as high as in Morocco.
* The three highest bids came from consortia led by major European companies, which also had a
strategic interest in the Mediterranean Basin.  The Moroccan GSM  bid was the first serious
opportunity in the Maghreb region for telecommunications strategic investors.
5.2 Factors generally subject to governmenzt control:
The government also substantially contributed to the project outcome. It demonstrated keen commitment
to sector refonn, liberalization and privatization. Law 24/96 was adopted well in advance of the GSM
tender, increasing bidders confidence in the legal, regulatory and institutional environment. Law 24/96 was
complemented by several implementing decrees, which established general interconnection principles,
defined a dispute resolution mechanism, specified the essential elements of the interconnection contract,
provided technical and cost principles for interconnection, and established the legal regime for leased lines.
The appointment of highly skilled professionals at the head of ANRT goes also to the govemment's credit.
5.3 Factors generally stubject to implementing agency control.
The actions of the regulatory agency, ANRT, also substantially affected the implementation of sector
regulatory reform. Law 24-96 gave ANRT a broad mandate and clear authority, giving it jurisdiction over
managing and allocating spectrum, thus helping to reduce regulatory risk. ANRT was adequately staffed
in key decision making positions. It had an efficient intemal organization, along main functional units.
Precise responsibilities were allocated to different divisions.
Two main factors subject to ANRT's control helped the success of the GSM tender. The first was the
design of the license, and the second was the transparency of the tender process.
License conditions were particularly appealing to investors because they conferred embedded rights that
mitigated the risks posed by IAM's initial market dominance. They enhanced the expected cash flow of the
- 10-



new competitor, and signaled the authorities' willingness to allow effective competition. In particular, the
license allowed the new operator to: (a) build its own long-distance infrastructure, bypassing the network
of the incumbent operator, or build its own infrastructure up to the point of interconnection; (b) build and,
after January 1, 2002, operate its own international gateway to provide services to its clients; (c) offer
fixed wireless services in rural, suburban, and industrial areas, subject to ANRT approval. The first two
features gave the new entrants much flexibility to invest in and develop its network and to overcome
possible capacity and pricing bottlenecks in IAM's network. The third allowed the extension of access
outside the core markets at marginal cost, and to develop potential sources of additional revenue in
industrial areas where advanced applications can be launched.
The tender was administered in a transparent manner. ANRT sought expressions of interest from
prospective investors after it had drafted the conditions of the license and IAM had published a default
intercolmection offer.  These elements helped investors better forecast the expected net cash flow,
break-even point, key drivers of the financial offer. The criteria for evaluating bids were set out in the
tender documents, including the weights assigned to each technical sub-criteria. ANRT published a bid
evaluation report on its website disclosing the evaluation given to each bidder.
5.4 Costs and financing.:
NA
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationrale for .susutainability raitig:
The sustainability of a competitive market structure is likely because of the presence of many established
players in the market. In addition, the regulator, ANRT, succeeded in building capacity in terms of staff
expertise, and transparency of its procedures, and also established a sound interconnection regime. These
conditions increase the possibility of the establishment of a competitive market in the local loop,
long-distance and international markets when competition is introduced in 2003. Morocco's cormmitments to
WTO provide intemational credibility for the continuation of the liberalization path. Also, the contractual
rights anid obligations built into the licenses provide a sound legal basis for sustainability of the competitive
market. For instance, in rural and universal access, the service requirements imposed by ANRT under the
license conditions, as well as the commitments made by IAM and MediTelecom, are likely to result in
significant rural telecommunications expansion.
However, while ANRT is stronger relative to most nascent regulators in developing countries, it also faces
some risks common to most these regulators. For example, the goveming body of ANRT is appointed by
Govenunent. The Govermment also appoints the director of ANRT. Changes in the political goals of the
Govemient with respect to sector liberalization might have a negative impact on new sector reforms,
although the presence of established intemational operators is a guarantee that the achievements of
TPI-SAL in terms of institutional capacity building will not be reversed.
Sustainability of the measures introduced under TPI-SAL is also supported by continued Bank assistance
in the sector through IISDL, whose objectives sustain and further the achievements of TPI-SAL. These
objectives include deepening market liberalization, privatizing IAM, strengthening the regulatory
environment, and developing IT and postal sectors.
- 11 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
NA
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during the preparation phase of the operation was satisfactory. This rating is
based on the following:
*  Efficiency of the loan and team composition: The loan was prepared over a period of about one year
(7 months from identification to negotiations), at low cost with respect to similar operations, and with a
good staff mix. Four missions took place during project preparation in April, June, September and
October (appraisal) 1998 followed by negotiations in November 1998 which were conducted jointly
with the cofinancier (AfDB).  The teams included private sector development specialists,
telecommunications and postal experts, and members of the AfDB team.
3   Close working relationship between the Bank, the borrower and other donors:  The African
Development Bank (AfDB) prepared the operation jointly with the Bank and contributed parallel
financing of $113 million. Throughout project preparation, the Bank maintained a close dialog with
the Moroccan government and ANRT, in particular in the implementation of the technical assistance
program. The Bank, AfDB, the EU, and GOM collaborated closely on the preparation of TORs for
the various studies carried out under the TA program, and consultants were invited to present the
results of their studies directly to GOM as part of the appraisal mission to ensure dissemination of the
results.
*   Technical Assistance (TA) program: The TA program, funded by EU and PHRD grants (about $6.3
million and $200,000, respectively) included: (a) continued dialogue with ANRT for the design of an
adequate interconnection regime and preparation of the second GSM operator's cahier des charges;
(b) completion of a study on the impact of a second GSM operator on the Moroccan
telecommunications sector in general, and on IAM in particular; (c) completion of two studies
addressing, respectively, technical and legal aspects related to the provision of alternative
telecommunications infrastructures in Morocco; and (d) dialogue with the Ministry of Privatization for
the design of a privatization strategy for IAM, completion of the audits and other pre-privatization
measures. In May 1999, during the week-long visit of a Moroccan delegation, Bank staff made
presentations on key issues including global best practices on privatization, and gave technical advice
on mobile tenders, and interconnection. The TA program had a very significant impact as it was a key
factor influencing the final decision of the Moroccan government to proceed with the liberalization.
*   The timing of project preparation also allowed the Bank to provide on-going support to GOM: (a)
during the GSM tendering process, including introducing measures to strengthen ANRT's capacity;
and (b) in preparing its Letter of Sector Development Policy.
- 12-



7.2 Supervision:
Overall project supervision was satisfactory. The Bank carried out two supervision missions during the
course of project implementation (November 1999, and May 2000) and an ICR mission in March 2001.
Project performance indicators were monitored and discussed with GOM on a regular basis, with particular
attention given to the Borrower's progress in meeting the conditions for second tranche release.
7.3 Overall Bankperfbrniatice:
Overall Bank performance is satisfactory due to: (a) speed and efficiency with which the project was
prepared; (b) high-level expert advice and technical assistance given by the Bank to the borrower in the
design of a wireless license and preparation for privatization; and (c) dialogue maintained with the
borrower, eliciting considerable counterpart commitment.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory. The operation was closely tied to
the sectoral objectives of the government and hence elicited considerable responsiveness and commitment.
Partly as a result of intensive policy dialogue with the Bank, the Government had already implemented
far-reaching legal and institutional reforms, in particular the adoption of Law 24-96. The Government
openness to accept a dialogue with the Bank contributed to the adoption of the implementing decrees. The
placement of highly skilled professionals at the head of ANRT was also a choice with far-reaching
importance on sector reform, and signalled the commitment of the Kingdom of Morocco to the reform
agenda.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Borrower performance during implementation is rated satisfactory. The implementation of the project was
also undertaken with relative speed and success. The GSM tender was concluded in June 1999, and the
license was awarded in August 1999. The impact of license conditions for the second GSM license
exceeded the expectations set at the inception of the project. Most of the other policy measures originally
included in the project were completed on time, to full compliance. Some threats were posed to both the
introduction of competition and the strengthening of regulatory autonomy from selected stakeholders.
However, these risks continued to be modest or negligible through most of the project and did not hinder
either steps to privatize IAM or ANRT's ability in discharging its functions.
7.6 Imiplementing Agency:
The main implementing agency for the GSM license was ANRT. As stated before, ANRT proved to be a
strong, capable, and independent regulator and its performance was especially important in ensuring the
success of the mobile tender, and sustaining the reform path. The only weakness was a delay in awarding
VSAT licenses because the privatization process attracted most of the attention of policy makers and
drained ANRT's technical resources. ANRT completed the tender with about three months delay with
respect to the schedule originally envisaged in the project. A subsequent delay of 6 months, due to
- 13 -



administrative procedures, occurred from the approval of ANRT's decision and the issue of the actual
decree, required for compliance with the Bank's second tranche measures. During this period, however, the
selected operators were authorized to start building their network and offer services.
The main implementing agency for postal reform were BAM and SEPTI. While progress on postal reform
was slower than in telecommunications, BAM undertook the study and action plan committed under the
project, although the recommendations of the study have not yet been implemented. SEPTI elaborated a
strategy for information technology ahead of most countries of the region, and was efficient in
implementing Y2K remediation activities.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory because ANRT was the main beneficiary, and its
performance was exemplary. In addition, the Govemrnment as a whole showed sustained commitment to
reform, overcoming resistance from selected stakeholders.
8. Lessons Learned
Four main lessons can be drawn from this project.
First, TPI-SAL's pioneering design integrating telecommunications, information technology, and postal
components into a single operation proved valuable. It encouraged the government to consider (for
example, in its public commitments through the letter of development policy, and subsequently in the design
of the follow-up IISDL operation) the broader scope of information infrastructure, potentially also
including broadcasting, in addition to the individual participating sectors. This is increasingly necessary
for effective use of information for development and is also consistent with global convergence among what
traditionally were separate services, networks, and businesses.
Second, differences in institutional capability and political will to deal with the components of information
infrastructure must be reflected in realistic project design. This was the case of the TPI-SAL, in which
expectations and achievements were high for telecommunications, more modest for the posts, and
fragmentary for information technology. The success in telecommunications was due to a mix of political
focus and attention expertise and resources allocated to the relevant institutions. Post and IT did not move
at a slower pace because they did not enjoy the same mix of institutional factors. Operations like TPI-SAL
need to consider these different institutional and political realities, and be designed accordingly.
Third, introducing competition before privatizing the incumbent telecommunications operator is a powerful
option for sector reform. Three aspects can be noted. One, the prospect of competition in mobile services
prompted L9M to focus early on customer service, accelerate service roll-out, reduce prices, and strengthen
commercial management. The design of the second GSM license, aimed at enabling the new entrant to
become an effective competitor to IAM beyond the narrow limits of mobile service, resulted in IAM
improving performance also in fixed services. Two, the successful GSM tender accelerated the agenda for
privatizing IAM. Although privatization was contemplated in the telecommunications law of 1996, there
was no timetable and little will to proceed, so much so that the TPI-SAL only included modest preparatory
steps towards future privatization of IAM. But the award of the second GSM license highlighted the need
to enable LAM to compete effectively by freeing it from public sector restrictions and facilitating access to
global capital markets, technology, management, and scale of procurement through a major intemational
- 14 -



partner. The high license fee obtained for the second GSM probably also contributed to government
interest. And three, opening the market to competition before privatizing LAM limited the risk that IAM's
monopoly privileges would be extended in an attempt to increase the sale price. Actual steps taken to
liberalize telecommunications before privatization, the government's commitments with the WTO to
complete the process by a fixed date, and subsequent plans by the authorities to issue new licenses in all
market segments, add up to an effective plan for opening up the market over a period of about five years -
not the fastest on global record, but unequalled in the MENA region.
Fourth, extending telecommunications services to unattended areas and population groups can largely be
achieved through the market. The obligations of both the incumbent and new entrants to provide
potentially unprofitable services were kept to a minimum. Rather, competition for and in Morocco's
markets has resulted in rapid build-out of new networks that reduce the incremental cost of providing rural
service almost countrywide and has made affordable new service modalities available to modest urban
users. Gaps probably remain, however, between what operators are prepared to do on commercial terms
alone and service access objectives that the government might establish on broader development grounds.
But the cost of narrowing these gaps is now likely to be much lower than the 4% of revenues initially set as
the upper limit of what operators must contribute to universal service (plus 2% towards 'amenagament des
territoires'). This would bring Morocco closer to global best practices that have net cost of universal
service around one percent of revenues or less.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/irnplementing agency:
Borrower's comments attached as Annex 9.
(h) Cojinanciers:
Comments from African Development Bank:
The program has shown the very beneficial effects of opening the market to competition in a transparent
context and within a reliable regulatory framework. The achievements of the objectives and outputs as
indicated in the ICR fully reflected the results of the program. In view of the very good performance of the
program and the need to consolidate the achievements, it was decided to pursue the reforms of the
telecommunications, post and IT sector, under the IISDL program. The coordination between the two
co-financiers, the African Development Bank and the World Bank, has been very satisfactory. The two
institutions in fact jointly undertook missions for the preparation, appraisal and supervision of the program.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private secto?):
NA
10. Additional Information
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Market share(s) of the new operator in the  27%                              30%
cellular market
Number of suppliers of leased lines (number of at least 4                    4
licenses granted to suppliers of leased lines)
Efficiency of new investments : 3-year moving  $1,000                        around $900
average of the amount of additional capital
needed per new subscriber (US$)
No. of reported faults (per year, per 100 main  30                           24.8
lines)
Number of fixed lines outside Casablanca /    861,000                        940,000
Rabat
Percentage of population with access to at    90%                            92%
least one phone
End of project
Note: the original table of indicators included also two indicators on the price of leased lines for local and long distance
connections. The price of leased lines for a 2Mbps capacity, at the time of the preparation of the project was expressed as a
function of the price of 64kbps leased lines. After the presentation of the project to the Board, this method to determine the
price of 2Mbps capacity had been discontinued, and a direct 2Mbps link has been priced and offered to the customers. As a
consequence, the new data on the price of leased lines was not comparable with the benchmarks originally set in the project. In
general, notwithstanding the fact that the introduction on the market of a 2Mbps connection is a positive technological
development, it is fair to assess that the price of leased lines in Morocco is still higher than international best practise and the
prices, in this area, did not drop as quickly as in other areas (such as mobile telephony).
Outcome Indicators:
Measures                                  Compliance           Outputs
Introducing effective competition in
telecommunications
Licensing second GSM operator,            Implemented          2nd GSM license awarded. Operator
through competitive and transparent                            allowed to build long-distance
bidding process.                                               infrastructure; build int'l gateway (after
Jan '02); and offer fixed wireless services
in rural, suburban, and industrial areas.
Grant at least two VSAT (Very Small      Implemented           Three VSAT licenses awarded in May
Aperture Terminals) licenses                                   2000
Study on legal instruments to enable     Implemented           Two studies completed.
owners of alternative
telecommunications infrastructure to
become telecom operators.
Strengthening the regulatory
framework
- 16 -



Adopt interconnection rules and      Implemented       Interconnection rules and
procedures for dispute resolution.                     dispute-resolution procedures
implemented.
Establish fee structure for ANRT. Include  Partially
in FY 2000 Appropriations Law,       Implemented       ANRT's financial autonomy not
provisions to grant ANRT predetermined                  established. Appropriations Law did not
percentage of operator license fees.                   grant ANRT fee contribution.
Adopt frequency allocation plan on fair   Implemented
pro-competitive principles.                             Frequency allocation plan adopted.
Submit to WTO Revised Schedule of    Implemented
Commitments on Basic                                   Revised Schedule of Commitments
Telecommunications, including the                      submitted to WTO.
standard Regulatory Annex.
Preparing lAM's privatization
Adopt privatization strategy.        Implemented       Privatization strategy adopted.
Select auditors for lAM's accounts.  Implemented      IAM accounts audited.
Adopt action plan to reduce arrears  Implemented       Timetable to reimburse arrears adopted.
owed by Administration to lAM
Implement recruitment procedure for    Implemented     Financial advisors and legal experts
financial advisors to implement                        appointed.
privatization transaction.
Expanding access to
telecommunications
Adopt Decree 2-97-1026 requiring     Implemented        Decree adopted.
telecom operator contributions for public
service obligations.
Adopt Decree 2-97-1026 to use market  Implemented       Decree adopted.
mechanisms for public service
obligations.
Elaborate pilot program to expand   Not Implemented     Pilot program not undertaken.
access to poor remote re ions.
Strengthening competitiveness of
postal services
Action plan on public service obligations.  Implemented  Formulation of Action Plan started.
Study on private provision of rural postal  Implemented  Study launched.
services.
Formulating National Information
Infrastructure Strategy
Elaborate National Information      Implemented         National Information Infrastructure
Infrastructure Strategy.                               Strategy formulated and published on
SEPTI's website.
Implement Y2K readiness mechanisms.  Implemented       Y2K readiness implemented effectively.
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Not applicable as this was an Adjustment Operation.
- 18-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable as this was an Adjustment Operation.
- 19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty       I    Performance Rating
Month/Year _   -   (e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Ltmplementation  Development
Month/Year   'Count            Specialty                      Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
April 1998                   3   2 PSD specialists, I
Telecommunications specialist
June 1998                    6   1 Sector Manager, 2 PSD
specialists, 2
Telecommunications specialists,
I Postal expert
September 1998               4   2 PSD specialists, 2
Telecommunications specialists
Appraisal/Negotiation
October 1998                 4   1 PSD specialist, 3
Telecommunications
specialists
Supervision
November 1999                4   2 PSD specialists, 2                 S             HS
Telecommunications
specialists
May 2000                     4   2 PSD specialists, 2                 S             S
Telecommunications specialists
ICR
June 20, 2001                3    1 Regulatory Economist, I
Telecommunications
Specialist, I Program
Assistant
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
A__ _ _   No. Staff weeks          US$ COQO)
Identification/Preparation                                             166
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                                                             133
ICR
Total                                                                  299
The SAP system combines the data for Appraisal/Negotiation with Preparation, and data for ICR with
supervision. The data on No. of staff weeks is not available from SAP. An additional amount of $156,500
in trust funds was utilized during project preparation.
- 20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating.
ZMacro policies                            OH   * SU O M  O N  O NA
FSector Policies                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
M Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Institutional Development                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                            O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
IGender                             O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
X Other (Please specify)            O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Not Applicable
Z Private sector development               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                 O H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
F Other (Please specify)                   0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Not Applicable
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank per/ormance                                   Rating
0 Lending                                                 H HS * S C u C HU
0 Supervision                                          OHS *S  OU  0HU
0 Overall                                              O HS O S O u O HU
6.2 Borrower perjbrmance                               Rating
0  Preparation                                         0 HS * S   Q U  O HU
0  Government implementation performance               0 HS 0 S   O  U  0 HU
0 Implementation agency performance                    O HS O S   O U  O HU
0 Overall                                              OHS OS O U O HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*   All Back-to-Office Reports and Aide Memoires
*   PSRs
*   Report and Recommendation of the President, April 9, 1999
*   Memorandum oln Second Tranche Release, December 20, 2000
*   Viewpoint Note: Introducing Telecommunications Competition through a Wireless License, Lessons
from Morocco, November, 1999, B. Wellenius and C.M. Rossotto
*   Loan Agreement, October 23, 1999
- 23 -



Additional Annex 8. Best Practice Note
Introducing Telecommunications Competition through a Wireless License: Lessons from
Morocco
A first version of the article was published in the World Bank Group Viewpoint Note N. 199 in November
1999. Journal of Network Economies published an updated version of the Note in April 2001.
Bjorn Wellenius and Carlo Maria Rossotto
In August 1999 the Moroccan government awarded a second mobile telecommunications license through
international tender. All bidders made commitments on quality, coverage, and tariffs that would
significantly expand and improve telecommunications services. The winning bidder was Medi Telecom, a
consortium of Telef6nica of Spain, Portugal Telecom, and Moroccan investors. Medi Telecom paid about
US$1.1 billion for the fifteen-year license to operate under relatively unfettered competition-one of the
highest prices ever paid for a mobile license relative to population size. Just as impressive is that the
price was offered in a country not usually on the radar screen of foreign investors. The fiscal and
development impact will be far reaching. The strong competition from reputable bidders was the payoff
to Morocco's decision to set up a credible, pro-competitive regulatory environment before the transaction
and to conduct open, professional bidding for the license. This Note examines why Morocco was able to
reap these big rewards.
The liberalization of Morocco's telecommunications sector formally began with the Parliament's passage
in 1996 of a telecommunications law (effective June 1997) that lay the foundations for an increasingly
competitive, private-led sector. The law enabled competition in all segments of the market and set up an
independent regulatory agency, Agence Nationale de Reglementation des Telecommunications (ANRT).
The law also envisaged privatizing Itissalat-al-Maghrib (lAM), the incumbent state-owned
telecommunications monopoly, but set no timetable. IAM operates fixed and mobile services, including
the first Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network.
The award of a GSM license to a second operator in August 1999 was the first major step in introducing
competition in the telecommunications market. As the process of tendering and awarding the license
unfolded, the agenda for privatizing IAM accelerated. By the time the license was issued, the
government had set the first quarter of 2000 as the target for opening IAM to private capital and had
hired financial advisers to prepare the transaction.
Preparation
The successful issue of the second GSM license can be attributed largely to three features: a credible
regulatory framework, the transparent tender process, and the attractive terms of the license.
Clear rules and roles
A legal and regulatory framework, including ANRT, was in place before the tendering of the second
license started. The framework could have used improvements, such as simplified licensing, the addition
of modular penalties, and ex post rather than ex ante financial control of ANRT. Nevertheless, coupled
with the government's sustained commitment to telecommunications reform, it gave investors sufficient
confidence and a basis for reliable business decisions.
The law set out the principles for licensing and competitive award. It also ensured that throughout the
process the bidders had a clearly identified, independent counterpart, ANRT, with explicit responsibilities
and functions. And by giving ANRT a broad mandate and clear authority (putting it in charge of
managing and allocating spectrum, for example), the law helped reduce regulatory risk.
- 24 -



The law was complemented by several subsequent implementation decrees. One of these established
general interconnection principles, defined a dispute resolution mechanism, specified the essential
elements of the interconnection contract, and provided technical and cost principles for interconnection.
Another established the legal regime for leased lines.
ANRT sought expressions of interest from prospective investors once it had drafted the second license
and IAM had published a default interconnection offer. These elements helped investors forecast the net
cash flow and the break-even point, the main drivers of the financial offer.
Transparent tender
ANRT, which was responsible for conducting the licensing process, asked qualified bidders to offer
commitments matching or exceeding targets for service quality, coverage, and tariff plans. These three
elements form the core of the technical offer; the financial offer, the amount the bidder intends to pay for
the license, is separate. Seven bidders made offers. In determining the best bid, ANRT weighted the
price 60 percent and the technical offer 40 percent. Medi Telecom submitted the highest financial offer
and the second highest technical one.
The process for awarding the license was transparent and conducted fairly and professionally by ANRT,
and it stayed on schedule. The criteria for evaluating bids were set out in the tender documents,
including the weights to be given each part of the technical offers. How marks would be assigned within
each part to reflect offers above minimum requirements, however, was left to the evaluating committee.
This balance between predictability and uncertainty is consistent with practice in some European
countries, and ANRT believes it encouraged bidders to offer better than minimum performance. To
enhance transparency, ANRT published a bid evaluation report on its Website disclosing the marks given
to each part. But at the bidders' request the offers were not disclosed, so as to protect commercial
information.
Nor have the technical offers of the winning bid been made public or reflected in the license. In some
countries, such as Italy and the United Kingdom, the license includes the main technical parameters in
the winner's bid, since their disclosure is not judged a violation of confidentiality. Other countries, such as
Belgium, follow the same approach that Morocco has. If Medi Telecom fails to meet the minimum
requirements published in the tender, anybody can complain to ANRT, including IAM or consumers. But
if it fails to meet the technical commitments in its bid, it will be up to ANRT to enforce compliance.
Commercially attractive license
The license was particularly appealing to investors because, in addition to the usual features of a mobile
license, it conferred embedded rights that mitigated the risks posed by lAM's initial market dominance,
enhanced the expected cash flow, and signaled the authorities' willingness to allow effective competition.
In particular, the license allowed the new operator to:
*      Build its own long-distance infrastructure, bypassing the network of the incumbent operator, or
build its own infrastructure up to the point of interconnection.
*     Build and, after January 1, 2002, operate its own international gateway to provide services to its
clients.
Offer fixed wireless services in rural, suburban, and industrial areas, subject to ANRT approval.
Serve as the sole licensed cellular communications operator, other than lAM, for four years.
The first two features give Medi Telecom much flexibility to invest in and develop its network and to
overcome possible capacity and pricing bottlenecks in lAM's network. The third allows Medi Telecom to
extend access outside the core markets at marginal cost, and to develop potential sources of additional
revenue in industrial areas where advanced applications (such as wireless) can be launched. These
features enable Medi Telecom to position itself well for building up a wide range of services once lAM's
exclusive rights expire.
- 25 -



The last feature, which establishes a duopoly in mobile communications for four years, is more
controversial. Hindsight suggests that restricting entry was unnecessary to attract serious investors.
Moreover, it added little to the price paid for the license. The three highest bids came from consortia led
by major European companies that had a strategic rather than a purely financial interest in the
Mediterranean Basin. Whether the somewhat higher bid price justifies slowing the liberalization of mobile
services is questionable. Experience in other countries suggests that a third operator is needed for
competition to bring further big cuts in retail prices and innovations in service.
Impact
The new license has already prompted the incumbent to improve service and reduce prices. It also
promises to deliver big benefits to customers and new revenues to the government.
The bid evaluation report shows that the bidders' average growth forecasts for the mobile market in
Morocco envision it expanding from 170,000 customers today to about 5 million in 2010. While the
technical commitments of the winning bidder are confidential, the average commitments bid greatly
exceed the minimum targets for the population share and road length to be covered in the first five
years. Service is expected to reach 90 percent of Morocco's population during the fourth year, compared
with the minimum requirement of 60 percent by the end of year three and 75 percent by year five.
Moreover, because the winner committed to matching lAM's mobile coverage when it launches the new
service, all current customers will have a choice from the start. These commitments are in line with the
aggressive roll-out programs in other countries. In Turkey, for example, Telsim agreed to cover 50
percent of the population in two years and 90 percent in five.
From the start of service, tariffs are likely to fall about 30 percent below those at the time of bidding, or to
less than half what they had been before the tender was issued. That will bring retail prices within the
range for the region, but still 20 to 30 percent higher than the best international prices, about US$50 for
360 minutes of GSM service.
Performance of the incumbent
As in other countries, the imminence of competition alone prompted big improvements in the incumbent'
s service:
Between March and November 1998, as the tender was being prepared and expressions of
interest were being sought, IAM reduced mobile service prices by about 25 percent, partially rebalanced
tariffs for fixed telephone service, and committed publicly to expanding mobile and fixed networks.
In December 1998, shortly after the tender was issued, IAM again reduced its mobile charges by
about 25 percent and introduced the ability to receive short text messages.
Although IAM introduced GSM service in 1994, it connected most of its customers (and
considerably improved service quality) while the second license was being processed. Its customers
increased by 57 percent in 1998 and by another 30 percent in the first half of 1999, reaching more than
170,000 in July 1999.
Fiscal impact and iobs
At about US$40 per inhabitant, the license price exceeds by 50 percent or more what operators recently
paid for mobile licenses in most other countries. These include other middle-income countries in the
region (Egypt, Turkey) and elsewhere (Hungary), mature economies where operators expect to build up
large customer bases with high purchasing power (Italy, Spain), and small but very high-income markets
(Belgium, the Netherlands). Among recent transactions, only Austria did better than Morocco.'
The US$1.1 billion license fee increased Morocco's fiscal revenue for 1999 by about 13 percent. The
govemment could use the proceeds-equal to about half a year's public capital expenditures or two
years' capital inflows (portfolio and direct foreign investment)-to finance new public sector investments
or to reduce the foreign debt stock by about 6 percent. World Bank estimates suggest that the total fiscal
-26-



impact of the second license (including future taxes and research and development) will be much
larger-in present value terms, more than US$2 billion by 2008, and perhaps as much as US$3.5 billion.
Moreover, Medi Telecom expects to employ about 3,000 people, and its operations may generate 20,000
additional jobs, mainly in sales, distribution, and network installation and maintenance.
Results one year after
The impact of the second GSM license one year after it was awarded has exceeded expectations.
MediTelecom began commercial service on schedule in April 2000. The mobile market grew 10-fold
during the year ending in July 2000, reaching about 1.4 million customers. Prices have dropped further
and are now within the range of European competitive markets. New services have been introduced, for
example Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) services, that enable the customer to access Internet
through a GSM phone . IAM continued to expand and face the competitive pressure from MediTelecom,
and expects to have about 70 percent of the much-expanded market by end 2000. Telefonica, the main
operator in the consortium that owns MediTelecom, has further expanded its presence in Morocco by
establishing a subsidiary of Atento, its call-center business, expected to generate over 4,000 new jobs.
ANRT handled promptly and successfully the first major dispute between MediTelecom and IAM, on
interconnection prices, adding to the credibility of regulatory arrangements in time for the privatization of
IAM later in 2000.
Conclusion
The 1990s have seen an unprecedented pace of telecommunications reform around the world, but some
developing countries have moved more cautiously. Reform has been particularly slow in the Middle East
and North Africa, where such countries as Algeria, Syria, and Tunisia have maintained closed markets.
Elsewhere, as in parts of Africa and South Asia, unclear regulatory frameworks, lack of process
transparency, and indefinite reform timetables have made private investors hesitant and prevented end
users from getting the full benefits of competition. Morocco shows that a middle-income developing
country can quickly become attractive to major international investors. Its reform sets a quality
benchmark for the region and the effects are thus likely to extend beyond Morocco to many of its
neighbors.
In the 1980s and early 1990s the World Bank financed modernization and expansion of lAM's network.
An April 1999 telecommunications sector adjustment loan of US$100 million supported initial
liberalization, including the issuing of the second GSM license.
Revenue sharing in Lebanon probably has a higher present value but is not readily comparable, as
mobile replaced the destroyed fixed network and the future was more uncertain.
Bjorn Wellenius (bwellenius@worldbank.org) and Carlo Maria Rossotto (crossotto@
worldbank.org), Global Information and Communications Technology, The World Bank
- 27 -



Additional Annex 9. Borrower's comment on Completion
(translated from the French)
Telecommunications Sector
The telecommunications sector has changed extremely rapidly in the last three years in Morocco. In this
regard, the help provided by the World Bank through the Sectoral Adjustment Loan was highly
appreciated.
The telecommunications sector was liberalized through granting the second GSM license, which included
in its cahier des charges fundamental elements like the capacity to build its own network and have an
international telecommunications gateway. This had an impact beyond all expectations in terms of both
the license fees paid (US$ 1.1 billion) and market growth (less than 200,000 subscribers in 1998 against
4 million to date). It is also remarkable that a large number of new subscribers belong to the middle to
low-income category, because the tariffs applied to prepaid cards have been more than reasonable. We
are witnessing the actual integration of telecommunications into the national economy at all levels.
The rapid development of GSM had a further impact on the notion of universal telecommunications
service as foreseen in the decrees of Law 24-96. While universal service was earlier seen as being
inevitably a service of fix telephony, it is obvious today that mobile telephone service is the one used in
majority, even in rural areas. Therefore, a study was initiated to propose a new approach to universal
service. One of its main conclusions is to set up a universal service fund, to be financed by all the
operators and possibly used independently of technology, to fund telephony services in remote and low
income areas through specific projects.
In addition, and as foreseen in ANRT's action plan, three VSAT licenses have also been granted. The
new operators (Cimecom, Gulfsat Maghreb and Spacecom) are currently deploying their infrastructure
and have started marketing their services.
The progress in the telecommunications sector of Morocco clearly shows that it is a dynamic sector, in
full expansion and whose direct and indirect contributions to the economy have become very important.
Information Technologies Sector
The aforementioned loan also aimed to support the government in carrying out the Information
Technologies Development Plan. This plan foresees:
a     Promoting the modernization and efficiency of the administration and public institutions through
the implementation of the on-line administration program.
*     Allowing for the emergence of an economy based on knowledge and innovation.
*     Improving and finalizing the legal and regulatory framework ensuring information technologies
development.
*     Promoting e-commerce.
*     Accelerating the use of the Internet.
*     Promoting the decentralization and land use planning through the use of information
technologies.
a     Strengthening the regulatory framework to coordinate the development of information
technologies.
To implement this plan, the following actions were taken:
- 28 -



Adoption of the legal and regulatory framework:
In this area, the following draft laws have been elaborated:
Draft law on giving legal status to electronic signature for its certification in accordance with
international standards. This law, whose text was finalized by an expert commission nominated by the
Prime Minister, will be adopted by the Government Council in 2001.
*     Draft law on privacy protection through declaration procedures, authorization for the creation and
exploitation of databases of personal information, establishment of procedures to grant access to these
databases, and conferring rights to the citizens to be excluded from theses databases.
Internet development:
Further to the extension of the telecommunications infrastructure, several actions have been undertaken
for the development of the Internet. These actions aim mainly to (a) improve conditions of access and
interconnection with public telecommunications networks for ISPs, through new telecommunications
licenses; and (b) extend the MARWAN network, a broadband information system destined to promote
research and formation, that already covers 16 university campuses, and (c) develop national contents
on the Internet. The last will be done through:
*      Information to schools in the frame of the program "one school, one computer" within 2008
horizon;
*     Implementation of the "administration on-line" project through 2004;
*     Implementation, in partnership with local collectivities and BAM, of public telecenters with
Internet access;
*     Use of information technologies as tools for land use planning through the implementation of
digital towns projects;
*     IDevelopment of national portals for e-commerce.
Data standardization:
In order to launch standardization, the Government is currently conducting a study planned to lead to the
creation of a normalization structure. Standardization will enable the coordination of information systems
of administration and professional group, the development of standardized databases regarding public or
sectoral data and the definition of encryption and formats for the exchange of digital data.
On-line Administration:
Within the framework of this project, an inter-ministerial committee has been set up, to formulate an
implementation strategy for the inter-administration network. In additionally, a study was carried out by
an international-standard consulting firm. The study consolidated the implementation strategy of this
project, proposed a governance structure as well as financing sources and mechanisms and
recommended the implementation of a pilot project for the management of State employees (GIPE).
Promotion of e-commerce:
Also within the framework of this project, the Government selected two business-to-consumer (B2C)
e-commerce portals in accordance with the international standards in August 2000. These platforms will
be operational in June 2001, and will be accompanied by a one-year training program on the use of
information technologies for the cooperatives managers and increase awareness of the advantages of
participating in e-commerce.   Further, the search is currently on for investors to participate in a
public-private partnership to implement at least one "certification authority" and a niche in the Moroccan
market for e-commerce between companies (B2B).
Use of information technologies for regional planning
The main objective in this area is to ensure a better distribution of the communication and information
infrastructure and technical and tariff conditions. To this end, the government has implemented a
strategy centered on the following priorities, and run several awareness campaigns to achieve these
goals:
*     Set up community telecenters allowing all segments of the population to access communication
- 29 -



and information services, including the Internet, as well as reducing the isolation of rural areas.
*     Take advantage of the immense potential of remote working in terms of jobs creation and
value-added. To this end, the government will implement the appropriate environment for the
development of tele-services, like tele-teaching, tele-informatics, tele-medicine, mediation and
information tele-services.
*     Achieve partnership with local collectivities to promote the use of town portals to create
awareness of the local economic, cultural and tourism potential; ease access to and exchange of local
information; favor the development of tele-services; and develop virtual commercial windows on local
products. Following an agreement with the Hassan II Fund, the government has undertaken a strategy
study for the implementation of town portals, expected to end in September 2001.
a     Use information technologies for the valorization of cultural heritage. The evolution towards the
information society represents the opportunity to reinforce Moroccan cultural identity thanks to the
digitalization and diffusion of culture assets. The policy of cultural heritage digitalization has the
following objectives: implementing electronic filing systems at the administration level; enabling public
access; digitalizing the assets of the General Library and Archives; creating multimedia cultural spaces
and develop national Internet sites.
Promotion of a national information technologies industry
The Government is determined to encourage the emergence of a national information technologies (IT)
industry, and intends to:
*     Mobilize resources to support IT projects evaluated as strategic and dynamic.
*     Implement a regulatory framework for venture capital to benefit innovative companies.
*     Promote research and development (R&D) through the implementation of an R&D coordination
network of corporations, universities and training schools, promotion of partnership between Moroccan
and foreign corporations, and valorization of human resources.
To that end, in October 2000, an ultra-modern 30,000 sq. meters cyberpark, located in Casablanca, has
been dedicated to the development of IT companies, especially start-ups. A joint public-private company
has been created to manage the Bouznika Park that must be operational in July 2001. Further, a
budgetary envelope of DH 90 millions has been reserved by the Hassan II Fund for the development of
the Park.
In conclusion, Loan no. 4464 has largely contributed to the realization of the Government objectives in
the area of information technologies.
Postal Sector
The actions regarding Barid Al-Maghrib foreseen in the framework of this loan summarize as follows:
1.    Promulgation of Law 24-96 that establishes the postal entity, ONPT, as a public establishment,
with legal personality and financial autonomy, and opens the international mail segment to competition.
2.     Elaboration of an action plan aiming to clarify the obligations of public services, the manner in
which the cost of these obligations will be determined and financed, and the manner in which the
providers in charge of fulfilling these obligations will be identified.
3.     Launch of a study to extend private provision of postal services through franchising in remote
areas.
The first action has been carried out. In effect, Law 24-96 was promulgated through Dahir 1-97-162 of
August 7, 1997. By virtue of this law, Barid Al-Maghrib was created as an "etablissement public a
caractbre industriel et commercial" (public sector company with industrial and commercial nature), and
the international mail segment has been liberalized.
As regards the second and third actions, they have been transferred to the State Secretariat of Post and
Information and telecommunications technologies, which was given the task, in the framework of the
- 30 -



Information Infrastructure Sector Development Loan (IISDL), to launch a study on the "definition of
public service obligations, their scope and cost, modalities of financing and execution mechanisms".
Within the scope of IISDL, Barid Al-Maghrib is also engaged in a study for "the elaboration of a strategy
plan and restructuring of the corporation in view of its adaptation to the sectoral context and
strengthening its competitiveness".
As regards the Ministry of Economy, Finance, Privatization and Tourism (Directorate of Treasury), it will
pilot, as part of IISDL, a study on the development of postal financial services products (Caisse d'
Epargne et des Comptes Courants Postaux).
- 31 -



- 32 -



