Report No. PID6894
Project Name                     Morocco-Telecommunications, Post and (@) ...
Information Technology Sector Adjustment
Loan (TPI-SAL)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Private Sector Development
Project ID                       MAPE58128
Country Name                     Kingdom of Morocco
Implementation Agencies          Ministere des Affaires Generales du
Gouvernement
Nouveau Quartier Administratif
Agdal/Rabat
Contact: M. Monkid Mestassi
Directeur des Relations Economiques
Internationales
Tel: 212.7.77.20.66
Fax: 212.7.77.47.76
Agence Nationale de Reglementation des
Telecommunications (ANRT)
2, rue Al Khalil, Rabat
Tel: 212.7.20.38.69
Fax: 212.7.20.38.62
Environmental Category           C
Date PID Prepared                March 29, 1999
Initial PID                      September 28, 1998
Appraisal Date                   October 27, 1998
Projected Board Date             May 6, 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      Morocco has recently undergone major political liberalization.    Following
legislative elections on November 14, 1997, a Government backed by a seven-
party center-left coalition and headed by Mr. Abderrahmane Youssoufi, the
leading opposition figure, came into office. The new Government's economic
program balances emphasis on the need for broad-based human and social
development, reforms to improve public sector performance and to harness the
potential for private-sector-led growth, and prudence in macroeconomic and
fiscal management. The budget for the 1998/99 fiscal year (which provides for
a deficit of 3.5 percent of GDP, compared with an estimated 3.7 percent of GDP
for the 1997/98 fiscal year) confirms the importance that the Government
attaches to fiscal discipline. The Government has also sought to reassure the
domestic and international financial and business communities of its commitment
to economic liberalism, and has shown continuity in taking forward the
legislative agenda initiated by its predecessor--with good initial results.
This is particularly true with respect to the telecommunications sector, as the
Government has clearly indicated that it intends to pursue the important
reforms initiated in recent years.



2.      In the telecommunications sector, physical progress has been rapid during
the last few years, with substantial modernization and expansion of the network
resulting in higher service quality and efficiency. The network has been almost
completely digitalized, telephone exchange capacity rose from 858,000 lines at
the end of 1992 to 1,721,000 lines at the end of 1997, and the total number of
main lines connected increased from 657,000 to 1,387,000 over the same period.
The number of public phones has increased from 2,225 in 1992 to 26,500 at the
end of 1997. In addition, more than 5,000 private "teleboutiques" and
"telekiosques" are in operation today. While coverage remains very low in
rural areas, some progress has been made there as well: Ninety percent of the
1,300 rural communities had at least one phone by the end of 1997.
3.      Important legal, institutional and regulatory progress has been made as
well. Law 24-96 on Post and Telecommunications, promulgated in August 1997,
equips Morocco with a modern legal framework in the sector. It separates post
from telecommunications, replacing the "Office National des Postes et
Telecommunications" (ONPT) with two new entities: a joint-stock company,
Itissalat Al-Maghrib (IAM), providing telecommunications services, and a public
body, Barid Al-Maghrib (BAM), providing postal services. It enables the partial
or total privatization of IAM, which is presently state-owned. The law also
enables competition in all segments of the telecommunications market as well as
in the market for express international courier services. In addition, the law
creates an autonomous regulatory agency for telecommunications (ANRT), the
first of its kind in Morocco in any sector, which is in charge of ensuring the
proper application of the telecommunications legislation.
4.      The liberalization of the telecommunications sector made possible by Law
24-96 remains however to be implemented in practice. At present, most
telecommunications services are still provided, on a monopoly basis, by IAM. As
a result, the range of services provided remains relatively limited, and while
some tariff rebalancing has taken place, commercial users are still charged a
substantial mark-up above costs. Also, even though performance indicators have
improved in recent years, there remains scope for further efficiency gains.
BAM, for its part, is still being reorganized as a distinct entity. The
challenges which it faces include making better use of its vast network,
developing new and profitable products, and maintaining its financial viability
while ensuring that public service obligations are successfully met. Finally,
the Government still has to devise and implement an adequate strategy in the
area of information technology (IT).
The Proposed Credit
5.      Objectives. The loan supports the recent creation of a modern legal and
regulatory framework for the telecommunications, post, and IT sectors, and
contributes to the development and implementation of further pro-competitive
reforms. The loan aims at improving the competitiveness of the Moroccan economy
and increasing the access of poor and remote households to communications
services. In the telecommunications sector, the primary objective of the loan
is to support Government efforts to effectively implement the reforms the new
legal and regulatory framework now makes possible, with strong emphasis on
increased competition, greater private participation and investment, and
autonomous regulation. With respect to postal services, the operation seeks to
increase the competitiveness of service provision, in particular through the
promotion of private participation, and to ensure that public service
obligations are adequately defined, financed, and met. Finally, the loan
-2 -



supports the Government's development of a national IT strategy aimed at
integrating Morocco into the global information society.
6.      Description.   The proposed TPI-SAL would be quick disbursing and would
provide budgetary support to the Government. The proposed credit would be of
Euro 85.21 million (US$101 million equivalent) with the standard amortization
term, grace period, and interest rate for a fixed rate Deutsche Mark single-
currency loan. It would be disbursed in two tranches linked to the
implementation of reform measures specified for each tranche. The proceeds of
the loan would be used to finance the foreign exchange costs of general
imports, except for a small negative list of ineligible goods. The operation
would support the adoption of reform measures in six specific areas:
(a) Telecommunications liberalization. The loan would support: (i) the
selection of a second GSM operator; (ii) the opening of the VSAT market
to new entrants; and (iii) the adoption of the measures required to
enable owners of alternative telecommunications networks to lease the
capacity of their networks to telecommunications operators.
(b) Telecommunications regulation. The loan would be aimed at
strengthening the autonomy and capacity of the regulatory agency and at
ensuring the adoption of transparent regulatory procedures.
(c) Privatization of the incumbent telecommunications operator. The loan
would support the elaboration, by the Government, of a privatization
strategy for IAM and the hiring of financial advisors in charge of
assisting the Government in the preparation and implementation of the
transaction.
(d) Access to telecommunications services. The loan would support the
launch of a pilot project aimed at competitively selecting private
operators in charge of meeting public service obligations in rural areas.
(e) Postal services. The loan would support the launch of a study aimed
at increasing private provision of postal services in rural areas.
(f) Information technology. The loan would support the elaboration, by
the Government, of a strategy aimed at: (i) facilitating electronic
commerce; (ii) modernizing the administration; (iii) promoting the
development of IT-based activities; and (iv) promoting access to IT by
Moroccan enterprises.
7.      Implementation.   The main implementing agencies are mentioned above.
ANRT, in particular, is responsible for preparing, submitting to the
Government, and implementing the package of liberalization measures supported
by the present loan in the telecommunications sector. The privatization
strategy of IAM will be prepared by the Ministry of Privatization. The State
Secretariat for Post and Information Technology, for its part, will play a key
role in implementing the measures supported under areas (e) and (f) of the
loan. Each of these institutions has designated several key staff to work on
the reforms to be implemented within the framework of the loan.
8.      Sustainability.   Several factors would help ensure the sustainability of
the above reforms. First, the measures supported by the present operation are
fully in line with current international trends, as many countries at various
- 3 -



stages of development are moving toward a fully private, competitive
telecommunications sector. Second, the Government has demonstrated its
commitment to pursue the reform effort, and the envisaged measures are expected
to yield substantial fiscal gains: telecommunications revenues are expected to
rise due to market enlargement and service diversification, additional license
fees will be raised, and a more competitive telecommunications sector will have
a positive impact on economic activity in general. Third, substantial
technical assistance has been mobilized under the present operation to make
sure that the full rationale for the proposed reforms is presented to all
interested parties and to ensure adequate implementation of the most complex
measures.
9.      Environmental Aspects.   This is a category "C" project. The proposed
operation has no direct or significant environmental impact.
10.     Program Objectives and Poverty Category. As the loan supports a package of
measures designed, for the main part, to increase the efficiency of the
telecommunications, post, and IT sector through the establishment of an
environment conducive to new entry and enhanced competition, it falls mainly
within the category of Private Sector Development. It also contributes to
Poverty Reduction through a program of targeted interventions aimed at
facilitating the access of poor and remote households to telecommunications,
postal and IT services.
11.     Participation.   ANRT, the telecommunications regulator in charge of
implementing the reform program in the telecommunications sector, is consulting
broadly with local as well as foreign operators and investors. It has also set
up an advisory body composed of recognized experts, which it consults on policy
reforms. Finally, it is designing regulatory processes which provide for the
consultation of all interested parties. The Secretariat d'Etat Charge de la
Poste et des Technologies de l'Information, for its part, is in the process of
establishing partnerships with private industry to cope with the computer
issues arising from passage to the year 2000 and to promote the development of
and access to IT.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
PID Processed the week ending April 2, 1999.
- 4 -



