Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13707
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
(LOAN 3143-CH)
NOVEMBER 14, 1994
Trade, Finance and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENT EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (Ch $)
Average Exchange Rates
(per US dollars)
1985                      US$1                      Ch$       161.08
1986                      US$1         =            Ch$       193.02
1987                      US$1         =            Ch$       219.41
1988                      US$1         =            Ch$       245.01
1989                      US$1         =            Ch$       266.95
1990                      US$1         =            Ch$       304.90
1991                      US$1         =            Ch$       349.22
1992                      US$1         =            Ch$       362.58
1993                      US$1         =            Ch$       404.17
GOVERNMIENT OF CHIELE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP                       Administradoras de Fondos de Pensiones
(Pension Funds)
CB                        Central Bank of Chile
CORFO                     Corporaci6n de Fomento de la Produccion
(National Development Corporation)
CR                        Contraloria General de la Republica
(State Controller)
DDSR                      Debt and Debt Service Reduction
GDP                       Gross Domestic Product
IDB                       Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
(Interamerican Development Bank)
IFC                       International Financial Corporation
LASA                      "Leasing Andino"
UF                        Unidad de Fomento
(Financial Indexation Unit)



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W"hington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 14, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Chile
Financial Markets Loan (Loan 3143-CH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Chile - Financial Markets Loan (Loan 3143-CH)
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the
Borrower.
The loan objective was to assist the Government of Chile in further developing the securities
market and investment financing through leasing. More than half of the loan proceeds were allocated for
a quick-disbursing component. This aimed at advancing policy measures for improving securities market
infrastructure, expanding investments instruments and liberalizing restrictions in the placement of
securities. The second component was a credit line for the leasing sector. A technical assistance
component, separately financed by a Japanese Grant, was designed to strengthen governmental institutions
that supervise the financial markets and to monitor the developments of these markets.
Project implementation was effective and the goals were successfully met. Almost all the financial
sector conditions were fulfilled. The technical assistance improved the capabilities of supervisory boards
in the financial sector. In addition, all the proceeds for the leasing credit line were spent two years faster
than expected, and the auction system utilized proved to be very effective. Conversely the balance of
payments support proved to be unnecessary as external sector performance increased substantially
beginning in 1990, and the second tranche of the fast disbursing component was canceled.
Overall, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, the institutional impact as substantial and
sustainability as likely.
The PCR focuses on project process issues and the policy measures taken to develop the financial
sector. The PCR, however, provides limited information on the outcome of the changes in the financial
markets, especially the performance of the stock market and its main participants. It does not provide much
information either on eventual improvements in industrial finance as a result of the measures taken.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHILE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
(Loan 3143-CH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary ................................... i-viii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ... ...... 1
A.  The Program  ....................................... 1
B.  Background ........................................ 1
C.  Loan Rationale ...................................... 3
D.  Loan Objectives ...................................... 5
E.    Identification, Preparation and Appraisal .......................  6
F.    Main Project Issues   ...................................  7
G.    Project Implementation   ................................. 10
H.  Evaluation ......................................... 12
I.   Borrower Performance .................................. 16
J.   Bank's Performance ................................... 17
K.  Project Documentation and Data ........................... 18
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTI .................................P T                                               19
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...................... 21
A.  Related Bank Loans ................................... 21
B.  Project Timetable ..................................... 22
C.  Loan Disbursements ................................... 22
D.  Dates of Tranche Disbursements ........................... 22
E.  Use of Bank Resources ................................. 23
F.   Status of Major Loan Covenants ............................ 24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance            ir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.         Ofgel






CHILE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FINA-NCIAL MARKETS PROJECT
(LOAN 3143-Cl)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Financial
Markets Project in Chile, for which Loan 3143-CH in the amount of
US$130 million was approved on December 14, 1989, and became effective
on July 6, 1990. At the request of the Borrower, US$40 million of the Loan
proceeds, allocated for the second tranche of the policy adjustment
component, was cancelled in June 1992. The Loan was subsequently closed,
less than two years after its initiation.
This PCR was prepared by the Trade, Finance and Private Sector
Development Division, Country Program Department IV of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office (LA4TF). It is based, inter alia.
on the President's and the Appraisal Reports, the Loan Agreement and
supplementary documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, Government's comments and intemal Bank
memoranda.






CIFE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FINANCIAL MLARKETS LOAN
(LOAN 3143-CH)
EVALUATION SUJMMARY
Introduction
1.   The Financial Markets Loan was conceived in the late 1980s to help
the Govemment of Chile consolidate the gains of the successful adjustment
program launched midway through the decade. It was clear then that the
Govemment needed to undertake additional measures for Chile to generate
sufficient resources for sustainable long-term economic growth, as the
1981-82 debt crisis had ended large foreign capital flows. This pointed up
the need for enhancing the capital markets' mobilization and channeling of
domestic savings.
2.   The Government had created the right macroeconomic environment for
sound financial operations, after successfully managing the banking sector's
recuperation from its near paralysis in the early 1980s. Also, social security
system reforms had created a significant body of institutional investors,
notably the fast growing private pension funds. However, there were many
restraints limiting as well as narrow opportunities for mobilizing their and
other resources. There also were inadequate institutional savings and
intermediation mechanisms for channeling savings to producers. The
securities market offered mainly short-term finance, and had only a limited
supply of financial instruments. There remained weaknesses in capital
market infrastructure and excessive regulatory requirements. Chile therefore
elected to stimulate increases in the supply of securitized assets in the non-
bank private financial system, while simultaneously easing investor
restrictions.
3.  Independently, the authorities then concluded that, in order to achieve
more sustained growth, Chile had to expand annual investment by other
producers than large corporations and export-oriented companies. They also
recognized the need to stimulate alternative investment financing mechanisms
for this purpose. The Government therefore decided to expand the leasing
sector, which had been increasingly financing small- and medium-size
industry's capital needs but was still underdeveloped and faced strong
constraints.



- ii -
4.    When the Government requested Bank assistance for these goals, the
financial sector had few major rigidities. Its policy environment was quite
supportive and the banking system was substantially restructured.
Consequently, there was some doubt whether there was a basis for further
Bank financial sector operations. Simultaneously, Chile's post-1985
adjustment effort had restored key balances within the economy, and the
country seemed to be poised for continued growth. Some contended that
there was thus no longer any need for balance-of-payments support.
However, after investigation, it was agreed that the country remained highly
indebted and vulnerable to external developments. Also, there were
uncertainties about the future political situation. It was therefore argued that
the Bank should contain further reductions in its net resource transfers to
Chile, which had declined 38% from FY88 to FY89. The conclusion
stemming from these considerations was that a "hybrid" operation was
justified to support the Financial Markets Project.
Loan Objectives and Conditions
5.   The US$130 million Loan's main objective was defined as assisting the
Government in further deepening Chile's securities markets and the banking
system. About 62 % of the proceeds were allocated for a quick-disbursing
component. This aimed at advancing policy measures for improving
securities market infrastructure, expanding investment instruments and
liberalizing restrictions. A novel second component was a credit line for the
leasing sector, using an experimental auction allocation system. The Project
also provided technical assistance with Japanese Grant Facility funds.
6.   The policy-based disbursements were tied to the fulfillment of general
conditions pertaining to economic management, and to specific sector
objectives. Half of this component's Loan proceeds would be disbursed upon
effectiveness and the rest upon fulfillment of the sector objectives. The
adjustment component's conditions were the following:
Eirs Tranche Release: Evidence that the Government's
macroeconomic framework was consistent with its financial sector reform
program. effectively a commitment of continued fiscal and monetary policies
that would be non-inflationary, and consistent with the economy's sustainable
growth.
Second Tranche Release:
--   Maintenance of satisfactory macroeconomic
performance;



- iii -
Establishment by the private sector of a depository
system and measures to put it in place;
Review of requirements for establishing real estate
investment companies and introduction of any necessary
modifications;
Permitting pension funds to invest in mutual funds and
commercial paper, as well as to purchase bank-issued
collateralized securities;
Request for legislative approval of Banking Law
amendments permitting securitization and
collateralization of bank loans, and allowing pension
funds and life insurance companies to invest in these
instruments;
Removal of global bank limits on guarantees; and
Central Bank adoption of a plan to cause pension fund
administrators to transfer securities to the depository
system.
7. The remaining US$50 million of the Loan proceeds was to be onlent to
leasing companies by the State Development Corporation (CORFO), using
auction techniques. The Central Bank (CB), Ministry of Finance and
CORFO would jointly determine the minimum rate for the auctioned funds.
These would be denominated in dollars (with a LlBOR-based rate) and UF
pesos reflecting daily CPI changes, with auctions conducted quarterly.
Main Issues during Project Development
8. Balance-of-Payments Justification. As the loan was finalized, doubts
mounted about the balance-of-payments case for the adjustment element.
Chile's external position had strengthened considerably with the trade balance
in surplus, and the current account deficit moving towards it. End 1988 net
international reserves had exceeded six months of imports. However. the
economic team continued to request increased Bank lending out of concerns
about the sustainability of these improvements. IBRD projections then in fact
predicted some deterioration in the balance of payments, mainly from sharp
price falls for copper, which still represented more than 40% of exports.
The current account deficit for 1990 was forecast to rise to 5.6% of GDP.
Furthermore, the projections for 1989-90 showed debt/exports ratios well
above 180% and interest payments/exports ratios of 19.5%. Large external
financing gaps appeared likely for 1991-92. It ultimately was agreed that
Chile's medium-term balance of payments position warranted support.



- is. -
9.  Debt Reduction Support. As the aforementioned debt ratio projections
showed, the Government would need to continue devoting significant portions
of overall savings to service payments. In May 1989, therefore, the
authorities asked the Bank to participate in a US$330 million debt reduction
operation, using the Financial Markets Loan adjustment funds to meet about
one third of a cash buyback's expenses. On review, the Bank agreed that a
meaningful reduction in the magnitude of the debt burden would improve
growth prospects. However, the Bank was then still feeling its way on debt
relief assistance and there were extended discussions over whether the
proposed scheme qualified for [BRD funding. One consideration was that the
Government, whose term was nearing its end, had no larger, forward-looking
debt reduction strategy. Another was that the relatively small operation was
determined to offer limited benefits in reduced debt servicing and greater
investment and growth. For these reasons, the proposed Loan provision
related to debt reduction was dropped.
10. Leasing Component. During project identification, the leasing industry
appeared to need some US$50 million of external funding. IFC concurred
with the Loan's leasing component, based partly on its view that the Bank
was the more appropriate source than the IFC of a credit line open to all
leasing companies. Later though, the IFC began to advance a loan for
Chile's largest company (Leasing Andino-LASA). This raised concerns
about two separate Bank Group operations simultaneously entering this single
market. The IBRD staff was worried that the leasing sector might
consequently be overloaded with funds. and that the IFC loan could disrupt
the experimental auction mechanism. In addition, there was a difference in
lending tenns which some felt might lead to pricing distortions. Nonetheless,
the IFC approved the LASA loan shortlv after Bank approval of the Financial
Markets Project, on the grounds of heightened demand for funds and its
belief that the auction system would not be adversely affected.
11.  The situation worsened when the IDB then also was found preparing to
advance funds for identical purposes w ithin a US$360 million general credit
program for CORFO. This too contravened earlier understandings.
Subsequently, it appeared that the situation was resolved when the Inter-
American Bank assented that the IBRD funds should be used first on the
auction system basis. While in fact USS45 million of IDB's funds were
auctioned first, arrangements were soon made for synchronized rounds. This
proved to have no sustained adverse effects.



v
Project Implementation
12. Project implementation was effective and the goals were successfully
met. However, the Loan disbursement pattem differed substantially from
what was envisaged. All of the proceeds for the leasing credit line were
expended two years faster than predicted, by June 1992. In the same month,
at the Govemment's request, the Bank cancelled the US$40 million second
tranche of the adjustment component. The authorities declined to take these
funds in the face of the return of strong private capital flows, the country's
favorable prospects of regaining access to international markets and the
projected absence of difficulties with Chile's external accounts. Indeed, they
were worried about the Loan funds possibly contributing to resurgent
inflation. Save for the technical assistance component therefore, the Project
effectively terminated in June 1992.
13.    When the Loan was being designed, the focus of macro concern was
on the continuing pursuit of firm financial policies in order to dampen the
pace of expanded domestic demand. During 1989 accordingly, the
Government raised real interest rates and depreciated the peso with a
commitment to maintain its real value thereafter. However, the economy
soon became overheated and the Govemment promptly re-raised real interest
rates while also maintaining tight fiscal discipline. At the time the Loan
became effective, this adjustment was becoming progressively successful.
Taking these measures into account, a Bank assessment of the
macroeconomic framework in spring 1990 concluded that it was consistent
with the agreed Government program, which was the basis for satisfying the
first tranche requirement.
14. Almost all the financial sector conditions were promptly fulfilled. The
sole exception was that the required amendments to the Banking Law
regarding collateralization and securitization had not been submitted to the
legislature by June 1992. However, these amendments were presented in
January 1993 and approved one year later.
15. The leasing component was implemented successfully and, as noted
above, faster than anticipated. Booming leasing industry activity before Loan
effectiveness significantly exceeded appraisal expectations, buoying demand
for the Loan's funds. The leasing companies moreover responded favorably
to the auction system, resulting in the award of US$100 million between June
1990 and April 1991 in the auctions held with IBRD and IDB funds. In the
process incidentally, "Leasing Andino" drew on both the IBRD and IFC
loans. There was a slight delay at the outset with the need for fine-tuning
CORFO procedures, as well as resolving problems caused by its lack of the



- V-
IDB-required counterpart funds. There followed the Bank's reminders to the
new authorities (after two rounds of auctions of IDB funds) that the project
arrangements called for IBRD funds to be used first. Thereafter. the process
worked smoothly with CORFO efficiently installing the revised procedures
and processing subprojects with dispatch. The Bank consistently found that
the interest rate set by the Government was consistent with comparator
market prices.
16.   Technical Assistance. At the time of the cancellation of the Loan's
second tranche effectively concluding the Project, still almost half of the
Japanese Grant proceeds remained undisbursed because of delays in
beginning the TA component. By March 24, 1994 though, only some 3% of
the Grant remained undisbursed, and the TA component is scheduled to be
terminated before end FY94. Many of the original (and some new)
objectives have been met. The Central Bank established flow of fund
matrices for refining its national accounts. The Banking Superintendent
conducted studies on securitization of financial instruments, factoring
agencies, regulatory and banking data processes. The Securities and
Insurance Superintendent was helped to develop risk rating systems while
other consultants advised the Superintendent of Pension Fund Administrators
on evaluating investment options. A component was added to help create a
CORFO financial intermediation unit and the Corporation also received
assistance for upgrading its technology institutes.
Evaluation
17.   All of the Loan objectives were achieved and the Financial Markets
Project experience can be judged successful overall. The Project helped to
upgrade the capacity of the financial markets to mobilize and channel funds.
In this fashion, the financial system can now play a fuller role in mobilizing
domestic resources for financing investments, lessening dependence on
foreign savings. Admittedly, the full impact of the Goverrunent's policy
measures on the securities market cannot yet be gauged, given their long
term perspective. It appears however that the Project-supported actions
fortified the policy environment of Chile's financial system in beneficial
ways. There is no known reason to question the sustainability of these
improvements, several of which were bolstered by the capital markets law
approved in January 1994.
18.   The Project also had a significant catalytic effect on the growth of the
financial markets, particularly by helping to advance leasing as an added
source of long term finance. The pilot auction process proved to be
especially useful. The Central Bank found it to be a much improved means



- vii -
of allocating resources. It has maintained the system and extended it to other
institutions (as of April 1994, 29 of Chile's 36 commercial banks).
19. Conclusion: This experience shows that, under certain country
conditions, the state can usefully play an active role in financial markets in
ways which enhance economic growth and financial institutions.
20.  In reviewing the Project experience, the CB concluded that auctions
allow governments to meet demands for long-term financing without
distorting capital markets. It said another lesson was that equipment and
machinery, more than project financing, had driven the demand for long-term
credit at the then present stage of development of Chile's markets. The
authorities also noted that the success of the Project's auction system
stimulated its extension from leasing credit to uses of bilateral loans. They
added that auctioning the latter might substitute for multilateral agencies'
long-term financing. Further, the CB stated that the Project had helped
advance CORFO's transition to second tier operations (ref. para 26).
21.   This favorable assessment of the leasing component experience is
shared by independent Bank research. A recent Bank regional study on
credit auctions' commended Chile's and Bolivia's experiences overall,
although they identified some areas for fine-tuning. They found that the
auctions made credit allocation fullv transparent, eliminated wasteful rent-
seeking, evoked high participation with competitive bidding, all of which
they said significantly strengthened competitiveness in Chile.
22. Further, the results show that. notwithstanding IFC's belated
intervention (ref. para. 10), its loan helped bridge a resource gap and did not
supplant the Bank's funds. The small size of both the Bank's credit line and
IFC's loan relative to the expandine appetite for lease finance may also have
contributed to the relatively benign results. However, the IFC involvement
complicated the timing of the operation, as did that of the IDB.
23.  Conversely, the balance-of-payments support provisions proved to be
unnecessary as subsequent events reduced the need for the Loan's full
resources. Beginning in 1990, external sector developments were quite
positive. Copper prices fell by less than forecast while capital inflows rose
sharply, with net international reserves increasing 82 % in 1990 over their
already high levels. Foreign direct investment more than doubled.
Therefore, when net IBRD transfers in FY 87-90 fell from US$221 million
1.    "Auction Credit," Report 15. LAC Technical Department Regional Studies, January
1992.



- viii -
(positive) to -US$15.5 million, it had no adverse consequences and was
readily accepted by the Government.
24.    Changing circumstances also invalidated the assumptions underlying
the proposed debt reduction support. The new Government significantly
changed Chile's debt management strategy, opting for a speedier, more
intermediate solution than their predecessors, and obtained multi-year
rescheduling and additional new money agreements. Since then, the
Government continued on its own to successfuly reduce external
indebtedness. In retrospect therefore, the Bank chose correctly in deciding
not to provide DDSR support under the Loan provisions.
Borrower and Bank Perfornance
25.   Much of the Project's success stems from the Chilean authorities'
demonstration that they fully "owned" the reform endeavor, and used their
skills effectively to execute it well. They showed their commitment here in
the briskness with which they began, well before Loan effectiveness, to carry
out the Project's policy and institutional reforms.
26.   There was however a problem in obtaining satisfactory representation
and auditing of CORFO's statements (which did not involve the Project
accounts or the Loan proceeds). In 1991, the Bank reviewed Corporation
accounts and concluded that they did not accurately reflect CORFO's true
financial status. It furthermore noted that the audit of CORFO's books had
not disclosed several significant deficiencies. In discussions, the authorities
agreed that the Corporation faced serious problems, and that its restructuring
was being considered. The Government subsequently moved to change
CORFO into an almost entirely second tier operation, which, incidentally, the
Central Bank also considers the Project to have advanced. Thus, while the
questionable financial statements were not centrally important to the Project,
the Bank's intervention had beneficial consequences (ref. para. 20).
27.  Conclusion: Part of the Project's success can also be credited to the
fact that the Bank cautiously avoided the temptation of over-loading
adjustment operations with overly ambitious conditionality. In this
connection, an explicit assumption of the Bank staff who defined the
operation was that the changes required under the Loan needed to be gradual
so as to not overtax the financial system. The resulting package of policy
measures supported a significant shift in the pattem of financial
intermediation at some cost to the Government (loss of priority access to
domestic savings and borrowing expenses). With the inclusion of the leasing
credit auctioning moreover, the overall changes also involved an equally
significant reduction in Government exposure to commercial risk.



CIILE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FINANCIAL MARKEThS LOAN
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. The Program
1.1   The Financial Markets Loan (Loan 3143-CH) of US$130 million was
approved on December 14, 1989. The Government was then engaged in
consolidating the gains of a successful adjustment program. The Project was
designed to help advance this process by enhancing the capital markets'
capacity to mobilize and channel domestic savings for investment purposes.
B. Backeround
1.2   After the severe 1982-83 depression, the Chilean economy had been
strengthening midway through the decade despite low export prices and high
international interest rates. Growth averaged 5.5 % p.a. between 1984 and
1988. Annual inflation then was reduced to 13 %, unemployment fell to
under 7%, and private consumption expanded by a real almost 10%. The
Government's economic policies, supported by three prior Structural
Adjustment Loans (SALs), had increased public and private domestic
savings, funding an upturn in investment and facilitating timely servicing of
Chile's US$20 billion external debt.
1.3   Nonetheless, it became clear that additional measures were needed to
generate the resources for satisfactory long-term economic growth.
Historically, Chile had repeated expansion spurts followed by downturns,
broadly correlated with terms-of-trade movements. (This was particularly
worrisome at that time since the trade surplus had almost quadrupled in
1985-86 to US$1.1 billion, compared to US$290 million in 1984.
International copper prices rose substantially during 1988 when economic
growth accelerated to 7.4%.) Past internal policies often aggravated this
vulnerability to external shocks, or themselves caused economic instability.
The situation was clouded moreover by the large debt overhang, the
uncertainty of the approaching political transition after almost 17 years of
military rule, and the pressures of unattended social demands. The
authorities therefore concluded that, although the recent economic



-2 -
improvements had created the conditions for growth, their achievement
ultimately depended on deeper structural changes. For this purpose, the
reform agenda in the late 1980s focused on resolving three priority problems:
insufficient growth and excessive concentration of exports; low levels of
savings and investment; and the weaknesses of the financial sector.
1.4   At the outset of the decade, the Chilean banking system was well
developed, probably among the most advanced in Latin America. Interest
rates had long been freely determined, and credit allocation was not subject
to Government dictate. However, there was a low level of financial
intermediation, e.g., the ratio of broad money to GDP in 1980 was only
15%. Most seriously, after the 1970s' liberalization actions, ineffectual
prudential supervision of financial institutions made the system quite
vulnerable to untoward events, which soon occurred. The global debt
emergency of 1982, together with the unsustainable expansion of private
consumption and investment in Chile, created a financial crisis. The abrupt
reversal of capital inflows and the worsened terms-of-trade introduced large
declines in the real value of assets relative to liabilities. Connected lending
and speculative practices of many institutions generated a situation in which
numerous borrowers could not even pay the interest on their loans.
Commercial bank deposits contracted sharply in real terms and the financial
system's solvency came into question.
1.5  In 1981-82, eleven banks, whose portfolios comprised almost 15% of
total loans, were liquidated. A year later, the largest private banks went into
receivership. Indeed, by then, virtually all of Chile's private banks were
insolvent. To remedy the situation, the Central Bank entered into subsidized
debt rescheduling, interest subsidies and purchases of bad portfolios,
followed by recapitalization, restructuring and privatization measures. These
helped stabilize the banking system but at a high cost. The Central Bank's
accumulated losses through 1986 approximated US$6 billion, over a third of
that year's GDP, and its operational deficit for the same year equalled 3.2%
of GDP.
1.6   By the late 1980s though, the Government had successfully begun to
stem this hemorrhage. Commercial bank loan portfolios were substantially
improved at end 1986, the system was again beginning to earn profits, and it
resumed lending. With rehabilitation completed and the system's credibility
restored, the authorities could then turn their attention to longer term issues.
One of the most prominent was the recognition that the debt crisis had put an
end to ample foreign capital flows, requiring increased domestic savings.
This pointed up the need for a new approach towards Chile's capital markets.
These circumstances constituted the setting of the Financial Markets Loan.



-3-
C. Loan Rationale
1.7   The Bank had long recognized the financial system's key role in
Chile's economy. The three SALs executed in 1985-88 included numerous
adjustment program measures to improve the efficiency and safety of the
financial markets. The Bank also had sought to establish better machinery
for restructuring workouts of corporations with unmanageable debt (Industrial
Finance Project, Loan 2606). However, after substantial debt reschedulings
and conversions, this Loan was restructured to provide conventional
investment credit. In 1987-89, there had been progress in enhancing the
institutional framework of the financial sector, while the Second Industrial
Finance Project (Loan 3053) provided term investment credit.
1.8   With help of the SALs, the Government had created the right
macroeconomic environment for sound financial operations with actions
which helped encourage individual savings. Simultaneously, social security
system reforms had created a significant body of institutional investors,
notably the fast growing private pension funds ("Administradoras de Fondos
de Pensiones" - AFP). However, there were narrowing opportunities then
available for mobilizing these resources, partly because of restraints on
public sector borrowing and commercial bank mortgage lending.
1.9   To help overcome these limitations, the Government already had
strengthened the framework of the securities market by creating a more
flexible risk classification system and enhancing its prudential regulation. It
also had moved to permit some greater AFP participation in equity markets.
There were however substantial constraints on the volume and type of
financial instruments that the funds could purchase. (When social security
system contributions were made mandatory, the still fresh aftermath of the
financial crisis earlier in the 1980's contributed to sentiments for prudent
AFP investments.) Moreover, institutional savings and intermediation
mechanisms remained deficient for channeling reasonable shares of savings to
private industry. The securities market still had relatively slow growth and a
low degree of capitalization. It offered mainly short term finance, and had
only a limited supply of financial instruments. There remained weaknesses
in capital market infrastructure and numerous excessive regulatory
requirements curbing the fulfillment of its potential. The bond and other
debt markets were thin too.
1.10   Thus, Chile then had a dearth of securitized assets available to meet
the strong demand for such outlets. Moreover, the authorities feared the
consequences of the mounting savings flow, plus the proceeds of privatization
and debt conversion transactions, being funneled mainly into public sector



- 4 -
channels. The Government then was trying to shift the focus of Chilean
economic activity more towards the private sector, for which more financial
avenues were needed. It consequently elected to stimulate increases in the
supply of securitized assets in the non-bank private financial system while
easing constraints on institutional investors.
1.11   Independently, the authorities then concluded that, in order to achieve
more sustained growth, Chile needed to expand annual investment by other
producers than large corporations and export-oriented companies, as well as
investment financing from various sources. They focused attention on small-
and medium-sized firms which were enlarging at the time their consumer and
services output. It became apparent however that these firms could not
obtain bank finance readily for fixed investment commitments then because
the traditional financial institutions concentrated on foreign trade and working
capital resources. New commercial bank lending then was still advancing
slowly too. Therefore, the Government decided to pursue an alternative
possibility for financing investment in machinery and equipment: equipment
leasing. It elected to expand the leasing sector, which had been gaining
prominence in financing small- and medium-size industry's capital needs but
still provided only about 5 % of capital formation. Further, in the then
uncertain investment climate in the wake of the elections terminating the
Pinochet Government's term, leasing arrangements had special appeal to
firns.
1.12 When the Government requested IBRD assistance for these several
aims, most of the major rigidities in Chile's financial system had been
removed. Its overall policy environment was quite supportive and the
restructuring of the banking system was substantially complete.
Consequently, there was some doubt whether there was a basis for further
Bank financial sector operations, particularly in terms of the scope for
significant substantive measures. Also, in advancing the Second Industrial
Finance Project during this period, the Bank had declared that it would no
longer support term financing in Chile, partly because of local financial
improvements. After further investigation, however, it was determined that
there was adequate justification for IBRD activity in capital market
development.
1.13    At the same time, there were also concerns about the justification
for continuing fast-disbursing loans to Chile. However, there was general
agreement that Chile remained highly indebted and considerably vulnerable to
external developments. The Bank's projections forecast substantial external
financing gaps for as early as 1990. It was therefore argued that the Bank
should contain further reductions in its net resource transfers to Chile (which



- 5 -
had declined from US$212 million to US$121 milWion--38%--from FY88 to
FY89). The Country Strategy Paper of the time had recommended a gradual
transition from structural adjustment lending in order to avoid excessive
volatility in resource transfers.
1.14   The conclusion stemming from these considerations was that
additional strengthening of Chile's external position would be justified, and
that a "hybrid' operation should proceed, partly to help maintain at least
marginally positive Bank net disbursements. Significantly too, it was agreed
that Chile met the criteria for special supplementary support, which the Bank
was then extending to countries with sound adjustment records who continued
heavily burdened by their debt service obligations.
D. Loan Obiectives
1.15   The Financial Markets Loan's main objective was defined as assisting
the Government in further deepening Chile's securities markets and the
banking system. About 62% of the US$130 million proceeds were allocated
for a quick-disbursing component. This involved policy measures for
improving securities market infrastructure, encouraging development of
additional investment instruments and liberalizing restrictions on the main
institutional imnestors. The novel second component was an attempt to spark
expansion of Chile's leasing sector by overcoming the limited availability of
credit which was their major constraint. The Loan included a US$50 million
credit line for medium- and long-term financing, using an experimental
auction allocation system. The Project also provided technical assistance
with supplementary US$1.96 million equivalent support from the Japanese
Grant Facility.
1.16   The Project's main intent was to bring about a structural change in
the Chilean financial markets with a shift to more securitized form of
financing. To these ends, the scheme sought to change the regulatory
environment so as to increase simultaneously the demand for and supply of
securities, as well as to modemize the market infrastructure. In the process
incidentally, the Project sought to ease the portfolio restrictions of the
pension funds relatively modestly. This was in line with the conservative
nature of their investment guidelines and their managers' orientation. And
the approach also tried to mitigate adverse effects on the commercial banks,
freeing them to engage in the revised securitization system. Further, the
Project aimed to expand participation in the leasing sector, in which four
companies then had more than 55 % of the market.



-6-
E. Identification. Preparation and Appraisal
1.17 A May 1987 Bank review of sector conditions recommended that.
with the banking rehabilitation substantially completed, the next focus of
financial policy be on capital markets. The Government and the Bank
subsequently agreed on the related components of SAL m and the findings of
the January 1988 industrial sector study. Successive Bank missions that
visited Chile beginning in June 1988 undertook preparation of and defined
the scope for the operation. The appraisal took place in June 1989,
negotiations in Washington were concluded on November 10,1989, and the
Board approved the Loan on December 14, 1989. During this period, the
conditions on which the Project was based did not change substantially.
1. 18 Policy Conditions. The policy-based disbursements were tied to the
fulfillment of general conditions pertaining to economic management, and to
specific sector objectives. Half of this component's Loan proceeds would be
disbursed upon effectiveness and the rest upon fulfillment of the sector
conditions. The adjustment component's conditions were the following:
First Tranche Release: Evidence that the Government's
macroeconomic framework was consistent with its financial sector
reform program. This effectively required a Government commitment
of continued fiscal and monetary policies that would be non-
inflationary, and consistent with the economy's sustainable growth
(ref. para. 1.31).
Second Tranche Release:
-- Maintenance of satisfactory macroeconomic performance
-- Establishment by the private sector of a depository system
and measures to put it in place;
-- Review of requirements for establishing real estate
investment companies and introduction of any necessary
modifications;
-- Permitting pension funds to invest in mutual funds and
commercial paper, as well as to purchase bank-issued
collateralized securities;
-- Request for legislative approval of Banking Law
amendments permitting securitization and collateralization
of bank loans, and allowing pension funds and life
insurance companies to invest in these instruments;
-- Removal of global bank limits on guarantees; and



- 7 -
-- Central Bank adoption of a plan to cause pension fund
administrators to transfer securities to the depository
system.
1.19 On-Lending Arrangements. US$50 million of the Loan was to be
onlent by the State Development Corporation (CORFO) to private leasing
companies under subsidiary loan arrangements. This was linked with a new
Government authorization permitting the leasing companies to double the
amount of bonds they could issue. A condition of loan effectiveness was that
the Government had appointed and entered into a funds transfer agreement
with CORFO as its agent for this credit line. Another effectiveness
prerequisite was that CORFO had adopted satisfactory auction procedures for
allocating to eligible leasing companies the funds assigned for this
component.
1.20 In a particularly unique project feature then relatively novel in the
Bank, CORFO was authorized to auction these funds to the leasing industry
in dollars and Unidad de Fomento (UF) pesos, which reflected daily CPI
changes. The dollar interest rate would be based on LIBOR. The auction
process would determine a market-based price for the line in segments of the
financial market where there was no observable interest rate. The minimum
rate for the auctioned funds would be jointly determined by the Central Bank,
Ministry of Finance and CORFO in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
CORFO's subloans had a maturity of up to 10 years.
1.21  CORFO was expected to hold auctions at least once every three
months for some US$2-4 million of the Loan funds, once the initial
anticipated large pent-up demand had been met. The relatively small lot size
was intended to permit leasing companies to meet their financing needs
gradually. The operation was expected to be phased over four years.
1.22  Auction winners' subloans were expected to cover relatively small
(not exceeding US$1 million) equipment purchases. Bank approval would be
required for contracts exceeding that amount prior to disbursement. Normal
commercial procurement practices would be followed for contracts of up to
US$500,000, with international shopping procedures for larger amounts. A
US$7.5 million special account was to be established.
F. Main Project Design Issues
1.23  Balance of Payments Justification. Real copper prices, which had
averaged US$0.47/pound in 1982-86, rose and exceeded US$0.80 by 1988.
With their help, Chile's external position had strengthened considerably,



- 8 -
especiaUy with its then surplus trade balance. The current account deficit,
which feU from over 8% of GDP in 1985 to less than I % in 1988, was
moving towards balance as well. End 1988 net international reserves had
exceeded six months of imports. Moreover, the economic team had been
observed to overestimate the projected current account deficits for the
immediate preceding years (1986-88). However, the authorities continued to
request increased Bank lending at the time from fears over the balance-of-
payments' susLainability. The Bank's projections in fact predicted a
deterioration mainly from anticipated sharp copper price falls, e.g., around
27% alone in 1990, and copper stiU represented more than 40% of exports.
The current account deficit for 1990 was forecast to exceed US$1.3 billion,
rising to 5.6% of GDP. Furthermore, the projections for 1989-90 showed
debt/exports ratios weU above 180% and interest payments/exports ratios of
19.5%. Large external financing gaps appeared likely for 1991-92. It
ultimately was agreed that there was a sufficient medium-term balance-of-
payments justification for including a quick-disbursing component in the loan.
1.24 Debt Reduction Support. Through successive debt conversions, the
Government successfully reduced MLT debt outstanding from 110% of GDP
to some 76% over 1985-88. However, taking into account the
aforementioned future debt ratios, significant portions of overall savings were
still devoted to financing service payments on one of the highest LDCs' debt
levels. In Miav 1989 therefore, the Government asked for Bank participation
in about one-third of a US$330 million debt reduction (cash buy-back)
operation. using the Financial Markets Loan adjustment funds. The question
then arose as to whether a "set aside" provision should be included in the
Loan for this purpose.
1.25 The Bank agreed that a meaningful reduction in the magnitude of
Chile's debt burden would improve its growth prospects. However, it was
then still feeling its way in this area. The problem was exacerbated by
extended discussions over whether the proposed buy-back scheme qualified
for EBRD assistance, particularly with regard to meeting the "materiality"
criterion of 'Brady Plan" support. (This required positive judgments on the
magnitude of the discount being achieved, the significance of the transaction,
and its likely impact as a basis for further debt reduction.)
1.26 On examination, Chile's relatively small buy-back operation appeared
to offer limited benefits in reduced debt servicing and greater investment and
growth. Further, there was not then any larger, forward-looking program of
debt reduction of the Government (which was approaching its final months).
It also was unclear whether the Bank's presence was essential to the



- 9 -
buyback's success. Ultimately therefore, the "set aside" feature was deleted.
When asked about this during the Board discussion, the Management said
that it had concluded that the materiality criteria had not been met. Speakers
at that Meeting noted incidentally that, since money was fungible. part of the
fast disbursing Loan proceeds could be used for the debt reduction
transaction along with the first tranche of a new Fund standby.
1.27  Leasing Component. In project identification, it had emerged that the
Chilean leasing industry needed some US$50 million of external funds. This
requirement was developed in conjunction with IFC, long familiar with
Chilean capital markets, as well as the customary Bank Group "window" for
such needs. Further, the IFC concurred early on in the Bank's proposed
Financial Markets Loan leasing component, based partly on the view that the
Bank was the more appropriate source of a credit line open to all leasing
companies. It itself reportedly was not then interested in this activity. After
appraisal however, the IFC began to advance a US$10 million loan for
Chile's largest company (Leasing Andino-LASA - which had 40% of the
market), indicating that its Chilean pipeline priorities had changed. This
raised concerns about two separate Bank Group operations simultaneously
entering this single market.
1.28 The EBRD staff were concerned that the leasing sector might
consequently be overloaded with funds. It also feared that the IFC loan
could disrupt the experimental auction mechanism by, among others, the
possibility that the absence of the largest leasing entity would seriously
reduce the volume of activitv. In addition, there was a difference in lending
terms (Bank: auction-determnined; IFC: LIBOR plus 2%), which some felt
might lead to pricing distortions. Nonetheless, the IFC was not persuaded
that a delay was necessary. The LASA loan was approved in Januarv 1990
on the grounds of heightened demand for funds and the belief that the auction
system would not be adversely affected.
1.29 The situation was complicated by the fact that the IDB was also
found to be preparing to advance funds for identical purposes within a
US$360 million general credit program for CORFO. Subsequently, it
appeared that the situation was resolved when the IDB assented that the
IBRD funds should be used before its own, both on the auction system basis.
While in fact US$45 million of IDB's funds were auctioned first,
arrangements were soon made for synchronized rounds. This proved to have
no sustained adverse effects although delays occurred because of CORFO's
difficulties in mobilizing the counterpart funds required under IDB's terms
(unlike the MBRD's, ref. pan. 1.34).



- 10 -
G. Project Implementation
1.30 At Loan approval, disbursements of the policy component funds were
projected to take place by June 30, 1992. with the leasing component
estimated to be fully expended by two years later. The actual pattem was
quite different. Because of delays in signing the Loan, the disbursement for
capitalizing the special account and drawing down the first adjustment-type
tranche took place in August 1990, later than anticipated. Conversely, the
disbursements for the leasing credit line exceeded the forecast. About 45 %
of the pertinent Loan funds were expended within one year after
effectiveness. By end June-1992, all of the remaining Loan proceeds for this
component were disbursed, two years faster than originally predicted. In
June 1992 also, at the Govemment's request, the Bank cancelled the US$40
million second tranche of the fast-disbursing element. The authorities
declined to take these funds in the face of the strong growth of private capital
flows into Chile, its favorable prospects of regaining access to international
debt markets and the projected absence of difficulties with Chile's extemal
accounts. Indeed, with a fiscal surplus already ensured, they were concemed
about rekindling strong inflationary forces.
1.31 Policy Component. When the Loan was being designed, the country
was coming off a sharp upturn in investment and expanded private
consumption. The focus of macro concern then was on the continuing
pursuit of firmn financial policies in order to dampen the pace of expansion of
domestic demand. During 1989, the Government raised real interest rates by
2 % and nominally depreciated the peso by 8 %, with a commitment to
maintain the peso's real value thereafter. These directions of economic
policy were reflected in the Sector Policv Letter which was part of the
Loan's legal documents. They were also set out in the IMF standby
arrangement approved just before the Financial Markets Loan Board
Presentation. However, the economy became overheated and the
Govemment promptly re-raised real interest rates while also maintaining tight
fiscal discipline. At the time the Loan became effective, this adjustment was
becoming progressively successful, although inflation then remained
worrying. Taking these measures into account, a Bank assessment of the
macroeconomic framework in spring 1990 concluded that it was consistent
with the agreed Government program, the basis for satisfaction of the first
tranche requirement. Regarding the second tranche, the Government's
performance remained sufficiently satisfactory to meet the Loan's
macroeconomic target.
1.32 Sector Conditions. Almost all of the specific financial sector
conditions related to the quick-disbursing component were systematically and



- 11 -
promptlv fulfilled. The sole exception was that, after the Banking
Superintendent's delays in drafting the required amendments to the Banking
Law regarding collateralization and securitization, these had not yet been
submitted to the legislature when the Government decided to cancel the
second tranche. The Loan effectively terminated at that point (June 1992).
The authorities then indicated that they proposed to include these amendments
in a pending omnibus bill liberalizing financial market operations. This was
submitted to the legislature in January 1993 and approved one year later. In
addition. there were delays earlier in the creation of the depository system,
extending into 1992, after which the required regulations were published.
Moreover. the Government fully complied with the sector requirements
which were not set as tranche conditions. It held a seminar to publicize
streamlined requirements for issuing securities; widely circulated a brochure
explaining methods for issuing securities and published a compilation of
pertinent laws and rules; carried out a study of pension funds investment
possibilities and related regulatory changes; and kept the IBRD informed of
the functioning of the Central Bank program of purchases of risky
commercial bank loans and their subsequent repurchases by those banks.
1.33 Leasing Credit. This component was implemented successfully, as
well as more rapidly than anticipated. The volume of leasing industry
activity before Loan effectiveness (US$180 million in 1989) significantly
exceeded appraisal expectations, buoying demand for the Loan's medium-
term funds. The leasing companies responded favorably to the auction
system. The amount of bids in the first round was about twice that of the
funds available. A total of US$100 million was awarded in the auctions held
with IBRD and IDB funds in the period June 1990-April 1991. In the
process incidentally, "Leasing Andino" drew on both the IBRD and IFC
loans (and also obtained still more IDB and IFC funds later).
1.34  There was a slight delay at the outset with the need for fine-tuning
CORFO procedures, as well as resolving problems caused by its lack of the
IDB-required counterpart funds. The latter made the IEBRD monies more
attractive but engaged the Bank in helping resolve that problem. There
followed the Bank's reminders to the new authorities (after two rounds of
auctions of IDB funds) that the project arrangements called for IBRD funds
to be used first, and that auctions were to be held at least quarterly.
Thereafter. the process worked smoothly with CORFO efficiently installing
the revised procedures and processing subprojects with dispatch. Beginning
with the first auction, the Bank found that the minimum cut-off interest rate
set by the Government was consistent with comparator market prices. The
leasing credits have been fully repaid as well.



- 12 -
1.35 Technical Assistance. A 260.5 million Yen Japanese Grant
(approximately US$2 million) was obtained to provide technical assistance
complementing the Loan's adjustment measures. The TA operation was
tardy in beginning, mainly because of the need to reconcile the disparate
views on its use of the outgoing and incoming Chilean officials. It continued
moving slowly, i.e., alnost half of the Grant funds remained undisbursed at
the effective close of the IBRD loan in mid-1992. Since then, the pace of
project execution has proceeded more satisfactorily so that, on April 29,
1994, only some 3% of the Grant remained to be disbursed. The Chilean
authorities are confident that the technical assistance component will be
completed by the end of FY94.
1.36  Many of the original (and some new) objectives were met. The
Central Bank established flow of fund matrices for refining its national
accounts system and acquired supporting equipment. The Banking
Superintendent conducted studies on securitization of financial instruments,
factoring agencies, regulatory issues associated with credit cards, developing
information systems for banking surveillance and other topics. The
Securities and Insurance Superintendent was assisted in developing risk rating
systems. Advisors helped the Superintendent of Pension Fund Administrators
improve their techniques for evaluation of investment possibilities. Several
studies were directed at upgrading CORFO's technology institutes, plus the
Economy Ministry's policies and programs concerning them and the
financing constraints of small- and medium-sized companies. Midway
through the program, a component was added to help create a CORFO
financial intermediation unit, for which considerable training and computing
equipment were obtained. Similarly, the Treasury's, Budget Directorate's and
Internal Revenue Service's information systems were modernized.
H. Evaluation
1.37 All of the Loan objectives were achieved and the Financial Markets
Loan experience can be judged successful overall. The Project positively
complemented previous Bank sector interventions and contributed to
strengthening Chile's financial system. It helped particularly to upgrade the
financial markets and make them more substantial in mobilizing and
channeling funds. In this fashion, the financial system can now play a fuller
role in mobilizing domestic resources for financing investments, lessening
dependence on foreign savings. This was therefore an especially timely
intervention as Chile's financial sector had to build its capacity to meet the
needs of a rapidly expanding and diversifying economy.



- 13 -
1.38   The full impact of the Government's policy measures on the securities
market cannot yet be gauged, given their long term perspective. Moreover,
the macro adjustments begun in 1989 to temper the economic expansion
initially set back the equities market and stock exchanges. Soon afterwards
though, the equities market showed healthy advances while the stock
exchange was one of the world's best performers in 1990. Its capitalization
has since grown substantially. It now appears that the Project-supported
actions fortified the policy environment of Chile's financial system in
beneficial ways. Moreover, there is no known reason to question the
sustainability of these improvements. several of which were bolstered by the
capital markets law approved in January 1994.
1.39  In the leasing area, the Project had a significant catalytic effect on the
development and growth of the market, particularly by helping to create an
added source of long term finance, thereby imposing competitive pressures
on other intermediaries. The pilot auction process proved to be especially
useful. The Central Bank found it to be a much improved means of
allocating resources as it increased rivahly among financial institutions and
helped impose market rates. It has therefore maintained the auctioning of
leasing credits. Consequently, the Project-introduced system is judged to
have worked efficiently, avoiding some of the traditional difficulties
associated with directed credit operations. As a result, following its
introduction solely under CORFO's supervision, it was opened to other local
qualified financial institutions, which the Central Bank recently said
numbered 29 of Chile's 36 commercial banks. Thus, the Project's
contribution in this component as well shows favorable signs of being
sustained. In reviewing this experience, it is noteworthy that the Chilean
authorities drew the following lessons:
Auctions allow governments to meet demands for long-term
financing without distorting the capital market; and
Equipment and machinery, more than project financing, drove
the demand for long-term credit in the then current level of
development of the capital market. So leasing companies more
than banks were the catalytic agents of the process.
1.40 There were two other results which the Chilean authorities cited in
commenting on the Project's results. The Central Bank said the success of
this component had persuaded them to extend the auction system initiated
under this Project subsequently to another field. It referred to the auctioning
of "subsidies"--i.e., the proceeds of concessional bilateral credits--for which
insurance companies and other claimants competed under these ground rules.



- 14 -
In May 1991, US$7.7 million equivalent of Spanish funds were auctioned.
On this basis, the Chilean authorities concluded that a set of bilateral credit
lines when auctioned might become substitutes for multilateral agencies in
providing long-term financing.
1.41  In addition, CB's manager stated that the Financial Markets Loan had
helped advance CORFO's transition to second tier operations (ref. para.
1.51). In this connection, he judged that one of the lessons of this
experience was that advancing such changes encounters strong--although
ultimately diminishing--resistance from the public, the financial
intermediaries and even some government officials.
1.42 Conclusion: This experience showed that a state can usefully play an
active role in financial markets in ways which enhance economic growth and
the financial institutions. This was especially true in this instance given
Chile's well functioning private banking system and competitive economy, as
well as the fact that the auction procedure helped ensure an effective market
price.
1.43 The above favorable assessment of the leasing component experience
is shared by independent Bank research. A 1992 Bank regional study on
"Auctioning Credit"' concluded that Chile's and Bolivia's experiences had
quite promising results: "The auctions have (made) the allocation of credit
fully transparent. Wasteful rent-seeking opportunities have been eliminated.
Participation has been high, the bidding competitive. Allowing leasing
companies to participate has significantly strengthened competitiveness in
Chile. The auctions have elicited prices that compare favorably with the
costs of capital to financial intermediaries from alternative sources, and have
established competitive price benchmarks for the first time for some forms of
long-term credit." The study also judged that Chile's auctions had reduced
the time and costs involved in allocating credit. Overall, the study
determined the auctions to have been problem-free although there was still
some need for fine-tuning in such areas as criteria for comparing bids across
heterogeneous products, selection of floor prices, and the number of bids
allowed.
1.44.  Further, the results show that, notwithstanding IFC's belated
intervention, (ref. paras. 1.27-28) no harm was actually done. In fact, as the
Corporation predicted, its loan helped bridge a resource gap and did not
supplant the Bank's loan. There is no evidence either of resulting pricing
1.    LAC Technical Department Regional Studies Program Report No. 15.



- 15 -
distortions or market segmentation in the environment of strong leasing
industry growth and demand for funds. The small size of both the Bank's
credit line and IFC's loan relative to the expanding appetite for lease finance
may also have contributed to the relatively benign results. However, the IFC
involvement complicated the timing of the operation, as did IDB's.
1.45 Conversely, the balance-of-payments support provisions proved to be
unnecessary. There were good reasons when the Project was being
developed for seeking to maintain a sustained flow of Bank resources in the
immediate future. Also, just before the Loan was approved, the IMF Board
expressed concern about the fragility of Chile's medium-term outlook, while
the outgoing Government pressed for a new Fund standby. However,
subsequent developments sharply contrasted with what was anticipated.
nullifying any requirement for the Loan's full resources. Beginning in 1990,
external sector developments were quite positive. Balance-of-payments
results were particularly encouraging, with the current account deficit holding
firm in absolute terms. International copper prices fell by less than forecast,
i.e. London Metal Exchange prices in 1991-92 were 16% below 1989-90's.
Even more significant, capital inflows rose sharply, with net international
reserves increasing 82 % in 1990 over their already high 1989 levels.
Foreign direct investment more than doubled.
1.46 In parallel, over FY 87-90, net IBRD disbursements fell from
US$292 million to US$105 million, and net transfers fell from US$221
million (positive) to -US$15.5 million, mainly because of rising debt service
obligations. Yet the Bank's failure to achieve the resource transfer goals had
no adverse consequences, and was readily accepted by the Government. In
addition to the significant current and capital account improvements, the
political transition evoked a large supply of aid offers from many other
agencies, often on quite favorable terms.
1.47  With regard to the fact that the hybrid loan approach had originally
been conceived partly to support the Government's debt reduction proposals,
here as well, changing circumstances invalidated some original assumptions.
Immediately upon assuming office, the new Government significantly altered
Chile's debt management strategy, opting for a speedier, intermediate
solution, and by end 1990 obtained multi-year rescheduling and additional
new money agreements. In the negotiations with commercial banks
incidentally, it had become clear that the latter were not interested in buyback
schemes because their confidence in Chile's economic management and
prospects discouraged marking down the country's debt paper. Since then,
the Government has continued on its own to successfully reduce its external



- 16 -
indebtedness. In retrospect therefore. the Bank chose correctly in deciding
not to provide DDSR support under the Loan provisions.
1.48.  Notwithstanding its somewhat slow pace, the technical assistance
component was constructive. The Government considered that its support to
the numerous benefitting agencies had served to improve the sector's
regulatory framework, augment the supply of financial instruments and the
dissemination of national financial policies. It also said that the Project had
helped strengthen the operating and decision-making capacities of the public
sector agencies concerned with Chile's financial system.
I. Borrower Performance
1.49   Much of the success of the Project derives from the fact that the
Chilean authorities demonstrated, as they have clearly shown in other Bank-
assisted activities, that they fully "owned" the reform endeavor, as well as
used their considerable skills effectively to execute it well. Their serious
commitment in this instance was evidenced by the briskness with which they
began, well before effectiveness of the Loan, to implement the Project's
policy and institutional reforms. The successful outcome also substantiated
the confidence displayed by both the outgoing authorities and the Bank that
the new officials would not change the thrust of economic and financial
policies, an explicit risk underscored in the Loan materials.
1.50 There was however one problem area, which concerned a difficulty in
obtaining satisfactory representation and auditing of CORFO's accounts.
These did not pertain to the Financial Markets project accounts or the uses of
the Bank Loan funds for either the adjustment component or the leasing
credit line. Rather, in 1991, the Bank reviewed previous CORFO financial
statements and concluded that they did not adequately reflect the
Corporation's true financial status. The Bank furthermore noted that the
Controlaria General de la Republica's audit had not disclosed the following
deficiencies: (a) lack of information and transparency concerning non-
performing loans in CORFO's portfolio; (b) insufficient provisions for
doubtful accounts; (c) lack of disclosure of legal suits, claims and other
contingent liabilities then facing CORFO; and (d) a lack of clarity regarding
the composition of CORFO's capital.
1.51  In discussions with the Bank on these points, the Chilean authorities
agreed that CORFO faced serious problems. They indicated that they were
then considering its restructuring, and they undertook studies on this subject.
While no remedial action was taken during the period of project
implementation, the Government subsequently took measures to improve



- 17 -
CORFO's situation by, among others, eliminating its retail lending functions
and enlisting private firms to handle loan collections. As noted in para.
1.41. CORFO is now almost entirely a second tier operation. Thus, while
the questionable financial statements and audit were not centrally important to
the Financial Markets Loan, the Bank's intervention with the Government
about this problem had beneficial consequences.
J. Bank's Performnance
1.52   Part of the Project's success can also be credited to the fact that the
Bank's design in this case avoided the temptation to overload the adjustment
component with overly ambitious conditionalities. The responsible staff was
understandably concerned about the pace of change to be sought in
broadening the financial system. The Government officials had only recently
emerged from a severe banking system crisis. Also, there was then in Chile,
in the wake of the requirement for social security beneficiaries to deposit
10% of their income in private pension funds, uncertainty about the way
pension fund administrators would channel their rapidly growing assets.
Therefore, an explicit assumption of the Project's design was that the changes
required under the Loan needed to be gradual and not to overtax Chile's
financial system. A contributing, internal reason for caution was that the
proposed policy measures in securities markets were in an area which was
relatively new to the Bank.
1.53 Conclusion. The range of conditionalities finally included in the
adjustment component was reasonable. With respect to the securities market
measures, which appear individually to have been small, this is somewhat
deceptive. Taken together, the measures were supporting a significant shift
in the pattern of financial intermediation at some cost to the Govemment (in
terms of its loss of priority access to domestic savings and prospective
borrowing expenses). Moreover, with the inclusion in the policy package of
financial intermediation through auctioning, the overall changes involved an
equally significant reduction in Government exposure to commercial risk.
1.54   The IBRD made a valuable contribution in helping ensure
consistency and continuity for advancement of the sectoral reforms under the
circumstances of the changes in Government authorities beginning in 1990.
In this connection, during the two years of project supervision, two different
Bank task managers were responsible. Their turnover does not appear to
have had any negative consequences.



- 18 -
K. Project Documentation and Data
1.56 Documentation for the Project is generally good. The Staff Appraisal
Report was comprehensive in portraying the proposed advances in the
financial sector, including the leasing initiative. The President's
Memorandum was equally good, especially in depicting the macroeconomic
setting.
1.57 This PCR relied mainly on the Staff Appraisal and President's
Reports, the legal documents, aide memoires and supervision reports.
Project databases provided information for the preparation of Parts I and m.



- 19 -
PART H. REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
2.1    The Central Bank commented that the pilot auction process proved to
be especially useful. It found the new system to be a much improved means
of allocating resources as it increased rivalry among financial institutions and
helped impose market rates. The Central Bank has therefore maintained the
auctioning of leasing credits. Further, following the auction system's
introduction solely under CORFO's supervision, it was opened to other local
qualified financial institutions, which numbered 29 of Chile's 36 commercial
banks. In reviewing this experience, the Chilean authorities drew the
following lessons:
Auctions allow governments to meet demands for long-term
financing without distorting the capital market; and
Equipment and machinery, more than project financing, drove
the demand for long-term credit in the then current level of
development of the capital market. So leasing companies more
than banks were the catalytic agents of the process.
2.2   The Central Bank said the success of this component had persuaded
them to extend the auction system initiated under this Project subsequently to
another field. It referred to the auctioning of "subsidies"--i.e., the proceeds
of concessional bilateral credits--for which insurance companies and other
claimants competed under these ground rules. In May 1991, US$7.7 million
equivalent of Spanish funds were auctioned. On this basis, the Chilean
authorities concluded that a set of bilateral credit lines when auctioned might
become substitutes for multilateral agencies in providing long-term financing.
2.3  In addition, CB's manager stated that the Financial Markets Loan had
helped advance CORFO's transition to second tier operations. In this
connection, he judged that one of the lessons of this experience was that
advancing such changes encounters strong--although ultimately diminishing--
resistance from the public, the financial intermediaries and even some
government officials.
2.4   The Government considered that the Project's technical assistance to
the numerous benefitting agencies had served to improve the sector's



- 20 -
regulatory framework, augment the supply of financial instruments and the
dissemination of national financial policies. It also said that the Project had
helped strengthen the operating and decision-making capacities of the public
sector agencies concerned with Chile's financial system.



- 21 -
CHILE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN (LOAN 3143-C4)
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.  RELATED BANK LOANS
(in US$ millions)
Loans Approved Prior to or Concurrent with Loan 3143-CH
Loan#    Fiscal                                                                       Undis-
Year                 Borrower                          Purpose              bursed
2606        86     Republic of Chile                  Industrial restructuring            0
2625        86     Republic of Chile                   Adjustment loan                    0
2767        87     Republic of Chile                   Adjustment loan                    0
2892        88     Republic of Chile                   Adjustment loan                    0
3053        89     Central Bank of Chile               Industrial financing               0
TOTAL
Loans Approved After Loan 3143-CH
Loan   Fiscal               Borrower                             Purpose               Amount less    Undis-
Year                                                                           cancellations    bursed
None
TOTAL



- 22 -
B.    Project Timetable
ITEMS              DATE             DATE
PLANNED           ACTUAL
Identification      September 1988     March 1989
(EPS)
Appraisal Mission    November 1988      June 1989
Loan Negotiations      May 1989       November 1989
Board Approval         July 1989      December 1989
Loan Signature         July 1989      February 1990
Loan Effectiveness   December 1989      July 1990
Loan Closing          June 1995         June 1992
Loan Completion
C.    Loan Disbursements
CUMULATED ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)        _
FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93
Appraisal Estimate           50.0   100.0   110.0    130.0
Actual                        0       62.5    90.0       90.0
Actual as % of Finance        0       63       82        82.0
D.    Dates of Tranche Disbursements
TRANCHE                    DATE
First            40.0          July 1990
Second             Cancelled   N.A.



- 23 -
Chile
Financial Markets Loan 3143-CH
E. Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
(in staff weeks i
Stage of Project Cycle                         Planned                 Final
Through Appraisal                                                  N/A                  119.8
Appraisal Through Board Approval                                   N/A                   5.9
Board Appro-al Through Effectiveness                               N/A                   5.0
Supervision                                                        N/A                   26.0
Total                                                                                   156.7



- 24 -
F. Status of Maior Loan Covenants
LOAN AGREEMENT
SECTION                                     DESCRIPTION                                   COMPLIANCE
Schedule I Para.4    Maintenance of macroeconomic framework consistent with agreed                 Yes
prograrn. and satisfactory progress in carrying it out.
Section 6.01(c) and    Isstance of regulations to put depository system in place                    Yes
Schedule 5, para. I
Schedule 5, para. 2    Central Bank adoption of plan to cause pension fund administrators to        Yes
transfer securities to depository system
Schedule 5, para. 3    Measures permitting pension funds to invest in mutual funds and              Yes
commercial paper
Schedule 5, para. 4    Submission to Chilean legislature of Banking Law amendments permitting   After Loan closed, and
securitization and collateralization of commercial bank loans. and   amendments were
allowing pension funds and insurance companies to invest in these    enacted in January
instruments.                                                         1994.
Schedule 5, para. 5    Measures permitting commercial banks to issue subordinated debt up to        Yes
20% of their capital and reserves, and to eliminate global limits on
guarantees.
Schedule 5, para. 6    Review and modification of requirements goveming establishment of real       Yes
estate investment companies.



