Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1-As 3
Report No. P-5116-CH
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$130 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
NOVEMBER 16, 1989
Thbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:      Peso (Ch$)
US$1           =   Ch$280 (as of September 30, 1989)
ChSl           =   US$0.004 (as of September 30, 1989)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CB             -   Central Bank of Chile
CODELCO        -   Corporacion del Cobre
CORFO          -   Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion
CSF            -   Copper Stabilization Fund
EFF            -   Extended Fund Facility
GDP            -   Gross Domestic Product
IDB            -   Inter-American Development Bank
IGPA           -   Indice General de Precios de Acciones
(General Stock Market Index)
IPSA           -   Indice de Precios Selectivos de Acciones
(Price Index of Selected Equities)
SAFP           -   Superintendencia de Administradoras de X ndos
de Pensiones
(Superintendency of Pension Fund Administrators)
SBIF           -   Superintendencia de Bancos e Instituciones
Financieras
(Superintendency of Banks and Financial
Institutions)
SVS            -   Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros
(Superintendency of Securities and Insurance)
TIP            -   Tasa de Interes Promedio
(Interest Reference Rate)
UF             -   Unidad de Fomento
(Inflition Adjusted Unit of Account)



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
CHILE
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY             ....................... -.ii
A.  PROGRESS WITH ADJUSTMENT .1
B.   RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE.                                              2
C.    THE MEDIUM-!%RM ECONOMIC PROGRAM .4
D.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES.                                                        8
E.       PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION               .9
F.   OPERATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS .15
G.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .16
H.  RANK ASSISTANCE .17
I.   ROLE OF THE IM .................. 18
J.  RECOMMENDATION .18
STATISTICAL APPENDIX
1.  Chile: National Accounts
2.  Chile: External Trade
3.  Chile: Balance of Payments
4.  Chile: External Capital and Debt
5.  Chile: Central Government Finance, Honey and Credit
6.  Chile: Selected Growth Variables over the Medium Term
7.  Chile: External Financing
8. Chile: Indicators of External Indebtedness
9.  Chile: Estimated Debt Burden
ANNEXS
ANNEX I     - Procurement and Disbursement
ANNEX II    -  The Status of Bank Group Operations in Chile
ANNEX III   -  Supplementary Data Sheet
ANNEX IV    -  Policy Matrix
ANNEX V     - Debt Reduction and Debt Capitalization Schemes
ANNEX VI    - Letter of Sectoral Policy
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bl recipie.ts only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discls -.4 v'i) tout World Bank authoriation.
.   .    .            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 



CHILE
FINANCIAL MARXETS LOAN
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Chile.
Beneficiaries:         Lessors and lessees will be beneficiaries of the
investment component.
Amounts                US$130 million equivalent.
Termss                 Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Obiectives:   The primary objective is to support the further
deepening of Chile's financial markets. Actions
related to financial markets include: (a) measures to
strengthen securities markets and the banking system,
and (b) the provision of additional funding for the
emerging leasing sector.
Proiect Descriotion:  Three components are included in the proposed
project. First, a policy adjustment component to
support a set of measures to strengthen securities
markets: (a) by improving the market infrastructure;
(b) by allowing the development of additional
investment instruments; and (c) by liberalizing
investment restrictions on the main institutional
investors. The banks would also be strengthened by
permitting them to extend the range of their business
and increase their capitalization. The proceeds of
this component of US$80 million (62Z of the loan)
will be disbursed in two tranches and used to finance
eligible imports. The second component is a credit
line of US$50 million (382 of the loan) to benefit
the leasing sector. This sector has grown
substantially but is now facing a financing shortage
that will limit its ability to meet demand. Finally,
a Technical Assistance component of US$1.9 million,
to be financed entirely by the Japanese Grant
Facility, will strengthen governmental institutions
that supervise or interface with the financial
sector.
Benefits:              Further financial market deepening will lessen
Chile's dependence on external financing at a time
when a higher volume of domestic savings will be
potentially available. A liberalized financial
market will ensure that savings are channelled more
efficiently into productive investment through a
richer menu of financial instruments.



- ii -
Riskss                 There are three sets of risks.  The first is that a
new Government, which will come into office in early
1990, might pursue different policies toward the
development of the financial sector than those of the
present Government. Present indications suggest,
however, that a new Government would not change the
thrust of key economic and financial policies. A
second risk is a deterioration in the macroeconomic
environment that might undermine the development of
financial markets and reduce demand for the Bank's
credit line from the leasing sector. Current
expectations, however, are for a stable evolution of
the economy over the medium term. The third risk is
that the institutional mechanism for channelling the
leasing credit line (an auction) could prove
unsuccessful since it is an untried mechanism. If
this happens, the loan resources would be allocated
on the basis of a market reference rate.
Appraisal Report:      Report No. P-8004-CH
Financina Plant        The financing plan for the leasing credit program is
as follows:
Local    Foreign    Total
(USS millions)
IBRD                         --        50          50
Commercial Banks             40        --          40
Bond Placement               60        --          60
100        50         150
Estimated
Disbursements:         The US$80 million, quick-disbursing component will be
available in two equal tranches. The second tranche
will be available upon satisfaction of second tranche
conditions.
The leasing credit line is expected to disburse over
a four-year period as set out below:
__________-- Bank FY ------------
1990     1991      1992       1993
(US$ millions)
Annual           10.0      10.0      10.0       20.0
Cumulative       10.0      20.0      30.0       50.0



MEMNBANDUM AND BECONKENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INSERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
ON A PROPOSED LOWN TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A PINANCIAL MARKETS PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Chile for the equivalent of US$130 million to
finance the Government's financial sector reform program as well as a line
of credit to be channelled to the leasing sector. The loan would have a
term of 17 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at the standard
variable interest rate.
A. PROGRESS WITH ADJUSTMENT
2.       The development strategy of the Chilean Government has been to
ensure a stable macroeconomic environment that supports sustained economic
growth and accelerated poverty alleviation. The key elements of this
strategy have been promotion of the private sector as the engine of
investment and growth, the stimulation of domestic savings (including
public savings), and a reduction in Chile's external commercial bank debt
(taking advantage of the discount in secondary markets) so as to lighten
net transfers abroad and promote investment within the economy.
3.       To attain these goals, the Chilean economy has undergone a process
of profound structural adjustment. Starting in 1975, the country's economy
was liberalized and opened, with the virtual elimination of nontariff
barriers to imports as well as the unification and substantial reduction of
rates of customs tariffs. The liberalization also included the lifting of
price controls and deregulation of domestic markets, together with the
gradual reduction in the number of State fntities through privatization of
public enterprises and the curbing of pub:.ic outlays.  All of this was done
against the background of the application of responsible fiscal and
monetary policies. Concurrently, incentives were instituted to encourage
greater private sector participation in the delivery of key social
services, e.g., health, education, and housing.
4.       Economic liberalization was interrupted by a severe economic
crisis in the early 1980s. The opening of Chile's capital account, which
started gradually in 1978, was completed by April 1980. This, in
conjunction with the fixing of the nominal exchange rate in June 1979, led
to massive inflows of unguaranteed long-term credit. These capital flows
financed an unsustainable expansion of private consumption and investment
in 1980 and early 1981. The Chilean boom of that period was financed
largely with foreign credit. As a consequence, external debt--most of it
contracted by the private sector--rose from US$6.7 billion at end-1978 to
US$17.2 billion by end-1982, or the equivalent of 69X of GDP. At the same
time, the competitiveness of the country's tradable sector was eroded by
the fixed exchange rate. The corporate sector, meanwhile, was -weakened by
high real domestic interest rates, which exceeded 301 per year at their
peak in the late seventies. As a result, the financial sector was



-2-
adversely affected by the deterioration in the quality of corporate loans
and this in turn undermined the stability of the financial system and
public confidence in it.
5.       The difficulties within the financial sector --ere accompanied by a
sharp depression in 1982 and 1983. Since then, the Government has followed
a strategy of structural reform intended to lay the foundation for
sustainable growth, consistent with a gradual fall in external financing
requirements. These reforms were given concrete form in a macroeconomic
program for 1985-89, supported by an IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) and
a program of structural adjustment, supported by the Bank, in the form of
three Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) covering the period 1985-88. The
Bank-sponsored adjustment program had as an objective the recovery of
economic activity and employment while gradual'ly reducing the external debt
burden. This program successfully achieved these objectives through the
implementation of policies directed at resolving three priority structural
problems: insufficient growth and excessive concentration of exports, low
levels of savings and investment, and the fragility of the financial
system. The program also received support from the international creditor
banks and the official creditor agencies through financial packages
negotiated over the same period. Furthermore, in the most successful and
extensive program of debt reduction in any highly-indebted country, Chile
has been able to eliminate US$8.0 billion in commercial bank external debt
by end-August 1989 or about half of the commercial bank debt stock at end-
1985.
6.       Overall, Chile has been able to sustain a coherent and successful
long-term adjustment program. The specific targets set under this program-
-aimed at the problem areas noted above--were, in fact, surpassed. For
1989, the Government's economic program calls for continuation of the
economic performance of previous years. The Government's objectives aim at
a vigorous economic expansion, based on the continuous strengthening of
savings, investment, and exports. Furthermore, the Government remains
committed to the continuation of privatization of public sector
enterprises.
7.       Beyond 1989, Chile's overall economic strategy will be shaped by
the Presidential elections to be held in December of this year. However,
continuity of general economic policy direction appears likely, given that
key political opposition groups have acknowledged the benefits of the
current Government's basic economic strategy; moreover, in their economic
platform they have pledged not to undermine private initiative and to
protect the openness of the Chilean economy.
B. RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
8.       Chile's economy in the last few years has registered a strong
economic performances gross capital fo.mation increased from 13.7? of GDP
in 1985 to 17? in 1988. The performance of national savings has been even
more impressive, increasing frcm 5.42 of GDP to 16.3? during the same
period. The corporate and financial sectors also have been considerably
strengthened.
9.       In 1988, the economy grew 7.42, compared to an average of 5.7? in
1986 and 1987. Thus, between 1985 and 1988, the Chilean economy averaged a



-3-
growth rate of 5.3?. Over the same period, inflation fell from 26.42 to
12.7?. Unemployment, which in 1985 amounted to 18.72 of the labor force,
declined to 6.61 by the end of 1988. Underlying this strong economic
performance was the buoyancy of exports. Noncopper exports have grown at
an average rate of over 121. Copper prices rose from a low of 74 cents/lb
in 1987 to 1.14 cents/lb in 1988. Hence, copper exports, which accounted
for 43Z of overall exports by value in 1987, grew by 53S in 1988. The
increase was due entirely to international price improvements, since export
volumes actually declined by 0.92 because of technical supply difficulties.
Total exports in 1988 increased by 351 to US$7.1 billion, which is the
equivalent of 31.92 of GDP (up from 23.7Z in 1985). The current account
deficit has, therefore, declined significantly, from over 82 of GDP in 1985
to less than 12 in 1988. In 1989, the current account deteriorated to a
US$740 million deficit (2.9? of GDP); at trend copper prices, the deficit
amounts to the equivalent of 8.5Z of GDP. The external accounts are highly
vulnerable to copper price movements; thus, the current account deficit is
expected to rise to US$1.5 billion per annum (4.5Z of GDP) over the next
five years as the unusually high copper prices decline. The external
accounts are also vulnerable to a rise in international interest rates,
especially since Chile's external debt remains high.
10.      Improvement in public finances greatly contributed to the economic
recovery. The overall nonfinancial public sector position moved from a
deficit of 2.62 of GDP in 1985 to a surplus of 2.52 in 1988 and a projected
surplus of 3? of GDP in 1989. Including deposits into the Copper
Stabilization Fundl (CSF) which were 2.6? of GDP, public sector savings in
1988 amounted to 8.4Z of GDP, up from the 3.8? share in 1985. This
increase was achieved despite a decrease in the value-added tax in mid-1088
from 202 to 16?, and a decrease in across-the-board import tariffs in
January 1988 from 20? to 15?. The sale of public enterprises generated an
additional 1.2? of GDP.
11.      Private savings and investment traditionally have been low
compared to other countries with similar income levels. In the last three
years, the Government has made a strong effort to increase private savings:
the 1981 pension system reform, the 1984 tax reform, the subsidized housing
program based on private ownership, and a stable policy environment helped
increase private savings from about 0.9? in 1985 to 11.2Z by 1988.
Investment also rose from 13.7? of GDP in 1985 to 17? in 1988, surpassing
levels of the 1970s.
12.      The recent improvements in Chile's economic performance have
occurred within a framework of stable trade, exchange rate, fiscal, and
monetary policies. Indeed, the environment of stable macroeconomic
policies has been a major contributor to the success of the Government's
adjustment program. The overall implementation of the structural
adjustment policies has been coherent and carefully managed. Furthermore,
during this process extensive coordination among the Chilean Government,
the Bank, and the IMP has taken place.
1/ The CSF--an account of the Treasury held at the Central Bank--was
designed to hold international reserves corresponding to copper export
earnings in excess of predetermined amounts to provide a cushion
against times when copper prices fell below trend. The CSF was further
developed under SALs IX and III and has functioned effectively.



-4
13.      The financial markets have revived in tandem with the real sector
of the economy. The banking system is stronger than at any time since the
financial crisis of the early 1980s, although it is still vulnerable to a
sharp downturn in the economy. The securities markets (equities and bonds)
recently have shown signs of revival, although they remain constrained by
the present restrictive regulatory environment. In addition, a buoyant
leasing sector has evolved but its growth is limited by a lack of medium-
and long-term financing.
C. THE MEDIUM-TERM ECONOMIC PROGRAM
Medium-Term Policy Framework
14.      Despite the considerable success to date in reaching and
maintaining macroeconomic equilibrium and undertaking far-reaching
structural reforms within the economy, the attainment of sustained growth
will require the continued pursuit of firm financial policies and the
furtherance of structural reform. The Government is committed to
maintaining an approximate balance in the fiscal accounts at trend copper
prices and to limiting the size of the public sector. Copper prices are
assumed to fall to their trend value in the course of 1990, i.e., to be
around 272 below their 1989 average level. As part of the Government's
medium-term strategy, the exchange rate will be maintained at a competitive
level and interest rate policy will be geared to encouraging domestic
savings. The Government has adopted a rate of growth in real output of
4-52 per annum as its medium-term target and intends to hold inflation in
check at or below 16X during 1989, and in the range of 10-15 thereafter.
To achieve the target rate of growth, gross fixed investment will neld to
rise from the equivalent of a projected 18.5? of GDP in 1989 to around 21?
over the medium term. This rate of growth and investment can be combined
with a viable, financeable external current account only if national
savings are maintained in the range of 16-17X of GDP. To support national
savings at this level, real interest rates must remain conducive to
encouraging private savings at the same time as debt reduction programs
generate further savings in net transfers abroad. To sustain the
investment effort, it will be important to increase the efficiency with
which savings can flow through to investment.
15.      The Government that takes office in March 1990 is expected to
confirm the broad thrust of the economic and debt management programs. In
particular, the economic programs of both leading Presidential candidates
reaffirm the current orientation of macroeconomic and debt reduction
policies. To dampen the pace of expansion and promote the further
structural adjustment of the economy the Government has recently taken the
following measures. These consist mainly of a rise in real interest rates
by 2 percentage points in the course of 1989 to 72 and a nominal
depreciation of the peso by 8X in mid-1989 (equivalent to a real
depreciation of 5Z) with the commitment to maintain the real value of the
peso thereafter. In 1989, domestic demand expanded sharply under the
stimulus of a rise in copper prices and a slight fall in real interest
rates. The significant real appreciation of the peso in the first half of
the year and a reduction in various tax rates also had a stimulatory
effect. The rise in real wages and a marked contraction of unemployment



-5-
boosted private consumption and imports. To an important degree imports
were encouraged by the strong upturn in private investment and in a
rebuilding of inventories. The measures recently agreed with the IMF, in
the context of a standby arrangement in the first credit tranche, will lead
to a cooling of excess demand in the economy and steer it toward a lower,
but more sustainable, rate of expansion.
External Financing Requirements
16.     As noted, in 1989 the external current account deficit is
projected at US$740 million (2.9Z of GDP), which, at trend copper prices,
amounts to a deficit of US$2.1 billion (8.5Z of GDP). The principal
sources for the financing of the deficit and a projected rise of US$500
million in net international reserves are a steep rise in medium- and long-
term disbursements from private financial markets, short-term capital
inflows, and a revival in foreign direct investment. On the basis of
projected disbursements from Chile's creditors, including those from the
Bank, the financing package will be complete in 1989 and 1990. Chile's
external current account deficit is forecast to average US$1.5 billion
(4.81 of GDP) in 1990-92, when copper prices are assumed to be at their
trend value. The financing of these deficits would require an increase in
the net exposure of private financial markets over and above an assumed
rescheduling or refinancing of eligible maturities that fall due from 1991
onwards. In addition, a continuation of policies conducive to stimulating
direct foreign investment--including debt conversion and capitalization
schemes--will be required together with a continuation of the support of
multilateral institutions. Bank projections indicate that, in 1991-94,
fi8nancing gaps averaging approximately US$500 million p.a. (1.5Z of GDP)
may be experienced (see Table I below)
Tabl  1    OiILE - Net Capitel Inflows
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  196
…-- - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----- - - - - - - - - - - -         ---…----  -   - -… -- -…---- -- - -
Currant Account elenee     -8ll  -166  -710  -1331  -1618  -1457  -148D  -1846  -1I80
Capitol ploemonts (Not)
D0 .ct For.ign In-ataent     98    134   169   190   200   239   260   284   311
1HF (net ropyment)          431   633    -46  -201  -189  -213  -230  -189   -96
World Bank (not)            270    212   121   84    66    68    -3    37    58
CGro D. bursavento        311   268  221  26C   261   263   193  220   242
(of which proposed FM loan)  0   0     20    0     20    10    0     0     0
Amrtization                41    56   100   175   174   196   197   163   187
Othe MIult. lateral (net)    170  223    179   296   264   252   342   330   333
Cross Oisbtusaants        205   257   296   386   403   417   516   530   SW3
Amort,zation               35    34   117   121   140   165   174   200   220
Financing from Comesrcial Banks
and Other Creditors  1_   318   329   744   779   -44   144   -52   330   557
External Cap                  0     0     0     0   1112   955  1133  1065   239
Ru_iniing CAP (edjuotd for Refinaneing
and Drawdown. on CSF        0     0    0    0   524   266   682   743        0
Variation in Crc.. Int'l Roaer,s  476  1365  457  -214  -189  -13  -30  11   79
1J Refinnecing availabi until 190.
Scoreo World flank estimates.



- 6 -
17.      Various forms of external financing have increasingly become
available to Chile, either in the form of long-term suppliers' credits,
which are related to the expansion of foreign direct investment, or short-
term credit lines. Short-term credit lines, agreed upon with commercial
creditors in June 1989 for the following year, include, in addition to the
US$1.7 billion originally agreed in the 1983 restructuring of Chile's
external debt, voluntary credit lines of US$0.5 billion. Also in June
1989, commercial banks provided, for the first time since 1982, long-term
credit lines for a private sector investment project (Celulosa Arauco y
Constitucion S.A.). The stabilization of the Chilean economy has also
contributed to the absence of the capital flight problem observed in some
other developing economies. To the contrary, incentives provided by the
Central Bank have resulted in swap operations which have attracted short-
term foreign deposits in Chile. Overall, Chile's prospects for access to
international capital markets is improving, particularly with respect to
private placements and bond issues. Nevertheless Chile's financing
requirements remain substantial.
Debt Reduction and Reserves Management Strategy
18.      Chile's total external debt is projected to stand at
US$17.7 billion at end-1989 (Statistical Appendix, Table 4). Debt in
relation to GDP (672) is among the highest within the group of highly-
indebted countries (Statistical Appendix, Table 9). This remains so
despite an active and highly successful program of debt reduction and debt
capitalization instituted in 1985, which had led to the elimination of
US$8.0 billion of external debt by end-August 1989 (Annex V). In 1989,
interest payments on external debt are estimated to amount to the
equivalent of 6.92 of GDP, or 19? of exports. Though not as large as that
of most highly-indebted countries, the latter ratio is particularly
volatile, given the susceptibility of the price of copper (Chile's major
export) to pronounced fluctuations, as well as the large floating interest
rate component in Chile's debt. Thus, interest payments remain a major,
potentially destabilizing burden.
19.      Chile expects to continue its program of external debt buybacks.
In addition to the established schemes for debt reduction and
capitalization, an amendment to the Refinancing Agreement with commercial
banks in 1988 permitted Chile the use of up to US$500 million in resources
for buying back commercial bank debt. In late 1988, US$168 million was
used to buy back debt with a face value of US$299 million. Chile intends
to conduct an auction in late November 1989 at which it is prepared to
entertain bids for a buyback using up to the remaining US$332 million. At
current discount rates, approximately US$500-550 million of commercial bank
debt could be purchased. Chile will be undertaking the debt buyback
program at approximately the same time as it will receive the proceeds of
an IN? standby arrangement and the first tranche of the quick-disbursing
component of the proposed Financial Market Loan.
20.      A reduction of debt of approximately US$500-550 million would make
a significant contribution to the debt reduction achieved in 1989 which
encompasses previous debt reduction and conversion to equity as well as the
expected buyback. As a result, Chile's external commercial bank debt would



be reduced by about US$2.7 billion in 1989. The gross aggregate reduction
in Chile's external debt would thus be US$9 billion by end-1989. As a
result, Chile's debt and creditworthiness indicators are projected to
register a substantial improvement over the medium term (Statistical
Appendix, Table 4).
21.      Debt reduction has played a vital part in reducing Chile's
external financing requirements and remains essential for the attainment of
sustainable growth and a viable external payments position over the medium
term. By reducing fiscal pressures and public sector financing needs, and
thus helping to stabilize interest rates at a lower level, debt reduction
has created an environment within which the financial sector reforms,
supported by the proposed Financial Markets Loan, can be successfully
implemented.
22.      Chile's stratagy of reducing its external commercial bank debt has
been linked to its policy on reserve management, which has been nurtured by
the program of structural adjustment supported by the Bank. Reserve
management has been guided by the twin principles of reducing the
vulnerability of the economy to external shocks as well as maintaining a
cushion of liquidity in circumstances of constrained access to
international financial markets. The former objective is achieved by using
a limited amount of reserves at the margin to reduce debt and hence shield
the economy from interest rate shocks. The latter objective is the
traditional one for holding reserves but has been enhanced in Chile's case
by the establishment of the CS?. The projected gain in total reserves in
1989 (US$500 million) fell short of the increase stemming fiom the
anticipated deposits in the CSF (US$1.16 billion)2 since rceierves were used
to finance imports, partly reflecting the sharp rise in investment. The
Government intends to make limited use of reserves for financing debt
reduction so as to lessen the vulnerability of the economy to future
exti. nal shocks. The Government believes that a cautious approach to the
further use of reserves, in the interest of safeguarding growth over the
medium term, is warranted, given the prospective large fall in copper
prices, the projection of financing gaps, the heavy debt burden and the
associated vulnerability of the economy.
23.      Assessment of the Medium-Term Program.  The economic program
adopted by Chile is necessary for the attainment of its medium-term
objectives. It provides the basis for sound fiscal, monetary and exchange
rate policies and for a continuation of structural reforms towards a
greater market orientation of the economy. The Government is committed to
the objectives of the medium-term program, and to implementing the
necessary measures. The program provides for the rise in investment that
will be required to support growth. Chile's external policies, directed at
encouraging direct investment and capital inflows and at maintaining
cooperative relationships with commercial banks, offer further evidence of
the Government's commitment to its adjustment program. The maintenance of
a macroeconomic performance satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition
2/ However, the Copper Stabilization Fund (CSF) has been fully replenished
in line with export earnings above the reference price. Non-CSF
reserves were used to finance imports in 1989.



for first and second tranche disbursement of the quick-disbursing component
of the loan (see Annex III for a full list of conditions).
D. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
24.      The proposed loan will strengthen the ongoing economic strategy of
the Chilean Government which has been supported by the Bank's three
Structural Adjustment Loans. Despite considerable success attained through
structural reform in the economy, a number of weaknesses and constraints
are inhibiting the functioning of the financial markets. Overcoming these
bottlenecks through the promotion of instruments for the efficient
channeling of savings into productive investment remains an important area
for reform. Specific actions related to financial markets supported by the
loan include measures to strengthen securities markets and the banking
system. The loan will further enhance financial market liberalization
while also addressing the financing constraints on the leasing sector.
Leasing is becoming an important form of financial intermediation in Chile.
25.      The proposed loan will also support the current phase of Chile's
economic recovery, initiated in 1985, that took place within the framework
of structural adjustment lending by the Bank and an Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) from the IMF. The recent recovery has been spearheaded by a vigorous
growth in private investment and exports. At the same time, the Government
sought to limit its role in the economy through fiscal restraint and made
available additional resources for domestic investment by following
innovative programs of reduction in commercial bank external debt. The
Bank is supportive of the Government's debt reduction program. Through the
proposed Financial Markets Loan, the Bank will also provide an important
share of the total external financing to be mobilized by Chile. In
summary, the proposed loan aims to reinforce the process of sustained
growth--through financial sector reform--while maintaining viability in
Chile's external financing position.
t.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION
26.      The project consists of three elements.  First, a quick-
disbursing, policy-based component will support financial sector reform.
Second, a line of credit will be directed towards the leasing sector.
Third, to strengthen governmental institutions that interface with the
financial markets, a technical assistance component of US$1.9 million will
be put in place. The technical assistance will be financed entirely by the
Japanese Grant Facility. These three coordinated elements reinforce an
important shift that is underway in the Chilean economy: a move towards
greater reliance on domestic resource mobilization, with less dependence on
external financing, especially from the international banking markets; and
a move towards a more efficient form of domestic intermediation, with a
more central role for the securities markets. Given that Government
borrowing is expected to grow more slowly in the future, Chile has a unique
opportunity to "crowd in' the corporate sector to the securities markets
where a large part of its future investment needs might be met.



-9-
Financial Sector Reform
27.      The financial measures being taken by the Government with the
Bank's support, will lead to a significant structural change in the Chilean
financial sector. Under the Bank's SAL program, the Chilean Governw-nt has
succeeded in increasing domestic savings markedly. The proposed 1 a helps
first to eAisure that these savings are channelled more efficiently to the
private sector through a richer menu of financial instruments. There is a
critical need for an increase in the efficiency of domestic intermediation
in Chile, since the Government's growth targets call for higher investment
levels at a time when external resources are severely limited. Second,
given that the Government is trying to shift the locus of economic activity
more toward the private sector (and away from the public sector)
encouragement is being given, with the support of the proposed loan, to a
change in the pattern of domestic financial intermediation so that more
avenues will be created for the private sector to secure needed financing.
Third, given that much of domestic savings will be centered in the pension
funds and insurance companies, and given that their investment preference
is for securities, it is essential that more of the country's assets are
turned into securitized form. The proposed loan encourages growth in the
Securities markets, which holds the prospect of making more longer-term
financing available domestically. At present the bulk of available
financing is short-term in nature; yet the funding needs of the corporate
sector for new investments are long term. The Government's strategy in
stimulating a growth in the private securities market is bold in that it
opens up the prospect of competition--and hence higher costs--for its own
fundraising in the domestic market.
28.      The Government, supported by the Bank, has made considerable
strides in placing the financial system on a firm footing since the 1982/83
crisis. Under SAL III, the Government turned its attention to the medium-
term issues affecting savings and investment and to some of the financial
sector problems underlying them. The Government has now begun to address
these issues within the context of a more comprehensive reform of the
financial sector to be supported by the proposed Financial Markets Loan.
29.      The Government has virtually completed the fundamental reforms
needed to rid the financial system of major distortions. The current phase
of financial market liberalization is aimed at removing the remaining
weaknesses and constraints in the system. In particular, Chile, with its
stable macroeconomic policy environment, is now at a point where it can
seek to attain a higher level of securities market development. The
primary focus of the financial sector reform program being pursued by the
Chilean Government is the securities markets. A finely-tuned set of
measures to strengthen these markets have been agreed between the Bank and
the Government.
30.      Securities Markets.  Reform in the securities markets is important
because the main institutional investors (the pension funds and life
insurance companies) are the beneficiaries of rapidly growing volumes of
funds from the household sector after the Government's decision to
privatize the social security system in 1980. Without liberalizing the
existing investment regulations, institutional investors will be unable to



_ 10 -
invest their surpluses in private sector securities. At the same time, the
investment optiors for institutional investors will become increasingly
constrained by the expected slower growth in securities issuance by the
public sector. The Government, working closely with the Bank, has
structured measures to broaden the scope of investment possibilities for
institutional investors. These measures would permit a securitization of a
larger volume of Chile's real assets, particularly those of the corporate
sector.
31.      During the course of project preparation, and following
discussions with the Bank, the Government undertook a number of measures
aimed at liberalizing the legal and regulatory frameworks that govern both
the supply and demand for securities, with others to be taken before
release of the second tranche. The securities markets program includes
measures to strengthen the infrastructure of the markets, to stimulate the
supply of corporate securities, and, on the demand side, to liberalize the
portfolios of the main institutional investors.
32.      The infrastructure for the securities markets--i.e., the
mechanisms that facilitate the efficient issuance, trading, settlement, and
safekeeping of securities--is as yet inadequate in Chile. There are three
specific areas where infrastructural weaknesses are most evident. First,
the payment of dividends and interest on securities as well as the change
of ownership of securities is performed physically. These procedures
involve significant costs (e.g., for transportation) and risks (theft and
fraud). The Government will, as a condition of loan effectiveness,
establish a legal framework for a private mechanism (a Depository System)
that would provide both a place of safekeeping and a mode for settlement
and transfer of securities. A plan of action and a timetable of
implementation will be drawn up by the Central Bank for the transfer of the
securities held by the pension fund administrators to the Depository.
Currently these securities are housed for safekeeping at below market cost
in the Central Bank; however, this is not an appropriate function for the
Central Bank. The profitability of a Depository System will be enhanced
when the pension fund securities are held in it. The formulation of the
action plan (including a system of appropriate incentives for pension fund
administrators to switch their securities from the Central Bank to the
Depository System) and an implementation timetable, satisfactory to the
Bank, will be a condition for release of the second tranche. The
Government will also, as a condition of second tranche release, issue
regulations relating to the legal framework (see Annex III).
33.      The lack of a Zlexible but all-embracing private scheme of risk
classification is another area of weakness in the infrastructure of the
securities markets. The securities market law (passed in late 1987) does
permit the establishment of a private system of risk classification and
indeed a number of risk-rating companies have been established. Confidence
in the system will be enhanced in its formative years by the establishment,
during project preparation, of a unit to monitor the performance of the
private risk-rating agencies in the Superintendency of Securities and
Insurance (SVS). The Government will, before June 30, 1990, review the
scope of work, and functioning of this unit and agree with the Bank on any
changes necessary to improve its monitoring ability.



- 11 -
34.      The final infrastructural issue relates to the trading markets for
securities. An active computerized stock exchange trading in both bond and
equity securities (the *Chile Stock Exchange") has been permitted to
develop outside the long-established stock exchange (the Bolsa). The new
exchange provides competition for the Bolsa by offering services at lower
cost and improved trading transparency. During the course of project
preparation, the Government gave permission for the main institutional
investors to trade in the new Exchange.
35.      On the supply side of the securities markets, there are three
general problems that impede the issuance of securities. The first is
attitudinal in nature: many companies simply do not want to issue
securities for proprietary reasons--even if they have a need for funds that
might be most appropriately met in the securities markets. The second is
bureaucratic, in that cumbersome issuance procedures impose a high cost on
potential issuers. Third, there is a lack of appropriate mechanisms for
packaging securities that would facilitate new issues being sold to
institutional investors.
36.      The first problem will be overcome when the overall costs of
issuance eventually fall. This will be one result of an increased demand
for securities by institutional investors. The second was addressed by the
Government during project preparation when it reviewed the requirements for
securities' issuance and streamlined these, thus reducing the
administrative costs for issuers. In addition, the SVS will conduct a
seminar to explain the streamlining of the requirements for securities
issuance and will publish and circulate widely to the private sector a
brochure explaining the methods by which securities can be issued. A
compilation of the laws and regulations related to the issuance of
securities will also be published. All actions will be completed before
September 30, 1990.
37.      The lack of issuing mechanisms in Chile, apart from constraining
issuers, also deters institu..ional investors.  In many industrialized
countries a range of intermediary mechanisms (e.g., a variety of mutual
funds) greatly lower the risk of holding high-risk assets by means of
portfolio diversification. The Government recently permitted the
establishment of closed-end mutual funds--for originating securities from
the corporate sector in general, and for real estate and risk
capital--that would provide a stimulus to new issuance and investment.
Separate real estate investment companies also have been allowed to be
established, and institutional investors will be permitted to take a stake
in them. The Government has agreed to review with the Bank, as a condition
for second tranche release, the recently introduced regulations governing
the establishment of real estate investment companies. If, in the light of
experience, these regulations prove unduly restrictive, they will be
modified, where appropriate, in a way satisfactory to the Bank. In a
separate but related set of measures, the Government has eased regulations
to foster the provision o' bond guarantees and may permit the establishment
of a private sector bond guarantee scheme, possibly with IFC assistance.
38.      On the investor or demand side of the securities markets, there
are significant constraints. The basic problem is one of a plentiful
supply of investible resources with the main institutional investors but



- 12 -
overly rigid portfolio regulations, which limit the ability of these
institutions to diversify into a wider range of assets. The potential
supply of investible resources will increase along with the expected
enlarged domestic private savings; and the potential demand for investment
funds will need to grow if the expansion of the economy is to continue.
But the bulk of new savings may continue to be channelled only into a
restricted set of the highest quality assets, mostly in the public and
banking sectors. Because of the adverse experience of the financial sector
in the early 19809, a very restrictive regulatory regime for institutional
investors was warranted. Given the evident need for an adjustment in the
pattern of domestic intermediation, however, and the greatly increased
stability of the finan_ial sector as a whole, there is scope for careful
liberalization of the portfolio regulations governing institutional
investors.
39.      During project preparation, the Government has taken a number of
measures to liberalize the investments of the pension funds and life
insurance companies. The objective here is to expand the range of their
permissible investments--particularly into corporate securities--without
exposing them to unduly high levels of risk. Apart from allowing these
institutions to purchase directly a broader range of qualifying equities
(where the main portfolio constraint currently exists), they will be able
to invest in the proposed closed-end mutual funds (in the case of pension
funds, as a condition for second tranche release) and real estate
investment companies. The Government also will, as a condition for second
tranche release, submit to the legislative power for approval a proposal to
permit its main institutional investors to purchase collateralized
securities that will be originated and issued by banks. To provide pension
funds with more flexibility in managing their liquidity, the Government
will, as a condition for second tranche release, take measures to allow
pension funds to purchase commercial paper up to a limit of 1OX of each
pension fund's portfolio.  The Government will also, as a condition of
second tranche release, submit to the legislative power for approval a
proposal to permit insurance companies to purchase securitized instruments
sold by banks. It is vital, given the projected fast growth of pension
funds' investment resources, that the Government continue to monitor the
portfolios of these institutions. The Government will, therefore, complete
a study, prior to September 30, 1990, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, of all the investment possibilities for pension funds and
determine what further changes in the portfolio regulations would be
required to enable them to diversify further their investments. The
results of the study will be discussed with the Bank.
40.      Banking Sector.  The liberalization of the securities markets will
have a significant effect on other parts of the financial system,
particularly the banking sector. While the banking system has virtually
recovered from the financial crisis of the early 1980s, its earning
capacity remains vulnerable to a sharp deterioration in economic
conditions. It is important that the efficiency and profitability of the
banks continue to improve so as to ensure that they will be strong enough
to compete with the emerging securities markets.
41.      A number of further constraints are going to be removed from the
banking sector so that it can strengthen its earnings capacity. First, the
banking sector will be permitted to take part in the securitization process



- 13 -
underway in the economy. The Government has agreed to give the banks
greater flexibility to criginate loans and sell them off as securities.
Prior to the release of the second tranche, the Government will submit to
the legislative power a proposal to permit the banks to securitize and
collateralize a part of their loan portfolios and sell them to third
parties without previous authorization of the Banking Superintendency
(SBIF). Collateralization differs from securitization in that it involves
selling loans backed by specific collateral (machinery, vehicles, etc.) but
with recourse to the bank. Another constraint exists on the banking
sector's ability to provide guaranteest at present banks are subject to a
number of specific ceilings that limit their ability to provide guarantees.
To provide the banks with more flexibility, one of these ceilings-
-specifically the global limit that restricts the total of all guarantees
offered by a bank to the sum of its capital and reserves--will be removed
as a condition for second tranche release. Guarantees will, however,
remain subject to the prudential limits governing bank loans. The capital
bases of the banks are also constrained; hence, it is important to develop
ways of enhancing bank capitalization, for example, through the use of
subordinated debt. The Government will, as a condition for second tranche
release, permit banks to issue subordinated debt and allow at least half of
the value of this debt to be counted as part of its capital up to a limit
of 202 of the bank's capital and reserves.
42.      In the wake of the banking crisis in the early 1980s, a ^cartera
vendida^ scheme was introduced to mitigate the adverse effects of the
recession on bank loan portfolios. Under this scheme, the Central Bank
purchased the risky or poor performing loans of commercial banks, with the
latter required to repurchase these loans from profits over a period of
years. The Bank has monitored this scheme closely in recent years and has,
from time to time, reviewed the financial strength of the banking sector.
On August 16, 1989, the Central Bank provided an option to banks that had
sold their bad debts to the Central Bank to replace the repurchase
obligation into a subordinated debt. The Government has agreed to furnish
the Bank (twice a year for the duration of the project) with a status
report on the functioning of the ^cartera vendida' and on the new
subordinated debt obligations that will partially replace it.
Leasing Sector
43.      An important segment of the financial market the Government wishes
to develop, as part of the program of broadening the array of available
financial instruments, is the leasing sector. This sector in recent years
has become a significant source of financing for industry, especially the
small and medium-sized companies. The Government has monitored the
development of this sector and, supported by the Bank, introduced a
regulatory framework to govern leasing companies that are bank
subsidiaries.
44.      Leasing, however, is still a relatively new form of financial
intermediation and suffers from the lack of a medium- and long-term
financing in the economy. Bank estimates of the likely financing gap
facing leasing companies, based on the most probable scenario for growth in
demand for leasing, is about US$300 million over the next three years. To
help close this gap, the Government will, as a condition of loan



- 14 -
effectiveness, permit leasing companies to double the amount of bonds they
can issue (to about US$100 million) for purchase by the main institutional
investors (see Annex III).
45.      The Bank also will help to overcome the funding constraint.  A
US$50 million credit line specifically for leasing companies will bridge
the time until these companies can gain greater access to an enlarged
corporate bond market. This line of credit would help "pump prime* the
leasing sector and thus support the growth in capital formation across a
range of industrial and commercial companies. The provision of a line of
credit would serve to overcome the constraints on the leasing sector
without creating distortions in the market. The loan will be channelled
through CORPO, the State Development Bank, which will periodically auction
the funds to the leasing sector. As a condition of effectiveness, the
Government will appoint CORFO as agent for the line of credit and enter
into a Funds Transfer Arrangement with CORFO (see Annex III). CORFO, also
as a condition of loan effectiveness, will adopt auction procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. The auction will take place at least once every
three months, and will be phased over approximately four years. An auction
should determine a market-based price for the line in a segment of the
financial market where no observable interest rate exists. Resources from
the credit line could only be used by the leasing companies to purchase
productive goods involving safe technologies that pose no threat to the
environment. CORFO will channel the line of credit to leasing companies,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including procurement
procedures. CORFO will also maintain appropriate records and accounts.
Technical Assistance
46.      A technical assistance component has been designed to complement
the program of financial sector adjustment. The objective of the core of
the technical assistance component is to st:engthen the ability of
governmental institutions that supervise or interface with the financial
markets and to monitor the development of these markets. It will also help
position these institutions to respond to evolving financial techniques,
markets, and technologies. The training subcomponent is designed to
upgrade the skills of managers in segments of the financial sector where
innovation is greatly changing the financial landscape. The technology-
related technical assistance focuses in part on identifying the
deficiencies in the financing of technology development. A seminar, and
possible follow-up strategic study, is also designed to be a building block
for a possible future technology development operation in Chile.
47.      Technical assistance will be financed entirely by a grant from the
Japanese Grant Facility. The grant for the Financial Markets Loan is
Yen 265 million, or US$1.96 million equivalent at an exchange rate of Yen
135:US$l. The Government will maintain appropriate records and accounts
for the technical assistance component. I
F. OPERATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS
48.      The proposed hybrid loan of US$130 million contains quick-
disbursing and investment components. The quick-disbursing component is
US$80 million and the investment component US$50 million. In addition, the
grant-financed technical assistance component is US$1.9 million in size.



- 15 -
Procurement
49.      Funds made available under the quick-disbursing component will be
used to finance 1002 of foreign expenditures (the CIF cost) of eligible
imports by the private and public sectors according to a negative list.
Given that there are few imports destined for or used in the financial
sector, it is not feasible to use a positive list of imports for this loan.
Retroactive financing will be permitted for those eligible imports made
before the date of the agreement but not before August 12, 1989 and only
up to an amount of US$16 million, or 20Z of the total quick-disbursing
component of the loan (i.e., within Bank guidelines). Procurement
associated with the proceeds of the quick-disbursing component will be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Contracts of the public and private sectors estimated to cost more than
US$5 million equivalent will be procured through simplified ICB procedures.
Contracts of the private sector, valued at less than US$5 million
equivalent, would be procured following established commercial practices
requiring quotations from eligible bidders from at least two foreign
countries. Contracts of the public sector, valued at less than US$5
million equivalent, would be procured following Government procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The Central Bank would be responsible
for the coordination and collection of relevant documentation and for
preparing and submitting withdrawal applications under the loan.
50.      Procurement under the credit line would involve a relatively large
number of small items in relatively small amounts; so international
competitive bidding is not required. The procurement of goods over
US$500,000 equivalent would be done through international shopping on the
basis of at least three competitive quotations from at least two countries
eligible under the guidelines. For contracts valued at less than
US$500,000 equivalent, procurement would follow normal commercial practice
acceptable to the Bank. The maximum amount of the purchase price of the
equipment in connection with a leasing subproject is not expected to exceed
US$1 million. Amounts in excess of this will require Bank approval prior
to disbursement. The leasing companies would have to purchase goods at
reasonable and competitive prices and maintain appropriate records of the
procurement of goods. These records would be used by external auditors in
auditing the leasing companies' certified statement of expenditures, and
would be examined by Bank missions on a sample basis.
Tranchint and Disbursement of the Quick-Disbursint Component
51.      The US$80 million, quick-disbursing component will be available to
Chile in two equal tranches after loan effectiveness and first tranche
conditions are met. The second tranche will be equal to US$40 million and
will be made available upon satisfaction of second tranche conditions
(expected to be six to nine months after effectiveness). Annex III sets
out the effectiveness and tranche release conditions.
Disbursement of the Leasinx Credit Comnonent
52.      The disbursement of the leasing credit component will take place
over a period of approximately four years through an auction process. The
Bank will reimburse 10OX of amounts used for the purchase of productive



- 16 -
goods that will be leased to lessors (exclusive of taxes). Disbursement
will begin once the loan is effective. Disbursement will not, however, be
linked to the Government satisfying the conditions for the release of the
first or second tranches of the quick-disbursing component of the loan.
The loan will be disbursed into a Special Account of US$7.5 million held at
the Central Bank. The size of this Special Account (above the Bank
guidelines of 102 of the size of the credit line or 4 months of disburse-
ments) reflects the fact that there is a heavy latent demand for funds from
the credit line on the part of the leasing companies.
Conditionality
53.      Effectiveness conditions, conditionality attached to the release
of the first and second tranches, and other specific agreements, are set
out in Annex III.
54.      The Closing Date will be June 30, 1995.
G. BENEFITS AND RISKS
55.      Further financial market deepening will lessen Chile's dependence
on external financing at a time when a higher volume of domestic savings
will be potentially available. A liberalized financial sector will ensure
that savings are channelled more efficiently into productive investment
through a richer menu of financial instruments.
56.      There are three sets of risks.  The first is that a new
Government, which will come into office in early 1990, might pursue
different policies toward the development of the financial sector from
those of the present Government. Present indications suggest, however,
that a new Government would not change the thrust of key economic and
financial policies. A second risk is a deterioration in the macroeconomic
environment that might undermine the development of financial markets and
reduce demand for the Bank's credit line from the leasing sector. Current
expectations, however, are for a stable evolution of the economy over the
short to medium term. The third risk is that the institutional mechanism
for channelling the leasing credit line (an auction) could prove
unsuccessful since it is an untried mechanism. If this happens, the loan
resources would be allocated on the basis of a market reference rate.
B. BANK ASSISTANCE
57.      The Bank has played a major role in Chile's development process,
except between 1979 and 1982, when private commercial financial sources
were abundant and Chilean officials perceived multilateral borrowing as
generally unnecessary. Only four Bank operations were approved during that
time. But the Bank's role rapidly expanded in the mid-1980s, since Chile
had to initiate a structural adjustment program in the wake of a severe
depression and sharp declines in access to commercial bank lending. The
Bank and IMF together played a key role in Chile's debt workout, with a
close and collaborative relationship developing between Chile and the Bank.
The principal instruments for the revived Bank role were three structural



- 17 -
adjustment loans of US$250 million each in 1985, 1986 and 1987.
Furthermore, the Bank's SAL III was cofinanced by the equivalent of US$200
million by the Export-Import Bank of Japan. The Bank also guaranteed a
US$150 million B-Loan for the road sector, provided an industrial
restructuring operation, two housing sector loans, and larger amounts for
several traditional lending operations. Chile's fulfillment of conditions
under the three adjustment operations (as well as under the IMP's three-
year SDR 750 million EFF) surpassed expectations. The Bank's exposure in
Chile stands at US$1.3 billion as of end-September 1989 (see Annex II,
page 1).
58.      Bank Assistance Strategy.  Assuming a continuation of sound
economic and financial policies, the Bank's medium-term country strategy
for Chile envisages commitments of up to US$950 million over FY90-92.
Since Chile's economy has responded well to the Government's adjustment
policies, after the current proposed hybrid loan it is intended that future
Bank lending will concentrate on specific project and sectoral investment
needs. Current lending strategy would increase the Bank's exposure in
Chile by up to US$350 million between 1989 and 1992, thereby maintaining
the Bank's share of Chile's total outstanding and disbursed long-term debt
at 12.8Z.
59.      Bank Lendina.  Under the proposed lending program, specific
investments include support for irrigation sector reform to expand output
and employment as well as increasing foreign exchange earnings and savings.
In addition, a road project has been approved by the Board that will
accelerate modernization of the transport sector. Follow-up loans for
housing, water, and sewerage facilities and the power sector would build on
the sectoral, institutional, and policy improvements addressed through the
ongoing lending operations. The Bank is also actively exploring
opportunities for lending to social sectors. The proposed hybrid operation
for the financial sector would support the reform of the financial markets,
building on measures taken during the SAL program.
60.      IFC Operations.  The IFC has made investments in Chile totalling
US$246 million on a commitment basis (US$38 million in equity and US$208
million in loans). The focus of IFC's operaticns is large-scale, natural-
resource-based projects; however, some diversification is taking place into
privately-held (mostly recently privatized) infrastructure companies and
small, export-oriented projects. IFC also assisted Chile in the
development of its capital markets--establishing the country's first
investment bank and providing other forms of technical assistance--and has
worked closely with the IBRD in preparing the proposed Financial Markets
Loan. The IFC may also support the Bank's efforts to overcome the
financing constraints on the leasing sector in Chile by providing a loan
for one leasing company.
I. ROLE OF THE IMF
61.      In January 1983, in the midst of Chile's economic crisis, the IMP
entered into a two-year, SDR 500 million standby arrangement with Chile.
The program was aimed at reducing public sector expenditures. As the
program progressed, the focus shifted to three structural problemst
insufficient growth and excessive concentration of exports; low levels of



- 18 -
savings and investment; and instability in the financial system. In August
1985, the IMF providcd support to a program of structural adjustment with a
three-year (1985-87) Extended Fund Facility (EFF), providing an additional
SDR 750 million. The principal objective of the EFF was to reduce by half
the 1984 current account deficit within the context of moderate economic
growth and decreased inflation. To that end, the EFF established
quantitative limits on the expansion of net domestic assets of the Central
Bank, international reserves, and the fis.al deficit as a share to GDP.  A
fourth year extension of the EFF (to August 1989) provided an additional
SDR 75 million to Chile. In early October 1989, Chile concluded
negotiations with the IMF for a one-year standby arrangement in the amount
of SDR 64 million within the first credit tranche; the IMF Board approved
the standby with Chile on November 8, 1989. Direct debt buybacks of up to
US$500 million were specifically contemplated in the last year of the EFF
and the program's quantitative limits were adjustable for the use of
international reserves for this purpose. Since only part of the amount was
utilized within the timeframe of the EFF, the proposed standby arrangement
envisages that up to the remaining US$332 million may be used for direct
debt buybacks.
62.      The Bank and the IMF have established an effective working
relationship in the SAL/EFF-supported adjustment program, with frequent
consultation between the institutions during each critical phase of their
respective operations.
J. RECOOMENDAISON
63.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments                                       By Ernest Stern
November 16, 1989
Washington, D.C.



STATISTICAL APPENDIX
1.  Chile: National Accounts
2.  Chiles External Trade
3.  Chile: Balance of Payments
4.  Chile: External Capital and Debt
5. Chiles Central Government Finance, Money and Credit
6.  Chile: Selected Growth Variables over the Medium Term
7.  Chile: External Financing
8.  Chile: Indicators of External Indebtedness
9.  Chile: Estimated Debt Burden



Statistical Appendix
Table I
Page 1 of 4
CHILE: NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1iOs P r Copito tNW ;n US$:    1591
Mid-1988 Population (mill):    12.67
A. Shares of ODP (S)
Pr.j.ct,d (Shars of COP
Historical (shares of CDP in current priess)                                 in constant 1980 prices)
1q8s    1973    1980    1983    1984    1985    1988    1987    1988    1989    1992    1995
Cros Dosestic Product                 100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Net InJireet Toenso                   8.7    10.5    12.1        ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..
Agriculture                           8.7      6.7     7.2      5.7       ..       ..                    ..      ..       ..
Industry                            39.7    41.0    37.3    38.8         ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
(of which: Manufacturing)           23.9    27.1    21.4    20.6         ..       ..                .        ...              ..
(of which: mining)                   7.6      9.1      8.6    10.1       ..       ..       ..       .        ..       .
Services                             31.6    52.4      WS.     55.S       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..       .
Relourc Balance                         1.1    -1.9    -4.2       2.7    -1.1       2.8     3.8      4.1      7.2      1.3     6.2      6.0
Eaports of *GFS                      14.1    14.0    22.8    24.0    24.8    29.1    30.6    33.5    3-.4    29.3    35.3    36.1
Imports of CNFS                      13.0    15.8    27.0    21.3    25.3    26.3    26.8    29.4    30.2    28.0    29.1    30.7
Total Espendituree                     98.9   101.9   104.2    97.3   101.1    97.2    96.2    95.9    92.8    98.7    93.8    94.0
Total Consumption  etc                84.2    93.9    83.2    87.5    87.4    83.8    81.6    79.0    75.8    79.7    74.8    74.0
Private Consumption,                73.4    80.8    70.7    73.3    73.0    69.3    68.9    $7.6    6s.8
General Government                  10.9    13.1    12.S    14.2    14.5    14.2    12.7    11.4    10 5
Gross Domestic Investment              14.7      7.9    21.0      9.8    13.6    13.7    14.6    16.9    17.0    19.0    19.0    20.0
Fixed Investment                     14.7    12.8    16.6    12.0    12.3    14.2    14.6    16.0    16.3    18.2    18.2    19.2
Change  In Stocks                      ..    -4.9      4.3    -2.2       1.3    -0.S      0.0      0.9      0.7     0.8      0.8      0 8
capacity to Import                       ..       .       ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..    31.3    30.6    32.9
Terms of Trade Adjust.ent                ..      ..       ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..     2.2    -4.7    -3.8
Cross Domestic Income                    ..      ..       ..       ..       ..      ..        .       ..       ..   102.2    93.3    96.2
Cross National Income                    ..      ..       ..       ..                                 9. ..            4.6    87.7    s8o'
Cros" Notional Product                 97.8    98.9    97.0    91.9    90.3    88.9    88.8    91.7    92.1    92.4    92.4    92.3
Cross Dometic Ssvings                  18.8     6.1    16.8    12.5    12.6    16.5    18.4    21.0    24.2    22.5    20.5    22.2
Net Factor Income                    -2.2    -1.1    -3.4    -8.6   -10.2   -11.9   -11.2    -9 0    -8.7    -7.6    -7 6    -7 7
Not Current Transfera                  ..     0.0      0.4      O.S      0.3     0.4       0.3     0.7      0.8      0.8      1.1     1.3
Gross Nttonal Savings                    ..     S.0    13.8       4.4      2.0     S.0      7.7    12.7    16.3    1S.7    14.0    15 8
---  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



Statistical Apiendix
Table,1
Page 2 of 4
CHILE: NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (Cont'd)
8. Croeth Rates (1) at Constant Prices
Actual                                                                     Projections
1963-73  1973-80  1980-87    lQ83    1984    1985    1988        1987    1988    1499  1987-92  1912-95
Gros Do_.p.                             3.4      3.7      1.3    -0.7       6.3      2.4      5.6      5.8     7.4      9.0      6.0      4.S
Not Indirect Taxes                    4.3      3.6       ..       ..       .        ..       ..       ..
Agriculture                          -1.1      4.8      3.8    -2.5       7.t      5.6      6.6     3.2       ..
Industry                              8.0      1.9      1.5      0.7      7.5      3.6     8.3       4.9      ..
(of whichl  Manufacturifig)           4.t      1.4      0.9      3.1      9.8      1.2      8.0     S.5       ..
(of which: Minins)                    1.4      4.1      2.5    -1.9       4.4      2.2      1.4    -.1        ..
Services                              4.4      5.0      0.3    -1.3       5.4      1.1      5.3      6.a      ..
Rource Belance
Erporto of CFS                        0.3    15.5       4.8      0.6    11.0       6.9      9.6     8.8       5.9    14.5    10.8       5.9
Imports of NFS                        6.0      7.3    -0.9   -1S.1    30.8   -10.9          9.3    17.4    12.0    26.6    11.0         6.4
Total Expendituree                      4.2      2.8    -0.1    -4.2    10.0    -1.9          8.3      7.8     9.0    11.8       5.7      4.6
Total Ccneueption.  tc                 4.9      2.1      0.2    -2.7       1.3    -1.0       3.7      3.9      9.1    11.2      5.4      4.1
Private Coneumption,                 4.7      2.2      0.3    -3.1       2.0    -0.9       5.0      8.1     9.4
Oen erl Government                   6.3      1.6    -0.4    -0.6        1.5    -0.3    -2.1    -2.1         4.8
(rene Domeatic Inveestset               0.0      7.2    -2.6   -17.6    74.9    -6.9    14.0    28.2            8.6    14.4      7.2      t.3
Fixed Investment                      0.3      4.5      0.3   -14.9       8.8    14.8       6.3    16.4      11.3     16.7     8.2      6.4
Chongea In Stocks                      ..       ..   -17.5                      ..      ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Capacity to Ilport                      2.0      5.4      1.7      5.1    -1.0       2.6    13.4    16.7    21.8    29.4    11.8          7.1
Term  of Trade Adjueteent                ..       ..       ..       ..    95.7    20.2    -1.8   -17.2   -89.9  -273.4           S.0    -3.1
Orcee Domestic Income                   3.5      2.3      0.6      0.2      4.6      1.3      6.1      7.8    11.4    12.9       6.0      4.8
Gross Nhtional Income                   3.7      2.1      0.2      0.3      2.1      3.5      6.2      9.7    10.6    11.4       8.5      4.8
aroms Nitional Product                  3.7      3.6      0.9   -4.7        4.0      4.6      5.7     7.8      6.5      7.2      5.4      4.5
Croes Dometic Savings                  -5.9      5.0      2.4    33.8    21.5    18.2    20.2    24.7    21.2    19.4            8.5      7.4
Nab Factor Incme                       ..       ..      9.9       ..    36.8   -19.4        S.3   -21.5    24.2    86.5    14.1         4.9
Not Current Transfer                   ..       ..      8.3       *-      0.0   -20.0    50.0    16.7    42.9    12.1    19.3    11.1
Cross National Sevings                 -5.0      4.8      0.5   277.3    -9.9    118,7    37.4    61.3    21.0    12.2           6.7      9.0



Statistical Appendix
Table 1
Pcge 3 of 4
CHILE: NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (Cont'd)
C. Price Indicies (196OSrOO)
Actual                                      roath Rote"  (i)
1960     1983     19841    1965     1986     1987  1963-1   1973-80  t198-7
Conmw.r Prices (IFS 64)                100.0   167.S   200.7   262.8   313.4   375.7    42.6   128.S    21.8
Wholesale Prices (IFS 63)              100.0   170.2   211.5   30s.s   363.3   433.2    46.9   133.1    25.9
Implicit CDP Deflator                  100.0   161.1   164.1   244.6   291.8   333.6    30.8   146.1    20.6
Implicit Ependiture Defl.              100.0   16E.0   193.6   237.6   305.0   863.7    49.9   149.8    21.2
Deflators for Sector VA:
Agricultural Sector                  100.0    114.3                                        S.2   1SO.S
Industrial S"etor                    100.0   165.3        ..       ..       ..       .      30.7    143.9
Services Sector                      100.0   163.0        ..       ..       ..       ..    49.6   147.5
D. Other Indicators:
1973-80  1980-87  1967-92  1992-95                                1973     1980     1967     1992     1998
Growth Rotes (5)                                                             Share in Total
Labor Force:
Population                               1.5      1.7      1 6      1.6 ASriculture                    21.1    16S5       16.7
Labor Force                              2.7      3.3       ..       ..          Industry              27.6    25.1    16.9
Gross National Income P.C.               0.6    -1.S       3.9      3.2          Services              51.2     56.4      66.4
Private Consuaption P.C.                 0.7    -1.4        ..       ..          TOTAL                100.0   100.0   100.0
l"port Elasticity:
Imports(C+NFS) / CDP(mP)                 2.0    -4.6       1.2      1.1
Marginal Savings Rates:
Ore*s National Savings                  54.0      5.6    15.3    29.2
Cross Dometic Savings                   57.8    32.5    27.4    34.6
ICOR (period ev.)                        4.4      2.4      3.4      4.6
- - - - - -- - - - - - -----------  -    - - ------ - -- - - - --   -- -- -- - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



Statistical Appendix
Table 1
Page 4 of 4
CHILE: NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (Cont'd)
S. LCU at 1980 Constant Prices in billions
Actual                                              Projectiona
1983     1983      1984     1985    :19e6      1987      1988     1989      1990      1991     1992      1995
Oross Domestic Product  p.P               1075       967     1028      1053      1112     1176      1283     1377      1432     1503      1571     1793
Net Indirect TuXns                       130
Agriculture                               78        78       84        88       96        99       119?
Industry                                 401      365       393       407      429       450      468
(of which:  anufactur;ng)                23t      193       211       214      231       244      266
(of  hlich~ Mining)                       77       86        90        92       93        93       97
Services                                 596       524      552      58       S88       628      676
Resource Balance                           -72        40       24        67        75       61        48       18        47       68        97       108
Exports of CNFS                          25-S      245      261       279      306       333       352      403       444      496       555       658
Imports of ONFS                          327      205       237       212      231       272      304       385       397      428       457      550
Total Expenditures                        1147       927     1004       986      1037     1115      121S     1359      1385      1436     1474      1685
Total Consumption. etc                    890       837      848       839      871       904       986     1097      1120      1150     1175      1327
Private Consumption, etc                760       701      710       702      735       774       8S0
General Cov-rnment                      130       136      138       137       136      130       136
Orosa Dometic Investment                   257        90       157      146       167      211       229      262       265      286       298      359
Fixed Investment                         189       125      136       156       166      193       215      251       253      274       288      344
Ch.ngea In Stocks                         68       -35       22        -9         1       18        14       11        it       12        13        14
Capacity to Import                         245       205      202       206      236       275       335      434       418      439       481      591
Terms of Trade Adjustment                  -10       -40      -S9       -71       -70      -5e       -17       30       -28      -57       -74       -67
Gross Domestie Inco_e                     1085       927      969       982      1042     1116      1246     1407      1405     1448      1497      1725
Oro" National Income                      1033       859      876       907      963      1056      1169     1302      1303     1339      13t7      1587
Gross National Product                    1043       899      935       978      1033     1114      1l86     1272      1329     1397      1451      1685
Gross Dometic Savings                      175        90       121      143       172      214       259      310       286      296       322      399
Net Factor Income                        -32       -68      -93       -75      -79       -62       -77     -105      -103     -107      -120     -138
Net Current Transfers                      4         5        5         4        6         7        10       11        11       13        17       23
Oross National Savings                     147        27       33        72       99       159       192      216       194      203       219      284



Statistical Appendix
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
CHILE: EXTERNAL TRADE
Actual                                        Projections
A. Voluei, Value and Prices            1980     1983    1984    195s    1Q86    1987         1988     1989     1990    1991    1992    1995
'4erchon4dio Exports
(Vol. Index 1980=100)
X.MET                                   100    111.5    111.4    121.2   121.8   135.6         ..      ..
X.MET.CU                                100    116.4   115.8   128.5   130.8   130.4   128.2   140.4   151.3   164.5   186.2   198.3
X.OACRI                                 100    119.6   138.1   166.5   196.3   218.6   244.5   228.6   244.6   248.0   277.8   343.1
Manufactures                            100   121 8    118.1   131.9   156.2   173.9   194.6   230.6   233.5   266.2   298.2   368.2
Other Exports                           100    114.4    92.1    83.8    86.9    68.3    97.1   111.2   119.0   135.6   151.9    187.6
Merchandie Exports (F08)                loo    115.6   115.6   128.1   137.6   146.7   155.5   174.3   193.5   217.3   244.2   288.4
(Value - Curr. mill. 8)
X.MET                                  261S     2335    1962    2121    2096    2522           ..       ..      ..
X.MET.CU                               2125     1875    1604      1789    1757    2235    3416    3983         5128    2916    3200    4467
X . OAQFU                               340      328      428      515      683      796      930      902    1063    129      1433    2084
manufactures                           1751     1168    1260    1168    1420    1824    2273    2720    3206    3738    4322    6286
Other Exports                           490      456      367      332      339      368      432      518      604    8a4       1053    1255
Merchandise Exports (fM8)              4706    3831    3650    3804    4199    5223    7052    809S    8001    8727   10017   14092
Merchandise Imports
(Vol. Index 1980-100)
Food                                  100.0    82.4    76.2   38.7    27.0    31.5    15.0    18.0    18.4    19.7    21.0    25.2
Other Consumer Goods                  100.0    45.2    53.8    49.9    58.6         6S.5    73.9    89.9    92.0    98.4   104.6   125.7
POQ and Other Energy                     ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..      ..       ..
Intermedote Coods                     100.0    77.7    92.8    83.8    88.6   102.6   120.7   146.8   1SO.2   159.9   169.6   200.8
(of which: Primary)                     ..       ..        .                ..               ..       ..       ..
(of whicb: Manufacturma)                ..       ..       ..       .        ..      ..       ..       ..       ..
Capital Goods                         100.0    38.2    58.0    64.1    73.5   103.7   121.7   188.3   189.1   208.4   220.5   270.4
Total March. Importe (FOS)            100.0    66.1    76.5    66.8    71.2    86.0    97.5   126.9   129.1   139.0   147.2   176.7
(Value    - Curr. mill. 6)
Food                                    711      476      442      222      152      191       95      118      126     140      1SS      215
Other Consumer Goods                   1132      416      496      457      528      630      759      933     998      1117    1242    1707
PMt. nd Other Energy                      ..      ..       ..       ..       .        ..       ..      ..       ..
Intermediate Goods                     2492     1574    1883    1688    1756        2175    2728    3351    3585    3994    4422    6002
(of which: Primary)                     ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..
(of which: Manufactures)                              ..      ..       ..          2175     1922      ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Capital Goode                        1134      352      5s3      58e      663    1000    1251    1955    20S4    2368    2622    3678
Total March. Impoot. (FO9)             5469     2845    3288    2955    3099    3994    4833    635    673a    7619    8441   11602
______________________________________________________________________________________----------------------- ------_-_ ----_____ -_ -_ -_ -_ -_-_-_-_--



Statistical Appendix
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
CHILE: EXTERNAL TRADE (Cont'd)
Actual                                         Projections
1980     1983     t984     198S     1988     1987     1988     1989     1990     1499     1992    199S
Country Indexes                                                                  Price Indexes (1980s100)
erchhndise Exports                     100.0    69.8    68.6    61.S    60.0    69.1    8W.C           88.1    78.4    76.1    77.8    92.7
4erchandis, Imports                    100.0    81.3    81.4       80.9    79.6    8S.0    90.7    91.6    9S.8   100.2   104.8   120.0
4erch. Terms of Trade                  100.0    88.9    80.6       76.0    75.4    81.J    94.8    96.2    81.8    75.9    74.2    77.3
8. Shares of Total X or t (U) at Curr. Prices   C. Growth Rate, (S) at Constant Priese
1980     1987    192      199s           1980487  1987-92  1992-95
#4erchand; se Exports
X.HET                                   88.6    48.3       0.0      0.0               4.4
X.MEr.CtJ                               45.2    42.8    82.0    81.7                  8.9      7.4      2.1
X.OAaI                                   7.2    1S.2    14.3       14.8               11.8      4.9     7.3
Manufactures                            87.2    84.9    43.1       44.6               8.2     11.4      7.3
Other Exports                           10.4      7.0    10.5        8.9             -1.8      11.8      7.3
Merchandise Exports (F0)              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                   5.6     10.7      5.7
Merchandi se Ixports
Food                                    13.0      4.8      1.8      1.9
Other Consumer Coods                    20.7     18.8    14.7      14.7              -S.9      9.8      6.3
Interuedista Goods                      45.6    84.5    52.4    81.7                  0.4     10.6      8.8
Capitol Ooods                           20.7    25.0    31.1    31.7                  0.5    16.3       7.0
Total March. Imports (FM)              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                 -2.1    11.4       6.3
---------- - ---- ---- ----- ---- --------- --------- --------- ----_--__------__-  --------- ---------  --------- --------- --------- ---------



Statistical Appendix
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
CHILE: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ millions at current prices)
Actuel                                           Projections
1990     1983     1984     1985     1986     1987     1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     199S
A. Esports of Goods £ NFS               5969     4601     4803     4470     5030     6307     8266     9619     9696    10659    12224    17171
1. Nerchandise (FOS)                  4706     3827     3659     3804     4199     5224     7052     8048     8001     8727    10017    14092
2. Non-factor Serv,coa                1263      774      844      eee      831     1083      1214     1521     169S     1932     2207     3079
5. Imports of Qoods & NFS               7122     4063     4896     3958     4317     5541     6690     65s3     9210    10408    11627    16002
1. Merchandise (FOB)                  5469     2818     3357     2955     3099     3995     4833     6357     8763     7619    8441    11602
2. Non-factor Services                1653     1245     1341     1003     1218     1548    1857      2196      2447     2789     3186     4400
C. Resource Balance                    -1153      538     -195      512      713      766     1576      1086     486      251       597     1169
1. Net Factor Income                    -930    -1703    -1955    -1901    -1837    -1701    -19tO    -1988    -2038    -2136    -2394    -2992
1. Factor Receipts                     308      188      316      197      221      178      161      234      317      266      289      342
2. Factor Payments                    1238     1889     2271    2098    2108       1879     2100     2222     2355      2402     2688    3334
(interest payments)                 918     1813    2158      1943     1940     1665     1797     1812     1959     1931      1948    2078
E. Net Current Trsnsf.rm(prv)
1. Current Receipts
a.  orkers remittances                                                                                 0        0        0         0        0
b. other curr. transfers               ..       ..       ..       ..       ..        .        ..      ..       ..
2. Current Pyments                                                                                       0        0        0        0        0
F. Curr A/C Sol before Off.Tr          -2083    -1165   -2150   -1389   -1174    -935          -343     -922    -1552   -1885    -1797    -1823
Not Off. transfers                  113       92       99       61       8S       125      177      212      221      267      339      503
Cuer A/C Bel after Off .Tr.         -1970    -1073    -2051   -1I28    -1089    -810        -166    -710   -1331   -1618   -1458    -1320
0. Long-Torm Capital Inflow             2242     1443     1371     1022      S31      1058     599       875     1319     1443     1273     1145
1. Not Direct Investment               170      148       67      112       57       9d      134      169       190     200      239       311
2. Net LT Loane                       2089     1195     1124     1085      799      745    loe        706     1129     1243     1034      834
a. Disburemento                     3551     1859     1612     1471     1219     1055     1563     1668      1844    2676    2545    2611
b. Repayment                        1462      684      488      406      420      310      497      962      715      1433     IS11     1777
3. Other LT Inftows (net)              -17      100      180    -155    -325        225     -601
M. Total Other Items                     974    -911       697      208      332    -211       219      338         0       98      154      350
1. Not Short-term Capital              923    -955       599      431      302    -122       366      488        0       98       154     350
2. Cpital Flows N.E.I.                   0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
3. Errors & Omissions                   51       44       98    -223        30      -89     -147      -150       0         0        0        0
I. Change  in Net Reserves             -1246      541      -17       08      226      -.7    -732      -503       13        0     -200      -175
1. Net Credit From IMF                 -50      600      173      309      243      133    -130       -46     -201     -189     -213       -96
2. Other R*serve Changes             -1190      -59     -190    -211       -17     -180     -602     -457      214       189       13     -79
Nmom 
Copper Stabilization Fund (drawdoan)       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        77      230        0
_------__- __----------_ -------__ __--_ ____-- _-- ____ __- - _ __--------------- _-- _-_-- __- __----- _- _  __-_- __ _-- _-_-_-_-- _-_-- _- __-_- __- _--__-__-_--_-_ -_-_ --_-_ --___ _-___-___-__-_- _-__-_-__-_ -



Statistical Appendix
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
CHILEt BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (Cont'd)
(unless otherwise indicated)
Actual                                            Projections
1980     1983     1984     1985     1986      1987     1988     1989     1990      199      1992     1995
Shares of CDP   (X)
1. Resource 8Olnn.e                     -4.2       2.7    -1.0       3.2      4.2       4.0      7.1      4.0      1.7      0.8       1.9      3.0
2. Totel Intoeret Payments                3.3      9.2     11.2     12.1      11.5      8.8      8.1      6.9      6.8       6.3      6.1      5.3
3. Curr A/C 8%t before Off.Tr            -7.6     -3.9   -11.2    -4.7        -7.0     -4.9    -1.6    -3.S    -3.4    -6.2          -S.6    -4.6
4. CT Capital Inflow                      8.1      7.3      7.1      6.4      3.2       S.6      2.7      3.3      4.6       4.7      4.0      2.9
S. Net Credit from IW4F                  -0.2      3.1      1.1      1.2      0.7    -0.4    -0.7    -0.2          -0.7     -0.6    -0.7      -0.2
Mesorandum iteU:
00P current USS                         27571    19768    1922    16014    16828    18980    22088    26374    28628    3046S    31837    39353
Foreign Excheng. Reserves:
1. Intl. Reaerves                       4074      2023     20S6     1887     1776      1871     2550     3053     3040     2983      2933     3347
2. Qold (end-Yr London Price)            1005      S38      471      S00       398      740       ..       ..       ..
3. Gross Reo. Incl.  old                 4128     2620     2774     2930      2949     3244       ..       ..        ..
4. Or.Res. in Months lPorts                6                 S        8         3        5       ..       ..        .. 
Exchage Rates (LCU/USS):
1. No.. Off. X4Rate (IFS)                  39       79       gq      le       193      220      245        ..      ..
2. Reel Eff. X-Rste(1980.100)             100       68       8s      687        s        36       33       62        62       60       57       54
3. X-Rste for G4P Con-ersion               39       79       99       181      193      220      245      265       295      340      391      S49



Statistical Appendix
Table 4
Page 1 of 4
CHILE: EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ millions at current prices)
Act"I                                             Projectie.s
A. Diebursee"n                           1980     18       1984     190s      1988     187      116      1989      1990    1991      1992     1998
1. Public A Publicly cust. LT            857      1729      5S2     1373    l20        S82      sO?     166l     1844      1641     1820     2372
Official Creditor.                       S1      283      870      SO1       607      S41      886      878       716      in8      7ST      884
Multi lateral                           46      283      369     50        487     S1       982      517       646      864      680      795
of which IIR                          14       24       40      281      8S5       311      132      221       260      261      263      242
rf.which MA                            0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
; Ilsterel                              IS        0        1        0       120       28        4       S6        70       74       77       89
Private Creditors                        96"    1498     1189      872       412       41      121     1090      1126      908     1068     1488
Suppliera                               88      188      137       6S        82       S        13       142      142     t19       188      252
Financial Markets                      708     138?     t021    8a7         331        8      109      948       966      744      88o      1286
2. Private Non-qarantew                  2         234      114       86       162      198     1086        0         0      OSS     7T28      239
8. Total LT Dieburee-enta                3551     1962     164S     1460      1182      777     16       l668      I"4      27       2548     2611
4. IW  Purchawes                            0      619      221      199       293      291      l2a      1S7         0        0        0        0
S. Net Short-Tere CaPital                 925        0        0        0         0      292     -165      418         0       18      154      80
6. Total ncl. IWl   Ntb ST                925        0        0        0         0      m       1808     213       1844     2774     2699     29
8. Repay_ent
1. Public & Pub[licly Cuar. LT            891      822      812      233       206      186      306     1281       907     1488     ISl     1m
Official Creditors                      212      129      141      6s         7e       90      194      29        370      418      40?      472
Multilateral                            1S       23       33       31        47       75      186      217       296      314      361      407
of ahich Rlow                          9       11       21        19       24       41       59       100      175      174      196       187
of which IDA                           0        1        1         1        1        1        1        ..       ..
8i laterel                             197      107      107       35        32       1S        a       79        74      104      136       65
Private Creditors                       679      192      171       167      208       96      112      93S       537    lOtS      1014     1305
Suppliers                              156       69      101       65        74       36       39       107       79      239      165        71
Financial Markets                      "S        89       SO       95       127       58       78      826       458      776      840     1234
2. Private Non-guaranteed                 671      S89      182      201       163      108      191      220         0        0        0        0
3. Total LT Repayents                    1462      910      493      434       449      294      497     1461       907     1438     1511      1777
4. IW Repurchases                          52        6        0        0       179      868      269      203       201      189      213       96
S. Total LT Repey.*IW  Repur.            1651      916      493      434       628      657      497      1854     1108     1622     1724     l873
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________----------



Statistical Appendix
Table 4
Page 2 of 4
CHILE: EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT (Contd)
(US$ millions at current prices)
Actual                                            PrEjoctCofns
_________________--__________________________________________________________________________________________
C. Iste.at                               19so     1983     1984     1985      1986     1987     198      1989     1990      1991     1992     1995
1. Public A Publicly Ouar. LT           1040      1491     1862     1670     1859      1335     1463     1406     1541     1434      1396     13s9
Official Crid;tors                     l15       148      171      197      251       259      370      428      SO0       512      523      568
lOwltilatsa l                           39       Os      104      137       ISO      201      277      329      36        414      434      489
ef Which ISR                          13       21       23       46        90      117      156      le      212       214      217      201
of whch ID0                                     0        2        2         2        1        2        2        0         0        0        0
S;Iat re                               112       81       68       60        72       58       93       9        107       99       90       79
Private Critor.                        869      1345     1691     1473      1408     1126     1093      976     1038       922      873      791
Suppl iets                              48       64       57       36       49        6o       72       61       95        82       81       94
Financie1 Market.                     840    122        1634     1437      1359    1067      1022      897      94a       840      792      696
2, Private No-guarent..                    0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0       109      180      370
3. Total LT letrat                       1040     1491     1862      1S70     1659     1385     1463     1406     1541      1S43     1576     1729
4. iWl Service Chargm                      14       el       86      103       124      117      125      130       119       93       89        8
S. Short Term                             185      261      210      170       157      163      209      275      299       294      301      341
S. Tota1 II,cI. DF A Not ST              1230     1813     2158     1943      1940     1665     1797     1812      1959     1931     1948     2078



Statistical Appendix
Table 4
Page 3 of 4
CHILE: EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT (Cont'd)
(USS millions at current prices)
Actual                                           Projections
-----_------------------_------------.--------------------__-----------------__--------------_------------
0. External Debt (DOD)                  1960     1983     1984     198S     19*6     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991     1992     1998
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________----____________________-
1. Public A Publicly Cuer. LT           9413   148i3    16984    1760o   17815    17191    15447    13784    13883    13591    13850    14808
Official Creditors                    1369     1448    1582      2082    2699      3215    3907      4189     4535      485S    511S      6189
Multi latetel                         351      648      948     1444     1929     2493     2921     3221    3571       S921     4240    3332
of whIch IBM                        163      213      214      487      962     1452     1664      1768     1907     2028    2126    2167
ofh7hDA                                   ..           18       18       18       18        1        8        .. i  l 
Hi laterol                           1i1i      802       te6     638      770       22      986      9t8       964      934      875      857
PrI vate  Cred tore                   8044    13385    15402    15848    15116    13976    11540     9s65     9348      8t73     8835    8814
Suppliers                             436      634      518      381      825      739      755      790       85       773      791     1027
Fineneial Markete                    7608    12781    14884    15187    14591    13237   O175      8775     8493      7968    t744    7587
2. Private Non-guarrnted                  ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..        0      1035     1780    4031
3. Total LT Debt                        9413    14838    16964   t7650    17815   17191    15447    18784    13888    14626    l8410   iS883
4. IWU CredIt                            123      606      781     1086     1381     1452     1S22    1276       1078     88       673      8
5. Short-Term Debt                      1671     2599     1914     1794     1687     2017     2202     2690      2690     2788     2942     3714
6. Totbl inel. IHF   Not ST            11207   18088    19659    20!30   20833    20660    18971    17720    17648    18800    19025   22631
Percent of Totl PPO OlD
1. On Conceaional Terms                 15.8        9      5.3      4.2      3.6      3.2      2.4      2.2       1.9      1.7      1.4      0.i
2. With Vari;ble Int. Rates             51.2    71.3    80.5    82.3    80.7    79.1    77.3             7.      79.3     81.9    84.8    93.4
E. Sank and IDA Ratios
Share of Total Long-Term D0D
1. IrD as S of Total                     1.7      1.4      1.3      2.8      5.4      8.4     10.8    12.9    13.7    13.9    13.8    11.1
2. MA as S of Totel                       ..                          .        ..      ..       ..            ..
3. IflRDICA as S of Total                1.7      1.4      1.3      2.8      3.4      8.4      10.8    12.9      13.7    13.9    13.8    11.'
Share of LT Debt Service
1. TOM as S of Total                     1.1      1.3      1.9      3.1      5.4      9 4     11.1      9.8      15.8    13.0    13.4       it.
2. DA as S of Total                      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1
3. IBWD*TCA as S of Total                1.1      1.3      1.9      3.1      5.4      9.4      11.1      9.8     15.8    13.0    13.4    ll.
F. D0D-to-Efports Ratios  /a
1. Long-Ters Debt/Exporte              157.7   322.4   376.7   394.9   354.2   272.6   186.9   148.0   143.2    137.2   125.1   109.
2. ID  Credit/Eaports                    2.1    13.2      17.3    24.3    26.5    23.0         16.0    13.3    11.1        8.3      5.5      0
3. Short-Term Debt/Exports              28.0    56.5      42.5    40.1    33.5    32.0    26.6    28.0    27.7    26.2    24.1    21.
4. LT+IDWST 00/Exports                187.8   392.0   436.6   459.3   414.2   327.6   229.5   184.2   182.0   171.7   155.6   131.
----------------------------------------------------------------------___-----__--------------------------------------------------------------



Statistical Appendix
Table 4
Page 4 of 4
CHILE: EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT (Cont'd)
(US$ millions at current prices)
Actual                                      Projections
1980    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1998
DCD-to-DP Ratios
Long-Term Deabt/CMP              84.1    75.0    88.3   110.2   108.9    90.7    70.0    52.1    48.2    48.0    48.4    47.9
liP Credit/CDP                    0.4     3.1      4.1     6.8     7.9     7.7      6.0     4.8     S.7     2.e     2.1      0.2
Short-Term Oebt/IDP               6.1    13.1    10.0    11.2    10.0    10.6    10.0    10.2       9.3     9.2      9.2     9.4
LT*+.ST 0D0/COP                  40.6    91.2   102.8   128.2  123.8   109.0    86.0    67.2    61.2    60.1    59.8    57.5
Debt Service /Eaporta A
Public A Ouranteed LT            32.3    39.4    4S.3    42.6    38.7    24.9    21.4    27.4    25.2    26.9    23.8    18.3
Private Non-guaranted LT          9.J    12.8      4.0     4.5     3.2      1.7     2.3     2.3     0.0     1.0      i.s     2.2
Total Leng-Term Obt Service      41.9    52.2    52.3    47.1    41.9    26.6    23.7    29.7    25.2    27.9    25.3    20.4
lIW Ropurchesee4erv. Chas.        1.1      1.5     1.9     2.3     6.0     7.6      4.8     3.5     3.3     2.7     2.3      0.6
Intereat oniy on ST Debt          3.1     S.7      4.7     3.8     3.1     2.6     2.S      2.9     8.1     2.8     2.5      2.0
Total (LT.INST Int.)             46.1    59.3   58.9    53.2    51.1    38.8    31.0    36.0    91.6    88.8    30.0    28.0
Interest Burden Ratio
Total Interest/COP                4.S      9.2    11.2    12.1    11.5     8.8      8.1     6.9     6.8     6.3      6.1     5.3
Total Interest/Eaports /a        20.7   39.4    47.9    43.S   38.6    26.4    21.7    18.6    20.2   1S.1   1S.9    12.1
E&porte include merchandlie exports and receipts from non-factor aervicee. factor servicee and
worker. remi ttences.



Statistical Appendix
Table 5
Page 1 of 2
CHILE: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE, MONEY AND CREDIT
Actual                                           Crotb Rateo
1982     1983     1984     1988     1986      1987     1988           1982-86     1987      1988
S. Public Finace (S MP)
A. Total Current Rectipte                29.6    27.s      28.7    28.6      28.2    28.4       28.7              28.6    29.0    81.8
1. Tax Revenue                          19.1     19.4    20.4      21.S     20.2      22.4     23.0              29.0     42.2    33.8
(of which from Pub. Sector)             ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..        ..
2. Sociel Security Ccntributiono         2 5      2.3      2.4      2.0       2.1      1.9      1.7              21.7    13.1    18.8
(of which from pub. sector)             .        ..       ..       ..        .        .        ..
3. Mon-Tax Current Rcelpt,               8.0      5.8      S.9      5.1      5.9       4 1      4.0              17.9   -10.S       28.8
(of which fro, pub. sactor)             ..       ..        .       ..       ..       ..        ..
8. Totrl Current Expenditure.            31.6     30.3    30.7      29.5     27.3      26.2     26.7              22.6    23.2    32.4
1. Intafeat Payment.                    0.5       1.2      1.4      2.0       1.7      2.3      2.9              68.6     78.5    62.4
2. Roeuneratione                         7.8      6.8      6.4      S.8       5.3      4.8      4.4               1.58    14.9      19.9
(of which to public sector)             ..       ..       ..       ..       ..        ..       ..
3. Other Transfer Peymenbe               8.7      8.5      8.2      8.0       7.6      7.0      9.2              22.9    17.2    72.2
(of which to public ixctor)            ..        .        ..                 .        ..       ..
4. Goods and Services                    3.7      4.0      4.6      4.6       8.9      4.1      3.0              28.8    86.0       -6.6
S. Secial Security Contributions        10.8      9.8    10.1       9.0       8.7      8.0      7.2              20.7    17.5    16.7
C. Current Budget Balance                -2.0     -2.7    -2.0    -0.9         0.9      2.2      2.0
D. Capital Receipts                       7.5      4.2      3.6      3.5       3.6      3.6      4.1                8.8     28.8    47.4
E. Capital Expenditures                   7.8      4.85      .2      6.2       6.1      6.3      6.2               19.8    32.1      29.4
1. Financlal  nv. A Grants               8.7      2.5      2.9      3.3      3.2       3.2      3.3              10.1    80.0    84.1
(of which to public *ector)           0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
2. Budgetary Real Investment             2.1      2.0      2.3      2.9       2.9      3.0      2.9              37.5    34.4    24.3
F. Overall Balance                       -2.3    -2.9      -3.5     -3.7    -1.6       -0.5    -0.1
0. CDP at current mrket prices        1239122  1587711  1893391  2876641  3246101  4159762  5411025
(in milleion of LCU e)
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-------------------------------------------------------



Statistical A-DDendiX
Table 5
Page 2 of 2
CHILE: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINACE. MONEY AND CREDIT (Contd)
Actut                                                GOrowth Rates
1982     1988     1984     198S     1986     1987      1988           1982-6      198       198
I. Money and Credit - IFS
(Monetary Survey Date)
A. In am IIione of LCl * at end-Yr
1. Money Supply                        78674   102720   116200   199637   30233   337171   45904                 89.9      11.5     a.4
2. H0ney4Quai Money                   231020   411710   537200  6076    1094549  1S14456  1920137                 47.5     38.4    26.6
8. Total Not DOomtic Credit           410450  1084701  1486901  134e306  1842062  1930986  24034a         8      88.6      25.7    24.2
* To Oov.rvmen.t (net) (32aw)        44801    98613   232100
b. To Official S&titile  (32b)
c. To Proivsto Sector (32d)          373650   956040  1254601
4. Not Foreign Aaeta (31n)            129420   127620   274140
S. Al l Other Its" (not)             -316S88   -770610 -1203841
B. Effecte to Epansion of 1N  (5)
1. Not Foreign Aeeta                      45      119      lOt
2. Credit to COoyrna.nt                  -42      137       92
3. Credit to Official Entities
4. Credit to Private Sector              202      398      206
S. Net Other Aaeta 4 Lisb.              -105     -55      -298
6. Inc. in MonsyMAusi money              100      100)    1O         100      100      100
_____________-  -_--------_- _----------- _-_------------------- ------------------------------- _-_-- _--_------_-_-_-------_-_



Statistical ADgendix
Table 6
CHILE: SELECTED GROWTH VARTABLES OVER THE MEDIUM TERM
:073-t0          1980-87             1983              1M            1997-92           1992-95
(At constant gwie4e, in pe-cent)
aDP                                    3.7               1.3               7.4              9.0              5.5               4.5
E-porte of GNFS                        15.5              4.S               5.9             14.5              10.4              7.a
Imports of CFS                         7.3              -0.0              12.0             28.8              12.0              6.5
Gross Fined Invesotent                  4.5              0.3              11.8             18.7               9.S              5.9
Cross National Savings                 4.0               0.5              21.0             12.2              14.3              8.8
(As shres, of COP at aontant prices)
190              I"?               1W8              1989              1992             199S
E,Porte of OFS                        23.7              28.3              27.9             29.3              35.3             36.7
Imports of CNFS                       30.4              23.1             24.1              28.0              29.1             80.7
Gross F;W,d Investmnt                  17.8             18.4              17.0             18.2              18.2             19.2
Oross Domestic Savings                 16.3             18.2              20.5             22.8              20.5             22.2
Not Factor Income                      -3.0             -5.3              -6.1             -7.8              -7.6             -7.7
Neb Current Transfers                   0.4              0.6               0.8              0.8               1.1              1.3
Cross National Savings                 13.7             18.5              15.2             15.7              14.0             15.8



Statistical Appendix
Table 7
CHILE: EXTERNAL FINANCING
toe7              1988               1969               1980          1491-1994
AnnualI Average
(In ufiis milion)
Current Account Balance                  -810               -116               -710              -1931             -lWO
Long Term Capital (not)       *J         1066                S99                875               1319              1028
Short Torm Cup to I (not)                -211                219                338                  0                169
Change in Rearve  (-   Itreue)            -S8               -732               -50                  12              -150
Overall  ibleneo              bJ          -11                -40                  0                  0              -554
mei Item
Copper Price (US cento/paund)            74                114                121                 69                 sO
*J Aame mimi           reachdul ina eofeligible comercial bank debt plus *lleable use of Copper Stabilization Fund.
bJ Equivalent to financing gap.
Source . Central IBe of Chile and IUM staff calculations.



i 9  !                               t                       r~~~~~~~! 
.-- £    W,    o                                          Io Iw" ;,^ 
re J         e' o-                                               X'5  1
i                                     1      ¢ s^I I1



Statistical Appendix
Table 9
CHILE: ESTIMATED DEBT BURDEN
(in percent)
1985                                        19S
Interest PI_t                                nteres ft ynteV
Dobt/CDP             Ecport                 DObt/ftP              Exports
Chile                                            12S              43.5                        67               18.8
Argntina                                          82              32.6                        6s              80.5
razi I                                            49              19.3                        82              30.9
Ecuador                                           77              21.6                        104             38.3
Hungary                                           so               6.7                        60              20.0
HMeico                                            55              25.3                        55              33.8
P           1iippines82                                            9.9                        66               19.0
Turkey                                            51               9.9                        56               15.0
Uruguay                                           81              20.6                         49             20.2
Sourc  : World Debt Tablee end IIR  staff projection.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
CHILE
FINANCIAL MARETS LOAN
(LEASING CREDIT LINE)
Procurement and Disbursement
A. Procurement Arransements (in US$ millions)
ICB       LCB      Other
Total Proiects                 _                   50.0
B. Disbursements (in US$ millions)
Category                            Amount
Subloans                             50.0
C. Estimated IBRD Disbursements (in USS millions)
---------------- -ank FY ---------------
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Annual                      -     10.0    10.0    10.0    20.0        -
Cumulative                  -     10.0    20.0    30.0    50.0



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
CHILE
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
The Status of Bank Group Operations in Chile
A. STAMENT OF BAN LOANS AND IDA CEITS (as at SWtuber 30,19)
LOWn orUSs
Crat    FIs cl
Number   Year    B30rrowr    h s                             NJ IA V   ll
30 loans and one crecdit fully disbursed            1,284.9  22.91/
2297     1983       Chile     Highway Recon. nl      128.0    -        2.0
2481     1983       Chile     Agri. Serv.lCredit      56.0            24.8
2504     1985       Chile     Technical Assistance     6.5             1.5
2589     1985       Chile     Road Sector            140.0    -       11.7
2606     1986       Chile    Ind. Fin. Restruc.      100.0    -        2.8
2613     1986       CORFO   Small & Med. Ind.         40.0            20.3
2651      1986      EMOS    Santiago Wat. Sup.        60.0            56.3
2652     1986       ESVAL    Valparaiso Wat. Sup.      6.0    -        0.8
2832      1987      CORFO   Hydroelectric             50.5            33.3
2833     1987       ENDESA  Power Transmission        21.5    -       21.5
3028     1989       Chile     Urban Strs. & Maint.    75.0    -       75.0
3030     1989       Chile     Housing 11             200.0    -      170.0
3053     1989       Chile    Ind. Finance 11          75.0    -       65.0
31202/   1990       Chile     Road Sector 11         224.0           224.0
Total *                                             2,447.4  22.9
of which has been repaid                            388.1   7.6
Total now outstanding                               2,059.3  15.3
Amount sold                  7.2
of whilch has been repaid                             7.2
TotW now held by Bank and IDA                       2,052.1  15.3
Total undisbursed                                                    709 0
11 Includes exchtnge rate adjustments. The original amount of the credit
was US$19.0 million.
2/ Not yet signed.



ANNEXI
rageZ o 2
i. STATEMEW OF IFC NVESIMENTS (as at Sptemr 30. I9M )1/
Typo of                Amount In USS MifIon
Yew                                      Ouses             _M --a-nTOlMi
1968, 1959,    Empress Minera de      Copper mining             31.85     7.50    39.35
1966, 1984     Mantos Blancos
1959 and      Fideos y Alimentos      Food products              1.50     0.15     1.65
1965           Carozzi S.A.
1960 1961     CementoBio-BioSA.       Cement                     1.20     0.10     1.30
and 1965
1963          Cia. Manufacturers      Pulp and Paper             3.00     *       3.00
die Papeles Cartones
Cartones
1970          Minera Sagasa S.A.      Copper Mining             10.45     0.45    10.90
1982          Inverchile              Money and capital          *        020      0.20
markets
1986          Signal Methanol         Chemicals & petro-        93.37     6.63   100.0
chemicals
1986          Compania de Carbones    Mining                    16.50     2.20    18.70
de Chile (COCAR)
1987, 1988    Arauco                  Pulp and paper           120.50            120.50
and 1989
1988          Chile Fund              Money and capital          -        4.66     4.65
markets
1988          IMCO                    Money and capital          -         .06     .06
markets
1989          IICC                    Money and capital          -        3.75     3.75
markets
1989          Escondka                Mining                    70.00    15.00    85.00
Total gross commitments                          348.37    40.89   389.06
less canceiations, terminations.
rpyments and sales                               140.45    2.44   142.89
Total Commitments now held by IFC               207.92    38.25   246.17
Total Undisbursed                               110.25     7.89   118.14
1/ In addition. $55 million In loan and quasi-equity was approved In March 1989
f tor a pulp and paper proect.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
cam
FINACIAL MARKTS LOAN
SunDlementarv Data Sheet
Section T. Timetable of Key Proiect Processing Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepares                   One year
(b)  Prepared by:                             Central Bank of Chile, the
Superintendencies of
Banks, Securities and
Insurance, and Pension
Funds, in coordination
with IBRD
(c)  First Bank Mission:                      June 1988
Sd)  Appraisal Mission Departures             June 1989
(e)  Completion of Negotiationss              November 10, 1989
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:           December 30, 1989
Section II. Soecial Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness (for the quick-disbursing and investment
components)
The Government will:
(a) adopt a law providing a legal framework for a Depository System
(para. 32);
(b) raise the permitted volume of bonds that leasing companies can
issue for purchase by the main institutional investors from one
times the capital of the leasing companies to two times the
capital (para. 44); and
(c) appoint CORFO as its financial agent and enter into a Funds
Transfer Arrangement for carrying out the investment component of
the loan (para. 45).
CORFO wills
(a) adopt auction procedures for the leasing credit line satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 45).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Condition of First Tranche Release (for the quick-disbursing component)
(a) The Government will provide the Bank with evidence, satisfactory
to the Bank, that its macroeconomic framework is consistent with
its financial sector reform program (para. 23).
Conditions of Second Tranche Release (for the quick-disbursing component)
The Government wills
(a) sustain satisfactory macroeconomic performance, consistent with
the Government's financial sector reform program, and satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 23);
(b) issue regulations relating to the law providing a legal framework
for a Depository System and take all measures to put the System in
place (para. 32);
(c) review with the Bank the requirements for establishing Real Estate
Investment Companies and introduce modifications, where
appropriate, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 37);
(d) permit the pension funds to invest in closed-end mutual funds
(para. 39);
Ce) submit to its legislative body for approval a proposal to permit
pension funds and life insurance companies to invest in the
collateralized instruments issued by banks. In addition, a
proposal would be submitted to permit insurance companies to
purchase securitized instruments issued by banks (para. 39);
(f) permit pension funds to invest in commercial paper up to a limit
of 1OZ of each pension fund's portfolio (para. 39);
(g) submit to its legislative body for approval a proposal to permit
commercial banks to collateralize and securitize loans and sell
them in the form of securities to third parties without previous
authorization of the SBIP (para. 41);
(h) permit banks to have increased flexibility in the provision of
guarantees by removing the global limit under which the sum of all
guarantees that a bank provides cannot exceed its capital and
reserves (para. 41); and
(i) permit banks to issue subordinated debt and use at least half of
it as part of their capital base, up to a limit of 202 of total
capital and reserves (para. 41).
The Central Bank wills
(a) adopt a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, including a set
of appropriate incentives and a timetable for implementation, to
cause the pension fund administrators to transfer their securities
from the Central Bank to the Depository System (para. 32).



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Section III. Other General Agreements
CORFO will:
(a) maintain records and accounts for the investment component
(para. 45); and
(b) carry out the investment portion of the loan under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including procurement and
auction procedures (para. 45).
The Government will:
(a) prior to June 30, 1990, review and discuss with the Bank the scope
of work and functioning of the SVS unit, and take any measures
agreed with the Bank, to improve its monitoring ability
(para. 33);
(b) pr4or to September 30, 1990, conduct a public seminar to publicize
ard explain the streamlined requirements for the issuance of
t curities (para. 36);
Cc) prior to September 30, 1990, publish and circulate widely to the
private sector a brochure explaining the methods for issuing
securities and publish a thorough compilation of the laws and
regulations related to the issuance of securities (para. 36);
(d) prior to September 30, 1990, carry out a study of all investment
possibilities for the pension funds and an analysis of what
further changes in portfolio regulations would be required to
enable them to diversify their investments (para. 39); and
se) furnish to the Bank, by each June 30 and December 31, commencing
on the year 1990 a status report on the functioning of the
wcartera vendida' scheme and on the subordinated debt obligations
of the commercial banks to the Central Bank which have replaced
the repurchasing obligations under the 'cartera vendida
(para. 42).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
Actions Already Takuen        Steps to be Taken Before
or to be Taken Before          ffectivenew or Release                         Steps to be Taken
Pol icy Measures                   Board Presentation                of Fi ret Trnch.                    iSfore Rulea.e of Second Tranch.
Macronconomic Performance
1. Maintenance of a stable       Formulation of a broad         Sustained macroeconomic performnce.        Sustained mcroreconmic performance,
macroeconomic policy         medium-term program of         cnsiastent with the oavenuent's            consistent with the Ooveraent's
-nvironernt conducive to     adjustment.                    firancial sector refeor prors.             finmncial *ecter refors proeram.
the balanced developsnt                                     satisfactory to the bank (f ret             stisfactory to the Sank.
of the financial                                            trnch.).
markets.
The Securities Market
Infrestr.ctu rn
2. Establishment by the          N/A                            Approval of legislation                    The Covernment sill issue a rgulation
private sector of a                                         Ceffectivenee).                             relating to tbe law providing a legta
Depository System for                                                                                  fr_sework for a Depositoy System. The
all types of securities.                                                                               Centrl iSank wIlt adapt  pl an of
action, satisfaecery to the Bank.
Including a sot of appropriate
Incentives end a timetable for
iepleantation to cause the penion
funds to transfer their securities from
the Central Bank to the Depoet
Syte.
S. Creation of a unit to         Unit In plae- in the SW.       N/A                                        N/A
monitor the system of         mpleentetion already
private risk                 begun.
cl;aification.
4. The establishment by the      Granting of permission by      N/A                                        NWA
private sector of a          the SVS for the establish-
eomputerized stock           went of the exchanae and
exchange.                    for it to function se a
formal mrket. Etablieh-
sent by the SVS of a
regulatory framework.
The Suopl- of Securities
S. Reducing excessive            Review by SVS of               N/A                                        N/A
information rsqui reents     informtion reu i resente,
for the registry of          and subsequent amndmnts.
ompanles end                 Amendments to Rule t6 to
eecurities snd removing      streamline  nd disseinate
duplication.                 information on the current
rules of registration.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
hlI. buia (ContCd)
Acti.n  Al rdy Taken            Stor* to be Tsken Seoro
or to b. Taken  ofore           Effectivenes or Release                      Step* to be Taken
Policy Fesures                   ibrd Preentation                    of FIr.t Tnce                      Before Roeleae of Scond Tranche
. Establihment, in the          Approval of legialation.             N/A                                N/A
private sector. of
lcleed-end mutual funds.    iOtablishont of a
regulatory frsmwork in the
SVS.
7. Letabl;ihaont. In the        Approval of leIs-lation.             N/A                                Review of the  requiremnts for
private sector. of Real                                                                             establiehing Real Catte Investment
Esate Investmet             Etabli shment of a                                                      Companies and, whore appropriate, the
Copanle.                    regulsory frameork in the                                               Introduction of modifications
svS Istisfactory to the Bank.
8. Changes to lega              Enatment of a law to                 N/A                                N/A
framework to encourage      prmanently  perate credit
the granting of bond        Insurance fre, general
guarantees.                 insurane.
The Demand for Securities
(a) Pension Fund
9. Pension Funds to be          Change to Penion Fund La             N/A                                N/A
granted peraieeion to       CDL 8500) end regulation
have a larger               on ris elaetlficatlon
discretionary investmnt    (amendwmnt to S0 b).
in equities.
10. Penaton Funds to be         N/A                                  N/A                                Amendment to Pension Fund Low (DL 3800).
grented permission to                                                                               Legal drafting of change to risk
invest in propoend                                                                                  classification reaulations.
closed-end mutual fund.
11. Pension Funds to be        NWA                                   N/A                                Amndent to Pension Fund Law (DL 3800)
granted permission to                                                                               and change in regulstion, on riek
invest in short-ters                                                                                classification to permit inveatsent of
notes of eorporations                                                                               up to 105 of each pension fund's
Portfolio in short-term notes of
co'poratlons.
12. Penion Funds to be          N/A                                  N/A                                Submission to the legislative poser of
granted pereizsion to                                                                               an amendent to Pension Fund Law
purchase collateralied                                                                              (DL 800).
securities tiued by
Bank.
18. Pension Fund. to be         Change, to Penion Fund Law           N/A                                N/A
granted permission to       (DL M00) nd regulatio
invest in Real Ette         on risk classification
Investment Companie.        (amdment to D 88).



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
Pbls^ W.blM (Cont'd)
Actions Already Taken             Step, to be Taken Before
or to be Taken Before             Effectivenes  or Release                  Steps to be Trken
Pol icy Measurs                    Board Prentetion                     of Firet Tranche                   Before Reless of Second Tranche
(b) Insurance Comanis
14. Liberalization of equity     Amendmnt to  inurance                    N/A                              N/A
i nv_eatmta.                 Compny Lew.
is. Permission to Invest in      Amendment to Insurwce                    N/A                              N/A
closed-end sutual funds.    Copany Law.
16. Permlesion to invest in      N/A                                      N/A                              Subaiseion to the legislative power of
collateralized and                                                                                     an amendment to Insurance Company Las.
securitized leons of
banks.
The Bank ino System
17. Permitting the               N/A                                      N/A                              Submisiion to the legislative poser of
securitization of bnk                                                                                  proposals to change the Banking Law.
loans.
18. Permitting the               N/A                                      N/A                              Submission to the legiolative poser of
collateralization of                                                                                   propoenlo to change the Banking Law.
bank loans.
19. Permitting banks             N/A                                      N/A                              Change required in Chapter 111-1 of the
increaed flexibility in                                                                                Susry of Financial Rules of the
the provision or                                                                                       Central Bank.
guarantees.
20. Introduction of              N/A                                      N/A                              Aendent to the Banking Law.
subordinated debt as
secondary caoitel for
the banks.
Leasino Coaon lea
21. Establishment of a           Basc framework put in                    N/A                              N/A
rewultory frameork for       place In 1968 by the SOW.
leaing companies.
22. iEing the ronstraint on      N/A                            Approval of legislation                    N/A
the ability of petnson                                      (effectiveness).
fund and Itfe inaurance
anies to purchae
bonds of ltaing
companI"s.
23. Appointm_nt of C     aRRi an  N/A                           The Government * Il appoint C     sRRo s   N/A
financel agent for                                          the financial agnt for the leasing
carrying out the                                            credit line end enter into a Funds
invetment component of                                      Transfer Arrangement (effectivenes).
the loan.
24. Aution proedure for          N/A                            C WR   II *dopt procedures for the         N/A
the lesing credit line,                                     las;ing credit line *stisfactory to the
Bank (effectiveness).



ANNEX v
Page 1 of S
CHILE.
PflWlCW.. M WTS LOAN
Debt Reduction and Debt Canitalization Scheme
DescriDtion of Schemes
1.       Since mid-1985 Chile has operated two debt conversion programs,
one open to both residents and nonresidents (called the Chapter 18 Scheme)
and the other solely to nonresidents (called the Chapter 19 Scheme); the
former scheme is intended to encourage repatriation of flight capital. The
scheme restricted to nonresidents carries rights of remittances of profits
and capital; the other prohibits remittances. The Chapter 18 scheme
represents repurchases of debt, whereas the Chapter 19 scheme consists
essentially of conversions of debt into equity. Under the Chapter 19
scheme, for which case-by-case approval from the Central Bank is required,
the foreign creditor which has acquired external debt at a discount and the
domestic debtor--which may be a government body, Central Bank, financial
institution or a private sector entity with a guarantee from a financial
institution--agree on the form in which the investor will be paid the local
currency counterpart of the face value of the external debt. The local
currency instruments could include equity, a domestic-denominated debt or
some other domestic asset. Investment in either capital goods or equity is
permitted. Indeed, a large menu of domestic assets is available,
especially if Central Bank external debt is being converted. In that case
the Central Bank offers notes (in local currency) indexed to the U.S.
dollar with 10-year maturity and LIBOR-related interest rates, or notes
indexed to local inflation of varying maturities and interest rates. In
cases where investments in plant and equipment or in equity is to take
place, the authorization of the Central Bank is required; furthermore,
equity investments need to be in conformity with the law on foreign
investment. With regard to remittances, the capital sum may not be
repatriated within ten years of investment; however, profits may be
repatriated from the fifth year of investment, and those accumulated in the
first four years of operation may be remitted in annual tranches of 25Z
from the fifth year as well.
2.       The scheme without remittance rights--the Chapter 18 Scheme--is
similar in most respects to the above-described program, except the Central
Bank charges a commission fee for the transaction. Also, the range of
Central Bank instruments offered in exchange for its debt is limited. The
volume of transactions is regulated by a monthly auction to limit pressures
in the parallel market for foreign exchange.
3.       The Chilean authorities have also instituted various other schemes
that permit, for example, direct capitalization of debt claims into equity
in the same institution and portfolio swaps (i.e., debt-debt swaps). These
have, however, been of limited importance.



Page 2 of 5
4.       of greater eignificance has been tae operation of various informal
schemes that have permitted a reduction in external debt that approaches
the magnitudes associated with Chapters 18 and 19. These consist
principally of direct repurchases of debt by corporations via the
acquisition of foreign exchange in the parallel market or by the use of
foreign funds held abroad. Informal schemes are advantageous in that
various fees (e.g., the Central Bank fee) are nonpayable and no outright
volume limits by quotas or other norms can be established by the
authorities. The main user of such schemes has been the private non-
financial sector, in view of the strict control exercised by the Central
Bank over the private financial sector.
Table V.1: EXTENAL OMt RI ECTIW  Y O  NPEUTW AM S SECTOR
(To *nd-August 1989 in millione of US dollare)
Chapter   Other     Chapter      Other        Total
1s    Repurchase    19     Capitalization
Public sector                 e65      1i40       900          84          2t66
Banking sector              685       61O       790         46           2145
Public enterprise.          171       428       102          89           740
Privat, sector               15S7       1401      1725        802           6075
Financief                  1496       7$       1724         282          8n29
(o/w with public guarantee) (561)  ()       (696)        (81)          (-)
Non-financial               69       1820         1         180         1i4s
Total                        244X      2448       2826        440           798
Source: Central Bank of Chile.
5.       Private sector debtl accounts for nearly two-thirds of total debt
reduced; of that amount, nearly 702 takes the form of reduced debt in the
financial sector associated with recapitalization of financial companies in
liquidity or solvency difficulties, or the purchases by companies of their
own debt that were trading at a discount. Public sector debt reduction
operations have taken the form of investment in privatized corporations
through debt capitalization as well as through various repurchases of debt
by public enterprises and by two public sector banks, the Central Bank and
the Banco del Estado.
j/ Guaranteed and/or assumed by the Government of Chile.



ANNE V
Page 3 of S
Aime Table V.2t REDUCTINS IN UDIS SXTWAL DEST
(in tIllIons of US dollapr)
1965    1I6 1987         1       1989   Tot l Stock
Jan-Aug.  Aug. 1969
Repurchase unebr Chapter 18   116      411     606     9"      812       2448
Other repurchaee               89      278     451    1026    60S        2446
Capitallati.s under Chipter 19   a2  214      707     98N     ISO       2626
Capitalia tions uner DL 600    58      SE      125      89      -         278
Porttelio wasps                41      27       -       68      87        178
Tots I                      Sao     986    1979    2928   1740         7910
Memo item:
Stock of debt to
comerciel banks            6261    8435    9442    6786    ...          ...
of which private ector debt    44   5692    4225    8329    ...         ...
Source: Central Bank of Chile.
Ani Alysis of the Economic Imact
6.       Chile's debt reduction and capitalization programs have conferred
a benefit on its development prospects in three major ways. First, through
its impact on savings. Debt reduction has played an important role in
reducing transfers abroad by cutting total interest payments and hence
liberating resources for domestic use. Second, through its stimulus to
investment. Chile's program of debt reduction has led to the promotion of
private investment. Third, through its effect of strengthening the
external current and canita_. accounts. Debt reduction has made a tangible
contribution to a reduction of Chile's current account deficit, and hence
lessened the impact of interest rate shocks. It has also promoted an
efficient management of Chile's gross international reserves, thereby
enhancing the capacity of the economy to deal with adverse external
developments.
7.       (i) Reduced Interest Payments. By reducing the interest payments
bill, debt reduction has made available a higher volume of domestic
resources for investment within the economy than otherwise would have been
the case. It has thus contributed to financing investment in a non-debt-
creating way and reduced Chile's reliance on external sources of finance.
It would continue to permit expenditure savings in the public budget and
hence limit the preemption of resources for budget financing. Interest
payments as a share of GDP averaged 10.2? during the 1983-88 period and are
projected at 6.9? of GDP in 1989. The interest savings achieved as a



NEU-v
Page 4 of 5
result of Chile's debt reduction and conversion schemes have been
impressive and provided the economy with resources that otherwise would not
have been available given the absence of access to voluntary commercial
bank funds.
Annex Table V.3s INTEREST PAYMENTS
1982    1985    1989    1990    1992
-____---- (in USS billions) --------
Total interest payments                 2.4     1.9      1.8     2.0     1.9
Gross interest payments savings
from debt reduction a/                 --      --     0.7      1.0     1.1
(as 2 of GDP)                         (--)    (--)   (3.0)   (4.3)   (4.1)
-(_------ (as percent) ------------
Interest payments/GDP                   9.8    12.1      6.9     6.8     6.1
Interest payments/exports of goods
and nonfactor services               52.4    43.5    18.8    20.2    15.9
a/  Assumning debt reduction totals US$9.0 billion by end-1989,
US$10.5 billion by end-1990, and US$11 billion by end-1992. Savings
are calculated on the assumption of a spread of 13/16 over the annual
average LIBOR.
Sources Central Bank of Chile and IBRD staff calculations.
8.       Chile's interest payments are projected to be lowered by
approximately US$0.7 billion (equivalent of 32 of GDP) in 1989 as a result
of the various schemes that have been in operation since 1985. The savings
realized from debt reductions thus have made a significant contribution to
the funds available for investment (see Statistical Appendix, Table 6).
9.       The operation of debt reduction schemes has also involved costs.
First, the reduction in total foreign liabilities of the economy
necessarily falls short of the drop in total external debt by the amount by
which debt is transformed into equity held by nonresidents. This process
generates a future stream of dividends payable abroad as well as possibly
repatriation of capital. To the extent dividends are repatriated or act as
substitutes for direct foreign investment that would otherwise have been
financed by fresh inflows, net resource availability to the economy is
reduced. Precise quantification of the net effects are, however,
difficult. Second, to the extent public external debt was permitted to be
transformed into private equity, the Government had to generate resources
to buy back debt or buy the equity, which implied a higher level of
taxation or a lower level of expenditures than otherwise. In Chile, a
tight fiscal position was maintained, which warded off the inflationary
effects of debt-equity transformations seen in many other countries.



ANNEX V
Page 5 of S
10.      (ii) Increased Investment.  The strengthening of confidence in the
economy resulting from a reduction of the debt overhang and the consequent
effect that, at the margin, a lower share of incremental output would be
preempted for debt service, has increased the returns to investment and
hence the propensity to invest. The reduction in fiscal expenditures and
hence in the public sector's borrowing requirement (steaming from lower
interest payments abroad) has a number of beneficial effects on private
investment. First, to the extent the tax burden is reduced, greater
resources are left in the hands of the corporate and household sectors.
Second, to the extent that reduced bond finaucing of the public deficit is
required, pressures on interest rates are diminished and private investment
is 'crowded in.' Third, to the extent that tight control over the monetary
aggregates is maintained, the economy benefits from the effects of low
inflation. All three phenomena have been particularly important in Chile
since the adjustment effort began in 1985 and have led to a sustained
upsurge in private investment. Meanwhile, the size of the public sector
has fallen in relation to that of most other highly-indebted countries.
Furthermore, real interest rates have declined to reach their sustainable,
long-term equilibrium levels.
11.      There are also significant externalities attached to debt
reduction beyond the direct effects on investment. Investment has, for
instance, benefited from the confidence effects emanating from greater
public credibility regarding the correctness and the sustainability of
economic policies. As the burden of interest payments lessened,
expectations in the private sector concerning the burden of future taxation
have changed, which also benefits private investment. The increased
certainty and predictability brought to financial and exchange markets--
through lower and less volatile domestic interest rates, combined with
greater confidence in the likely evolution of the exchange rate--has also
promoted investment within the Chilean economy. A more favorable
environment for financial market innovation and development has also been
created.
12.      (iii) Strengthened External Capital Accounts.  By limiting
interest payments, debt reduction has served to reduce the current account
deficit and hence the external financing requirement. Chile's strategy of
reducing its external commercial bank debt has been linked to its policy on
reserve management, which has been nurtured by the program of structural
adjustment supported by the Bank. Reserve management has been guided by
the twin principles of reducing the vulnerability of the economy to
external shocks as well as maintaining a cushion of liquidity in
circumstances of constrained access to international financial markets.
The former objective is achieved by using a limited amount of reserves at
the margin to reduce debt and hence shield the economy from interest rate
shocks. The latter objective is the traditional one for holding reserves
but has been enhtnced in Chile's case by the establisbment of a commodity
stabilization fund. This approach to reserve management is intended to
underpin confidence in macroeconomic (particularly exchange rate and
interest rate) policies. Debt reduction limits the impact on the economy
and its external financing requirement of an adverse terms-of-trade or
interest-rate shock.



ANX V
Page 6 of 6
13.      (iii) StrenRthened External Capital Accounts.  By limiting
interest payments, debt reduction has served to reduce the current account
deficit and hence the external financing requirement. Chile's strategy of
reducing its external commercial bank debt has been linked to its policy on
reserve management, which has been nurtured by the program of structural
adjustment supported by the Bank. Reserve management has been guided by
the twin principles of reducing the vulnerability of the economy to
external shocks as well as maintaining a cushion of liquidity in
circumstances of constrained access to international financial markets.
The former objective is achieved by using a limited amount of reserves at
the margin to reduce debt and hence shield the economy from interest rate
shocks. The latter objective is the traditional one for holding reserves
but has been enhanced in Chile's case by the establishment of a commodity
stabilization fund. This approach to reserve management is intended to
underpin confidence in macroeconomic (particularly exchange rate and
interest rate) policies. Debt reduction limits the impact on the economy
and its external financing requirement of an adverse terms-of-trade or
interest-rate shock.
14.      It is expected that the bulk of the external debt bought back by
Chile under the proposed November 1989 auction will be those loans that are
responsible for the sharp hump in amortization payments falling due in 1991
and 1992. Thus, the buyback operation would diminish amortization
requirements in 1991 and 1992, leaving a smaller amount to be rescheduled
or refinanced. Furthermore, the Government expects to be able to purchase
the remaining debt of small creditor banks in its lending consortium. The
elimination of the small creditor banks will simplify future rescheduling
or refinancing negotiations and greatly improve the prospects for reaching
agreement on the amounts of new money necessary to fill the projected
financing gaps to 1994.



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 9
CHILI
FIN_NCIAL AURRETS LOQN
Letter of Sectoral Poliev
ItEPUSLICA 0E CHILE
MINISlER10 Of HACI*NDA
GAGINC T6  OIL  MINISTRO
CRB/lIr/166
November 14, 1989.
Mr. Barber 8. Conable
President
The World Batik
Dear Mr. Conable,
Since 1985, the Government of Chile has been committed
to an extensive program of structural adjustment centered upon
the promotion of exports and investment within the private
sector, the elimination of price and cost distortions within the
economy through liberalization in production and trade.and a
reduction in the size of the public  sector.    This program,
supported by three Structural Adjustment Loans from the world
Bank auid an extended arrangement with the  IMF,  has  achieved
tar-reaching success:  the economy has grown  vigorously  while
inflation has been held in check.  The Government of Chile is
committed to continuing the process of adjustment.   The main
pillar of the current phase of adjustment is further reform in
the financial sector, which will serve to increase the efficiency
of resource mobilization and ensure that savings are increasingly
channelled  to investment  in  the productive  sectors.    As  a
complement to financial sector reform, the Governmentes program
of debt reduction is an essential element in the promotion of
national savings.
Flnancial Sector Reform
Historical Background.   The Government of Chile has,
supported by the three SALs, been undertaking an extensive
program of reform in the financial sector.
A commitment to financial reform can, however, be traced
back to the early years of the present Government but the pace of
such reform has Intensified following the crisis in the financial
sector in 1982-83.  In the wake of this crisis, the Govern,ent
was forced to intervone to shut down a number of banking
itistitutiotns  and  take  over  the  temporary  administration  or
others. A program of financial restructuring of private firms was
also undertaken.



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 9
NOV 15 '89 15:10 BANCO CEWTRAL CHILE 56 2 6985Q21
REPUBLICA   DE   CHILE
MINIStEIiO DE HACIENDA
OGASNRsT WIL  AINIST8O
As part of the rehabilitation process, the Government
revised the legal and regulatory framework for the banking
system. A bank recapitalization law was passed and the process
of recapitalization was begun.  Considerable progress has been
made, supported by the Bank, in putting the banklng system back
on a sound footing. The rehabilitation program is now vlrtually
complete, although some of the financial difficulties created by
the 1982-83 crisis are going to be solved only gradually over the
next few years.
More recently, the Government has shifted its attention
towards the medium-term financial issues affecting savings and
investment.  In this context, the most pressing concern was to
channel private savings placed with the pension funds and other
institutional investors into private investment through a
liberalized securities market.
By way of background to this liberalization, Chile hos,
over the last 10 years, introduced deep structural reforms that
have substantially increased private financial savings. The most
fundamental of these reforms has been the introduction of a fully
funded social security system (which manages through private
pension funds and insurance companies what is, in effect,
compulsory savings) and the elimination of the corporate income
tax over undistributed dividends. These measures have begun to
invigorate the domestic securities market, but the investments of
the institutions have been primarily in the form of either
short-term bank deposits or long-term public bonds.   The only
Important exception is tthe purchase of private mortgage bonds
used to finance housing loans. The Government is thus concerned
that the domestic securities market is still not prepared to
support the significant private investment effort foreseen for
the near future.   Thte lack of adequate options for long-torm
financial investments could divert financial savings to the
financing of public or private consumption that would certainly
uidermine the objectives of the current structural adjustment
program.



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 9
NOV 15 '89 15:10 B10 WO #:ENTRAL :HILE 5b 6  b9850zl
REPUBLICA    DE   CHILE
MINISTERIO DL HACIEtNDA
GAOUMMTE  OeL  MINtSTRO
Supported by SAL III, the Government initiated a program
to stimulate the development of the securities markets.   This
program included fiscal measures to encourage equity investment
and the growth of intermediation, a strengthening of the
infrastructure for the securities markets-more specifically a
move to a system of private risk classification--and the easing
of restrictions pertaining to the tnvestments of the pension
funds and other institutional investors.
The time is now propitious to undertake a comprehensive
strengtihening and deepening of the financial markets In Chile
with particular focus on the securities markets.  The Government
recognizes  that  it  has  a  special  opportunity,  given  the
prtvatized nature of most of the social  security  system,  to
provide a liberalized regulatory environment that will be
conducive to a significant growth in the securities markets and
provide an enlarged pool of funds for private investment. Hence,
much or the Oovernment's new financial adjustment program will be
devoted to gradually liberalizing the rules ror the investments
of the main  institutional  investors,  while  making  sure  that
prudent portfolio diversification norms are maintained.
The Government expects that there will a significant
shift in the pattern of intermediation in the financial sector as
the  main  institutional  investors  become  beneficiaries   of
increasing  volumes  of pension  contributions.    The  locus  of
intermediation  will,   to  some  extent,   shift   towards   the
institutional investors and away from the banks.   Against this
background, the Government is continuing to develop policies that
will serve to strengthen the banks by broadening the scope of the
business that they can perform.  At the same time, the Government
ix changing  the  regulatory  framework  so  as  to  encourage  a
windening of the array of available financial instruments (such
as leasing).  Below is the core of measures that the Government
has taken, or will shortly take, ttiat will strengthen and deepen
the financial sector in Chile.



ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 9
tOv #.'V I  15:11 BFtICC. CEI 4TP,L CHILE 56 2 69850a1
REPUBLICA    OE   CHILE
MINISTERIO DE HACIENDA
The  Infrastructure  for  the  Securities  Market.    The
Government  of  Chile  is  supporting  the  development  of  the
infrastructure  of  the  securities  market  in  Chile.    It  is
establishing  a legal  framework  for a  Depository  System  for
securities. Such a system is much needed in Chile to provide a
mechanism for the settlement and transfer of ownership of
securities.
The  Government   has  also  recently   permitted   the
establishment of a system of private risk classification which la
of strategic importance to the proper functioning of securities
markets.   The  Government  intends  to  further  strengthen  this
system by ensuring that, in the early years of its life, the
private rating mechanism functions smoothly.   To this end the
Superintendency of Securities and Insurance will closely monitor
the development of the mechanism through a recently established
special  unit.      The  Government   Is  also  permitting   the
establishiment of a new computerized stock exchange, "the Chile
Stock Exchlange," which will function as a formal market for
trading in bonds and equity securities.
The Supply of New Securities. The Government recognizes
that there are significant constraints that need to be overcome
on the supply side of the securities market If it is to become a
major source of new funding in the future. For this reason the
Government is undertaking a number of measures to create a more
favorable climate  for  the  new  issuance  of  securities.    The
Government is going to streamline the information requirements
for securities issuance, and hence reduce issuance costs, while
at the same time encouraging the dissemination of information on
the techniques of securities issuance.
The Government is also making the necessary legislative
chsanges to permit the establishment--in the private market--of
closed-end mutual funds and real estate itivestment companies.
Both of these institutional mechanisms would serve to convert
real assets into securitized form and hence increase the supply
of  securities  to  potencial  investors.    Both  will  also  be
supervised by the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance.



ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 9
* rv 15 89 15: 11 sWCo 1:VITRAL CHILE 56 2 6r95021
REPUBLICA DE CHILE
MINISTERIO DE HACIENDA
GADINST6  DO&L  MINISTAO
The Government has been easing regulations to foster the
provision of bond guarantees and may permit the establishment of
a private sector bond guarantee scheme with the posslble help of
IFC. Such a scheme would be aimed at stimulating the supply of
bonds by those companies currently on the verge of access to the
bond markets.
Securities Investors. On the demand side of the
securities markets, the pension funds and life insurance
companies are the most important institutional investors. Their
importance is likely to grow significantly in the coming years.
Given  thie  need  for  prudence  in  the  investment  of  their
portfolios, these Institutions are strictly controlled with
regard to the investments that they make. The challenge that the
Government faces is to liberalize the investments of the pension
funds and insurance companies so as to generate more financing
for the private sector without exposing these institutions to
significantly  higher  levels  of  risk.    The  Government  has
thierefore initiated a finely tuned liberalization of the
portfolios of the main institutional investors that will allow
greater   scope   for   diversification   while   minimizing   the
incremental risk. This wil include liberalizing the regulations
to permit the pension funds and insurance companies to invest in
a wider range of  securities--especially  equities-and  in  the
proposed closed-end mutual funds and real estate investment
companies.
Banking Sector. The banking sector will be subject to
increasing competitive pressure as the institutional investors
extend the range of their business into areas that overlap with
the banks. Accordingly, the Government is planning to introduce
a number of measures that would permit the banks to diversify
their business by securitizing and collateralizing parts of their
loan portfolios. This would permit the banks to play a role in
the creation of securities for purchase by the main institutional
investors. One of the rules constraining the bank's ability to
offer guarantees will be modified to permit them more flexibility
in structuring their portfolios. Measures will also be taken to
strengthen the banks by permitting them to issue subordinated
debt and count part of it as secondary capital.



ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 9
f',v IT '     IT: 151 BWO:I:' I:EtTRp_L :HILE 5i 2 6te 
REPUBLICA DE CHILE
MINISTERtIO 0 HACIENOA
O^AUN1tS   et6  MINISTRO
Leasing.   The Government  recognizes  that  leasing  is
becoming an increasingly important form of Intermediation In
Chile.   Accordingly,  it  has  established  a  new  regulatory
framework for leasing companies that are subsidiaries of banks.
At the same time it is amending the regulatory framework to
ensure that the leasing industry will have greater access to
funding in the bond markets.
Economic Adjustment and Debt Strategy
Chile's economy is projected to grow by 8.5% in 1989 as
a result of a sharp upturn in investment as well as an expansion
In private consumption.   The Government Intends to dampen the
pace of expansion of domestic demand (as part of the program
supported by the Fund standby) and to maintain growth at its
sustainable rate of 4-5% per annumm over the medium term. At the
sam time, the Government intends to keep Inflation in check at a
rate around 16% in 1989,  12% in 1990 and  thereafter.    Not
international reservse are targeted to rise by US$ 500 million in
1989 and--on the basis of an estimated average price of copper of
92c/lb In 1990--to remain unchanged.   The Copper Stabilization
fund will be maintained.   Fiscal policies will continue to be
tight, with the deficit of the non-financial public sector at
trend copper price being limited to the equivalent of 0.3% of GDP
in 1989 and 0.4% of GDP in 1990. The policy of reducing the size
and sCope of the public sector, inter alia via privatization,
will continue.   The authorities intend to continue to support
their counter-inflation stance by strict limits on monetary and
credit expansion and by keeping real rates of interest at levels
necessary to fight inflation, control demand and stimulate
savings.       The   real   effective   depreciation   of   the
peso--approximately 7% in mid-1989--will be safeguarded by a
daily depreciation in line with Inflation dffoerentials, and
competitiveness will be strengthened if the external current
account adjustment proves slower than envisaged under our
program. The external current account will be affected In the
1990-92 period by a deterioration in the terms of trade, but the
required external financing is well within reach if sound
adjustment policies are maintained.   Over the medium term, the
Government expects growth to be led by an expansion in investment
and in exports, and national savings to rise; in the latter
objective, reduction in commercial bank debt has played and will
continue to play a significant role.



ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 9
NOV 15 '89 15:12 BANCO CENTMRL CHILE 56 a 6%S5W1
R EPUBLICA   DE   CHIL E
MINISTERIO DE HACIENDA
OaO:N%Tl DEL MINIS r"O
Chile's long-term external debt strategy has three
objetives:
a) the introduction of structural reforms and macroeconomic
policies that stimulate exports, national savings and
investment, in order to improve economic growth and
consequently reduce the relative weight of debt;
b) the rescheduling of debt, and the obtaining of now money
from commercial creditors and loans from multilateral
organizations in order to support investment;
c) the establ'shment of verious mechanisms of debt reduction.
The ultimate objetive Is to obtain voluntary access to the
private capital market.
Adjusment. Chile is successfully implementing the above
debt  strategy.    The  economy  has  undergone  deep  structural
adjusments that centered on the expansion of exports end private
investment; savings generation and investment; rehabilitation and
development of the financial system; and improvement of the
pension and health care systems.   Largely as a result of such
adjustments, in the five-year period between 1984 and 1988. the
Chilean economy, coming out of a deep recession, averaged a
growth rate of 5.5%. Over the same period, inflation was reduced
to an annual rate of 12.7%. National savings increased from 2.9%
of GDP to 16.2%, and investment from 13.6% to 17.0%.
Chile's reduction in external indebtedness was the'
outcome of a pioneering debt conversion program, which allowed
the use of foreign exchange resources by Chiileans for the
retirement of external debt, the use of debt for equity swaps to
foreigners, and more recently, direct purchases by the public
sector of its external debt in the secondary debt market. As a
result of Chile's debt reduction programs, external debt has been
reduced by US$ 8.1 billion by end September 1989. Total external
debt (including purchases from the IMF) stood at USS 17.6 billion



ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 9
*NOV 15 '89 1: 12 BANCO CEi4TRAL t HILE 56 b 6985c 1
REPUBLICA    DE   CHILE
MIIISTERIO DE HACIENPA
GASSNETf 01L MINIStROt
on the same date. The decrease in indebtedness through the debt
conversion program more than compensated for the assumption of
new  debt,   primarily  from  multilateral   organizations   and
commercial creditors.   Overall,  Chile's debt  Indicators have
improved considerably. Its debt-to-GDP ratio deoreased from 127%
in  1985  to  86%  in  1988.    Over  the  same  period,  Chile's
debt-service-to-exports ratio has declined from 93.4% to 42.9%
and the interest-payments-to-exports ratio decreased from 43.5%
to 21.7%.
New Capital. In addition to its debt reduction program,
Chile has received "new money" from commercial creditors, end has
been able to renegotiate its external debt with commercial
creditors at terms that match the best offered to other Latin
American debtor nations. Furthermore, on the basis of its good
economic perfomance and excellent record as a debtor nation,
Chile has reached agreements that allow the country to exercise
various debt reduction or conversion options.
More importantly, other forms of external financing have
increasingly become available to Chile, either in the form of
long-term suppliers' credits, which are related to the expansion
of foreing direct investment, or short-term credit lines.
Short-term credit lines, agreed with commercial creditors in June
1989 for the following year, include, in addition to the US$ 1.7
billion originally agreed in the 1983 restructuring of Chile's
external debt, voluntary credit lines of US$ 0.5 billion. Also
in June 1989, Chile crossed another hurdle in its quest to regain
free access to the international capital markets, when commercial
banks provided, for the first time since the Latin Americen debt
crisis  erupted,  long-term  credit  for  the  private  sector
investment proyect of Celulosa Arauco y Constitucion S.A..  The
stabilization of the Chilean economy has also contributed to the
virtual absence of the capital flight problem observed in other
economies. On the contrary, incentives provided by the Central
Bank have resulted in swap operations that have attracted
short-term foreing deposits in Chile.



EXVI
Page 9 of 9
NOrV 15 '89 15:13 BAN4CQ t;EftTPQL CHILE 56 2 69B5021
REPUBLICA    0K   CHiLE
MINIST9R1i  DE HACIONDA
GAWINeTf  06L . 9AIST"o
As a result of these developMOntf, in July 1989. the
valuation of Chile's external debt In the secondary debt market
was the highest among actively traded debt of Latin American
countries, at 65% of par value.   As recently  as 1986  the
valuation of Chilean debt in the secondary debt market was one of
the worst among Latin American countries.   However, as  this
market indicator suggests, Chile has still considerable ground to
cover  before  again  being  able  to  obtain  access  to  the
international capital markets.
Yours sincerely,
nr que Seguel
Minister of Finance



