Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL ' SE ONLY
Az/  3lv-c
Report No. 8004-CH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
NOVEMBER 16, 1989
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:      Peso (Ch$)
US$1           -   Ch$280 (as -f Septenmber 30, 1989)
Ch$1           =   US$0.004 (as of S'epcember 30, 1989)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOESARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CB             -   Central Bank of Chile
CODELCO        -   Corporacion del Cobre
CORFO          -   Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion
CSF            -   Copper Stabilization Fund
EFF            -   Extended Fund Facility
GDP            -   Gross Domestic Product
IDB            -   Ir.ter-American Development Bank
IGPA           -   Indice General de Precios de Acciones
(General Stock Market Index)
IPSA           -   Indice de Precios Selectivos de Acciones
(Price Index of Selected Equities)
SAFP           -   Superintendencia de Administradoras de Fondos
de Pensiones
(Superintendency of Pension Fund Administrators)
SBIF           -   Superintendencia de Bancos e Instituciones
Financieras
(Superintendency of Banks and Financial
Institutions)
SVS            -   Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros
(Superintendency of Securities and Insurance)
TIP            -   Tasa de Interes Promedio
(Interest Reference Rate)
UF             -   Unidad de Fomento
(Inflation Adjusted Unit of Account)



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
CHILE
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ....        ........................ 5    .......   1
II.  MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK ...........................    3
A. Recent Economic Adjustment Experience. .                                    3
B. Public Finances..                                                           4
C. Savings and Investment                ..                                    4
III. FINANCIAL SECTOR ISSUES .......................................   6
A. Structure and Trends.                                                       6
(a) Structure ..                                                          6
(b) Main Trends ..                                                        7
B. Constraints...                                                              8
(a) Securities Markets and Investors   .                 .
(b) The Banking Sector                   ...12
(c) The Leasing Sector    ..13
C.  Government Strategy and the Bank's Role .                .                15
(a) Government Strategy    ..15
(b)  The Bank's Role in the Financial Sector   .             .17
IV. THE PROPOSED FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN    .                    .19
A. Description of the Loan                   . . .19
(a)  Origin and Objectives             ...................  19
(b)  Loan Structure .. .................................... 20
(c)  Implementation .....................................  20
B.  The Quick-Disbursing, Policy Adjustment Component . .20
(a) The Securities Markets    .                   .20
(i) Securities Market Infrastructure  .20
(ii) Supply of Securities .22
(iii) Demand for Securities .24
(b) The Banking Sector    ..26
(c) The Leasing Sector    ..28
(d)  The Impact of the Financial Sector Policy Component                 29
(e) Institutional Arrangements .31
(i) Letter of Sectoral Policy ......................  31
(ii) Tranche Release .31
(iii) Records and Accounts .32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
C.  The Leasing Credit Line Component .. .................... 32
(a)  Leasing Program  .................... . .................  32
(b)  Financing Plan ......................................  32
(c)  CORFO as Executing Agent .............................  32
(d)  Procurement ........................................ 33
(e)  Disbursement .......................................  34
(f)  Reports, Accounts and Audits ..     ....................... 34
D.  The Technical Assistance Component ........     ................  3.
E.  Benefits and Risks .......................................  35
F.  Agreements and Recommendations      ............................  36
(a)  Agreements ........................................  36
(b)  Recommendation ....................................... 38
Statistical Appendix
ANNEXES
I.       Profile of the Securities Markets
II.      Portfolio Regulations Governing Institutional Investment
III.     Banking Sector Structure and Financial Strength
IV.      The Leasing Sector
V.       The Structure of the Proposed Closed-End Mutual Funds
VI.      Projections of Pension Funds' Portfolio Investments
VII.     The Structure and Financial Position of CORFO
VIII.    CORFO: Administrative Arrangements for the Leasing Line of Credit
VIII(a). Operational Project Agreement Between CORFO and IBRD
VIII(b). Operational Supplementary Project Agreement Between CORFO
and Leasing Companies
VIII(c). Announcement Let_.er for Auction of Funds
IX.      Technical Assistance
X.       Documents in Project Files
XI.      Policy Matrix



CHLE
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
I. LOAN AND PROJLCT SUNKARY
Borrower:              Republic of Chile.
Beneficiaries:         Lessors and lessees will be beneficiaries of the
investment component.
Amount:                US$130 million equivalent.
Terms%                 Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the Baik's standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Obiectives:   The primary objective is to support the further
deepening of Chile's financial markets. Actions
related to financial markets include: (a) measures to
strengthen securities markets and the banking system,
and (b) the provision of additional funding for the
emerging leasing sector.
Proiect DescriDtion:  Three components are included in the proposed
project. First, a policy adjustment component to
support a set of measures to strengthen securities
markets: (a) by improving the market infrastructure;
(b) by allowing the development of additional
investment instruments; and (c) by liberalizing
investment restrictions on the main institutional
investors. The banks would also be strengthened by
permitting them to extend the range of their business
and increase their capitalization. The proceeds of
this component of US$80 million (62Z of the loan)
will be disbursed in two tranches and used to finance
eligible imports. The second component is a credit
line of US$50 million (38Z of the loan) to benefit
the leasing sector. This sector has grown
substantially but is now fa ng a financing shortage
that will limit its ability to uieet demand. Finally,
a Technical Assistance component of US$l.9 million,
to be financed entirely by the Japanese Grant
Facility, will strengthen governmental institutions
that supervise or interface with the financial
sector.
Benefits:              Further financial market deepening will lessen
Chile's dependence on external financing at a time
when a higher volume of domestic savings will be
potentially -rvailable. A liberalized financial
market will ensure that savings are channelled more
efficiently into productive inveatment through a
richer menu of financial instruments.



Risks.                 There are three sets of risks.  The first is that a
new Government, which will come into office in early
1990, might pursue different policies toward the
development of the financial sector than those of the
present Government. Present indications suggest,
however, that a new Government would not change the
thrust of key economic and financial policias. A
second risk is a deterioration in the macroeconomic
environment that might undermire the development of
financial markets and reduce demanG for the Bank's
credit line from the leasing sectcr. Current
expectations, however, are for a stable evolution of
the economy over the medium term. The third risk is
that the institutional mechanism for channelling the
leasing credit line (an auction) could prove
unsuccessful since it is an untried mechanism. If
this happens, the loan resources would be allocated
on the basis of a market reference rate.
Avyraisal Retort:      Report No. P-8004-CH
Financing Plan:        The financing plan for the lsasing credit program is
as follows:
Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ millions)
IBRD                         _          50         50
Commercial Banks             40         --          40
Bond Placement               60         --          60
100        50         150
Estimated
Disbursements:         The US$80 million, quick-disbursing component will be
available in two equal tranches. The second tranche
will be available upon satisfaction of second tranche
conditions.
The leasing credit line is expected to disburse over
a four-year period as set out below:
------------ Bank FY ------------
1990     1991       1992      1993
(US$ millions)
Annual            10.0     10.0       10.0      20.0
Cumulative        10.0     20.0       30.0      50.0



II. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
A. Recent Economic Adiustment ExDerience
Introduction
2.01     In 1985 the Government began to implement a comprehensive and
long-term adjustment program supported by the first of three Bank
structural adjustment loans. The program's objective was the recovery of
economic activity and employment, while gradually reducing the external
debt burden. It attempted to achieve these cbjectives through the
implementation of policies addressing three major structural problems:
insuff4cient growth and excessive concentration of exports, low levels of
savings and investment, and the fragility of the financial system.
2.02     Even though unfavorable terms of trade and high real international
interest rates persisted, the adjustment program was successfully
implemented and led to the expansion of the economy in 1986 and 1987, with
GDP growing by 5.7? in both years. In 1987, real GDP returned to the pre-
crisis level of !981. During 1988, the economy accelerated further,
growing by 7.4X in real terms, largely due to the substantial increase in
international copper prices that occurred near the end of 1987. In sum,
between 1984 and 1988. the Chilean economy, emerging from a deep recession,
averaged a growth rate of 5.5Z, while over the same period inflation was
cut from 23? to 12.7Z.
2.03     Chile's economy in the last few years has registered a strong
economic performance: gross capital formation increased from 13.7? of GDP
in 1985 to 172 in 1988. The performance of national savings has been even
more impressive, increasing from 5.4? of GDP to 16.3Z during the same
period. The corporate and financial sectors also have been considerably
strengthened.
2.04     In 1988, the economy grew 7.4?, compared to an average of 5.7? in
1986 and 1987. Thus, between 1985 and 1988, the Chilean economy averaged a
growth rate of 5.3?. Over the same period, inflation fell from 26.4Z to
12.72. Unemployment, wnich in 1985 amounted to 18.72 of the labor force,
declined to 6.6S by the end of 1988. Underlying this strong economic
performance was the buoyancy of exports. Noncopper exports have grown at
an average rate of over 122. Copper prices rose from a low of 74 cents/lb
in 1987 to 1.14 cents/lb in 1988. Hence, copper exports, which accounted
for 43? of overall exports by value in 1987, grew by 53Z in 1988. The
increase was due entirely to international price improvements, since export
volumes actually declined by 0.92 because of technical supply difficulties.
Total exports in 1988 increased by 35? to US$7.1 billion, which is the
equivalent of 31.92 of GDP (up from 23.7? in 1985). The current account
deficit has, therefore, declined significantly, from over 8? of GDP in 1985
to less than 12 in 1988. In 1989, the current account deteriorated to a
US$740 million deficit (2.9? of GDP); at trend copper prices, the deficit
amounts to the equivalent of 8.52 of GDP. The external accounts are highly
vulnerable to copper price movements; thus, the current account deficit is
expected to rise to US$1.5 billion per annum (4.5? of GDP) over the next



- 4 -
five years as the unusually high copper prices decline. The external
accounts are also vulnerable to a rise in international interest rates,
especially siuce Chile's external debt remains high.
2.05     Chile's improved economic performance of the last five years has
been the result of both structural and transitory (i.e., high copper price)
changes. Both had a positive impact on economic growth, and thus made an
important contribution to resolving the country's external debt problem.
Yet, despite the benefits of the structural adjustment effort, the country
remains vulnerable to external financing shortfalls over the medium term
which could restrict the possibility of sustainable economic growth.
2.06     The impressive export performance in recent years masks the fact
that Chile remains vulnerable to a steep fall in copper prices; copper
still commands a disproportionate share of exports (491 in 1989).1 The
decline in copper prices is also expected to slow economic expansion to 4Z
by 1990, causing Chile's current account deficit in that year to surge to a
4.6Z share of GDP, from 2.9Z in 1989. An even higher deficit is expected
in 1991, with the current account deficit stabilizing at 4.6Z of GDP over
the 1992-94 period.
B. Public Finances
2.07      Improvement in public finances has made an important contribution
to the recovery of the economy. The overall nonfinancial public sector
deficit has declined from 2.6Z of GDP in 1985 to a surplus of 2.52 in 1988.
Including the Copper Stabilization Fund, which represenLed revenues of 2.6Z
of GDP, public sector savings in 1988 amounted to the equivalent of 8.4Z of
GDP, up from a 3.8Z share in 1985. This rate of savings was achieved
despite a decrease in the value-added tax in mid-1988 from 20 to 162, and a
decrease of import tariffs in January 1988 from 20 to 15X. The sale of
public enterprises generated an additional 1.2Z of GDP, contributing to a
public sector investment ratio of 6.8Z of GDP. While the nonfinancial
public sector deficit in 1988 amounted to the equivalent of 0.12 of GDP,
adjusting for deposits (on a cash basis) in the Copper Stabilization Fund,
the nonfinancial public sector account in 1988 had a surplus the equivalent
of 2.5Z of GDP.
2.08      With revenues benefiting from the increase in copper prices and
higher tax collections (resulting from the economy's expansion), the
Government was able to reduce the value-added tax in June 1988. Reduced
taxation is in line with the Government's strategy of reducing the role of
the public sector in the economy, which is also reflected in its program of
privatizing public sector enterprises.
C. Savints and Investment
2.09      Private savings and investment have traditionally been low in
comparison with other countries of similar income levels. Even in the high
1/ The effective price of Chile's copper exports is projected to drop from
an average of 121 cents/lb in 1989 to 73.9 centsilb in 1992.



- 5 -
growth years of the 1970s and after the introduction of the tax reform of
1975, national savings and investment were 11Z and 16? of GDP,
respectively. The Government has taken a number of measures to increase
national savings, such as the 1979 tax reform, the 1980 tax laws, and the
1980 reforms to the social security s'stem. Since then, economic policy
has aimed at stimulating savings through measures such as the reduction of
corporate income tax, the exemption of taxes on retained profits that are
reinvested (1984), and the creation of the pension system's voluntary
savings acco-nts (1981). Incentives for low-income families to save for
the downpayment on houses were also introduced. Finally, the policy
framework after 1984 has been characterized by stable and predictable rules
that reinforced private incentives to save. As a result, private savings
have risen from about 0.9Z of GDP in 1985 to 11.22 in 1988. Public sector
savings meanwhile increased from 4.52 of GDP in 1985 to 5Z in 1988 (see
Table 2.1). Investment also has risen, from 13.72 of GDP in 1985 to 172 in
1988, surpassing levels attained during the expansionary 19709.
Table 2.1: COMPOSITION OF GROSS NATIONAL SAVINGS
(in 2 of GDP)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Total Savings (I + II)                      13.6   13.7   14.6   16.9   17.0
I.   National Savings                        2.9    5.4    8.1   12.6   16.2
-  Public                              0.8    4.5    5.5    5.8    5.0
-  Private                             2.1    0.9    2.6    6.8   11.2
-  Surplus of pension system       3.3    4.7    4.7    5.1    4.6
-  Other                          -1.2   -3.8   -2.1    1.7    6.6
II.  External Savings                       10.7    8.3    6.5    4.3    0.8
Source:  Central Bank of thile, Budget Office.
2.10      The financial sector plays a crucial role in efficiently
mobilizing domestic savings and channelling them into productive
investment. The Government of Chile has made great strides in placing the
financial system on a firm footing since its 1982183 collapse. The
rehabilitation of the banking sector is virtually complete and the
Government--supported by the Bank through SAL III--turned its attention to
the medium-term financial issues affecting savings and investment.
Although there has been a singular improvement in the condition of
financial markets in the past four years, a number of weaknesses and
constraints persist.  The Government has committed itself to remedy these
weaknesses and constraints to enable the financial markets to sustain the
momentum of Chilean investment and growth in the near term. If the
Government succeeds in reaching its objectives, financial markets will
become more potent in mobilizing domestic resources and hence serve to
reduce the dependence on external financing in the longer term.



- 6 -
III. FINANCIAL SECTOR ISSUES
A. Structure and Trends
(a) Structure
3.01      Judged by the standards of most developing 'ountries, the
financia3 sector in Chile is highly developed. At its heart is the Central
Bank. which is the bank of issue, the provider of a rediscount facility.
and lender of last resort. There are also three supervisory agencies--the
SBIF, SVS and SAFP--that regulate, respectively, the banking system, the
securities markets and insurance companies, and the pension funds. The
banking system comprises a mix of domestic and foreign banks that compete
on equal terms (commercial bank assets amounted to about US$32 billion in
1988). The largest domestic bank is the Government-owned Banco del Estado
de Chile. Among the non-bank financial institutions, the largest and
quickest growing are the pension funds. Life insurance ccrnpanies are the
second largest group of non-bank financial institutions. Others include
insurance companies (except life), leasing companies, and mutual funds.
The only National Development Bank operating ia Chile is the Corporacion de
Fomento de la Produccion (CORFO). CORFO provides loans and grants to
industry and serves as a holding company for parastatal enterprises,
performing a range of related functions. Figure 3.1 highlights the
relative importance of the main financial intermediaries.
Figure 3.1:
ASSETS OF FINANCIAL IN `. 'ITUTIONS
(100% = US$ 45 BILLION)
PERCENT DISTRIBUTION
DMK CM" Bumf U.5
nox. co*w. XiM s                t.5
urn. C0s. 8.1
mg. co_ sBIMN 16.?
SAM00 DEM UTADO 184



-7-
(b) Main Trends
3.02      Financial intermediation in Chile is being molded by a number of
important economic and financial factors. Some stimulate financial
intermediation while others create significant impediments to the process.
3.03      As pointed out, the financial markets are being stimulated by a
strong recovery in domestic savings. The mobilization of domestic savings
has assumed a rew urgen-y since the financial crisis of 1982/83, especially
in light of the limited availability of private funds in the international
financial markets. Another factor, against the background of a conducive
economic environment, has been the general decline in real interest rates
that took place between 1985-88 (see Statistical Appendix, Table 1). This
sparked an increase in activity in the longer term markets.
3.04      Three other significant trends are influencing financial
development markets in general and intermediation patterns in particular.
First, the Government has contained its own expenditures. As a result,
both the budget deficit and Treasury borrowing in the bond markets have
declined sharply in real terms from US$0.9 billion in 1983 to US$0.2
billion in 1988 (see Statistical Appendix. Table 2). To date, this decline
has been more than offset by Central Bank bond issues, which rose from
US$0.8 billion in 1983 to US$3 billion in 1988. Central Bank borrowing in
recent years has been associated in part with the rescue of failed
financial institutions and with the debt restructuring operations
conducted on behalf of overindebted nonfinancial corporations. However,
total public sector borrowing is expected to slow sharply over the next few
years, which will reduce the availability of public sector securities.
3.05      Second, commercial banks will not be able to increase a'preciably
the volume of mortgage loans that they regularly originate and issue as
bonds (see Statistical Appendix, Table 2). This is because their capital
bases- an important determinant of the volume of their business--are
limited by the requirement that they use part of their profits to
repurchase bad debts they sold to the Central Bank to ameliorate their
distress during the financial crisis of the early 19808.
3.06      A third trend is that the main institutional investors--the
pension funds and life insurance companies--are growing rapidly. Both are
beneficiaries of the present social security system that compels
individuals to place 102 of their income in the pension funds. As the
investible resources of these institutions increase, their appetite for
longer-term securities grows at a corresponding pace.
3.07      As the above trends become more estab'ished, they will increase
the urgency for an additional fine-tuning of the financial sector. A
mismatch between supply and demand is now occurring in the financial
markets: there is a decrease in the availability of assets in securitized
form (from the public sector and the banks) and an increase in demand for
securities by institutional investors. This is a quite unique problem,
certainly among developing countries. It can only be resolved, on the one
hand, by removing the constraints on the supply side that prevent an
increase in the supply adjustment of securitized assets in the non-bank
private sector and, on the other, by systematically easing the regulatory
constraints that impinge on the portfolios of the institutional investors,



- 8 -
which are now skewed in favor of public and banking sector assets. This
shift towards securities market intermediation will, in turn, provide a new
competitive challenge to the banking system that has only just regained its
footing following the financial crisis of the early 19809. Constraints on
banks also must be overcome so they can diversify their business. At the
same time, as part of the process of managed adjustment, it is important
that the Government overcome other constraints such as those in the leasing
sectors that inhibit deepening of the financial sector.
D. Constraints
(a) Securities Markets and Investors
3.08      The size and structure of the securities markets--that is, the
markets for equities and bonds--have been changing significantly in
response to the trends noted above, including, for the equities .arket, the
privatization of several state enterprises. But the constraints on these
markets may, if they persist, prevent them from playing a more pivotal role
in domestic financial intermediation and in providing investment financing
for corporations. The key constraints are: (i) weaknesses in the
infrastructure for the securities markets; (ii) on the supply side, an
unwillingness or inability of many corporations to issue securities; and
(iii) on the demand side, limitations on the ability of the main
institutional investors to invest in securitized assets in general and in
corporate paper in particular.
3.09      The infrastructure for the securities markets--that is, the
mechanisms that facilitate the efficient issuance, trading, settlement, and
safekeeping of securities--is inadequate in Chile, especially by the
standards of most industrial countries. There are three specific areas in
which infrastructural weaknesses are most evident.
3.10      First, the payment of dividends and interest on securities as
well as change of ownership is performed physically. These procedures
involve significant costs (transportation, for instance) and risks (robbery
and fraud). Several attempts have been made to create a mechanism--a
Deporitory System--that would perform the settlement, custody, and transfer
functions without the physical involvement of paper, but these have been
unsuccessful. The reasons include limited coverage of individual market
segments or specific instruments and no prospect for a gradually integrated
and profitable solution to the problem. Another reason is the lack of a
legal framework. Such a framework would give considerable confidence to
potential private sector participants, since it would clearly define what
would be required from the perspective of supervisory and regulatory
authorities. In due course a robust Depository System should be permitted
to hold the securities owned by the pension funds and now lodged with the
Central Bpnk. This would increase the viability of the Depository System.
3.11      Another area of weakness in the infrastructure of the sec'urities
markets has been the lack of a flexible but all-embracing private scheme of
risk classiEication. Establishing a professional and highly regarded
private riskc-rating system would stzjngthen the infrastructure for the
securities markets and ultimately stimulate new investment in the markets
and new issuance. The securities market law, passed in late 1987, does
permit the establishment of a private system of risk classification and,



- 9 -
indeed, a number of risk-rating companies have been established. The
question is, however, whether this will, in and of itself, ensure that a
private system will develop that has the confidence of the market. Such
confidence is vital to the success of the private system of classification.
Hence, it is necessary to set up a unit to monitor the performance of the
private agencies, at least initially.
3.12      The final infrastructural issue relates to the trading markets
for securities. A new market (the "Chile Stock Exchange") has recently
been developed outside the long-established stock exchange (the 'Bolsa').
It is being operated by the Association of Securities Dealers. To date it
has functioned only on a pilot basis. The new exchange will provide
competition for the Bolsa by providing services at lower cost and improved
trading transparency. Recently, the Government, supported by the Bank, has
agreed to permit the new exchange to function as a formal market. This
mean. that it will be able to trade in securities on behalf of the pension
funds and other institutional investors. The new exchange will operate
using electronic exchange trading rather than through the traditional,
physically-operated trading floor. As a formal market it will contribute
significantly to strengthening the infrastructure for the securities
market.
3.13      On the supply side of the securities markets there are three
general problems that impeAe the issuance of securities. The first is
attitudinal in nature: many companies simply do not want for proprietary
reasons to issue securities even if they have a need for funds that might
be most appropriately met in the securities markets. The second is
bureaucratic: the cumbersome issuance procedures impose a high cost on
potential issuers. Third, there is a lack of appropriate mechanisms for
packaging securities that would facilitate new issues being sold to
institutional investors.
3.14      Regarding the attitudinal problem, a vibrant securities market
requires that corporations be prepared to undertake the administrative
steps needed to actually issue securities. For a company to be eligible to
issue securities it must be designated an "open' corporation, meaning it
supplies specific details of its business to the SVS. Further, a company
is considered "open' if it made a public offering of its shares, if there
are 500 or more shareholders, or if 102 or more of its subscribed capital
is owned by 100 or more shareholders.2 However, there are costs associated
with the reporting requirements requested by the SVS; and many companies
would much rather remain closely held (i.e., "closed") than expose
themselves to the apparent difficulties of widely dispersed ownership.
This problem is likely to be overcome only gradually. In the area of
2f The capitalized value of open corporations was about 26Z of GDP in
1986, a reasonable figire for a country at Chile's stage of
development. However, most of these firms are actually closely held by
a limited number of majority shareholders. In mid-1986, for example,
the 12 largest shareholders held more than 85Z of equity in half of the
open corporations, less than 50? in only 16.4?, and less than 20X in
only 7.6? of the firms. Only 89 firms had more than 1,000
shareholders. In addition, some cf the major shareholders in a firm
may be personally related; under these circumstances the actual power
of the largest shareholder would be much greater than it appears.



- 10 -
equities issues, for instance, the cost of capital now is very high.3 As
the demand for equity increases significantly and the cost falls, more
companies may decide to become "open."
3.15      The second problem is associated with the excessive and redundant
information requirements the SVS specifies for registration and issuance.
Such requirements exact a heavy price in administrative costs on the
issuing companies. A streamlining of issuance procedures is vital. A
recent survey indicated that many companies are deterred from issuing
securities by the high administrative costs.
3.16      A third major deficiency on the supply side of the securiti2s
market is the lack of mechanisms for securitizing Chilean assets in a form
that would be of sufficiently high quality to permit the main institutional
investors to purchase them. In many industrialized countries there exists
a range of intermediary mechanisms (such as mutual fmnds of different
types) that diversify and thus lessen the danger of holding higher risk
assets while retaining a good risk rating for their portfolios as a whole.
There are, however, no mechanisms in Chile that would permit the main
institutional investors--the pension funds--to diversify their portfolios
into slightly higher risk but higher return assets than they are permitted
to purchase at present. In the bond markets, there also is a lack of
guarantee mechanisms (common in the USA) to help secure a market presence
for borrowers on the periphery of the market. Also missing in Chile are
efficient mechanisms for securitizing property, an important element of the
real asset stock of the country.
3.17      On the demand side, there is a plentiful supply of investible
resources with the main institutional investors but overly rigid portfolio
regulations that limit the ability of these institutions to diversify into
a wider range of assets. The potential supply of investible resources will
increase with the expected growth in domestic private savings; and the
potential demand for investment funds will grow with the continued
expansion of the economy and the proposed liberalization of securities
issuance. But the bulk of new savings may continue to be channelled only
into an increasingly restricted set of highest quality--mostly public and
banking sector--assets.  Given the adverse experience of the financial
sector in the early 1980s, a very restrictive regulatory regime for
institutional investors was warranted. Given the evident need for an
adjustment in the pattern of domestic intermediation (noted above),
however, and the greatly increased stability of the financial sector as a
whole, there is scope for careful liberalization of the portfolio
regulations governing the institutional investors.
3.18      The pension funds are the fastest growing institutional investors
in the Chilean financial system. Total assets amounted to approximately
15Z of GDP in 1988 and are expected to exceed 40Z of GDP by the year 2000.
The pension funds are hence important repositories of longer-term savings.
The growth of the pension funds' resources are also reflected in the life
insurance companies. Figure 3.2 illustrates the relative importance of
pension funds and life insurance companies as potential investors in the
longer-term markets over the coming years.
3/ Price/earnings ratios are currently only about four or five on average.



- 11 -
Figure 3.2
?wJiCm LIWU 0W UN-?= IUVwIU U3
II IUZCTI " L - tnmu
(blli1m of 8)
BILLIONS
12
10- 
8
2 
1988     1990      1992     1994      igge
YEARS
- PENS. FUNDS -4- LIFE INS.  -4 GEN. INS. -- MUT. FUNDS
-C- OOM. BANK
3.19      The other main type of institutional investor are the life
insurance companies. There are 17 life insurance companies in Chile
commanding assets valued at a little under US$0.9 billion. The total
volume of assets is ow growing very quickly, in part the result of the
close link between the life insurance companies and the pension funds. For
example, at retirement an individual can choose to receive a pension from
the pension fund or use the accumulated savings to purchase an annuity from
a life insurance company. Widows and disabled workers have the same
option. A variety of independent Government and industry forecasters agree
that during the next decade approximately 502 of the aggregate funds
accumulated by eligible retirees, widows, and disabled workers will be
converted into life insurance annuities. Aggregate real inflows to the
life Insurance companies are projected to exceed US$1.5 billion by 1996.
3.20      Currently pension funds are restricted to investments in Treasury
and Central Bank bonds, mortgage bonds, and securities issued by a limited
number of private sector companies (mainly the recently-privatized
companies). As Annex VI, Table 1 shows, public sector securities now
account for 35Z of pension funds' investments. Mortgage bonds account f-r
222 of the pension funds' investments, with bank deposits comprising
another 292. Corporate bonds and equities account for only 142. The



- 12 -
existing regulations have effectively barred pension funds from investing
directly in private, nonfinancial enterprises, other than those formerly
held by the State (see Annex II). To date pension funds have managed to
obtain high. yields from low-risk investments because of tha high real
interest rate levels that have prevailed in recent years. Such rates are
unsustainable in the long term, however, and now have begun to fall. It
will be important that a wider range of investment outletp should be made
available to the pension funds; yet the new investments must be both safe
and sufficiently profitable to provide retirees with an acceptable standard
of living. For the Government, liberalizing the portfolios of the pension
funds would be a bold move, in the sense that it would permit more
competition (and hence higher costs) for its own market borrowing,
especially if this were to accelerate again in the future.
3.21      Current regulations governing the life insurance companies are
broadly the same as tbose for the pension funds (see Annex II). Although
the life insurance companies will not likely exceed the existing portfolio
diversification limits anytime soon, they will be unable to take advantage
of their projected growth unless they alter their investment patterns quite
substantially. Their current portfolios are not balanced, in that 652 of
investments are in public sector securities, bank deposits, and mortgage
securities. Given that future supplies of these instruments are not
expected to grow, there is a need to liberalize the life insurance company
portfolio regulations in parallel with the pension funds.
(b) The Bankint Sector
3.22      The Chilean banking sector is free of many of the distortions
that inhibit banks in other developing countries: they set their own
interest rates and choose their borrowers, i.e., there is no forced credit.
The banking system has recovered from the financial crisis of the early
1980s and its general financial position is improving against the backdrop
of a much strengthened supervisory regime. The improvement has been
especially marked since 1985. (This improvement in the banking sector's
financial strength is chronicled in Annex III.) To further strengthen the
banks, the Government has permitted them to increase the range of their
business. The banks are, for instance, taking advantage of operating
possibilities in the securities business. Several banks have already
established mutual fund brokerage facilities and related businesses and
some have set up leasing subsidiaries.
3.23      Although the banking system has stabilized and its operational
horizons have broadened, its earning capacity remains vulnerable to any
sharp deterioration in economic conditions. It is important that the
efficiency and profitability of the banking system continue to improve so
as to ensure a more rapid repurchase of the bad portfolio sold to the
Central Bank during the previous financial crisis. The continued
improvement in efficiency is even more critical because the sector as a
whole is likely to come under significant competitive pressure from other
financial institutions in the provision of intermediation services. The
banks stand to lose several traditional lines of business. Since 1985, the
real value of the commercial banking system's home mortgage portfolio, for
instance, has remained at about US$1.2 billion. During the next five to
ten years, however, other financial institutions, especially the life
insurcnce companies, will begin to offer lower-cost home mortgages, thus



- 13 -
potentially reducing the role of the banks in the mortgage loan origination
process.
3.24      The possible growth of the corporate bond and commercial paper
markets will further restrict the scope of traditional commercial bank
lending activities by allowing high quality borrowers to bypass the
commercial banking system and raise funds directly and more cheaply in the
capital markets.
3.25      A number of further constraints will have to be removed from the
banking sector if it is to compete with the emerging financial institutions
and markets, and if it is to strengthen its earnings capacity. First, the
banking sector should be permitted to take part in the securitization
process now underway in the economy. This should be done by giving the
banks greater flexibility to originate loans and sell them off as
securities, in much the same way they do with mortgage bonds at present.
Another constraint exists on the banking sector's ability to provide
guarantees of various types. At present banks are subject to absolute
cetlings that are tightly binding for some of them. The capital bases of
the banks are also constrained and it is important to develop ways of
enhancing bank capitalization through the use of subordinated debt, for
instance.
.c) The Leasing Sector
3.26      The leasing industry emerged in Chile in 1977, during a period
characterized by high investment and strong economic growth; hence, most
leasing companies were established during the period 1977-81. Leasing
activity slowed significantly during the economic and financial
difficulties of 1981-84. However, with the revival of growth and
investment during the second half of the current decade, and with the
introduction of the new Banking Law of 1987 (that permitted banks to set up
subsidiaries dedicated to leasing), several new leasing companies were
established. There are 14 leasing companies in all, of which 9 are
subsidiaries of banks. The largest leasing company--Leasing Andino--
accounts for about 40Z of the leasing market. The structure of the leasing
industry is described more fully in Annex IV. Annual leasing contract
volumes have grown about 202 per year during the last three years to reach
a value of US$150 million in 1988.
3.27      There are a number of factors that explain why leasing is often a
preferred option to bank financing in Chile. First, up to IOOZ of the
equipment cost is covered by the leasing contract, whereas banks will cover
much less in the context of equipment financing. Second, banks will on
many occasions require a compensating balance that represents an additional
cost for the borrower. Third, since leasing is a convenient form of
financing, leasing contracts can be processed much quicker than bank loans.
Finally, banks often insist on extensive collateral beyond the value of the
equipment, while a leasing company, which retains ownership of the leased
equipment, requires no such collateral. Fourth, the lessor provides
important services--for example, selecting and maintaining equipment--that
are not available from banking institutions. Leasing companies write
contracts for a wide range of companies but most are written on behalf of
small- and medium-sized companies. Leasing fills what might otherwise be a
significant void in the financing of such companies.



- 14 -
3.28      Although the leasing industry has grown substantially since 1982,
leasing continues to represent a small share of capital formation. As of
1988, leasing represented only 3-5Z of capital formation in C}.ile, whereas
in some industrialized countries, with a similar regulatory framework, it
represents 12-202.
3.29      There are a nuwber of reasons why leasing continues to be
constrained in Chile. The main constraint is the lack of availability of
medium- and long-term financing to match the maturity of existing and
potential contracts. Leasing companies finance their operations through
shareholder capital, loans from domestic banks (normally loans of less than
one year maturity) and, since 1987, through bond issues taken up primarily
by institutional investors. Financing from foreign commercial banks has
been curtailed since the 1982 debt crisis. The small amount of external
financing available has taken the form of supplier credits with very short-
term maturities (180 days). Finally, leasing companies have traditionally
not had access to existing credit lines offered by the IBRD and IDB.
3.30      Some leasing companies are reaching their borrowing capacity in
the bond markets. Current regulations limit the ability of leasing
companies to issue bonds for purchase by pension funds and insurance
companies to one times their capital (on average about US$50 million).
This is an appropriate restriction for a very new industry, but has become
restrictive given the current strength of the leasing industry and the
growing availability of funds from institutional investors. Meanwhile,
some leasing companies are also coming up against their ceilings for
borrowing from commercial banks; a bank is constrained to lend 5Z of its
capital to a leasing company. This applies to lending to any type of
company; moreover, it would not be feasible to change the Banking Law (that
governs bank lending limits) to accommodate the leasing industry.   More
important perhaps than the prospective constraint of a lending ceiling is
the form in which banking funds are available to leasing companies; most is
quite short-term in nature. The banking system lends more than 75? of its
funds in short-term credit (i.e., credit of less than three years'
maturity). While these loans are typically rolled over, short-term money
is not a prudent source of funding for leasing contracts. Based on a
sample of the three largest leasing companies, short-term debt, as a
percentage of total debt, falls in the relatively high range of 58 to 73X.
Thus, there is a need to broaden the range of funding sources available to
leasing companies, especially since funding gaps will emerge over the next
three years given the most likely assumptions for industry growth (see
Annex IV).  More specifically, the analysis shows if leasing volumes grew
at a little above historical rates (about 20? per annum), the financing gap
for the industry as a whole would total more than US$300 million over the
1990-93 period.
3.31      A second constraint on leasing industry growth is the lack of a
regulatory framework.  During project preparation the Government
established such a framework, including the definition of accounting
standards for leasing companies. Clearer definitions and the establishment
of regulatory norms will help improve the overall regulatory climate for
the leasing industry. Currently 752 of the leasing industry--those
companies that are subsidiaries of domestic commercial banks--are now
regulated by the SBIF.



- 15 -
3.32      A third constraint has been a lack of awareness among potential
lessees about the benefits of leasing as an alternative form of financing.
During project preparation, leasing companies, anticipating the
availability of a possible Bank credit line, have stepped up their
promotional activities.
C.  Government StrateaT and the Bank's Role
(a) Government Strategy
3.33      Macroeconomic and Debt Stratefty. Despite the considerable success
to date in reaching and maintaining macroeconomic equilibrium and
undertaking far-reah.ing structural reforms within the economy, the
attainment of a sustainable rate of growth will require the continued
pursuit of firm financial policies and the furtherance of structural
reform. The Government is committed to maintaining an approximate balance
in the fiscal accounts and to limiting the size of the public sector. As
part of its medium-term strategy, the exchange rate will be maintained at a
competitive level and interest rate policy will be geared to encouraging
domestic savings. Copper prices are assumed to fall to their trend value
in the course of 1990. i.e., to be around 271 below their 1989 average
level.   The Government has adopted a rate of growth in real output of 4-52
per annum as its medium-term target and wants to hold inflation in check at
or below 162 during 1989, and in the range of 10-15? thereafter (see table
below). To achieve the target rate of growth, gross fixed investment will
need to rise from the equivalent of a projected 18.52 of GDP in 1989 to
around 212 over the medium term. This rate of growth and investment can be
combined with a viable, financeable external current account only if
national savings are maintained in the range of 16-171 of GDP. To support
national savings at this level, real interest rates must continue to be
conducive to encouraging private savings at the same time as debt reduction
programs generate further savings in net transfers abroad.
Table 3.s1 KEY OFFICIAL OBJECTImES AND POLICY ?ARGETS OVER THE NEDTUI TERM
1984-88       1989        1990      1991/92
------------- (annual averages) ----------
(growth rates in Z)
GDP (volume)                     5.5          8.5        4.5         4.5
Exports (volume)                 8.4         11.5        7.3        10.8
Inflation (average)             20.1         15.8       13.6        11.5
(ratios of GDP in 2)
.nvestment                      15.2         18.5       19.0        21.1
N..tional savings                9.1         15.6       12.5        16.2
Public sector balance           -1.8          3.0       -0.5
(at trend copper prices)        ..        -0.3        -0.4
Current account balance         -6.1         -2.9       -6.5        -4.9
Source:  National accounts and data supplied by the Chilean authorities.



- 16 -
3.34     The economic policy framework covers a period of two years;
however, in view of the Presidential elections to be held in December 1989,
and a new go-vernment taking office in March 1990, detailed policy targets
and measures can be elaborated only until March 1990. These measures
consist mainly of a rise in real interest rates by 2 percentage points in
the course of 1989 to 72 and a nominal depreciation of the peso by 8Z in
mid-1989 (equivalent to a real depreciation of 52) with the commitment to
maintain the real value of the peso. These measures are intended to:
(a) dampen the pace of expansion of domestic demand in the economy in the
short run, and (b) further promote the structural adjustment of the
economy. In 1989, domestic demand has expanded sharply under the stimulus
of the rise in copper prices and some fall in real interest rates. The
significant real appreciation of the peso in the first half of the year and
a reduction in various tax rates also had a stimulatory effect. The rise
in real wages and a marked contraction of unemployment boosted private
consumption and imports. To an important degree imports were encouraged by
the strong upturn in private investment and in a build-up of inventories.
The measures recently agreed with the IMF, in the context of the standby
negotiations, will lead to a cooling of excess demand in the economy and
steer the economy toward a lower, but more sustainable, rate of expansion.
3.35     As an integral part of the goal of maintaining macroeconomic
stability, the Government of Chile is concentrating on the external sector.
Parallel to the economy's growth in the last two years (1987/88), Chile
managed to reduce the absolute level of its total r.cternal indebtedness by
US$1.6 billion, to US$19 billion. As a result, Chile's debt indicators
have improved considerably. Its debt-to-GDP ratio decreased from 128? in
1985 to 86? in 1988. Over the same period, Chile's debt-service-to-exports
ratio declined from 93.4Z to 42.9? and the interest-payments-to-exports
ratio also decreased from 43.5? to 21.7Z.
3.36     Chile's external debt reduction was the outcome of a pioneering
debt conversion program, supported by the Bank, that allowed the use of
foreign exchange resources by Chileans for the retirement of external debt,
the use of debt-for-equity swaps to foreigners, and more recently, direct
purchases by the public sector of its external debt in the secondary debt
market. Between the inception of the debt reduction program in 1985 and
August 1989, Chile's total external debt was reduced by US$8.0 billion.
The decrease in indebtedness through the debt conversion program more than
compensated for the assumption of new debt, primarily from multilateral
organizations and commercial creditors.
3.37     Financial Sector Strategy.  Chile's reduced reliance on external
financing--in part the result of the general inaccessibility of the
international lending markets to developing countries--has required a
significantly greater emphasis on domestic resource mobilization. To
facilitate this, the Government of Chile has, as part of its adjustment
program, placed considerable weight on financial sector adjustment. The
initial thrust of the adjustment supported by SAL II related to the
rehabilitation of the banking sector. This sector had been centrally
involved in the severe economic and financial crisis in 1982/83. The
rehabilitation had a positive impact on the economy and restored
credibility to the banking sector. The Government has continued the



- 17 -
financial reconstruction of the banking sector. With this rehabilitation
nearing completion, the Government turned its attpntion to the longer-term
markets. Fiscal measures were taken to stimulate savings, financial
innovation, and investment. At the same time, the infrastructure for the
securities markets was strengthened by the creation of a new and more
flexible system of risk classification and by the enhanced prudential
regulation in the securities markets. Finally, the Government took some
initial measures to permit the pension funds and other institutional
investors greater flexibility to invest in the securities markets. These
measures were supported by SAL III. A dialogue has continued between the
Bank and the Government on the further strengthening of the financial
sector.
3.38     The Government's current strategy, developed in cooperation with
the Bank, is to adopt a comprehensive approach to the strengthening of the
financial system, focusing in particular on the securities markets. These
markets are important not only because they hold out the prospect of
providing a more significant volume of longer-term funding for new
investments, but also because they will generate an increasing volume of
new securities that will be needed to satisfy demand from institutional
investors.
3.39     With Bank support, the Government is adopting a strategy for
strengthening the financial markets that is both graduated and balanc,ed. A
graduated approach is merited because it would not be wise to impose
further substantive changes on the financial system until the markets have
more fully adjusted to the relatively recent changes (the rehabilitation of
the banks and the introduction of the new social security system, for
instance). An even-handed approach to further financial reform is
warranted on the grounds that a liberalization in one segment of the
financial markets may upset, perhaps with undesirable consequences, the
delicate equilibrium between the different types of intermediaries. By way
of example, a liberalization of the range of assets in which the pension
funds might invest would tend to shift the focus of intermediation towards
the pension funds and away from the banks. In this situation, it is
desirable to initiate a parallel reform to permit the banks also to extend
the range of their business since the banking system is only now emerging
from its rehabilitation phase.
3.40     Accordingly, the Government's strategy is to introduce measures
that will permit banks to engage in additional business lines, especially
those that allow banks to participate in the securitization process. The
objective is to strengthen the banks by increasing their earning capacity.
The Government also is seeking to strengthen the ability of the financial
system to support investment growth by overcoming the constraints on the
leasing sector. This type of financing typically benefits companies that
do not have access to the securities markets and only limited access to the
banks.
(b) The Bank's Role in the Financial Sector
3.41     Supported by the Bank's SAL program, the Government has completed
most of the fundamental reforms needed to rid the financial system of major
distortions. The current phase of financial market liberalization is being
carefully targetted at the remaining weaknesses in the system.



- 18 -
3.42     Chile, with its stable macroeconomic pclicy environment, is now at
a point where it could attain a higher level of financial market--
particularly securities market--development. There is a case, therefore,
for the Bank to support changes in Government policy that would provide the
right incentives for such development. This represents a logical extension
to the program of adjustment support in the financial sector that the Bank
has provided to Chile over the last four to five years.
3.43     The transition in the pattern of intermedlation towards greater
flows through securities markets needs to proceed smoothly and without
disruption. This process is being carefully aimed at strengthening the
infrastructure for the securities markets and at liberalizing the legal and
regulatory frameworks that govern the supply and demand for securities.
The Bank's role has been to support the Government in the design and
implementation of these measures.
3.44     The structural change in the pattern of intermediation in Chile
offers the prospect for more effective channelling of private savings
mobilized by pension funds and other institutional investors into private
investment through an invigorated securities market. This adjustment in
financing patterns would serve to increase the efficiency of savings
mobilization and encourage the deployment of savings for -oductive
purposes.  It would also permit a redirection of financ '   ;way from the
public sector, which is gradually reducing its fiscal deficit and hence its
borrowing requirement, towards the corporate sector, which may increase its
demand for longer-term finance. By enLouraging this shift in the pattern
of intermediation, however, the Government of Chile is introducing
potential competition to its own fund raising in the securities markets.
3.45     The Bank continues to play a role in supporting the rehabilitation
of the banking sector and its further strengthening in the wake of the
increased competition from the securities market. In this context,
measures are being put in place to strengthen the earnings capacity of the
banks.
3.46     The Bank also can help overcome the significant constraint that
exists in leasing sector finance. A credit line for leasing companies
would bridge the time until these companies can gain greater access to an
enlarged corporate bond market. This line of credit would help "pump
prime" the leasing sector and lead to a wider diversification of financing
instruments ave'l"able in the financial system. The line would therefore
support the growth in investment across a range of industrial and
commercial companies. Finally, the Bank is supporting institutional
development that encourages the growth of risk capital by providing
technical assistance to spur technology development.
3.47     The Bank has devised a broad-based strategy to support the Chilean
financial sector. The proposed Financial Markets Loan has been structured
as a hybrid operation. A quick-disbursing policy component will build on
the policy reforms in the financial sector that were put in place during
the three SALs. The loan also will contain an investment component in the
form of a credit line accessible to leasing companies. Two other recently
signed Bank loans complement the Financial Markets Loan. The Second
Housing Sector Loan contains a component that addresses issues in the
private mortgage market, which is an important component of the Chilean



- 19 -
financial system. The Second Industrial Finance Project provides a line of
medium and long-term credit to industry, pending the development of greater
capacity in the domestic financial markets to provide such financing. This
is a key objective of the Financial Markets Loan. Finally, the Financial
Markets Loan is being prepared in tandem with a possible IFC operation, the
latter of which will develop a bond guarantee scheme to stimulate bond
issuance by companies trying to enter the bond markets.
IV. THE PROPOSED PINANCIAL MARRETS LOAN
A. Descrintion of the Loan
(a) Oritin and Objectives
4.01     The proposal for a Financial Markets Loan developed in the context
of the Bank's ongoing financial sector reform dialogue with the Government
of Chile at the end of 1987. An Identification Mission visited Chile in
June 1988. Two preparation missions followed; one in November 1988 that
focussed on the securities markets, and one in April 1989 that concentrated
on the banking sector. The analysis of the leasing sector began in June
1988. The institutional arrangements for the leasing credit line were
completed during the Appraisal Mission that took place in June 1989.
4.02     The central objective of the Loan is to support a continued
strengthening and deepening of the financial sector. The fisancial sector
encompasses the securities markets (i.e., equities and bonds), the banking
markets, and the leasing sector.
4.03     The operation is designed to encourage an increase in activity in
the corporate bond and equities markets and strengthen the infrastructure
for these markets. It is also designed to eupport a shift in the pattern
of financing in the economy. This shift entails the securitization of a
larger volume of the real assets of the economy to accommodate the
increased demand for securities by the main institutional investors. The
operation will also strengthen the commercial banks by enhancing the range
of their permissible activities, hence increasing their earnings potential.
The operation, furthermore, will support the development of the leasing
sector, which is a form of financial intermediation only recently developed
in Chile but is being constrained by a lack of medium- and long-term
financing. Finally, the technical assistance component would principally
strengthen the capacity of the Central Bank and the Superintendencies to
monitor the development of the financial markets and to assess the
implications of the rapidly emerging innovations in these markets.
4.04     Chile's current account deficit is projected at nearly 3Z of GDP
in 1989 and will average 4.8Z of GDP in 1991-94 when copper prices are
projected to be at trend. At trend copper prices, the deficit was the
equivalent of 8.52 of GDP in 1985. A financing gap is projected to emerge
even after assuming rescheduling of all eligible maturities--from 1991
onwards. The gap is expected to be met in part by the commercial banks in
the context of a fresh financing package to cover 1991 and beyond. A
standby arrangement with the IMP, concluded in October 1989, is also



- 20 -
intended to provide financing for Chile's current account deficits.
Chile's external position, in conjunction with the reform measures to be
taken and the maintenance of sound macroeconomic policies, is such as to
merit quick-disbursing assistance by the Bank. Thus, the proposed loan is
directed at reinforcing the process of sustained growth--through financial
sector reform--while maintaining viability in Chile's e ;ernal financing
position.
(b) Loan Structure
4.05     The proposed hybrid loan of US$130 million contains quick-
disbursing and investment components. The quick-disbursing component is
US$80 million in size with two equal tranches of US$40 million. The quick-
disbursing component would be used for the purchase of eligible imports. A
credit line of US$50 million will be channelled through CORFO (the State
Development Bank) and then the leasing sector, to benefit lessees. In
addition, a technical assistance component will be financed entirely out of
a grant of approximately US$1.9 million made available through the Japanese
Grant Facility.
(c) Imrlementation
4.06     The borrower will be the Republic of Chile, with the Cencral Bank
acting as the implementing agency for the quick-disbursing component.
CORFO will be the avent for channelling the proposed line of credit to the
leasing companieri. (Paras. 4.56 and 4.57 describe the role of CORFO as an
executing agent.)
B. The Quick-Disbursinc. Policl Adjustment ComDonent
4.07     The quick-disbursing, policy adjustment component will support the
Governmenc's reform of the financial markets. This reform will help to
ensure that domestic savings are channelled more efficiently into
productive investment. The latter will be accomplished by liberalizing the
regulatory frameworks governing the securities markets, the banking sector
and the leasing sector.
(a)  The Securities Markets
4.08     To overcome the constraints in the securities markets the
Government has structured a coordinated program of measures. The
Government's program contains three elements: first, a strengthening of the
infrastructure for the securiies markets; second, the introduction of
measures that would stimulate the supply of securities; and third, the
liberalization of the regulatory framework to encourage an increase in the
demand for securities.
4.09     (i) 'ecu:ities Market Infrastructure.  To strengthen the fabric of
the securities market and ensure that transactions take place efficiently
and with full information, the Government has taken, or intends to take, a
number of infrastructural measures. These measures relate to three closely
linked areas that are crucial to the smooth functioning of a securities
market; the securities trading market, the mechanisms for securities
settlement and transfer of ownership, and the risk rating of securities.



- 21 -
4.10     The Government haw approved th,e establishment of a computerized
stock exchange ("the Chile Stock Exchangem) that would have as its
objective the speedy execution of buy-and-sell orders for investors and
greater transparency in the pricing of financial instruments. During the
course of project preparation the Government has given the necessary
authorizations to permit the new exchange to function as a formal market in
bond and equity securities that would allow it to host the transactions of
the main institutional investors. The Government has recently put in place
a regulatory framework to govern the functioning of this exchange. In
addition, the bylaws and the propased self-regulation of the exchange will
be approved by the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance (SVS). A
new competitive trading market will be very beneficial over the longer term
to the growth of new securities issues. An efficient trading market will
also improve the efficiency of purchasing and trading securities for the
growing number of institutional investors.
4.11     A Depository System is needed to provide a place of safekeeping
for securities of all types as well as to serve aa a mechanism for the
settlement and transfer of securities ownership. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, the Government will enact a law governing the operation of a
Depository System. This law would require, inter alia, that any
corporation setting up a Depository System would be adequately capitalized.
The enactment of this law is crucial in that it provides a blueprint for
the private sector in designing a depository. The law is eagerly awaited
by two consortia interested in developing a Depository System. Before
second tranche release, the Bank will review with the Government the
progress made toward establishing the Depository System. As a condition of
second tranche release the Government will issue the regulations of the law
establishing the Depository System and take all necessary measures to put
the System in place. A plan of action and a timetable of implementation
will be drawn up by the Central Bank for the transfer of the securities
held by the pension fund administrators to the Depository. Currently these
securities are housed for safekeeping, at below market cost, in the Central
Bank. This is not an appropriate function for the Central Bank. The
profitability of a Depository System will be enhanced when the pension fund
securities are held in it. The formulation of the action plan (including a
system of appropriate incentives for the pension fund administrators to
switch their securities from the Central Bank to the Depository System) and
an implementation timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition
for release of the second tranche.
4.12     A cornerstone of an efficient securities market is a sound system
of risk classification. Under SAL III, the Government permitted the
establishment of a new private system of risk classification; to date,
eight private risk classifiers have been permitted to begin operation. In
its early stages, there will be a need to help bolster the public's
confidence in the new system by developing a mechanism--housed in the SVS--
to iron out any major discrepancies between the assessment of the various
private agencies based on possibly flawed risk assessment methodologies.
During project preparation the Government has put in place a unit within
the SVS to monitor the performance of the new, private risk-rating
agencies. The Government will, before June 30, 1990, review the scope of
the work, and functioning of the "nit.



- 22 -
4.13     (it) Suvglv of Securities.  As part of its strategy for
encouraging an increase in the supply of securities, the Government has
agreed to take a number of measures that would ease the admiristrative
costs of issuing securities, permit the establishment of new mechanisms for
creating securities, and support the creation of a scheme for enhancing the
quality of bonds that might bring new issuers t. the market.
4.14     One of the major difficulties the securities markets need to
overcome when the demand for securities by institutional investors
increases in the coming years is an inadequate supply of new bond and
equities issues. Accordingly, it is vital for the Government to play a
role in simplifying procedures and overcoming other barriers to securities
issuance. At the same time the Government should disseminate information
to the private sector on the options available for raising funds through
the securities markets. Moreover, a report prepared for the Government as
a condition of SAL III suggested that there was considerable ignorance
regarding both the availability of this funding option and how to make a
securities issue. Accordingly, during the course of project preparation,
the Government has undertaken a review of the information requirements for
the registration of companies and securities to determine where duplication
exists and where simplification might be introduced. The Government has
amended the informational requirements (in Rule 15) in the interest of
streamlining and hence increasing the efficiency of the issuance process.
The Government also has agreed to publicize the advantages of securities
issues and widely disseminate information on the current registration
rules. To #,.is end, it will hold (before September 30, 1990) a seminar to
explain th, streamlining of the requirements for securities issuance and
also publish and circulate widely (before September 30, 1990) to the
private sector a brochure explaining the methods by which securities can be
issued. A thorough compilation of the laws and regulations relevant to the
issuance of securities will also be published (prior to September 30,
1989).
4.15     In addition to stimulating the supply of new securities in the
manner noted above, it will be vital, given the prospective increase in
demand for securities, to find ways to securitize more of Chile's real
assets. In this context, during the course of project preparation, the
Government has enacted legislation permitting the establishment of three
new types of institutional investment vehicles; specifically, a family of
three types of closed-end investment funds. The three types of funds will
specialize, respectively, in investments in SVS-registered securities, risk
capital, and real estate. The Government has also put in place an
appropriate regulatory framework for these funds.
4.16     The creation of the three types of closed-end funds will provide
investors with a wider range of options for investment instruments.
Annex V sets out the range of assets in which each type of fund could
invest. The creation of closed-end investment funds for securities in
general will offer improvements in the stability of investment instruments
where a relatively narrow and illiquid secondary market currently exists.
For the main institutional investors this type of fund would permit
indirect investment in securities that would not otherwise be eligible for
their purchase. The risk capital and real estate funds will perform the
function of constructing diversified portfolios that, when rated as a



- 23 -
whole, will be of acceptable quality for the pension funds. The pension
funds can only invest in high-quality paper.
4.17     The closed-end funds will perform a direct securities origination
function. The risk capital fund would allow institutional investors to
invest indirectly in securities of unlisted as well as unseasoned
enterprises and would play a productive role in bringing such companies
into the market. The funds also would play a role, alongside the already
emerging venture capital companies, in providing funding for enterprises at
an early stage of product development. The Government has recently
established a regulatory framework for the closed-end mutual funds under
the auspices of the SVS.
4.18     Another way in which real assets can be transformed into
securitized form is to permit the development of companies that can invest
in real estate, the shares of which could be purchased by institutional
investors. The Government has approved legislation during the course of
project preparation to permit the creation of real estate investment
comRanies that could buy, hold, or sell nonhousing related real estate as
well as housing mortgages. These companies would only invest in existing
commercial or industrial real estate. They would not be allowed to finance
construction itself nor transact in rural real estate. The Government has
established a regulatory framework for the real estate investment
companies. The Government will, as a condition of second tranche release,
review with the Bank the requirements for setting up real estate investment
companies to ascertain whether, in the light of experience, they are unduly
restrictive. It will, if warranted, introduce modifications satisfactory
to the Bank.
4.19     The bond markets in Chile have only played host to a modest number
of issues from corporations. As noted above, there have been many factors
underlying the reluctance or inability of companies to approach this
market. In some industrial countries, credit insurance companies and other
types of intermediaries have played a role in guaranteeing, either totally
or in part, bonds issued by industrial companies. In these circumstances,
the guaranteeing company is an entity of hig': repute that essentially lends
its balance sheet strength to the borrowing company for a fee. This
enables the borrowing company to issue bonds at a lower rate than it
otherwise would obtain. Such a guarantee mechanism has several potential
benefits. It can make the issuance of bonds cheaper for many companies
(net of the guarantee fee), and it can also enable companies on the fringe
of the bond markets to gain access to them. Hence, it could stimulate an
interest among investors in companies that hitherto had been unable or
reluctant to seek market entry.
4.20     To facilitate the guarantee of bonds, the Government has recently
enacted a law to permanently separate credit insurers from other general
insurers. Currently, potential credit insurers have been given a five-year
grace period to set up a credit insurance business before allowing general
insurers also to enter this field. This has not proved to be a sufficient
incentive for an active business to evolve in this area. A permanent
separation of the two types of business can be justified not only because
it would be a stimulant to such business, but also because credit insurance
is more closely akin to a banking business than to conventional insurance.



- 24 -
4.21     The Government has also agreed to give the necessary authorization
for and establish appropriate operating procedures to permit the
establishment of a private bond guarantee scheme with the possible
assistance and participation of the IFC. While the precise modalities of
such a scheme have yet to be determined by the IFC, this may involve the
offer of securities to the market, so that investors can purchase a share
in a diversified portfolio if individual bond issues that either are too
small to be issued direct, in the market or are from companies unknown to
the market. The securities sold to the market could carry a guarantee
provided by the bond guarantee scheme or sponsoring institution.
4.22     (iii)  Demand for Securities.  On the demand side of the
securities markets are the main institutional investors--the pension funds
and the life insurance companies. As their investible surpluses grow, ways
need to be found to diversify their asset holdings, especially since the
issuance of some of their traditional investments (i.e., Government and
mortgage securities) could slow, as noted above in paras. 3.04 and 3.05.
The challenge that the Government faces, in particular, is how to
liberalize the pension funds' investments without exposing these
institutions to unduly high levels of risk. Such a liberalization is also
not without risk to the Government itself. If the Government borrowing
reaccelerates, it implies that the Government's own financing would have to
become more competitive with the new assets that the pension funds will
henceforth be able to purchase. The Government's prudent approach to
pension funds portfolio liberalization is reflected in a set of finely-
tuned measures (see below) that are being supported by the proposed
Financial Markets Loan.
4.23     The Government has recently permitted the pension funds to invest
in the proposed real estate investment companies (REICs). See Annex II.
These companies will be subject to strict financial norms that will prevent
them from ma'king any excessively speculative investment in real estate.
The inclusion of real estate investments in the portfolio of the pension
funds is justified within moderate limits, especially since the REICs will
be closely monitored. The mechanism to invest indirectly through a REIC
allows the respective pension funds--especially the smaller ones--to enjoy
a more diversified portfolio than would be likely or possible if direct
real estate investments had been allowed.
4.24     The Government will, as a condition of second tranche release,
take the necessary measures including amending the Pension Fund Law
(DL 3500) so that pension funds could invest a limited volume of their
asfets (see Annex II) in the proposed three types of closed-end mutual
funds. In addition tc the above measures, the Government has made a number
of policy changes that will directly liberalize the equity investments of
the pension funds. Under DL 3500, investment in equities requires the
prior approval of the respective securities by the Pension Fund Risk
Classification Commission. In the case of corporate bonds, the pension
funds may directly request such a classification. The Commission will rate
equities only at the request of the issuing company, which, in turn, must
agree to adopt a series of measures intended to ensure widespread ownership
distribution and outside investor protection. Very few companies have



- 25 -
availed themselves of this option in practice.4 There is a strong
reluctance to achieve wider ownership distribution through divestment on
the part of majority shareholders, who may also consider the required
amendments to their bylaws to be excessively severe and rigid. As a result
of tha refusal of listed companies to submit to the qualification
requirements of the pension fund classification system, pension funds have
been prevented from investing in the equities of even the most seasoned or
most profitable enterprises.
4.25     Given the acute need for the pension funds to diversify their
investments, the Government has, during the course of project preparation,
permitted the pension funds to invest: (a) in certain listed equities
without obligation on the part of the issuer, and its majority shareholders
to submit to the ownership deconcentration and outside investor protection
requirements of DL 3500; and (b) to a larger extent in the equities issued
by those companies that -ould satisfy said requirements (see Annex II).
4.26     The }ension funds up to now have been able to invest in corporate
bonds and hold them to maturity. Yet, at present they are not permitted to
purchase short-term commercial paper issued by companies in the emerging
commercial paper market. This investment option would provide an
additional means for pension funds to manage their liquidity. As a
condition for second tranche release, the Government will take the
necessary measures, including amending DL 3500, to permit a pension fund to
invest up to 102 of its portfolio in commercial paper.
4.27     The Government vill submit, as a condition of second tranche
release, a proposal to the legislative power for approval proposing that
commercial banks be able to securitize and collateralize a part of their
loan portfolio and sell them to third parties without previous
authorization of the SBIF (see para. 4.37). This will provide an
additional source of investment potential for the pension funds. The
Government vill, as a condition of second tranche release, submit a
proposal to the legislative power for approval to permit the pension funds
to purchase collateralized instruments issued by banks.
4.28     It is vital, given the projected fast growth of pension funds'
investment resources, that the Government continue to monitor the
portfolios of these institutions. The Government will, therefore, complete
a study, prior to September 30, 1990, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, of all the investment possibilities for pension funds and
determine what further changes in the portfolio regulations would be
required to enable them to further diversify their investments. The
results of the study will be discussed with the Bank.
4.29     The insurance companies will be recipients of a significant volume
of funds in association with the growth of the private pension system.
4/ As of September 10, 1988, the pension fund system held equity
investments in nine companies for a total market value of Ch$68.2
billion (US$276 million), equivalent to 8.36Z of the aggregate pension
fund portfolio of then Ch$815.5 billion, or some US$3,301 million.
Virtually all of these equity investments originated with the CORFO
divestment and privatization program, under which target companies have
requested rating by the Risk Classification Commission.



- 26 -
There is a need, given the growth in their investible resources, to permit
insurance companies greater latitude in shaping their portfolios. This is
vital given the likely limitations on the supply of public and banking
sector assets.   The Government has, during the course of project
preparation, amended the Insurance Company Law to permit insurance
companies to invest in the proposed closed-end mutual funds and in the Real
Estate Investment Companies. It has also liberalized the rules governing
investment in corporate equity (see Annex II). In addition, as a condition
for second tranche release, the Government would submit to the legislative
power a proposal for approval to permit insurance companies to purchase
collateralized and securitized instruments marketed by commercial banks in
the form of securities.
(b) The Bankina Sector
4.30     Since the financial crisia of 1982/83, considerable strides bave
been made to strengthen the banking system. It has both stabilized and
increased its earning capacity. However, given the increasing intensity of
competition in the financial sector at large, and the likely shift towards
a larger role for the securities markets, there is a need to broaden the
banks' scope of operations so that they can further enhance their earnings
capacity.
4.31     The Government has agreed to introduce policy reforms that would
permit banks to enter into new markets or engage in new operations to
enhance their profitability. These policy reforms would: (a) enable banks
to securitize loans and sell them to third parties; (b) allow banks to
collateralize loans and sell them to third parties; (c) increase the limits
that constrain the ability of commercial banks to issue loan guarantees;
and (d) introduce subordinated debt as a source of secondary capital
financing for banks.
4.32     Competitive pressures on bank spreads typically cause banks to
search for alternatives to traditional loan intermediation. The
securitization of loans offers one such possibility. When making a loan, a
bank typically performs three functions: it originates the loan, funds it,
and performs all the administrative, recordkeeping, and monitoring
functions. However, these three functions need not be performed by the
same institution. If allowed the flexibility, banks could decide which of
the three functions to provide, taking into consideration their value-
added, the cost of providing the function, and the net impact on
profitability. In most cases, the major source of value for banks is the
origination process. In this area, banks have credit expertise and a
retail network that permits them to assess and select potential borrowers
efficiently, to develop and analyze the necessary documentation, and to
interact with the consumer. In the case of funding, it is not always clear
that the bank can obtain funds on terms and conditions better than those of
other institutions. Similarly, administrative and recordkeeping
requirements differ greatly by loan type: thus, banks may be better off
leaving the servicing of certain loans to third parties.
4.33     Banks may be i-iterested in selling loans for various reasons.
Their asset origination capacity may exceed their funding capacity or they
may have expertise in originating loans but are unable to buy money at
rates and terms that match their loans and permit them to make a reasonable



- 27 -
profit. Banks may also want to sell loans to diversify their portfolio,
perhaps due to binding lending limits. Institutions such as mutual funds,
insurance companies, and pension funds, in contrast, have funds available
but lack expertise in loan origination. The Government has agreed, as a
condition of second tranche release, to submit to the legislative power a
proposal to permit commercial banks to issue securitized instruments and
sell them to third parties without previous authorization of the SBIF.
4.34     Collateralization is another form of bank loan sale.  Compared to
securitization, collateralization involves selling loans backed by 'pecific
collateral (machinery, vehicles, etc.) but with recourse to the bank.
Thus, the bank guarantees the loan by increasing its leverage ratio, as in
the case of other guarantees. Since Chilean banking laws already allow the
ibsue of mortgage bills (letras de credito hipotecario) to fund mortgage
loans, the intention of the reform is to extend this modality to finance
non-mortgage investments.
4.35     Collateralization has been quite successful in the United States,
where the repackaging of home mortgages into securities began. The concept
was extended to automobile and other loans. A critical element in the
success of these transactions was the standardization of collateral and
contracts.
4.36     Collateralization provides banks with a number of benefits.
First, for those banks whose comparative advantage is in loan origination,
collateralization enables them to delegate the other two elements of the
lending process.  The bank can initiate the loan and receive origination
fees for their services and then discharge the responsibility for loan
receipt and monitoring to another agent.  Second, since the loan is sold
i            off, the bank can receive the profits expected to accrue over the duration
of the loan in the current period, boosting income and eliminating some
degree of uncertainty. Third, while the bank still bears the full credit
risk of the transaction for those collateralized loans denominated in
nominal pesos, the bank is absolved of the interest rate risk of the loan.
Similarly, for loans denominated in foreign currency, the bank need not
bear the foreign exchange risk. Finally, by locating borrowers whose
preference is to bear these two risk components, the bank can slightly
lower the cost of intermediation and therefore attract more funding through
slightly higher rates to lenders.
4.37     The Government would, as a condition of second tranche release,
submit a proposal to the legislative power to make the appropriate changes
to the Banking Law, Insurance Law, DL 3500, and other applicable laws to
permit banks to issue collateralized instruments and sell them to third
parties without previous authorization of the SBIF. The modification to
the Banking Lawv will include detailed information on what kinds of
guarantees will be accepted and how these securities will be issued. The
change in the law will also indicate what would happen in case of bank
liquidation. In addition, the Superintendency would issue regulations
indicatiug which types of collateral would be acceptable.
4.38     In order to give banks greater latitude in managing their assets,
the Governmeat has agreed to liberalize the regulations governing the
banks, ability to provide guarantees. Currently financial institutions are
allowed to provide guarantees in either local or foreign currency. These



- 28 -
guarantees can only be provided on previously agreed commercial and
financial obligations which have predetermined amounts and maturity.
Furthermore, banks' ability to provide guarantees is subject t,.. _ertain
limits:
(a) individual limits: guarantees are added to other credit
obligations of the individual borrowers, the sum of which cannot
exceed 52 of the bank's capital and reserves or 25? if there are
real guarantees;
(b) global limit: under Central Bank reiulations, the sum of all
guarantees that a bank provides cannot exceed its capital and
reserves;
(c) leverage limit: under the Banking Law, guarantees are not an off-
balance sheet item, and therefore should be added to the other
liabilities of the bank when computing the debt-equity
requirements (20:1 for banks).
The Government will retain (a) and (c) at current levels because any change
would, by increasing lending risks, endanger the solvency of the banking
system. The Government would, however, as a second tranche condition, take
all necessary measures to remove the global limit.
4.39     To facilitate a further strengthening of the capital bases of the
banks, the Government would, as a second tranche condition, permit banks to
issue subordinated debt and use at least half of it as part of their
capital base up to a limit of 202 of their capital and reserves.
Subordinated debt financing would enable Chilean banks to increase their
capital base and thus be better positioned for growth in Chile's expanding
market for lending instruments. The partial use of subordinated debt as
capital will be particularly important for those banks whose share prices
in the market are below their book value, since it will permit them to
capitalize without diluting the capital of their current shareholders.
This is the case with several banks that sold their risky assets to the
Central Bank.
4.40     In the wake of the banking crisis in the early 19809 a 'cartera
vendida' scheme was introduced, designed to mitigate the adverse effects of
the recession on the banks' loan portfolios. Under this scheme the Central
Bank purchased the risky or poor performing loans of the commercial banks,
with the latter required to repurchase these loans from their profits over
a period of years. The Bank has monitored this scheme closely in recent
years and has, from time to time, reviewed the financial strength of the
banking sector. On August 16, 1989, the Central Bank provided an option to
banks that had sold their bad debts to the Central Bank to replace the
repurchase obligation with a subordinated debt. The Government has agreed
to furnish the Bank--twice a year for the duration of the project--with a
status report on the functioning of the 'cartera vendida' and on the new
subordinated debt obligations that will partially replace them.
(c) The Leasing Sector
4.41     Leasing is quickly evolving as an important alternative form of
financial intermediation in Chile; so it is appropriate that there should



- 29 -
be a regulatory framework for the industry. This is particularly
important, since most of the major leasing companies are subsidiaries of
commercial banks. The Government has, during the course of project
preparation, established a regulatory framework for leasing companies that
are subsidiaries of banks. This framework will help ensure the financial
soundness of the leasing companies and hence minimize the risk to the
parent bank.
4.42     Given that leasing companies have good credit ratings, they are
strong candidates for obtaining greater access to the securities markets.
Indeed, leasing companies have begun to avail themselves of funding through
the bond markets. Current regulations, however, limit the ability of these
companies to issue bonds (purchased by institutional investors) to an
amount equal to one times their own capital (about US$50 million). The
Government would, as a condition of effectiveness, raise this multiple to
two times the capital. The new multiple would permit lbasing companies to
take, at a prudent pace, a further step towards greater integration with
the securities markets.
(d)  The Impact of the Financial Sector Policy Comnonent
*           4.43     The Chilean financial system is undergoing a significant
transformation. The relative importance of the different financial
institutions in intermediating domestic savings is changing dramatically;
the importance of the commercial banks as intermediaries will, for
instance, decline in relation to that of the pension funds and life
insurance companies.  The volume of new securities issued will increase at
a faster rate than new bank lending.
4.44     Thesc changes in the pattern of intermediation (see Figure 3.2)
will increase the demand for long-term securities, as both the life
insurance companies and pension funds attempt to match the term structure
of their assets and liabilities. For the past several years, however, most
longer-term securities had been issued either by tbe Central Bank and
Treasury or by commercial banks in the form of mortgage securities. Future
issues from these sources will likely be less common. The public sector
will therefore be providing scope for private capital markets to evolve by
creating additional financing for private sector investment.
4.45     The nucleus of the proposed financial reforms relates to the
pension funds, where the impact of the proposed loan most clearly might be
discerned. Without liberalizing the existing investment regulations, the
pension funds will be unable to invest their rapidly increasing inflows in
private sector longer-term assets. Projections presented in Table 4.2 (see
also Annex VII) indicate that under current regulations, and using a
plausible set of assumptions, only lZ of pension funds' assets will be
invested in non-mortgage, private sector securities by 1998. Fifty percent
of pension funds' total assets would have to be held in the form of
Government securities, up from the current level of 35Z. It is unlikely,
however, that the necessary volume of mortgage and Government securities
will be available. The issuance of mortgage securities by banks will be
constrained by the likely modest growth in their capital bases and by
competition in mortgage origination from insurance companies. The
Government may not need to borrow so much if its fiscal position continues
to improve. The commercial banks may have to absorb more of the pension



- 30 -
funds, surpluses in the form of increased deposits. It is questionable,
however, whether a larger portion of the country's long-term savings should
be placed in the commercial banking system. The projections indicate,
therefore, that an untenable scenario would develop for the pension funds'
portfolios in which significant bottlenecks would be encountered in the
deployment of their funds.
Takl 4.9a ENICI RiO D_iTE
(11 of ttl aset)
Total                                   Equ i ti es   Closed-
of neuly  Resl  nd
(in Ch(  Governmunt  Bank  Mortgage    eligible    Esat t  mutual    Commercial
Year   billions)   Securities   Depoits  Securities   Equities   Bond   companis   Coupanies  funds  papor
(Without changes in permissible invetments)
1O8   8691   35.41  28.511  21.61  86.1  6.43  N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   N.A.
1N9S  1941   40.751  W.99S  9.91 v    7.61  4.71  N.A.  N.A.  N.A.  N.A.
l1o8  8295   60.01  S2.91   6.01   6.5S  4.61  N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   N.A.
CWith changes in permissible investmnts, supported by the Financial Markets Leon)
1998  1941   81.1S  24.71   8.81   v 9.4  5.9S  4.81  6.01  10.011  9.01
198  am2     22 .6  28.01   4.811  8.1s  7.2S  4.41  5.01  10.01  10.01
Source:  Projection, prpared by the SAM; *e  ao Annex VI.
4.46    The changes in the pension fund investment guidelines, supported
by the Financial Markets Loan, and described in paras. 4.22-4.29, would
reduce these bottlenecks considerably. The lower portion of Table 4.2
describes the situation after the policy changes have been made. The
absolute level of pension funds' holdings of Government securities and bank
deposits could be between US$3-4 billion below the level that would prevail
in 1998 in the absence of the proposed regulatory changes. This would
liberate approximately 30Z of total pension fund assets for investment
elsewhere. Virtually all of the difference would be channelled into
commercial paper, closed-end mutual funds, real estate investment company
shares, and equity and bond investments in private sector corporations.
The measures would have the effect of giving the pension funds a wider
range of assets of acceptable quality in which they could invest. As a
result, the pattern of the pension fund demand for assets will be more in
line with available supply.
4.47    This increased demand will have a stimulating effect that should
increase the pace of new issues activity in the stock and bond markets.
Even before the reforms were announced, new issuance activity had begun to



- 31 -
accelerate. In the stock market, however, most of the new issues were
related to the Government's privatization and popular capitalism programs.
Moreover, stock prices have risen more than 302 during 1989, primarily in
anticipation of large stock purchases by the pension funds. The actual
presence in the market of the pension funds should help maintain the recent
price increase momentum, further reducing the cost of new equity issues and
in the long run increasing the supply of new equities actually offered.
4.48     The pace of new corporate bond issuance has begun to accelerate
only recently, encouraged by the lower rates and longer maturities
available in the bond market compared to loans obtained from commetcial
banks. As long as the demand for long-term instruments from the
institutional investors remains strong, bond yields could decline. New
bond issuance will also be stimulated by the growth of closed-end mutual
funds that can purchase such instruments. Furthermore, the development of
bond guarantees will have the efiect of securing access for those companies
on the verge of bond market entry.
(e) Institutional Arrangements
4.49     (i) Letter of Sectoral Policy.  A Letter of Sectoral Policy has
been attached as Annex VI to the Memorandum of the President. The Letter
of Sectoral Policy sets out the Government's macroeconomic framework, and
describes its financial sector reform program (para. 4.66).
I
4.50     (it) Tranche Release.  The US$80 million, quick-disbursing
component will be available in two equal tranches. The first tranche will
be available after loan effectiveness. The second tranche will be made
available upon satisfaction of second tranche conditions (expected to be
six to nine months after effectiveness). A list of the conditions for
effectiveness and first and second tranche release are set out in
para. 4.66.
4.51     The proceeds of the quick-disbursing comaponent will be used to
finance the CIF cost of eligible imports by the private and public sectors
according to a aegative list. Ineligible imports comprise goods financed
by other multilateral or bilateral sources, luxury goods, and goods
intended for military use. Given that there are few imports that are
destined for, or used in the context of, the financial sector, it is not
feasible to use a positive list of imports for this loan. Retroactive
financing will be permitted for those eligible imports made before the date
of the agreement but not before August 12, 1989 up to an amount of
US$16 million. Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Contracts of the public and private sectors
estimated to cost more than US$5 million equivalent will be procured
through simplified ICB procedures. Contracts of the private sector valued
at less than US$5 million equivalent would be procured following
established commercial practices, which would include requiring quotations
from eligible bidders from at least two foreign countries except where
direct contracting is permitted under para. 3.5 of the Guidelines.
Contracts of the public sector, valued at less than US$5 million
equivalent, would be procured following Government procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
4.52     The Central Bank would be responsible for the coordination and
collection of relevant documentation and for preparing and submitting



- 32 -
withdrawal applications under the loan. Disbursements against contracts
valued at less than US$5 million equivalent would be made on the basis of a
Statement of Expenditures to be submitted by the Central Bank, with the
detailed documentation obtained by the Central Bank for review by the Bank
as required. Full documentation would b'e required for approval of
individual contracts exceeding US$5 million equivalent. The Central Bank
will undertake the screening process to ensure that all procurement
conditions have been met.  Applications for withdrawals will be
consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than US$1 million
equivalent.
4.53     (iii) Records and Accounts.  The Government will maintain
appropriate records and accounts for the quick-disbursing component of the
loan, and will have these accounts audited by external auditors acceptable
to the Bank.
C. The Leasing Credit Line Component
(a) Leasint Program
4.54     The size of the leasing credit line component will be US$50
million.  This will be used to "pump prime' the leasing sector, which has a
prospective financing gap over the next three years of about US$300 million
(see Annex IV). CORFO was chosen as the preferred institutional mechanism
for managing and disbursing funds to the leasing companies. The line of
credit would be provided through CORFO to the leasing sector. IDB is also
putting in place a general line of credit for industry (through the banking
sector) that, along with counterpart funding from CORFO and beneficiaries,
will constitute a credit program of approximately US$600 million. Some of
the IDB credit line might be used for leasing if the Bank credit line for
leasing disburses quickly. In this instance, the IDB would use the same
mechanisms as the Bank--an auction system--to deploy its funds.
(b) Financing Plan
4.55     Besides drawing on the proposed Bank credit line, leasing
companies are expected to make greater use of their enlarged access to the
domestic bond markets. They will also utilize, to the extent possible,
their remaining borrowing capacity from domestic commercial banks. The
financing plan for the leasing credit program is as follows:
IBRD                                   US$ 50 million
Leasing companies
(from domestic financing sources)   US$100 million equivalent
(c) CORFO as Executina Agent
4.56     The proposed institutional arrangements would require that CORFO
act as an executing agent on behalf of the Government of Chile in
channeling funds to the leasing industry. The Government would,
furthermore, enter into a Funds Transfer Arrangement with CORFO. The
Government will be the borrower of the loan funds. In its capacity as an
executing agent, CORPO will receive an executing agent's fee which will be
factored into the 'minimum price' of the proposed auction. As an executing



- 33 -
agent. CORFO will periodically hold auctions at least once every three
months for the loan funds. The size of each auction is expected to be
about US$2-4 million equivalent. Initially the auction will be sized at
the top end of the range to reflect the large pent-up demand from leasing
companies. The purpose of the relatively small lot size auctions would be
to permit leasing companies to meet gradually their financing needs over a
period of time. The minimum rate for the auctioned funds will be
recommended by an advisory committee of representatives from the Central
Bank, Ministry of Finance, and CORFO, and such recommendation and the
setting of such rates by CORFO shall be determined utilizing a methodology
satisfactory to the Bank. The funds will be auctioned in dollars and UF
pesos. The interest rate for the dollar will be based on LIBOR while that
for pesos would be based on UF1 pesos.5 The formula to be determined for
each auction will not be made public to ensure there is competitive bidding
among the leasing companies. The structure and financial position of CORFO
is described in Annex VII.
4.57     CORFO, in its capacity as an executing agent, would reserve the
right to reject any bid on the basis of price, institutional eligibility.
or other pertinent factors. Subsequent to the auction, CORFO would--if
subject to an appeal by a leasing company--provide in writing the reasons
for rejecting the bid. The leasing companies would need to specify the
amount, maturity, and price for the bid and, in addition, comply with the
loan agreement documents between CORFO and the leasing companies. A copy
of this agreement will be made available prior to the first auction. Once
the bid has been awarded to the leasing company, funds could be drawn down
immediately. The leasing companies would need to allocate these funds, for
purposes delineated in the contract, within three months from the date of
the award.  Annex VIII contains three documentst the Operational Project
!          Agreement between the Bank and CORFO, the Operational Supplementary Project
Agreement between CORFO and the leasing companies, and the procedures that
will be adopted for the auction process.
(d) Procurement
4.58     Procurement procedures under the credit line component will be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Procurement under the line would involve a relatively large number of small
items in relatively small amounts; therefore, international competitive
bidding would not be required. The procurement of goods over US$500,000
equivalent would be done through international shopping on the basis of at
least three competitive quotations from at least two countries eligible
under the guidelines. For contracts valued at less than US$500,000
equivalent, procurement would follow normal commercial practices acceptable
to the Bank. The leasing companies would have to purchase goods at
reasonable and competitive prices and appropriate records maintained of the
procurement of goods. These records would be used by external auditors in
auditing the leasing companies' certified statement of expenditures and
would be examined by Bank missions on a sample basis.
5/ UF (Unidad de Fomento) is a monetary reference unit that is readjusted
daily.



- 34 -
(e) Disbursement
4.59     CORFO, through the auction market, would onlend funds to leasing
companies in either dollars or UF pesos for periods not exceeding 10 years.
When the maturity of leasing contracts does not match the maturity of a
loan, leasing companies would be required to submit additional leasin&
contracts. The Ban" will reimburse 10O of amounts used for the purchase
of productive goods that will be leased to lessors (exclusive of taxes.)
To encourage the leasing companies to broaden their funding bases and seek
access to the domestic bond markets, no leasing company will be able to
hold more than 35? of its debt in loans from CORFO. The maximum amount of
the purchase price of the ekluipment in connection with a leasing subproject
is not expected to exceed US$1 million. Amounts in excess of this will
require Bank approval prior to disbursement, based on full project
documentatior. in a standard form acceptable to the Bank. Due to the
expected volume of small disbursements (average leasing contract size
US$60,000). disbursements for subloans would be made against a certified
statement of expenditures for which appropriate documentation would be
retained by the leasing companies and made available to Bank missions and
external auditors. The loan is expected to be disbursed over a period of
about four years. The loan would be disbursed into a Special Account held
at the Central Bank. The authorized allocation for the Special Account
will be US$7.5 million. The size of this Special Account (above the Bank
guidelines of 10? of the size of the component or 4 months of
disbursements) reflects the fact that there is a heavy latent demand for
funds from this credit line on the part of leasing companies. Disbursement
on the line will begin once the loan is effective. Disbursement will not
be linked to the Government satisfyiLg the conditions for the release of
the first or second tranche of the quick-disbursing component of the loan.
(See also Annex I of the accompanying Memorandum to the President.)
(f) ReDorts. Accounts and Audits
4.60     CORFO, in its role as an executing agent, will retain the services
of the 'Contraloria General de la Republica' (the Controller General of the
Republic) to monitor -.he tracking of the loan proceeds according to the
loan agreement documentat4.on between CORPO and the leasing companies.
CORFO would provide periodically (every three months) commitments,
disbursements, collections, and arrears under the loan. Under the loan
agreement between CORFO and the leasing companies, the leasing companies
would maintain proper accounts for subloans, including supporting
procurement and disbursement documents, which would be audited annually by
the auditor. Audited reports have to be submitted to the Bank no later
than four months after the close of the fiscal year, and should also
include a certification that the leasing company is in compliance with the
financial c-iteria established under the loan agreement.
4.61     This institutional project arrangement for the leasing credit line
component has a number of innovative features: (a) the auction system will
improve the allocation of funds based on market rates; (b) the use of the
auditor will further improve the monitoring of the loan proceeds and
contribute towards minimizing the supervision of the loan by CORFO and Bank
staff; and (c) the positive interest spreads and the executing agent's fee
should contribute toward improving CORFO's financial viability.



- 35 -
D. The Technical Assistance Coumonent
4.62     A technical assistance component (see Annex IX) has been designed
to complement tht program of financial sector adjustment defined above.
The objective of the core of the technical assistance component is to
strengthen the abilities of those governmental institutions supervising or
interfacing with the financial markets to monitor the development of these
markets. It will also position these institutions to respond to evolving
financial techniques, markets, and terhnologies. The training subcomponent
has also been designed to upgrade the skills of managers in segments of the
financial sector wherp innovation is greatly changing the financial
landscape. The technology-related technical assistance focuses in part on
identifying the deficiencies in the financing of technology development. A
seminar, and possible follow-up strategic study, is also designed to
support an increase in Chile's technology development capacity. The
Government will maintain appropriate records and accounts for the technical
assistance component.
4.63     The technical assistance will be financed entirely by a grant from
the Japanese Grant Facility. The grant, made available in the context of
the Financial Markets Loan, is Yen 265 million, which is equivalent to
US$1.96 million at an exchange rate of Yen 135:US$l.
S.  Benefits and Risks
4.64     Further financial market deepening will lessen Chile's dependence
on external financing at a time when a higher volume of domestic savings
will be potentially available.  A liberalized financial market will ensure
that savings are channelled more efficiently into productive investment
through a richer menu of financial instruments.
4.65     There are three sets of risks.  The first is that a new
Government, which will come into office in early 1990, might pursue
different policies toward the development of the financial sector than
those of the present Government. Present indications suggest, however,
that a new Government would not change the thrust of key economic and
financial policies. A second risk is a deterioration in the macroeconomic
environment that might undermine the development of financial markets and
reduce demand for the Bank's credit line from the leasing sector. Current
expectations, however, are for a stable evolution of the economy over the
short to medium term. The third risk is that the institutional mechanism
for channelling the leasing credit line (an auction) could prove
unsuccessful since it is an untried mechanism. If this happens, the loan
resources would be allocated on the basis of a market reference rate.



- 36 -
F.  Agreements and Recommendations
4.66     During negotiations, agreement was reached on:
(a) ALreements
General Agreements
CORFO will:
(a) maintain records and accounts for the investment component
(para. 4.60); and
(b) carry out the investment portion of the loan under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including procurement and
auction procedures (paras. 4.58 and 4.59).
The Government wills
(a) prior to June 30, 1990, review and discuss with the Bank the scope
of work and functioning of the SVS unit, and take any measures
agreed with the Bank, to improve its monitoring ability
(para. 4.12);
(b) prior to September 30, 1990, conduct a public seminar to publicize
and explain the streamlined requirements for the issuance of
securities (para. 4.14);
(c) prior to September 30, 1990, publish and circulate widely to the
private sector a brochure explaining the methods for issuing
securities and publish a thorough compilation of the laws and
regulations related to the issuavce of securities (para. 4.14);
(d) prior to September 30, 1990, carry out a study of all intestment
possibilities for the pension funds and ail analysis of what
further changes in portfolio regulations would be required to
enable them to diversify their investments (para. 4.28); and
(e) furnish to the Bank, L7 each June 30 and December 31, commencing
on the year 1990 a status report on the functioning of the
"cartera vendida' scheme and on the subordinated debt obligations
of the commercial banks to the Central Bank which have replaced
the repurchasing obligations under the 'cartera vendida'
(para. 4.40).
Conditions of Effectiveness (for the quick-disbursing and investment
components)
The Government will:
(a) adopt a law providing a legal framework for a Depository System
(para. 4.11);
(b) raise the permitted volume of bonds that leasing companies can
issue for purchase by the main institutional investors from one



- 37 -
times the capital of the leasing companies to two times the
capital (para. 4.42); and
(c) appoint CORPO as its financial agent and enter into a Funds
Transfer Arrangement for carrying out the investment component of
the loan (para. 4.56).
CORFO will:
(a) adopt auction procedures for the leasing credit line satisfactory
to the Bank (paras. 4.56 and 4.57).
Condition of First Tranche Release (quick-disbursing component)
(a) The Government will provide the Bank with evidence, satisfactory
to the Bank. that its macroeconomic framework is consistent with
its financial sector reform program (paras. 3.33-3.36).
Conditions of Second Tranche Release (quick-disbursing component)
The Government will:
(a) sustain satisfactory macroeconomic performance, consistent with
the Government's financial sector refcrm program, and satisfactory
to the Bank (paras. 3.33 and 3.36);
(b) issue regulations relating to the law providing a legal framework
for a Depository System and take all measures to put the System in
place (para. 4.11);
(c) review with the Bank the requirements for establishing Real Estate
Investment Companies and introduce modifications, where
appropriate, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.18);
(d) permit the pension funds to invest in closed-end mutual funds
(para. 4.24);
(e) submit to its legislative body for approval a proposal to permit
pension funds and insurance companies to invest in the
collateralized instruments issued by banks. In addition, a
proposal would be submitted to permit insurance companies to
purchase securitized instruments issued by banks (paras. 4.27 and
4.29);
(f) permit pension funds to invest in commercial paper up to a limit
of 102 of each pension fund's portfolio (para. 4.26);
(g) submit to its legislative body for approval a proposal to permit
commercial banks to collateralize and securitize loans and sell
them in the form of securities to third parties without previous
authorization of the SBIF (paras. 4.32-4.36);
(h) permit banks to have increased flexibility in the provision of
guarantees by removing the global limit under which the sum of all



- 38 -
guarantees that a bank provides cannot exceed its capital and
reserves (para. 4.38); and
(i) permit banks to issue subordinated debt and use at least half of
it as part of their capital base, up to a limit of 20S of total
capital and reserves (para. 4.39).
The Central Bank will:
(a) adopt a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, including a set
of appropriate incentives and a timetable for implementation, to
cause the pension fund administrators to transfer their securities
from the Central Bank to the Depository System (para. 4.11).
(b)  Recommendation
4.67     Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project would be
eligible for a Bank loan of US$130 million, with a term of 17 years,
including a grace period of 5 years.



Statistical Appendix
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
CHILE: REAL INTEREST RATE DEVELOPMENTS
Mortgage     Public      Corporate
Year     Month                              TIP a/    Bonds b/    Bonds b/       Bonds
1983                   Annual Average        7.83        '0.37        11.37        10.18
1984                   Annual Average        8.44        10.41         8.42         7.23
1985    January                             10.77         9.30         9.46         8.81
February                             7.83        9.16         9.27
March                                7.82         9.66        9.46
April                                9.06       10.10         9.41          9.80
May                                 10.16         9.40        9.15
June                                 8.72        9.71         8.91          9.00
July                                 7.58        9.67         8.87
August                               7.88         9.18        8.72
September                            7.67       10.23         8.38          8.87
October                              7.39        9.47         8.24
November                             6.87        8.43         7.99
December                             6.22        8.10         7.51
Annual Average        8.16         9.11        8.50          9.20
1986    January                              5.93         7.93         7.00
February                             5.37        8.32         6.63
March                                5.12         7.68        6.32
April                                4.61        8.15         5.63          6.76
Hay                                  4.45         7.88        5.24          5.99
June                                 3.92        8.81         4.74
July                                 3.81        8.61         4.57
August                               3.40         7.11        4.63
September                            3.28        7.00         5.02
October                              3.15        5.42         5.23
November                             3.29        5.77         5.19          5.34
December                             3.47        5.57         5.15          5.34
Annual Average        4.13         7.07        4.87          6.14
a/ Tasa de Interes Promedio (measuring cost of 90- to 365-day deposits to banking
system).
b/ Average annual internal rate of return for maturities 5-8 years.



Statistical Appendix
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
Mortgage      Public     Corporate
Year     Month                               TIP a/    Bonda b/    Bonds b/       Bonds
1987    January                               3.57         5.37        5.12          5.47
February                             3.51         5.91         5.17          5.33
March                                3.76         5.56         5.58          6.82
April                                3.94         5.93         6.12
May                                  4.04         6.12         6.70
June                                 4.37         6.23         6.62          7.34
July                                 4.28         6.02         6.26          8.07
August                               4.29         5.88         5.93          7.15
September                            4.76         6.17         6.19          7.84
October                              5.12         6.26         6.57          6.37
November                             4.86         6.19         6.07          7.14
December                             4.47         6.09         5.71          5.88
Annual Average        4.25         6.93         6.13          6.76
1988    January                               4.33         6.06        5.23          5.47
February                             4.25         5.69         5.12          6.80
March                                4.18         5.41         5.13          5.14
April                                4.05         5.57         5.19          5.29
May                                  4.11         5.76         6.39
June                                 4.56         5.99         5.39          5.35
July                                 4.91         5.97         5.42          5.40
August                               4.73         5.80         5.62          5.45
September                            5.09         6.30         5.94          6.42
October                              5.01         6.35         6.07          7.00 b/
November                             4.71         6.24         5.99          6.60
December                             4.99         6.62         6.24          7.10
Annual Average        4.88         5.85         5.35          5.51
1989    January                               5.29        6.73         6.56          6.80 a/
February                             5.45         6.89         6.57          7.59 b/
March                                5.67         6.94         6.53          7.60 a/
April                                5.72         6.83         6.70         10.36 a/
May                                  5.84         7.12         7.00          6.93
June                                 6.32         7.66         7.10          8.30
July                                 6.66         7.59         7.13          8.09
a/  Tasa de Interes Promedio (measuring cost of 90- to 365-day deposits to banking
system).
bl Average annual internal rate of return for maturities 5-8 years.



Statistical Appendix
Table 2
CHILE: LIABILITIES OF THE CHILEAN ECONOMY
(Billions of Ch$ outstanding, at constant December 1988 prices) a/
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Total financial liabilities            2,282  2,424  2,694  3,384  4,052  4,402
Public sector debt                      457    558    520    693    787    853
Central Bank                         216    217    403    522    690    801
Treasury                             241    341    217    172       96     52
Banking system                       1,137  1,198  1,354  1,454  1,740  1,774
Time and savings deposits            826    871    996  1,051  1,284  1,322
Bonds and mortgage securities        276    315    324    335    325    321
Other (Cartera Vendida)               35      12     33      68    130    132
Other financial institutions
Financieras                           46      53     53      46     48     52
Equities                                568    548    594  1,138  1,399  1,628
Corporate bonds                          58     59     65      45     70     88
a/ Nominal values deflated by end-of-year CPI.
Source:  Banco Central de Chile, Boletin Mensual, No. 732, Febrero 1989.



Statistical APpenwdix
Table 3
CHILE: SELLCTED GROWTH VARIABLES OVER THE MEDIUM TERM
1907-69   1098-87   1986      1989       1987-92   102-960
(at constant prlces, In percent)
GDP                            8.7        1.8      7.4       9.0        6.5        4.5
Export. of CNFS                16.5       4.5      5.9      14.6        10.4       7.8
Imports of GNFS                7.8       -0.9     12.0      26.6        12.0       6.6
Gross Fixed Invostment         4.6        0.8     11.8      16.7         9.5       5.9
Gross Notional Savings         4.8        0.6     21.9      12.2        14.8       8.8
(as shares of GDP at constant price.)
1980      1987      1988      1939        1092      1995
Exports of GNFS               28.7       28.8     27.9      29.8       86.8       86.7
Imports of GNFS               89.4       28.1    24.1       28.0       29.1       80.7
Gross fixed Investment         17.6      16.4     17.9      18.2        18.2      19.2
Gross domestic savings         16.8      18.2     20.6      22.5        20.6      22.2
Not factor Income             -8.0       -5.8     -6.1      -7.6       -7.6       -7.7
Net current transfers          0.4        0.6      0.8       0.8         1.1       1.8
Gross national savings         18.7      18.6     16.2      16.7       14.0       16.8
Source: Chile, National Accounts data and IBRO staff calculations.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
CHILE
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
Profile of the Securities Markets
1.       Tradina Markets.  Securities have been traded in Chile since the
nineteenth century. The first attempts to establish a stock market took
place in 1840, and in 1893 the first Chilean stock market, the 'Bolsa de
Comercio de Santiago" (the Bolsa), was founded. At that time there were
329 corporations in Chile, mostly in the mining industry. A Valparaiso
Stock Exchange was also established in the nineteenth century but it was
closed in 1982 because it did not meet the minimum capitalization and
membership requirements defined by the new Securities Market Law of 1981.
It reopened, however, in 1988. Both debt and equity securities are traded
at the Bolsa by the Corredores de Bolsa (Brokers). While there is no
formal over-the-counter market, the Bolsa organizes auctions for non-listed
corporations on a periodic basis. An informal market--the Chile Stock
Exchange--has recently developed, with the support of the Association of
Securities Dealers, outside the Bolsa. The new exchange operates through
electronic exchange trading rather than through the traditional, physically
operated, trading floor.
2.       The Regulatory 1ramework.  The Chilean securities markets are
principally regulated by the Superintendency of Securit.es and Insurance
(SVS) under the Securities Market Law (Ley de Mercado de Valores) and the
Corporations Law (Ley de Sociedades Anonimas). These two laws were
promulgated in 1981 and represented a significant departure from the past,
particularly in their emphasis on market transparency through full-
disclosure requirements, restrictions on insider trading and price
manipulation, as well as protection of minority investors. The
Corporations Law clarifies rules and requirements for establishing 'open'
corporations, while eliminating Government supervision of 'closed'
corporations. 'Open' corporations are thoea with 500 or more shareholders,
or companies wherein 100 or more shareholders own 102 of the subscribed
capital. The Securities Market Law establishes requirements for public
offerings, stock exchanges and brokers, and sets out disclosure
requirements for open corporations. Under this law, anyone owning either a
controlling interest or 102 or more of an open company's capital must
report this.
3.       The Superintendency supervises open and listed companies, stock
exchanges, stock brokers, bond and money brokers, mutual funds, external
auditors, insurance companies, and any entity offering securities to the
public.
4.       The Eauities Market.  This market remains small by North American
or European standards with a 1988 trading volume of 11 billion pesos or
nearly US$300 million equivalent on a market capitalization of about US$6
billion. The market grew significantly in both price and volume between
1977 avd 1980 following the economic liberalization that began in the mid
:970s. This performance was largely due to government policies that
supported free markets and private enterprise, fast asset growth resulting
from the high rate of foreign currency borrowing, as well as to strong
commodity prices for some Chilean exports (like copper).



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
Table 1.1: CHILE - EqUITIES MARKET
(values in billion Ch3)
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1981  1986   1987   1988
No. of Listed Finrs   285   242   212   214   228   228   282   226          225
Capitalized Value     386.6  274.9  822.8  227.6  270.0  369.9  881.6 1241.6  1722.8
Traded Value         21.4  14.8   8.8   5.1   6.1   9.2  e6.6  118.5  160.8
Turnover (percent)    5.8   5.8   2.6   2.2   1.9   2.5   7.8   9.5          9.3
Primary Issues:
Number               89    87    28    18    16    29    28    88           22
Value (in $Dec. 8B)    86.6  85.5  81.4  28.8  15.7  29.5  56.1  179.6    99.8
Cash Div. (in Doc. 86) 52.6  42.5  29.8  18.2  21.8  86.1  46.9  89.9   139.8
IOPA (Deflated) /a   166.06  68.95  60.12  84.71  81.61  48.55  88.22  95.22   113.09
IPSA (Doflated)      100.00  68.80  42.68  88.28  88.10  54.20 129.78 170.09  280.77
p/ IOPA and IPSA at end o p.riod*.
Source: SVS.
5.       The year 1980 (see Table 1.1) was a peak year for Chilean share
prices and trading volumes and is used as the base year for the general and
selective share price indices, the IGPA and IPSA, respectively. As Chile
entered a recessionary period, the stock market was quick to anticipate the
imminent economic difficulties of 1982183.   New issues volumes and share
prices fell. The year 1985 marked the revival of the Chilean economy and
the equities markets. Trading volumes, new issue volumes, and stock prices
rose for the first time in five years. The market revival and the
concomitant deepening of the equities markets (i.e., the broadening of the
shareholding base, the increased trading activity, and the increase of
listings) in 1985 and 1986 was due not only to the initiation of a
significant economic recovery but also to a number of other factors. The
Government's privatization program and the steps taken to distribute shares
widely, in the case of a few large privatizations, helped to encourage
investors.  In addition, the securities laws (enacted in the early 1980s)
and the tax reform of 1984 had already instituted mechanisms to ensure
market transparency, to protect minority shareholders, and to provide tax
incentives for securities investors.
6.       Despite the recent revival in market activity, the Chilean
equities market remains small and price/earnings ratios remain low by
international standards (around 4 or 5). Traded volume was only US$296
million equivalent or 1.92 of GDP. Equities--outside of those issued in
the context of recent privatizations--are typically issued by large
companies of high creditworthiness.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
7.       The Bond Market.  A bond market of any significance did not emerge
until 1975, when the Government began issuing debt, through Central Bank
and Treasury obligations, to finance the public deficit and to introduce an
additional instrument for the management of monetary policy. Also in that
year a new law was introduced allowing corporations more flexibility in
debt issuance and permitting denomination of debt in inflation-adjusted
currency units.
8.       While bond trading has grown rapidly in recent years, the market
is dominated by Treasury and Central Bank paper (see Table I.2). With the
declining Government fiscal deficit, Treasury issues have declined.
However, Central Bank issues, associated in part with the Central Bank's
financing of the bad loans of the commercial banks, have increased.
Corporations also have access to the bond markets, but the market for
corporate bonds is quite thin. There were signs, however, in 1987 and
1988, that new corporate bond issuance had started to pick up. Mortgage
bonds currently account for some 402 of the market and are issued by
private banks and Banco del Estado. They are collateralized by the pool of
underlying mortgages. Such bond issues have remained relatively stable
since 1982 but are expected to fall in future years as more mortgage
origination and financing is undertaken by insurance companies.
9.        Public sector banks are not tax exempt and generally yield less
than corporate bonds and mortgage securities. Moreover, the average rates
of return on bonds in general have declined over the last five years (see
Statistical Appendix, Table 1).
Table 1.2: CHILE - STOCK OF BONDS OUTSTANDING
(USS million as of year end) p/
1982    1983    1984    1986    1986    1987    1988
Private Sector         1,452.8 1,109.8 1,171.6 1,077.4 1,127.8 1,215.6 1,689.9
Corporate bonds        291.5   240.8   158.4   156.4    60.1   187.0   440.6
Financial bonds /       0.0    0.0   21.0    32.0   28.9    20.6    83.0
Mortgage bonds       1,181.3  909.0   992.3   901.0 1,048.8 1,057.9 1,216.8
Government Sector       714.9 2,465.0 2,511.8 2,890.8 2,784.1 8,841.2 4,414.7
Corporate bonds         0.0   27.1   70.5    64.8   890.9   123.7    45.8
Banco Estado 3/         O.0     0.0    0.0    0.0   54.8   109.3   136.1
Mortgage bonds          O.0   337.2   263.8   226.8   178.0   157.9   198.3
Treasury bonds         487.6 1,108.2 1,830.1   734.2   611.4   858.6   210.7
Central Bank {/        277.8   994.5   846.9 1,866.5 1,8069.0 2,591.6 8,824.2
Total             2,187.8 8.04.7 3,82.9 X,488.2 8.911.9 4,558.7 !,104.8
P/  The exchange rate used is that of Central Bank Agreement 1468, as of the last
working day of December of every year.
ki  Bonds issued by comercial banks and financial institutions.
g/  Bonds issued by this state-owned comerce;i bank.
i/  Not all of thes are bonds; short-term debt also ie Ineluded.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
CHILE
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
Portfolio ReRulations Governini Institutional Investment
1.       This annex describes the regulations impinging on the pension
funds and life insurance companies both before and after the government
measur.-s being supported by the proposed Financial Markets Loan.
Regulations governing the portfolio investments of pension funds and life
insurance companies can impact on investment decisions from two different
perspectives. First, there are limits relating to the type of instrument
that each institutional investor can acquire. Second, there are
constraints on the purchase of securities from a single issuer.
A. Existina Regulations
(i) Limits Bs TWne of Investment
2.       The prevailing regulations governing the investments of the
pension funds are imbedded in Pension Fund Law DL 3500. A detailed
description of the regulations contained in this law and in various
amendments since 1981 can be found in a paper entitled "Securities Markets
Development Issues' (see Project Files).  A summary of these rules as they
existed before the new measures supported by the Financial Markets Loan is
given belows
Investment Categories              Z of Individual Pension Fund Portfolio
Public sector securities              502
Bank deposits                         30S if maturity of all deposits is
less than one year; 402 if maturity of
all deposits is one quarter or more
than one year.
Mortgage securities                   802
Nonpublic sector bonds                401
Quotas from other pension funds       202
Equities                              302
3.        Current regulations for life insurance companies are contained in
the Insurance Law. The investible funds of life insurance companies are



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
required to conform to the following ceilings, by type of investment, as
followss
2 of an Individual Insurance
Categories of Investment                     Company's Portfolio
Public sector securities                             50z
Bank deposits                                        40Z
Mortgage securities                                  40Z
Nonpublic sector bonds                               40Z
Equities                                             402
Real estate                                          20Z
Mortgage securities and real estate                  40z
(ii) Constraints on Investment in Securities of a Single Issuer
4.        Three basic requirements have to be fulfilled by an issuer of
securities to be eligible for investment by either pension funds or life
insurance companies. Securities must be issued by an "open" corporation.
The securities must be risk classified. Finally, the issuer must meet
certain conditions of ownership diversification.
5.        To be considered an Oopen' corporation, the issuer must either
have more than 500 shareholders or 100 or more shareholders must own 102 of
the subscribed capital. In addition, it must be registered with the SVS.
6.        An issuer is required to be risk-rated as 'A," "B,' or 'C" by an
authorized risk classification agency. In the case of pension funds,
issuers have to turn to the Risk Classification Commission of the SAFP.
With regard to investments of life insurance companies, issuers are rated
by private risk raters that have been authorized by the SVS.
7.        The main requirements that govern ownership diversification of
pension funds and life insurance companies are:
(a) shareholders' equity must comprise at least 802 of the company's
net worth;
(b) no single individual or investment group may own more than 50Z of
the outstanding shares;
(c) the company must have at least 100 shareholders, each of whom
owns shares worth at least UF 100.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
These provisions are baaed on Articles 45 BIS of the DL 3500 and on
Articles 57-64 of the Insurance Law for pension funds and insurance
companies, respectively.
8.        Besides the above three basic requirements, issuers have to take
the following special conditions into consideration to be eligible for
investment:
(a) The maximum that a life insurance company can invest in any
issuer is the lesser of 82 of outstanding shares or 'Z of the
life insurance companies' reserves and risk surplus.
(b) Up to 1987, the Insurance Law and other regulations specified
that insurers could invest in shares with at least 15? presence
in the stock market (Bolsa). (This percentage is calculated as
the percentage of days within the last 60 workdays during which
at least 80 Unidades de Fomento (UF) of stock were transacted.)
changes to the Insurance Law that went into effect in December
1987 set out the number of ownership diversification requirements
described in Articles 57-64. However, as a temporary provision
lasting up to 1991, insurers could still invesi. in stocks with at
least 152 presence in the Bolsa provided they were rated first
class by private rating agencies, even if the issuer did not
fulfill the ownership diversification conditions.
9.        The maximum that pension funds are permitted to purchase of any
issuer is the lesser of 5Z of the subscribed cap.tal of the investee
company or 5? of the investing pension fund's asset value.
3. Proposed Liberalization
(i) Limits by TYD of Investment
10.       The Governm,_nt will make amendments to DL 3500 and the Insurance
Law, allowing the implementation of four major changes with regard to the
investment strategies of pension funds and life insurance companies. These
institutions will be permitted to invest in closed-end mutual funds,
collateralized securities, real estate investmen&t companies (REIC), and in
commercial paper.
11.       Pension funds and life insurance companies will be able to invest
in three types of closed-end mutual funds, specializing respectively in
securities, risk capital, and real estate.
(a) For each pension fund, investments may not exceed the lesser of
102 of the aggregate value of all shares issued by such a fund
(and in circulation) or 5? of the respective pension fund's
portfolio. Total investment in all closed-end mutual funds may
not be greater than 10 of an pension fund's portfolio.
(b) Life insurance companies will be allowed to invest up to 102 of
their portfolio in all closed-end mutual funds, while, in the
case of risk capital closed-end mutual funds, they will be



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
permitted to invest only 52 of their portfolio. The limitation
to combined holdings of real estate closed-end mutual funds,
mortgage securities, and real estate together will consist of no
more than 40Z of the insurance companies' portfolio.
tc) The limitations for closed-end mutual funds will be the following
by issuer:
Limitation by Fund Type (Z)
Securities    Risk Capital   Real Estate
Pension Fund
Portfolio                        10             5              10
Certificates issued and
in circulation                 10            10              10
Insurance Companies
Portfolio                         7             2.5             7
Certificates issued and
in circulation                10            10              20
12.       Pension funds and life insurance companies will be permitted tc
invest in collateralized securities issued by commercial banks.  In
addition, insurance companies will be allowed to purchase banks'
securitized loans. These types of investments will be included under the
existing 402 ceiling on nonpublic sector bonds for both pension funds and
insurance companies.
13.       The Government will permit pension funds and life insurance
companies to invest in Real Estate Investment Companies (REIC). Pension
funds' and life insurance companies' holdings of such investments will be
computed under the 30 and 402 limit on total assets, respectively,
applicable to all equity investments. (a) APP investments in shares of a
single REIC may not exceed the lesser of 20? of the shares of the investee
REIC or 72 of the respective Pension Fund's portfolio.1 (b) Investments of
life insurance companies may not exceed the lower of 20Z of the shares
issued by the REIC or 52 of the insurer's portfolio. REIC shares will be
included in the limitation on mortgage securities, real estate, and real
estate closed-end funds combined, the latter of which is subject to the
existing ceiling of 402 of the life insurer's portfolio.
14.       To permit pension funds to manage their liquidity more
effectively, it is proposed they should be able to invest a proportion of
their assets in short-term commercial paper.  The final proportion,
expected to be no more than 102 of an Pension Fund's total assets, will be
agreed between the Bank and the Government of Chile prior to the second
tranche release.
1/ A description of this adjustment is contained in 'Securities Markets
Development Issues* in the Project Files.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
(ii) Constraints on Investment in Securities of a Single Issuer
15.       If companies are "open," risk rated as "A," "B," or "C," and meet
the ownership diversification requirements (thus, fulfilling the three
basic conditions set out above), the Government will permit pension funds
and life insurance companies to raise the percentage of their portfolio
that they can invest in the shares of any one company. In the case of
pension funds, they can increase their investment from the present 52 of
the lower of the investing Pension Fund's asset value and of the subscribed
capital of the investee company to 7Z of the lower of such values. A
parallel change has been made vis-a-vis insurance company investments.
16.       The Government is introducing two further sets of measures to
liberalize pension fund's equity investment potential:
(a) First, whether a pension fund can reach the proposed 72
investment figure will depend, additionally, on the ownership
concentration of the investee company. As Annex Table II.1
illustrates, present and proposed investment limits depend on the
maximum an individual holds in any issuing company. The higher
the ownership concentration, the lower the investment limit. The
above 72 investment limit applies only if the investee company
has less than 202 of its subscribed capital in the hands of one
individual holder. However, if a single investor holds between
45 and 502 of the subscribed capital, a pension fund can only
invest 2.12 of its portfolio in that company.
(b)  Second, if companies are "open," risk-rated under "A," "B," or
'C," but do not meet the ownership diversification requirements,
they will now be eligible foi- limited investment by pension
funds. Such companies must have a certain presence in the stock
market equivalent to 20-251 of the annual number of trading days
during which a minimum trading volume of 80 UP (US$1,450) was
posted by the respective stock. A pension fund's investments
will be limited to the lesser of 12 of the single issuer's
subscribed capital or 12 of the pension fund's portfolio. While
these limitations relate to pension fund investments in a single
company, a pension fund will, in addition, not be able to invest
more than 102 of its portfolio in the outstanding shares of all
such companies.
17.       The Government believes that the permanent provisions for the
insurance companies introduced in 1987 are too restrictive, and has decided
that the temporary provisions should become permanent. As described above,
this means that life insurance companies will be able to invest in any
issuer whose shares maintain a 152 presence in the Bolsa and receive an "A"
rating from the private rating agencies, even if the issuer does not
fulfill the ownership requirements set out in Articles 57 through 64 of the
Insurance Law.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Table II.1:  PENSION FUNDS - EQUITY INVESTMENT LIMITS
FOR QUALIFYING ISSUERS
(DL 3500, ARTICLE 47(6)(8)
Maximum                     Investment Limit a/
Individual Holding           Present              Proposed
Up to 20?                  5.0                   7.0
Between                    4.0                   5.6
21 - 30?)
Between                    3.0                   4.2
31 - 40?)
Between                    2.0                   2.8
41 - 45Z)
Between                    1.0                   2.1
46 - 50?)
a/ Five percent and 7Z, respectively, of the lesser of asset value of the
respective pension fund and the subscribed capital of the investee
company.



ANNEX III
Page I of 3
CH$=
FINANCIAL MAlET_S LOAN
Banking Sector Structure and Financial Strenath
1.       Structure of the Banking System.  There are two broad types of
banking institution in Chile: commercial banks and finance companies. In
all there are 38 commercial banks and 4 finance companies, the latter
accounting for approximately 1 of the banking system's assets. Finance
companies can be distinguished from banks in that they are not allowed to
engage in foreign trade and mortgage financing or to issue checking
accounts.
2.       Most of the commercial banking system is privately owned.  The
only domestic state commercial bank is Banco del Estado, which, in addition
to functioning as a commercial bank, is sometimes used by the Government as
its agency to channel credit for specific sectors. With regards to capital
structure, 251 of capital and reserves of all banks is held by Banco del
Estado, 25 by foreign-owned banks, and 502 by private domestic banks.
3.       The structure of the Chilean banking system has remained
relatively stable since 1983. As Annex Table III.1 indicates, assets of
the Banco del Estado have comprised approximately 182 of total assets of
the system. Foreign banks have increased their share of total assets from
12.82 in 1983 to 19.5 in 1988. This increase was at the expense of
private domestic banks, which registered a drop from 67.8 to 60.92 over the
same time scale. Foreign banks are, on the whole, better capitalized than
domestic banks. The number of banking institutions has also remained
relatively stable since 1983.
Table 111.1: STRUCTURE OF THE BANKING SYSTE1
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Percent of Total Assets
Banco del Estado             18.1    18.5    21.5    20.8    20.0    18.4
Private domestic             67.8    68.2    64.4    63.2    62.8    60.9
Foreign                      12.8    12.2    13.2    15.1    16.3    19.5
Finance companies             1.3     1.1     0.9     0.9      0.9     1.2
Total                   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
. =s                     5_8                5 ,_ .        55._ ===
Number of Institutions
Public                          1       1       1       1        1       1
Private domestic               18      18      19      16       15      15
Foreign                        19      19      18      20       21      22
Finance companies               7       7       7        4       4       4
Total                       45      45      45      41       41      42
-     ac      am       -=
Source: Superintendency of Banks (Informacion Financiera).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
4.       Retulatorv and Suiervisory Environment.  The main leRal instrument
regulating the financial system is the General Law of Banks (Banking Law).
The current version was issued in November 1986. and slightly modified in
May 1988. Two important objectives of the law are to ensure that
regulation and supervision is of a prudential nature and to attempt to turn
failing banks into going concerns, while transferring most of the losses to
sharelsolders and nonliquid depositors.
5.       The main supervisory entity is the Superintendencia de Bancos e
Instituciones Financieras (SBIF). This is a Government body controlled
directly by the President, although in practice it works closely with the
Finance Minister. The SBIF is the primary regulator of commercial banks,
finance companies, and their subsidiaries. The Central Bank, meanwhile,
regulates foreign exchange operations, and the design of financial products
that may be used by the public to substitute for bills, coins and reserves
at the Central Bank. The Central Bank is also the lender of last resort in
the system. It has the power to force a bank suffering from a run on its
deposits to comply with additional regulations as a condition for receiving
emergency credit.
6.       The capacity of the SBIF to control the solvency of banks and
finance companies is considerably better than other Latin American
countries. This is in part due to the fact that it has broad powers and is
autonomous and isolated from political interference. The impetus for a
strong supervisory regime was a direct result of the adverse experience
suffered by Chile in the early 1980s, when many domestic banks experienced
severe financial difficulties.1
7.       The Stabilization of the Banking Sector.  The financial condition
of the banking system has improved markedly since the financial crisis of
the early 19809, and especially since 1985. The following financial
indicators point to the growing strength in this sector.
8.       Asset quality has increased substantially since 1983.  Past due
loans decreased from 8.42 of total assets in 1983 to 3.52 in 1985 and 22 in
1988. Moreover, earning assets increased from 75.52 of total assets in
1985 to 83Z in 1988. Rescheduled credits as a percentage of total
outstanding credits decreased from 22.3Z in 1985 to 10.82 in 1988.
9.       Capital and reserves increased from 5.42 of assets in 1985 to 7Z
in 1986 reflecting actions by the Central Bank and Superintendency to
increase the capital base of banks and to decrease the relative level of
debt to equity. This ratio of capital and reserves to assets has remained
relatively constant from 1986 to 1988, and stood at about 6.92 in 1988.
Real increases of 12.32 in capital and reserves from 1985 to 1988 reflect
both small increases in net income put into the capital base as well as
increases in capitalization through new investment.
1/ Project files contain papers that describe the banking crisis of the
early 1980s.



ANMEX III
Page 3 of 3
10.      Provisions for doubtful loans decreased as a percentage of
outstanding loans and credits from 9.02 in 1985 to 7.52 in 1988. In
relation to equity, this represented a fall from 40.72 to 34.92, and in
relation to capital and reserves from 69Z to 57Z. The overall level of
provisions decreased during this period as bad loans were written off. As
asset quality therefore improved, reduced levels of provisions were
required.
11.      Equity as a percentage of assets increased from 9.22 in 1985 to
11.12 in 1988. Given the controls and monitoring of the Superintendency of
Banks, the current debt-equity ratio in Chile's banking system is adequate.
12.      Banking liquidity has improved between 1985 and 1988.  Cash and
other immediately marketable se.urities, as a percentage of assets,
increased from 4.5Z in 1985 to 6.52 in 1988.
13.      The profitabilitv of the banking sector has also improved.  Net
income (before taxes, dividends and repurchase of Ocartera vendida") was
24.02 of average capital and reserves in 1985, 16.12 in 1986, but increased
to 20.82 in 1987, and 24.3Z in 1988. In real terms, these figures
represent returns of -5.1Z, -2.8Z, 0.8Z, and 8.4Z in the same years.
Returns on average assets also improved from 1.16Z in 1985 to 1.68Z in
1988. Net income (after taxes, payments for repurchases of risky assets,
amortization of certain previous losses and dividends to preferred
shareholders) increased from 0.33Z of average assets in 1985 to 0.40Z in
1988. Since the repurchase of the cartera vendida depends on the size of
net income, it is not surprising that net income after all payments,
including cartera vendida repurchases, remained relatively stable.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
CHILE
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
The Leasing Sector
1.       Structure.  There are 14 enterprises in the leasing sector in
Chile:
(a) five are subsidiaries of domestic banks; they collectively have
more than 55X of the domestic market. Within this concentrated
industry, Leasing Andino is the largest enterprise with more than
401 of the market;
(b)  four are subsidiaries of foreign banke chat have about 25Z  of the
market. Manufacturer's Hanover Leasing Company has recently
exited the market; and
(c) four are affiliated with private non-bank companies which together
comprise about 202 of the market. These companies have strong
links with the domestic banks but because they are legally
independent are not under the control of the Superintendency of
Banks.
2.       The total equity base of the 13 leasing companies is about US$26.7
million equivalent with annual leasing contracts amounting to US$140-145
million. The leasing companies that are subsidiaries of domestic
commercial banks account for 802 of the total leasing contract market and
their share of future leasing contracts is expected to grow as subsidiaries
of foreign banks leave the industry and as new domestic commercial bank
leasing companies are established. The current structure of the leasing
industry is described in Annex Table IV.l.
3.       LeRal. Reaulatorv and Tax Environment.  Prior to September 1988,
the leasing industry in Chile was not regulated. However, due to the
growth of the leasing industry and the further improvements instituted in
monitoring the performance of banks and their subsidiaries, the
Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions issued new regulations
for leasing companies that are subsidiaries of local commercial banks under
Bank Circular No. 2392, dated September 9, 1988. A copy of these
regulations is available in the project file. These regulations define and
clarify leasing contracts and establish accounting standards that are
necessary for recording leasing transactions. With regard to the legal
structure for leasing, Chile has a well defined definition of what a
leasing contract is. This sets out precisely the rights and obligations of
both the lessor and lessee under a leasing contract.
4.       A regulatory framework for leasing has developed with the
Superintendency of Banks and Financieras as the main regulatory agency. If
a leasing company that is not a bank subsidiary wishes to access the bornd
markets, it is subject to the requirements of the SVS and SAFP. No license
is required in Chile, as in most other countries, to undertake a leasing
business. As in a number of other countries, a minimum capital requirement
1       {R    ~~-     A '       L-                                   1  ,,



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
of the Chilean leasing companies are already above this minimum paid-in
capital requirement.
Table IVI1: IHE STRUCAtUE OF THE LEASIN DNDUSTRY ^/
1988
Equity    Leasing
Share         Buse     Volumes
Names of Leasing Companies              Ownership Structure             (X)         (USS a)    (US8 m)
I. Domestic Bank Subsidiaries
- Leasing Andino (1977)             o Banco do Chile              (65.0)        8.4      76.0
o Orient Leasing              (35.0)
- Santiago Leasing (1987)           o Banco do Santiago          (100.0)         8.4     22.0
- BanEdwards Leasing (1987)         o Banco do A. Edwards        (100.0)         1.4      10.0
- O'Higgins Leasing (1988)          o Banco O'Higgins            (166.0)         1.0      0.5
- Bancredito Leasing (1988)         o Banco Credito              (100.0)           -          b/
Total for I                                                                14.2     108.6
II. Foreian Bank Subsidiaries
- Citibank Leasing (1980)           o Citibank Overseas          (99.64)         0.6       1.0
o Fiduciaria Nacional         (0.46)
- Manu. Han. Leasing (1980)         o Manu. Han. Corp.           (100.0)         1.0       2.0
- Republic Leasing (1979)           o Rep. National Bank         (99.99)         1.6       1.5
- Santander Leasing (1985)          o Banco Santander             (98.9)         1.6       7.4
o Others                       (1.1)         _
Total for II                                                                4.6       11.9
III. Non-Bank Aff1ilates
- deneral do Leasing (1982)         o Cinpar Ltd.                 (65 0)        2.0        4.0
o BMG Leasing                 (36.0)
- Rentaequipos Leasing (1978)       o Yarur Auto.                 (80.0)        6.0        12.0
o COSERSA                     (20.0)
- Procesac (1980)                   o Inv. Lllfen                (99.99)        N/A        2.0 g/
- Interalia Leasing (1981)          o Inv. Copernico             (13.33)        N/A        6  C0
o Chileasing                 (88.67)         -
Total for 2II                                                              8.0       28.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                               26.7      148.4
/  This table lncludes leasing companies that were operating in Chile as of October 1988.
b/ New start-up operation.
9l 197 leasing volumes.
5.         In Chile the corporate tax climate is favorable.   The corporate
tax rate for leasing companies is the same as for any other corporation,
specifically a flat rate of 1OZ; but effective January 1989, this rate only
applies to dividends that have been declared and distributed. Hence, there
are no tax distortions relating to leasing companies vis-a-vis other types
of companies.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
6.       The accounting policies and standards pursued in Chile vis-a-vis
leasing companies are consistent with those pursued in most other
countries.
7.       The Growth of the Industry and its Impact on Financing Needs.  The
positive regulatory framework for leasing and the generally favorable
investment climate suggest that leasing volumes will continue to grow at
least at historical rates (about 202 per annum). Such growth can only be
maintained if the leasing companies have access to a wide range of funding
sources. A number of sensitivity analyses have been undertaken to assess
the impact of the growth of leasing volumes on the financing requirements
of the two largest leasing companies.1 Based on the most likely leasing
volume growth assumptions, and on assumptions regarding the maximum
utilization of domestically available credit from the banking and bond
markets, a total financing gap for each company has been determined. The
total financing gap for the two leasing companies is about US$300 million
for the cumulative period of 1990 through 1993. If this model were
extended to the entire industry, the financing gap would be approximately
US$350-400 million. The assumptions underlying the financing model are
shown in the tables below for each of the two leasing companies:
Assumptions for Proiections
Leasing   Leasing
Andino Santiago
Annual Growth in volume of Leasing Contracts (Z)                  20    40-20(*)
Profitability of Leasing Co. (Profits/Assets) (2)                  2         2
Reinvestment Rate of Profits (Z)                                  70        70
2 of Banks' Capital that can be lent by Local Banks                3         3
2 of Leasing Co.'s Capital that can be lent by AFP & Ins. Co.  240         240
Annual Increase in Local Banks' Capital (2)                        5          6
(*) Forty percent during the first two years and 202 afterward.
11 Full accounting information is only available for these two companies.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
Annex Table IV.2a: LEASING ANDINO
(USS million)
Volume of            Total    Total             Bank        Gap as a x
Leasing              Debt     Debt    Bonds   Loans          of Total
Contract   Capital  Limit      Req.    Limit   Limit   Gap  Debt Req.
1990       109       12      175     110       28      56       25      23
1991       131       14      206     132       33      59       40      30
1992       157       16      243     159       39      62       57      36
1993       189       19      287     191       46      66       79      42
Annex Table IV.2b: LEASING SANTIAGO
CUSS million)
Volume of            Total    Total             Bank        Gap as a 2
Leasing             Debt      Debt    Bonds   Loans         of Total
Contract   Capital  Limit      Req.    Limit   Limit   Gap  Debt Req.
1990        55        5       73      56       12      56        0       0
1991        87        6       93      90       15      59       16      18
1992       104        8      117     108       19      62       27      25
1993       125       10      147     129       23      65       58      45



Anw-v
Pae. 1 of 2
WRILE
FIIWICIAL MARRUTS LOAN
The Structure of the Proposed Closed-End Mutual Funds.
1.       The proposed closed-end mutual funds differ from the existing
open-end mutual funds in that they would each be of a fixed size. An open-
end mutual fund must stand ready to redeem directly an investor's stake in
the fund and hence must carry a significant volume of liquid assets in its
portfolio. Pension funds currently cannot invest in them on the grounds
that these funds typically purchase instruments that the pension funds can
invest in directly themselves. Purchasers would buy a participation in the
closed-end fund which must be sold in the financial market if the
redemption of the investment is required. Closed-end funds do not
therefore have to stand ready to redeem investments made in them and hence
they would be able to invest in longer-term, less liquid securities. The
pension funds should be allowed to purchase participations in them because
the closed-end funds would invest in a range of assets that currently
pension funds are not permitted to buy directly.
2.       The table below compares the structure of the three types of
proposed closed-end funds with that of the existing open-end funds.
Annex Tble V.1: TLE SURUCTURE OF DIVESTN FUNDS
Open-end -------Closed-end Fund ---------
Fund    Securities Risk Capital Roal Estate
1. Manaement Conoony
1.1  Obligatory existency yes                    Yee        ys         yes
1.2  Exclusiv, activity                yes       yes        ye          yes
1.8  Multiple Fund managemnt           you       ye         yo         yes
1.4  Mixed open/closed Fund mnagnment    no      no         no          no
1.5  Individual ownership limit        1s66      sex       8us         810
1.6  Minium capital UF (66O)           18        16         16          16
2. Investment Fund Size
2.1 No. of participants
o months                        200
C years                                   166 if     16s/      166 1/
2.2 Asset value UF (6G6)
6 months                        18
1 yer                                     10         16         10
2.3  Maximum individual holding        no
1 year                          limit    26X         2ex        206
2.4 Tolerance period (days)
Item 2.1                        66        166        180        166
Ited 2.2                        60        1890       180        18
Item 2.8                        none      186        180        180
8. Investor Reoresentation
8.1  Supervisory board                 no        yes        ys         ye
8.2  Annual meeting                    no        y e        yea        ye
8.8  Special meeting                   no        yes        ye          you



ANOX v
Pag 2 of 2
Aa. Tablp V.:  SM UCIE OF DW1EME fU"S (c.ntd)
Open-end --------- Closed-nd Funds-
Fund    Securities  Risk Capital Real Estate
4. Authorized Investments
4.1   Treasury Instrument. /                   ye         y e*          ye           yY
4 2   Central  Bank lnstrum_nto k              yes        y"s           y"s           ye
4.0   Bank and NBFI instrusents
CDs and ailar lO                      yeeo yes                  Y"           Y"
Bills or notes                        ys          y"            yes          ye
4.4   Corporate bonds S/                       yes        yes           y"            yes
4.6   Commercial paper c/                      y"         y'            y"            y"
4.6   Open company shnree S/                   yes        y"s           ys            y
4.7   Open-end Fund unit.                      no         y"            ys            yeo
4.8   Closed-end Fund unite                    ...         no           no            no
4.9   Other publicly offered Instruments S_  yes          yes           y"s           y
4.10  Other Instruments authorized by SVS    ...           no           yes           no
4.11 Securities or Instrument.
not registered with SNS               no          no            y"           no
4.12  Urban real estate                        no         no            no            ye */
4.18  Mortgags I/                              no         no            no            ye- El
4.14  Shares of Fund man_agment comanies    no             no           no            no
4.16 Shares of pension fund
management companies                   ...        no            no            no
4.16 Securities lssued or
guaranted by management compnies   no E           no            no           no
5.    Investment Limits
5.1 On asset value (3) y
Individual lssuer                                                            If 10  10  10
Croup related Issuers                  ...        25            25           26
5.2   On lisuer capital (X)
Listed company                        10          10            10           10
Unlisted company                       O          e             40            0
6.8   On issuer assots for all securities
lssued or guaranteed by respective
invetee company
Listed company                      1O          1O            10           10
Unlisted company                     O           0            40            a
6.   Profit Distribution
MiniAmu distribution of annual
profit as defined In respective low   IWX          eex           80X          Sax
Not regulated in applicable low.
/  None of th-e  190 qualifying partilipant. may hold mere then Ib ot the participation
certificates of tho respective fund, nor less then the equivalent of 109 UF (USS2,00).
t/ Issued or guaranteed by the respective entity.
Sl Authorized and registered by SVS for public otffrlng.
f Issued by banks, NFIu or insurance companies.
El Aggregate lnvestOent. In items 4.12 and 4.18 must be equivalent to *t least S0t of
fund assets In the second year of operations and te at least NO thereof as of the third
year of operations.
El Prohibition to lnvest In securitie  or Instruments lssued or gwuarnted by companies
holding over 20X of management company shares.
j   Limit. for closed-end fund  are applicable only after six mnths from date of
estabilhment of the respective fund.



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 6
CHILE
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
Proiections of Pension Funds' Portfolio Investments
1.       This Annex quantifies the shift in the pattern of pension funds'
investments, and hence in Chilean financial intermediation in general, that
would be brought about by the change in the regulations governing the
pension funds' portfolios. The projections are based on a set of
assumptions relating t3 the growth in supply of particular types of asset.
Two cases are compared: first the evolution in investment patterns without
a change in regulations; second, the evolution with a change irs
regulations.
A.  Proiections of Pension Funds' Investments Without ChanRes in Regulations
2.       Assumptions
The existing regulations pertaining to the -ension funds' investments,
underlying the assumptions below, are described in Annex II
(a) Investment in equities of "open, companies reached Ch$72,049
million on December 31, 1988, representing 8.1X of pension funds'
investments on that date. This represented an investment in nine
equities approved by the Risk Classification Commission. Given
the restrictive requirements--established by DL 3500--for
companies willing to sell equity to the pension funds, it is not
expected that many new companies will decide to submit themselves
to investment by the pension funds. Thus, it would be expected
that the ceiling for investments in 1989 would reach at most 1O0
of the pension funds investments on the basis of adding only two
additional companies to the pension funds' investment options.
(b) The projection of investment in equities for the next 10 years was
made assuming that the most restrictive ceiling is given by the
companies' equity (i.e., an pension fund cannot purchase more than
5Z of any one company's equities), and that this will grow at a
real annual rate of 5  during the next 10 years.
(c) The projection of Pension Funds' investments in new bond issuances
was made assuming that issuances grow at a real annual rate of 10%
and that the pension funds hold the same share of outstanding
bonds as they did on December 31, 1988.
(d) Investment in mortgage securities is assumed to be kept constant
in real terms in view of the likely limited growth of equity in
the commercial banks. Equity will hardly grow in the next few
years because of the banks' commitment to buy back their
portfolios sold to the Central Bank.



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 6
3.       Results
(a) Under the above assumptions, investment in equities, which stood
at 8.12 of pension fund investments in 1988: will decrease to a
level of 6.5Z by 1998.
(b) Investment in bonds will decrease from 6.42 in December 1988 to
4.62 in 1998.
(c) Mortgage securities representing 21.6Z of pension funds in
December 1988 would only represent 6.0Z in 1998.
(d) Within this context, the remaining funds would have to be
channeled into Goverrment securities and deposits in financial
institutions. Investment in deposits, as well as investment in
mortgage securities, could be limited by the restriction on the
banks' equity. Investment in Government securities would be
l.-uited by the availability of such securities.
(e) By 1998 it would be necessary to invest in Government securities
up to the maximum possible point where they reach 502 of pension
funds' investments. Investment in banks or financial institutions
would reach 32.9Z of the pension funds' investments.
(f) Annex Table VII.1 summarizes the investment diversification of
pension funds as of December 1988 and December 1998. Annex Table
VII.2 shows the time path of each category of investments in
Chilean pesos.
Given the constraints noted above, the 1998 outcome may not be
feasible or desirable on diversification grounds.
Annex Table VI.l: PENSION FUND INVESTMENT PROJECTIONS
(Percentage shares of total investment)
Deposits
Government       v/ Fin.         Mortgage
Year     Securities        Instit.       Securities      Equities      Bonds
1988       35.4             28.5             21.6           8.1         6.4
1998       50.0             32.9              6.0           6.5         4.6



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 6
Annex Table VI.2a PENSION FMND INVESTMENT PROJECTIONS
(Ch$ million December 1988)
Total Pension Fund
Investments    Government   Deposits w/    Mortgage
Year   Dec. each Yr.   Securities   Fin. Instit.  Securities  Equities  Bonds
1988        891,729        315,784       254,370      192,36P     72.049    57.157
1989      1,103,735        371,818       366,301      192,369    110,374    62,873
1990      1,302,063        440,119       481,763      192,369    118,652    69,160
1991      1,504,642        551,928       556,718      192,369    127,551    76,076
1992      1,717,538        668,879       635,489      192,369    137,117    83,684
1993      1,941,146        791,100       718,224      192,369    147,401    92,052
1994      2,175,883        918,724       805,077      192,369    158,456   101,257
1995      2,422,107      1,051.835       896,180      192,369    170,340   111,383
1996      2,680,327      1,190,600       991,721      192,369    183,116   122,521
1997      2.951,001      1,373.565    1,053,444       192,369    196,850   134,773
1998      3,234,589      1,617,295    1,065,061       192,369    211,613   148,251
B.  Prolections of Pension Funds' Investments with Changes in Regulations
4.       Assumptions
The changes in regulations governing the investments of the
pension funds, and underlying the assumptions below, are described in Annex
II.
(a) The investment ceiling on equities that adjust their statutes to
DL 3500 is expanded from 5 to 72 of the pension funds' investments
or 72 of the shares of the issuing company, whichever is less.
(b) The projection for investments in equities is based on the
assumption that the most restrictive limit is that relating to the
investment in the issuing company's equity (72 of shares) and that
equities as a whole grow at a real annual rate of 52 during the
next .0 years.
(c) The ceiling on equity investments traded at the stock market,
whose statutes were not adjusted to DL 3500, is set at 1O0 of
pension fund's assets. Analyzing the sample of open stock
companies that trade their equity in the stock market,
approximately 17 companies comply with the restrictions of
presence and risk classification. This results in a potential
investment, as of December 31, 1988, of Ch$62 billion, which, on
that date, represented 72 of the pension funds' investments. It
is expected that the pension funds will reach, in the shortest
possible time, their investment ceilings in these companies.
Additionally, a potential investment of Ch$25 billion has been
considered, which originates from companies that, although
complying with the Risk Classification Commir ion, do not meet the



AhNEX VI
Page 4 of 6
restriction of presence. The investment projection for these
equities was made assuming a growth in companies' eruities issues
at an annual rate of it. It was considered that the 12 ceiling on
the purchase by pension funds of the issuance of equity by an
individual company would be the most restrictive.
(d) It is assumed that new bond issuance now grows at a real rate of
152 reflecting the simplified issuance procedures and the greater
use of bond guarantees that would be encouraged by the Financial
Markets Loan.
(e) The investment in mortgage securities falls progressively to an
approximate level of Ch$154 billion. Here it is assumed that
endorsable mortgages could replace approximately 202 of current
mortgage securities, and that the pension funds maintain their
share in this market.
(f) From the 302 limit on total equities investment, it is projected
that approximately 102 will be invested in sbares adjusting their
statutes to DL 3500, and another 102 in shares not adjusting their
statutes. This would leave a remaining balance of approximaately
102 that could be invested in Real Estate Companies' equity. It
is projected, however, that the margin on Real Estate Companies'
equity be reached gradually, from 12 of pension funds, investments
in 1989 to 52 in 1993. That percentage is held constant from then
on.
(g) The establishment of the closed-end mutual funds is a
comparatively simple process, so it is projected that the
utilization of the available quota will take place very rapidly.
Considering the wide variety of investment options open to these
funds, the total use of the assigned quota during the projection
period is assumed. Accordingly, the first investment in these
funds would take place in 1990.
(h) It is anticipated that investment in commercial notes will
increase rapidly once they become available as an investment
option for the pension funds. They will become an important
alternative option to deposits with banks.
5.       Results
(a) Investment in equity of companies that adjust their statutes will
remain broadly constant as a share of total pension funds'
investments (at around 82).
(b) Shares traded in the market that do not adjust their statutes to
DL 3500 will grow to represent about 4.4? of pension funds'
investments in 1998.



ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 6
(c)  Investment in bonds will increase from 6.42 in 1988 to 7.12 of
total pension fund investments.
(d)  Mortgage securities, which represented 21.62 of the Funds in
December 1988, will decrease their participation in pension funds'
investments to 4.8Z in 1298.
(e)  pension funds' investments in Real Estate Companies will initially
represent only 12 of their total investments and reach 52 in 1998.
(f)  Investment in units of closed-end mutual funds will represent 12
of the total pension fund investments in 1990 and reach 102 in
1992, maintaining that percentage from then on during the
projection period.
(g)  Investment in commercial notes initially represents 52 of pension
funds' investments in 1990, reaching 102 in 1994 and maintaining
that level from then on.
(h)  Within this context, the remaining funds have to be channeled
toward Government securities and deposits in banks and financial
institutions. Investment in banks and financial institutions is
kept at 26.72 of pension funds' investments and so investments in
Government securities will reach 23.92 in 1998.
(i)  Annex Table VII.3 summarizes the investment diversification of
pension funds as of December 1988 and December 1998. Annex Table
VII.4 shows the time path of each category of investment in
Chilean pesos.
Anne Table V!.8: PENSION FUND -iESTMENT PROJECTIONS
(Pereents simhar  of total lnvestmnt)
Deposlto           Equities    Equlties   Equities of     Closed-
Govt. Se- w/ Fin.  Mortgage  w/ Adjust.  w/o Adjust.  Real Es-.teo   End  Commercial
Year  curities  Instlt.  Securities  Statutes   statute  Companies  Bonds  Funds   Notes
1988    85.4    28.5      21.6       6.1        -           -       6.4      -      -
1998    28.9    26.7       4.8       8.1        4.4         5.0     7.1    10    'O



ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 6
Aasan Table WAt:  USI RWM D4VU4V V86.B!W
(QS million n-    r 198)
Tota I
Pension Fund           Deposits                 Equity w/ Equity w/o  Equity of         Closed-
Investents     Got.       */Fin.    Mortgage  AdJuatment Adjustment  Real Estate          End  Coaverci-l
Year (Dec. each yr.) Securities Inatitut. Securities  Statutes   Statutes    Companies  Bonds Funds   Notes
1988       891.72    815,784   254.d70   192.369      72.049                             57,157
1989    1.108,785    848,878   287.384    I8, S4 186,122         66,4S5       11.037    6s.780
1990    1,302.048    460.410   824.718   133.973    147,420      71,S02       19.831    75,590  18.021  66.103
1991    1.504, 42    423,051   866,890   178.918    186.485      77.719       44,159    85,928  76.232  90,279
1992    1,717,588    894,098   414,626   175.9U4    170.841      4A,714       68,702      s,s957  171,754 137,403
1998    1.941,148    444.284   403,538   172,060    18.1I29      92,338       97.067   114.963 194,115 174.702
1994    2.1756,s8    504.415    29.49S   168.268    19.u888    100,648        108,794   182,207 2175618 217,588
1995    2.422.107    580.201   5s8,484   164,t50    221,651    109,700        121.105   182,088 242,211 242,211
1996    2.680.827    650.998   676,384   160.919    227,52S    1195,80        184,016   174,844 268.0s8  268.035
1997    2.951,001    715.204   764.876   157.658    244,590    180,842        147.550   2D1.071 295.100 295.100
1998    8.284.569    771,615   864,198   153,895    262.934    142.072        161,729   231,231 328,45o9 828459



ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 5
CH=L
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
The Structure and Financial Position of CORFO
1.       Structure and Operations.  CORFO, Chile's National Development
Bank, was established in 1939 as an autonomous institution responsible for
promoting the development of productive activities in Chile. CORFO has
three primary functions. It serves as a holding company for affiliated
state-owned companies in which the Government may hold full or partial
ownership.  In this capacity, CORFO also serves as a transitory owner to
transfer state-owned assets to the private sector.  It serves as a source
of development finance through the injection of equity funds and through
the provision of loans and guarantees to support investment projects that
increase national production. Finally, it supports research and
development (R&D) projects in specific sectors by managing a number of
public R&D centers and by granting funds to the industrial sector.
2.       The Board of Directors of CORFO by law is entrusted with the
management of the organization. The Board consists of members of the
Ministries of Finance, Economy and Planning, a representative from the
President of Chile's office and the Executive Vice President (CEO) of
CORFO. The organizational structure of CORFO is established according to
its respective business groups: management of affiliated companies,
development finance operations and R&D institutions. The role of CORFO in
providing development funds would be expanded to include the channelling of
funds--as a second-tier institution--to leasing companies.
3.       Financial Position.  Assets of CORFO's development lending
operations (including provisions for doubtful accounts) increased from
US$423.8 million in 1985 to US$463.5 million in 1988. While this
represented an increase from 12 to 17.4Z of total assets from 1985 to 1988,
much of this relative increase reflects decreases in the relative size of
CORFO's investment in affiliated companies.  During the period 1985 to
1988, development loans in arrears decreased from 502 of total development
loans (before provisions) to 33.6Z. Further, the level of provisions
increased from 16.72 of development loans (before provisions) in 1985 to
21.2Z in 1988. While the increase in provisioning indicates str.cager
coverage, it is also symptomatic of the maintenance of loans in CORFO's
books that the institution has been reluctant to write-off.
4.       The profitability of CORFO's development lending operations
between 1986 and 1988 was poor, as provisions for bad loans more than
offset net interest income and resulted in significant losses. Despiti a
12.4Z increase in the U.S. dollar amount of CORFO's development lending
portfolio (after provisions), interest revenues remained relatively flat,
increasing from US$50.5 million in 1986 to US$53.7 million in 1988. This
primarily reflects lost revenues due to nonperforming loans. Further, the
cost of funds (before provisioning) increased from US$29.6 million in 1986
to US$35 million in 1988. In this way, spreads were squeezed for CORFO



A MNEX VII
Page 2 of 5
during this period. Finally, provisions for doubtful accounts decreased
net income from development lending by US$34.3 million, US$60.7 million and
US$47.5 million in 1986, 1987, and 1988, respectively.
5.       To improve the quality of new loans, facilitate growth in lending
activity, and adhere to the Government's commitment to minimize the
intrusion of public entities into the private markets, COREO has gradually
shifted its development lending activities from first- to second-tier
operations between 1986 to 1988. In March 1989, first-tier operations have
been reduced to approximately 171 of new loans and are expected to decrease
to 52 in 1990.
6.       Beyond CORPO's development lending activity, the institution has
decreased its investment in affiliated companies from US$2,725 million in
1985 to US$1,386 million in 1988 (including provisions for doubtful
accounts), a decrease of approximately 492. These investments have thus
fallen from 77.42 of total assets in 1985 to 52.41 in 1988. This reduction
has been achieved primarily by auctioning these companies to the private
sector. While large book losses have resulted from many of these
transactions, some of the cash flow from sales has been transferred back to
the Treasury. In this way, it remains uncertain what the Government's
intention is for CORFO's future level of leverage. CORFO projections
indicate that it will receive significant increases in assets of affiliated
companies in 1989 but will continue its program of asset sales, gradually
relieving itself of many of these newly acquired assets.
7.       Through the proposed institutional mechanism for the leasing line,
the Bank will be encouraging CORFO to conduct a greater p;-oportion of its
business as a second-tier institution. At the same time, the Bank is
supporting conditionality set out in a parallel credit line operation from
IDB to reduce the share of loans in default (as a percentage of total
development loans) from 20S at present to 12S by June 1990 and 10 by
December 1990.



ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 5
CHILECa90= 
CORfO Balance Sheets
By Major Activities
(MilII.on of Curreant US$)
ASSETS                             5 of Assets
1935      01 19U7 19         66 19      35t"   1966  1967  196
DEVELOPMENT LENDING                   *23.0    412.8    4.    443.5          12.0  U.3  14.3 17.4
Dov-lolpUt Loans-LT /s                62.4     61.3     76.4    62.1        2.3  1.7  2.0  3.1
Oevolo.pet Loans-LT /b               172.1    241.0   272.0   806.4         4.9  6.6  P.0 11.6
DOvolopst Loans-MAT /c              254.1    203.1    16.8   197.6          7.2  6.6  0.2  7.4
Provisions for Doubtful Acets.       (64.6)    (93.1)  (103.1)  (124.6)    (2.4) (2.6) (8.4) (4.7)
INVESTIf  S IN COMPANISS            2,726.4  2,692.9  1,566.1  1886.5        77.4  73.o  04.4  52.2
Corps. and Partoorehtpe           1,716.5  1,606.7  1,360.7   2J9.6        46.7 49.5 46.5  10.9
Cepoies to be Sold                  922.9     72.7    440.0   942.2        26.2  21.7  14.5  315.
Due froM Sales of Aft Co's -ST /a    13.9       14.5    30.6    31.6         0.4  0.4   1.0  1.2
DuO  from Soles of Aff Co's.-LT /b    54.4     04.1    906.    128.J        1.5  1.6  8.2  4.6
Duo from Sales of Aft Co's.-MAT/c     41.8      27.1    29.5    20.6         1.2  0.7   1.0  0.6
Provislons for Doubt Wl ofet.       (22.6)    (12.1)   (20.9)   (19.6)     (0-6) (0.3) (0.7) (0.7)
RESEAOCH AND DEVELOPMENT OaPRATIONS     19.1     1O.8    16.7    21.9         0.5  0.4  0.6  0.6
RID and Dew. Projects                 24.1      20.6    27.4    26.1         0.7  0.7   0.9  1.0
Lees: Accumulated Oep.              (0.6)     (4.0)    (5.9)    (1.0)     (0.0) (0.1)  0.2) (0.1)
Curent Period De.             (4.2)     (6.4)    (4.6)    (2.5)     (0.1) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1)
TRANSORT SECTOR LOANS                  125.5    112.S   106.6   112.3         8.6  3.1   8.5  4.2
Trsnsort Sector Loons-ST /o           31.4     16.2    19.6    16.$         0.9  0.4  0.6  0.7
Transport Sectr Loans-LiT /b           2.6      79.3    02.2    57.6        2.8  2.2   2.0  2.2
Transport Secor Loons-MAT /c          58.1     63.6    ??.7    92.8          1.5  1.7   2.0  8.5
Provisions for Doubtful Aceto.       (41.7)   (47.0)   (52.6)  (CO.O)       (1.2) (1.3) (1.7) (2.1)
ALL OT0  ASSTS                         226.2    414.7   522.0   072.4          6.4  11.4  17.2  25.8
CASH                                    13.6       7.1    14.1    12.1         0.5. 0.2   0.5   0.5
Poeo*                                 16.0       2.S      3.7     4.6    -  0.4  0.1   0.1  0.2
Foreign Currecy                        8.7       4.8    10.4       7.5       0.1   0.1  0.8  0.8
OTE FIANCIAL ASETS                     174.1    846.8   844.6   849.9          4.9  9.5  11.4  13.2
Sends and Prom. Notes-ST /a           11.0     169.9   13.7   173.0         0.8  5.2  6.0  6.5
Notes Receioble-ST /a                  4.7       9.7    18.1    41.7        0.1   0.8  0.4  1.6
VUaries Debtor-ST /a                   0.6       2.9    17.0    16.2         0.0  0.1   0.6  0.0
Inventories-ST /a                     0.2        0.2     0.2      0.1       0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Bonds and Prom. Notes-LT /b           84.2      87.1    36.9    82.9         1.0  1.0  1.2  1.2
Notes RecelvebloLT /b                 59.3      5.6    54.6       54.2       1.7  1.5  1.6  2.0
Notes Roelvsbloe-t /c                 68.5      $1.9    70.8    41.5         1.6  1.4  2.3  1.0
Misc. Prow for Doubtful Accte. /d                       (30.9)    (9.6)                 (1.0) (0.4)
FIXED ASSETS                            27.5     $1.3    41.1    41.2         0.6  0.9  1.4  1.6
Land and Suildings                 * 20.2      21.6    27.5    29.1         0.6  0.6  0.9  1.1
Machinery, Equip. A Vehicles          10.6     14.1    19.2    21.1         0.8  0.4  0.6  0.6
other Properties                       1.8       1.2      1.6     1.0       0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1
Losst Aeu-multed Dep.               (8.8)     (4.0)    (5.0)    (7-6)     (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
Current Ported Dp.            (1.5)     (1.6)    (1.6)    (2.9)     (0.0) (0.0) (0.1) (0.1)
OTHER ASSETS                             5.6      31.0   122.0   269.2        0.2  0.6  4.0  10.1
Assete for Sle                      22.0     31.3    70.1    43.7         0.6  0.9  2.8  1.6
Less: Allowanc for Led Debts       (45.7)    (31.2)   (16.7)    (9.7)     (1.3) (0.9) (0.6) (0.4)
Trens f.r to Ntional Tresery        20.6      26.5    69.0   22W..        0.6  0.7  2.3  6.0
Exch Dif duo from C.t. Senk          6.5       8.1      1.3      1.8      0.2  0.1  0.0  0.0
Miscel lan                           0.4.      1.6      0.8     1.8        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Other Asset. Minus Tr to Treasry   (14.6)        5.5    53.0    41 5        (0.4)  0.2  1.7  1.6
TOTAL ASSETS                         3,520.0  3,046.6  8,036.9 2,656.6    100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0



ANNEX Vil
Page 4ofi 5
COllfO
COWOo SIine Sh eta
y Majeor ActivitIes
(Millions of Curer"t US)
LIAOILITIES                         3 of Liabilitles
1065      1908     167      103               am 919"   19i l
Current Liabilitios                     64.6      182.0   204.4   2C0.7        18.8  12.1  17.0  22.1
Foreign Debt                          85.6   ;0.6   104.0    116.4            7.8   1.2   6.  10.2
Domestic Debt                         26.6       71.0     04.5    180.8       6.4   6.5   7.0  U.S
Ndteg c nd Aecounte Payable            2.2        8.1      5.6      4.0       0.5   0.8   0.3  0.4
Advance  frem Rea I Eatae to as         0.1       0.81     0.0      0.2       0.1   0.0   0..   0.0
Loan-tern LieblIItie                   428.9      95.9    9 .2    *63.4         6.7  37.9 0    .0 n.o
Foreign Debt                         aJJ.u      886.0     118.1    624.9     36.1 80.7  74.8  72.0
Domesle Debt                          67.4    623.0   105.1        60.6      17.9   t.2   6.7   6.8
TOTAL UAMLLTIS                         463.9   1,00..  1,202.6  1,186.1       190.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
5RIITt                           3 Of  eAftoo
am        am"       owi       mS       i9n    Iom   i667  am"
.~         ~                          .                                  -
equity                                U,181.0   2,769.6  2,409.7  1,660.8       60.0  76.0 61.8  62.7
Capital                             2,940.8   2,71.0  8,044.2  8,078.6        60.7  01.4 100.2 116.7
Resrveos Revaluation of Asts          4165.3   174.0    1J8.9    106.6        4.7   4.1  6.1   7.4
Other Reserves              110.4    (190.7)  (260.1)  (27f.O)       a.1  (2.J) (1.0)(10.4)
Reteine  Earnlngs                      15.7     (6n-4)  (827.6)(1,029.9)       0.4  (2.4)(10.6)(3.7"
Cur. Yr. Tr. to Not. Treasury                   (92.6)  (171.0)  (293.2)            (2.5) (.7)(11.2)
Net Income                             (100.7)   (220.7)  (686.4)  (146.6)      (2.0) (0.0)(20.0) (5.1)
Curret Year Income                   (102.2)   (217.6)  (626.    (140.7       (2.9) (0.0) (20.7) (1.6)
Ajuetfoe  to previos revults            1.1      (2.9)    (6.       0.9        0.0  (0.1) (0.2)  0.0
TOTAL IStTY                           81,081.2   2,649.1  1,684.8  1,620.6      66.1  06.9 00.4  57.2
TOTAL LABILUTIES AND EQUlTY           8,620.0   8,046.1  8,086.9  2,660.6     100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
!/ Short-term.
ki Long-term.
eI Mature, nonperforming.
/J Not explained In notes to financial statements



ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 5
CHILK
CONrO Income Statesste
By  oajr Susises Aqctivities
(millens of Current USJ)
X of Assen t             of Equity
196 1S67 1"93 1? 197 11                          1930  1I"7   19*0
MANACEMENT OF AFFILIATED EHTERPRISES
Gains                            232.1  134.6  162.0   1  6.0   4.2   7.3             .7    7.0  13.7
Losses                           (2n.1)(102 0) (1t 7)  I  (0.7) (3.2) (0.6)  I   (1.1)  (5.8)  (1.5)
Subsidies                         (1.4)  (2.6)  (1 .0)  I  (0.0) (0 1) (0 1)  1   (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1)
Interest Paid (111SA)            (51.4) (U. 7) (49.S)  I  (1.8) (1. ) (2.0)  1   (1.9)  (3.1)  (3.7)
Sub-total                       150.4  (23.7) 112.0   !   3.9  (0.9)  4.5          5.6   (1.5)  .'.4
CEVELOPMS4T FINANCE                                        I                      I
Intereet Earned                   50.6   52.0   53.7        1.3   1.6   2.1         1.9    2.6    4.0
Intereet Paid                    (29.6) (32.9) (35.0)  1  (0. ) (1.0) (1.4)  1   (1. 1)  (1. )  (2.6)
Proevsieoe for Doubtful Accte.  (34.3) (60 7) (47.5)       (0. 9) (1. 9) (1.9)  |   (1.8)  (3.2)  (3.6)
Sub-total                       (13.1) (40.8) (26.6)       (0. 3) (1.3) (1.2)  |   (0.5)  (2.1)  (2.2)
TRANSORTERS PORTFOIo                                       I                      I
Interest Earne                     3.0    5.2    5.4   1  0.1   0.2   0.2   I   0.1    0.3    0.4
tnteret Peld                      (6.0) (14 0) (12.5)  1  (0 2) (0 4) (0.5)         ( 3)    .7)  (0.9)
Provisions fer Coubtful Acete.  (10.4) (14.2)  (6 .)  I  (0 .) (0.4) (0.)           (0.4)   0.7)  (0.5)
Sub-total                       (16.4) (23.0) (13.6)  !  (0.4) (0 7) (0 ')  !   (0.6)  (1.2)  (1.0)
RESEARCH Ab  DEVELOPHENT OPETIONS                          |
Receipts from Sales                0.9    2.7    1.0   1  0.0   0.1   0.0   j   0.0    0.1    0.1
Costa of Seles                     (4.5)  (0. 1)  (3.9)       (0. 1) (0.2) 0.2)     (0 2)  (0.3)  (0.3
Aeortiatiotn of 5tudles/Prej.    (6.7)  (5. )  (2.6)  1  (0.2) MR )0. 1)  I   (0.3)  (0 3)  (O.2)
Interest Paid                     (0. 5)  (0. 3)  (0.4)  I  (0.0) (0 0) (0 0)       (0.0)  (0.0)  (O
Sub-total                       (10 .)  (9.0)  (5.9)  |  (0.3) (0 3) (0.2)         (0.4)  (0.5)  (0.4
ASSET SALES                                                                      i
Reoelpte from eSles                4.5   10.0  40.0   I  4.1   0.3   1 9            0.2    0.6    3.6
Coate of Sales                    (4.1) (17.6) (54.2)  1  (O 1) (0. 6) (2.2)        (0.2)  (0. 9)  (4.1)
Reserve for Doubtful Aeete.        (2.6)   1.2    0.2   I  (0.1)  0 0    0 0        (0.1)   0.1    0.0
Interest Received                  6.5    7.7    5. I6  0.2   0.2   0.2   I   0.2    0.4    0.4
Sub-total                         4.2    1.3   (0.5)  !  0.1   0.0  (0.0)          0.2    0.1   (0.0)
OTHER FINANCIAL OPERATtONS                                 i
Interest Earnd                    15.6   42.1   22.3        0.4   1.3   0.9         0.6    2.2    1.7
Interest Paid                     (4.6)  (.4)  (7.0)  1  (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)  I   (0.2)  (0.3)  (0.5)
Provisins for Doubtful Acets.   (1.)  (0 1)  (0.1)  I  (0.0) (0.0) (0.0)  1   (0.0)  (0.0)  (0.0)
Sub-total                         9.8   36.6   11.2   1  0.3   1.1   0.6           0.4    1.9    1.1
Sub-Total                        125.1  (63.6)  76.4   1  3.3  (2.0)  3.1 1         4.7   (3.3)   5.9
Adeinitrative Cesto              (13. ) (17.4) (19.0)  |  (0.4) (0. ) (0 7)  t   (0.5)  (0.9)  (1.4)
Depreciation                       (1.O)  (2.1)  (4.0)  l  (0.0) (0. 1) (0.2)       (0. 1)  (0. 1)  (0.3)
Operational Result             110.0  (6.2)  56.3         2.9  (2.6)  2.3         4.1   (4.3)   4.2
Misc Entries                       2.2   79.4    1.1        0.1   2.5   0.0   1   0.1    4.1    0.1
Adjuetes te frfe  Prew.  aere.    (3 1)  (1.7)   2.7   I  (0.1) (0.1)  0.1   I   (0.1)  (0.1)   0.2
Moentary Cerroetien              (0. 1) (79.7)  50.4   1  (2.1) (2.5)  2.4   1   (3.0)  (4.2)   4.5
Sub-total                        29.1  (35 1) 119.5   I  0.9  (2.6)  4.8 0         1.1   (4.4)   9.0
SALE OF AfrILIATiO 6WRISIS
Receipts from $ale               1. 6  302.0  466.5         4.3   6.4  19.6   I   0.9   15.3   37.2
Coast  of Sales                 (450. 9)(0. 1)(? .43    I (11.7)(23 0)(30:5)       (16.9) (47.0) (7.3 )
Reserve for Doubtful Acete.        1.3  (11.4)  (.1 I    0.1  (0.4) (0.3)           0.1   (0.6)  (0.6)
interest Received                         6.1    9.3 P            0.3   0.4                0.4    0.7
Intercst Pald                     (1.1)  (2.9)  (3.2)      (0 0) (0. 1) (0.1)  1   (0.0)  (0.2)  (0.2)
Sub-total                      (263.1)(604.2)(2.7)     (8 9)(19.S)(10O)            (9.9) (31.6) (20.3)
MET INCOME                         (284.0)(36.4)(160.2)      (0.1)(21.4) (6.0)  1   ( 7) (36.0) (11.3)
Source:  CORFO published Annual Reports (Bxlence Sheets), prellminary Annual Report (1989). and Internal
Financial Reports (Incom  Stateents).  The order of the accounts has been restruetured to group
assets according to buainess areas. Provisions havo been allocated according to notes to the
financial statements.  Income statement figure  do not exectly reconcile with thos on audited
reports In part due to exchange rate diftrenes.  Differnces also exist In the calculations of
total assets and equity so that the pere ntage  reflect date purely from Internal documnts (in



ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 1
CHILE
FINANCIAL NARXETS LOAN
CORFOs Administrative ArranRements for the LeasinR Line of Credit
This annex contains three documents. Document VIII(a) is the
draft contract between the Bank and CORFO referred to as the 'Operational
Project Agreement." This sets out in more detail the operational aspects
of the legal project agreement.
Document VIII(b) is a draft contract between CORFO and the leasing
companies referred to as the "Operational Supplementary Project Agreemel-."
The eligible leasing companies would sign this contract at the beginning of
the program (or whenever they become eligible and wish to participate in
the auction).
Document VIII(c) is an announcement letter that will be sent by
CORFO to each eligible leasing company prior to the auction. It will
contain specific information relating to a particular auction.



ANNEX VIII (a)
Page 1 of 5
CHILE
FINANCIAL MU?RTS LOAN
LEASING CREDIT LINE
Operational Prolect Aareement Between CORFO and IBRD
I. Ob-ective
1.       The objective of the Project Agreement is to establish the
conditions under which a Leasing Financing Project will be implemented with
financing from the World Bank (IBRD), through a loan component of
US$50 million equivalent provided under the loan in accordance with the
covenants of the Loan Agreement. This Project will be executed by the
Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion (CORFO) and channelled through
private leasing companies that meet the eligibility criteria described
below.
IE. Elitibillty of Intermediaries
2.       The leasing companies willing to participate in the leasing
project must comply with the following requirements:
(a) They must be private stock corporations, with legal existence,
authorized to operate in the country, and be registered with the
Securities and Insurance Superintendency or with the
Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions.
(b) They must have been classified in risk category "Al by two private
risk classification companies registered in the Securities and
Insurance Superintendency or the Banking Superintendency, or, if
it is a newly ixstituted enterprise which is not yet eligible to
receive such classification, it must satisfy such standards of
creditworthiness as are acceptable to the Bank.
III. Use of Proiect Resources
3.       The resources to be used under the project will be utilized for
the purposes set out below:
(a) The project's resources must be used only to finance productive
goods within the country in all activities allowed by law with the
exception of housing, urban development, and any form of
transportation for personal use.
(b) A leasing company cannot finance more than 35? of its indebtedness
with CORFO resources.



ANNEX VIII(a)
Page 2 of 5
IV. Mechanism for Resource AssiRnment
4.       In order to achieve the efficient utilization of Project
resources, CORFO will periodically hold "open-market auctions' of loan
proceeds for eligible leasing companies in accordance with the following
norms and procedures:
(a) Auctions will be carried out at least once every three months and
the date of each auction will be determined by CORFO. If, for any
justified reason, a specific auction cannot be carried out, CORFO
will, in a timely manner, advise the Bank and the eligible leasing
companies of the reasons for the postponement and will set a new
date to carry out the auction.
(b) For each auction, CORFO will determine the redemption terms in
yearly multiples, which cannot be less than one year or more than
10 years. Loans will be repaid in full at maturity. When the
maturitv of leasing contracts does not match the maturity of a
loan, le.ring companies would be required to submit additional
leasing cou..racts to CORFO to match the residual maturity.
(c) Each bid submitted by the leasing company will include interest
rate and redemption terms that are in agreement with those of the
market for this type of activity.
(d) The amounts to be auctioned will be expressed in local currency
readjustable in Development Units (UF) or in US dollars. CORFO
will determine the amount and readjustment mode to be used in the
auction.  The amounts will be drawn in local currency at the
prevailing exchange rate of the Central Bank on the day of the
disbursement of funds.
(e) An Advisory Committee, consisting of one representative each fl3m
CORFO, the Central Bank of Chile, and the Finance Ministry, will
be formed. This Committee will recommend the fiaancial conditions
and the minimum acceptable bid rate (henceforth referred to as the
"leasing interest rate") for each term and readjustment mode
utilizing a methodology satisfactory to the Bank. The leasing
interest rate will not be known to the leasing companies. The
leasing interest rate is defined as the minimum rate below which
bids will not be accepted. Only those bids offering a rate higher
or equal to the leasing rate set for the corresponding term will
be financed through project resources. If there are a number of
acceptable bids, resources will be awarded to the highest bidder.
In instances when the rates offered are identical for the same
maturities in the same currencies, the loan amounts will be pro-
rated according to the amount requested by the leasing companies.
The minimum leasing interest rate would use as its benchmark LIBOR
(for USS) and TIP (for U.F. Pesos) plus CORFO's administrative
charges. In setting this rate, account would also be taken of the
bond market rate for similar term structures.
(f) The respective leasing interest rates will be determined by CORFO
in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank. Under
no circumstances can these rates be lower than CORFO's cost for



ANNEX VII(ta)
Page 3 of 5
IBRD resources, plus a margin to cover its marketing and risk
costs.
(g) CORFO reserves the right to reject a bid proposal because of one
or more of the following reasons:  insufficiently high interest
rate bids, insufficient number of bids, institutional
ineligibility, or any other reason as determined by CORFO. The
IBRD shall be informed accordingly of the reasons for the
rejection of a~ bid proposal.
(h) CORFO reserves the right to suspend an announced auction without a
commitment to inform the leasing companies of the reasons for such
suspension.
V.  Submission of Proposals and ResDonsibilities
of the LeasinR ComDanies
5.       For the awarding of the Project's resources, the participating
leasing companies will sub'mit their proposals through a Bid Letter, which
would contain the followings
(a) The amount requested.
(b) The interest rate offered.
-c) Redemption terms.
(d) Denomination of the readjustment mode (UF pesos or US dollars).
Ce) The commitment that the credit resources will be used to finance
leasing contracts located on national territory and destined to
investments in fixed assets, with periods of usrcul life
consistent with the required terms.
(f) The commitment that the project's resources will only finance
leasing contracts in all legally allowed economic activities, with
the exception of housing and urban development and transportation
for personal use.
(g) Besides those aspects included under eligibility criteria, leasing
companies shall commit themselves to:
Ci)    asume the credit and internal rate of exchange risjk
(exchange rate risk associated with the purchase of foreign
currency for payment of loan funds), and take responsibility
for the use of resources in accordance with these Rules and
Regulations.
(ii)   present to CORFO the original lease contract once this
document is signed between the leasing company and the
subborrower.



ANNEX VIII(a)
Page 4 of 5
(iii)   r.quire that the subborrower supply IBRD and CORFO with all
the information they may require in connection with the
financed contracts and, if necessary, to give them access to
their facilities to undertake inspections.
(h) Not to finance, with the Project's resourcest
(i)   lessees in arrears with CORFO;
(ii)   productive goods whose origins are not from IBRD's member
countries or Switzerland and taiwan, China;
(iii)   productive goods involving unsafe technologies threatening
the environment, public health, and personal safety;
(iv)   purchases of land and buildings;
(v)   working capital;
(vi)   used capital goods entered into the country; and
(vii)   goods previously finaiced under the project and previously
owned by the lessee.
(i) Additionally, leasing companies must:
(i)   Once a year, submit an audit repo:t prepared by the
"Contraloria' certifying the use of funds received from the
Project.
(ii)   Sign a loan agreement within thirty days from the auction
date, and a promissory note on the day the funds are
delivered. Lease contracts submitted to CORPO must not
exceed 90 days prior to the date of the auction.
(iii)   Place a lien, with CORPO as beneficiary, on the rights
deriving from the leasing contracts signed by said companies
(lessor and lessee) with the Project's resources.
(iv)   If there is proof that a leasing company is not complying
with the requirements of these Regulations, the company must
return the loan proceeds to CORFO. The leasing company will,
thereafter, not be eligible to participate in future
auctions under the program.
VI. Acceptance of Bids and Disbursement of Funds
6.       Resources will be awarded to leasing companies (through a written
communication) from CORFO that will notify acceptance of the respective
bid. Resources so allocated will be delivered to the leasing companies
within 35 days from the date of the awarded bid. If the leasing companies
do not sign a loan agreement or have not drawn down the entire principal of



ANNEX VIII(a)
Page 5 of 5
the loan within a period acceptable to the Bank, CORFO will charge a
penalty rate. (The penalty rate will be communicated to the Bank prior to
the first auction). After receiving the leasing contracts from the leasing
companies, CORPO shall disburse funds to the awarded company within five
days.
VII.  Loan SuDervision
7.       Supervision and monitoring of compliance with the clauses and
conditions of the present Regulations will be carried out as follows:
(a) CORFO will, onice every six months, select a representative
sampling of leasing contracts, based on the submissions provided
by the independent auditor.
(b) The size of the sampling will be determined according to the
number of financed contracts. Once the first bid has taken place.
CORFO will present a proposal to the IBRD establishing criteria of
size, periodicity of reporting, and selection of the sampling.
Once approval is obtained from the IBRD, CORFO will initiate the
compilation of data from the contracts comprising the sampling,
with the following objectives:
(i) Verify that the contracts comply with the Project
objectives and that the financed equipment does not involve
environmentally unsafe technologies;
(ii) Review the financial analysis of the contracts.
(iii) Calculate the internal rate of economic return for the
project, ex-ante, at social and market prices.
(c) The results of this analysis, along with other information on the
performance of the loan, will be submitted to the Bank within a
period not exceeding 45 days from the end of the pertinent
evaluation period. The report would also include relevant
recommendations on improving the effectiveness of the loan.
(d) The IBRD, during the first supervision mission of the loan, will
recommend any additional informational requirements and determine
whether additional expertise is needed to assist CORFO with loan
supervision.
VIII. Amendments to the ReRulations
8.       CORFO, as the executing agent for the project, and/or the IBRD can
suggest amendments to these Regulations to adapt them to changing
circumstances or conditions that may arise during implementation. These
amendments would become effective after expressed approval of the parties.
With a view to ensuring that Project implementation complies with IBRD and
Governmental policy guidelines, IBRD and CORFO will, once a year, jointly
review these Regulations.
e 4 



ANNEX VIII(b)
Page 1 of 6
CHILE
FINANCIAL MANRETS LOAN
LEASING CREDIT LINE
Onerational Supplementary Proiect Agreement
Between CORFO and Leasing Companies
I. Obiective
1.       The objective of the present Regulations is to establish the
conditions bet;ween CORFO and the leasing companies under which a Leasing
Financing Project will be implemented with financing from the World Bank
(IBRD), through a loan of US$50 million equivalent granted to the Republic
of Chile. This Project will be executed by the Corporacion de Fomento de
la Produccion (CORFO) and channelled through private leasing companies that
meet the eligibility criteria described below.
II. Eligibility of Intermediaries
2.       The leasing companies willing to participate in the leasing
project must comply with the following requirements:
(a) They must be private stock corporations, with legal existence,
authorized to operate in the country, and be registered with the
Securities and Insurance Superintendency or the Superintendency of
Banks and Financial Institutions.
(b) They must have been classified in risk category "A by two private
risk classification companies registered in the Securities and
Insurance Superintendency or the Superintendency of Banks and
Financial Institutions or, if it is a newly instituted enterprise
which is not yet eligible to receive such classification, it must
satisfy such standards of creditworthiness as are acceptable to
the Bank.
III. Use of Prolect Resources
3.       The resources to be used under the project will be utilized for
the purposes set out below:
(a) The project's resources must be used only to finance productive
goods within the country in all activities allowed by law with the
exception of housing, urban development, and any form of
transportation for personal use.
(b) A leasing company cannot finance more than 35Z of its indebtedness
with CORFO resources.



ANNEX V1II(b)
Page 2 of 6
IV. Hechanism for Resource Assignment
4.       To achieve the efficient utilization of Project resources, CORFO
will periodically hold 'open-market auctions" of loan proceeds for eligible
leasing companies in accordance with the following norms and procedures:
(a) Auctions will be carried out at least once every three months and
the date of each auction will be determined by CORFO. If, for any
reason, a specific auction cannot be carried out, CORFO will, in a
timely manner, advise the eligible leasing companies of the reason
for the postponement and will set a new date to carry out the
auction.
(b) For each auction, CORFO will determine the redemption terms in
yearly multiples if not less that one or more than 10 years.
Loans will be repaid in full at maturity. When the maturity of
leasing contracts do not match the maturity of a loan, leasing
companies would be required to submit additional leasing contracts
to CORFO to match the residual maturity.
(c) Each bid submitted by the leasing company will include interest
rate and redemption terms that are in agreement with those of the
market for this type of activity.
(d) The amounts to be auctioned will be expressed in local currency
readjustable in Development Units (UF) or in US dollars. CORFO
will determine the amount and readjustment mode to be used in the
auction. The amounts will be drawn in local currency at the
prevailing exchange rate of the Central Bank on the day of the
disbursement of funds.
(e) An Advisory Committee, consisting of one representative each from
CORFO, the Central Bank of Chile, and the Finance Ministry, will
be formed. This Committee will recommend the financial conditions
and the minimum acceptable bid rate (henceforth referred to as the
"leasing interest rate") for each term and readjustment mode
utilizing a methodology satisfactory to the Bank. The leasing
interest rate is defined as the minimum rate below which bids will
not be accepted. Only those bids offering a rate higher or equal
to the leasing rate set for the corresponding term will be
financed through project resources. If there is an excess of bids
under acceptable conditions, resources will be awarded to the
highest bidder. In instances when the rates offered are identical
for the same maturities within the same currencies, the loan
amounts will be prorated according to the amount requested by the
leasing companies.
(f) The respective leasing interest rates will be determined by CORFO
in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank.
(g) CORFO reserves the right to reject a bid proposal for one or more
of the following reabons: insufficiently high interest rate bids,
insufficient amount of the bids, institutional ineligibility, or
any other reasou as determined by CORFO. The IBRD shall be



ANNEX VIII(b)
Page 3 of 6
informed accordingly of the reasons for the rejection of a bid
proposal.
(h) CORFO reserves the right to suspend an announced auction without a
commitment to inform the leasing companies of the reasons for such
suspension.
V. Presentation and Receipt of Bids
5.       For the awarding of the Project's resources, the participating
leasing companies will submit their proposals thic'.Zh a Bid Letter, which
should contain the following:
(a) The amount requested.
(b) The interest rate offered.
(c) Redemption terms.
.d) Denomination of the readjustment mode (UF pesos or US dollars).
6.       These bids must be presented only on the corresponding bid form
'Fund Bid Offer" of the CORFO-IBRD Leasing Project, which must be included
in the envelope 'Fund Bid Offer.' This form may be obtained by interested
institutions at Moneda 921, Finance Management Office.
7.       The eligible leasing companies must submit only original bids in a
sealed envelope and include the name and signature of the legal
representative of the interested entity. Each envelope may include as many
bids as desired for the same readjustability mode (UF pesos or US dollars)
and for the same term, with its corresponding associated interest rate.
Each offer must be presented on separate forms. Offers with amended
information will not be accepted.
8.       Bids will be received at 921 Moneda, Suite 412, up to the
indicated time on the corresponding bases for bids. A number will be given
to each envelope received and the interested party will receive a receipt
indicating the presenting antity's name, day, and time of reception. Such
receipt will carry the signature and seal of an officer from the Finance
Management Office. Moreover, there will be a re3ister of bids received
that must be signed by the person delivering the corresponding bid.
9.       The envelope will be placed by an official from the participating
leasing company in a box that will be made available specifically for that
purpose.
IV. Announcement of Bid Results and Disbursement of Resources
10.      CORFO will undertake the following procedures for the announcement
of bid results and disbursement of resourcess



ANNEX VIII(b)
Page 4 of 6
(a) Fund awards will be made separately for each bid term and for each
readjustability mode, with preference given to those offers with
the highest interest rates.
(b) One day after the award a notice with the bid results will be made
available to the interested institutions by the Finance Management
Office.
(c) Resources will be awarded to leasing companies through written
communication from CORFO accepting the pertinent offer. Resources
so awarded will be delivered to leasing companies no later than
five working days after the auction, in local currency, for
disbursement to subborrowers.
11.      Resources will be awarded to leasing companies (through a written
communication) from CORFO that will notify acceptance of the respective
bid. Resources so allocated will be delivered to the leasing companies
within 35 days from the date of the awarded bid. If the leasing companies
do not provide leasing contracts within 30 days of the awarded bid or has
not drawn down the entire principal of the onlent funds within a period
acceptable to the Bank, CORPO will charge a penalty rate. (The penalty
rate will be communicated to the Bank prior to the first auction). After
receiving the leasing contracts from the leasing companies, CORFO shall
disburse funds to the awarded company within five days.
VII. Responsibilities of Leasing Companies
12.      The leasing companies will be obligated to undertake the following
responsibilities under the proposed loan agreement:
(a) The commitment that the credit resources will be used to finance
leasing contracts located on national territory and destined for
investments in fixed assets, with periods of useful life
consistent with the required terms.
(b) The commitment that the project's resources will only finance
leasing contracts in all legally allowed economic activities--
with the exception of housing and urban development and means of
transportation for personal use.
(c) Besides those aspects included under eligibility criteria, leasing
companies shall commit themselves to:
(i)   assume the credit and internal rate of exchange risk
(exchange rate risk aesociated with the purchase of foreign
currency for payment of loan funds), and to take
responsibility for the use of resources in accordance with
these Rules and Regulations.
(ii)   present to CORPO the original lease contract once this
document between the leasing company and the subborrower is
signed.



ANNEX VIrtSb)
Page 5 of 6
(iii)   subborrower will supply IBRD and CORFO with all information
they may require in connection with the financed contracts
and, if necessary, provide them with access to their
facilities to undertake inspections.
(d) Not to finance with the Project's resources:
ti)   lessees in arrears with CORFO;
(ii)   productive goods and services whose origin is not from
IBRD's member countries;
(iii)   productive goods and services involving unsafe technologies
that could threaten the environment, public health, and
personal safety;
(iv)   purchases of land and buildings;
(v)   working capital;
(vi)   used capital goods entered into the country; and
(vii)   goods previously financed under the project and previously
owned by the lessee.
(i) Additionally, leasing companies must:
Ci)   Once a year, submit an audit report prepared by the
Contraloria  certifying the use of funds received from the
Project.
(ii)   Sign a loan agreement within 30 days from the auction date,
and a promissory nete on the day the funds are delivered.
Lease contracts submitted to CORPO must not exceed 90 days
prior to the auction date.
(iii)   Place a lien, with CORFO as beneficiary, on the rights
deriving from the leasing contracts signed by said companies
Clessor and lessee) with the Project's resources.
(iv)   If there is proof that a leasing company is no. complying
with the requirements of these Regulations, the company must
return the loan proceeds to CORFO. The leasing company will,
thereafter, not be eligible to participate in future
auctions under the program.
VII. Loan Sunervision
13.      Supervision and monitoring of compliance with the clauses and
conditions of the present Regulations will be conducted periodically by
CORFO in compliance with defined procedures of IBRD. This will entail, as
mentioned earlier, that all loan proceeds used by the leasing companies
under the said project be available for CORPO and IBRD reviews.



ANNEX VIII(b)
Page 6 of 6
VIII. Amendments to the Regulations
14.      CORPO, as the executing agent for the project, and/or the IBRD can
suggest amendments to these Regulations to adapt them to changing
circumstances or conditions that may arire during implementation. These
amendments would become effective after expressed approval of the parties.
With a view to ensuring that Project implementation complies with IBkD and
Governmental policy guidelines, IBRD and CORFO will, once a year, jointly
review these Regulations.



ANNEX VIII(c)
Page 1 of 2
CHILE
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
LEASING CREDIT LINE
Announcement Letter for Auction of Funds
1.       The Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion (CORFO) informs the
leasing companies that on the ...... day of .....       , 1989, at
......... hours, at 921 Moneda, Suite 412, it will hold a funds
auction from the CORFO-IBRD Leasing Credit Project. The bids must
be received at the above address in original as per the prescribed
format, which is attached as Annex 1.
2.       To apply for funds under the auction, a leasing company must:
(a) be eligible, in accordance with the eligibility criteria, for
the present line of financing; (b) comply with the regulations of
the contract between CORFO and the leasing companies; and (c) have
previously registered the signature(s) of the authorized person(s)
in the signature registry of the Corporacion's Finance Management
Office.
3.       Funds can be bid in varying amounts, in local currency, with re-
adjustability in Development Units (UF) and/or US dollars, for a
minimum amount of US$20,000 equivalent (twenty-thousand United
States of America dollars).
4.       The leasing companies will bid for these resources, making a
commitment to pay an annual interest rate computed on a base of
365 days for local currency, readjustable in Development Units
(UF) and/or in US dollars, for each maturity date. Each bid rate,
expressed in a maximum of four decimals, must be referred to a
maturity date and to a specific readjustability mode (UF or US
dollars). The bid rate should be quoted as a margin over the
prevailing TIP. rate for UF. Pesos and LIBOR for US dollars. (The
precise TIP or LIBOR rate will be determined by CORFO at each
auction.)
5.       The funds of this auction, both readjustable in Development Units
(UF) and in US dollars, may be bid for a minimum of one and a
maximum of 10 year terms.
6.       Payment of principal and interest from leasing companies to CORFO
will be made in semiannual installments from the date of signing
of the promissory note that supports the awarding of funds.
7.       Fund awards will be made separately for each readjustability mode
and for each term, with preference going to bids offering the best
interest rates referred to the same term.



ANNEX VIII(c)
Page 2 of 2
8.       In the case of two or more bids offering the ssme interest rate
for the same term, and if the available funds are insufficient to
totally satisfy both, the funds will be prorated in proportion to
the size of each bid in relation to the aggregate volume of bids
at the same rate and maturity.
9.       The disbursement of funds awarded, expressed in UF or US dollars,
will be made in local currency, at the value of UF or at the
observed exchange rate set by the Central Bank of Chile in effect
on the date of signing of the contract.
10.      CORFO reserves the right to reject one or more bids or to declare
the bid void without providing the reason for such action.
11.      It must be understood that the conditions set for the auction are
complemented by the ;ontractual agreement included in the "CORFO-
LEASING COMPANY REGuLATIONS" for the CORFO-IBRD Leasing Project.



ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 3
CHILE
FINANCIAL MARKETS LOAN
Technical Assistance
1.       The technical assistance program comprises eight projects that are
summarized below. The terms of reference for each project have been placed
in the Project Files. Funding for the technical assistance program is
being provided by a grant from the Japanese Grant Facility. This grant was
provided by the Japanese Government for a project entitled 'Industrial/
Capital Market Development Project". The name of the project was later
changed to "Financial Markets Loan" but the project is virtually identical.
The purpose of the technical assistance, as agreed with the Government of
Japan. has also remained unchanged. Technical assistance projects have
been designed to support the development of the financial markets in Chile
and strengthen the country's technological capacity.
2.       (a) Proiect Preparation.  In formulating the project, the
Government of Chile, with the Bank as the executing agency, engaged
consultants to undertake studies of: (i) financial intermediation in Chile;
(ii) the leasing industry; and (iii) a pilot technology financing study.
The three studies have been completed and have bee.L placed in project
files. The budget for this technical assistance was US$21,750.
3.       (b) Flow of Funds Accounts.  The financial system in Chile is very
sophisticated and a range of financial sector data is collected by the
Central Bank and the three Superiztendencies.  To date, however, there has
been no systematic attempt to bring the financial sector data together in a
framework that would be consistent with the national income accounts.
Under this project the Central Bank would, with the help of foreign
consultants, construct a flow of funds matrix that would become the
ftamework for financial sector data collection in subsequent year!;. The
flow of funds framework is a statistical device that can be used to help in
the formulation of financial sector or monetary policies. The project,
details of which are contained in project files, is budgeted to cost
US$378,100.
4.       (c) Technolosv Seminar and Studies.  There are three elements to
the technical assistance in the area of technology development. The first
element would involve the Bank executing a study to determine where the
financing constraints on technology development are most binding and how to
overcome these. Another element will be the staging of a technology
development seminar in January 1990 that will seek to identify the
weaknesses in Chile's technological infrastructure and policy framework.
This will be followed--if the seminar suggests there is a need--by an
extensive technology development study that would determine how to overcome
the weaknesses identified. The budget for the three elements is
US$605,000.



ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 3
5.       (d) Institute of Banking Studies Courses.  With the increasing
sophistication of financial markets worldwide, it is vital to update the
skills of high- and medium-level executives in Chilean financial
institutions. The Institute of Banking Studies is a non-profit corporation
with which all t-e banks and financial institutions that operate in the
country are associated. Four new types of courses--as well as a program
for entrepreneurial management--will be developed with the help of foreign
and domestic consultants. Ir. addition, a study on the availabi'.ity of
financing in medium- and long-term markets in Chile will be undertaken in
cooperation with the Superintendency of Banks. The total budget for this
project is US$175,200.
6.       (e)  Ministry of Finance: Develoiment of Information Slatems.  The
Budget Directorate is the office at the Ministry of Finance in charge of
preparing, administering and controlling the natic-nal budget. The
Directorate plays an important role in the development and implementation
of fiscal policies consistent with the Administration's macroeconomic
guidelines. These tasks require the handling of increasing volumes of
sophisticated information. Computerized data processing would provide
essential support to the data collection and assimilation process.  This,
in turn, would permit the generation of more accurate information on public
sector management aid its effects on, and interaction with, the financial
markets. The project would include the nrovision of technical support to
update the Directorate's computer systems as well as the costs of the
needed computer hardware and software. The budget for this project is
US$228,600.
7.       (f) SuDerintendency of Banks: Bankini Statistics Information
Systems DeveloDment and Studies. The Superintendency of Banks has the
responsibility of supervising the operations of the banks and other
financial institutions. The rapid development of new types of businesses
in the banking sector continually provide supervisory challenges to the
Superintendency. The Superintendency wants to update its knowledge and
adapt its supervisory systems in the following areas; credit card business,
money desk operations, bank mergers, and securitizatior.. This would
involve the training of Superintendency staff, the consulting services of
foreign experts, and the preparation of studies. In addition, the
efficiency of the supervisory process itself needs to be enhanced. One way
in which this can be done is to develop a banking statistics information
system that creates a statistical interface directly with the reporting
banks. The projects would support the development of this system with
anpropriate hardware and software. The total budget for this project is
US$133,250.
8.       (g)  Suverintendencv of Securities and Insurance: Risk Rating and
Information Systems Development. The Superintendency of Securities and
Insurance (SVS) has the responsibility of supervising the securities
markets and overseeing the operations of the insurance companies. SVS will
require that insurance companies are formally rated by private risk
classifiers so that the risk of insolvency of its insurance obligations to
policy-holders can be increased. The SVS requires foreign consultants to
help to determine the norms that the private risk classifiers should adhere
to when rating insurance companies. The budget for this work is US$25,000.



ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 3
As the range of the Superintendency's work extends, with the broadening and
deepening of the securities markets, there is a need to enhance its
capabilities to collect and interpret data pertaining to these markets.
Financial support is required for the SVS to develop its computing
capabilities through the upgrading of its hardware and software. The
budget for information system development is US$17,688.
9.       (h)  Central Banks Study and Information Systems De'velopment.  Two
of the key areas of responsibility of the Central Bank relate to the
analysis of internal and external financial data that provide intelligence
for decisions on monetary and external debt policy. The Central Bank needs
to urgently upgrade its computer information systems--requiring improved
computer hardware and software--so that it can make quicker and better
informed policy decisions in these two areas. The budget for systems
development and the terms of reference will be given to the Bank at the
time of negotiation. Chile to date has undertaken only a limited
liberalization of the external accounts, and the Central Bank wishes to
review the experience of other countries in relaxing exchange regulations.
The Central Bank will commission a consultant study to summarize
international experience.  The budget for this study is US$30,000.
.I



ANNEX X
Page 1 of 3
CHTh
FINANCIAL MURRETS LOAN
Documents in Proiect Files
Sector Studies
"Chile Industrial Finance" Sector Report; IBRD, January 31, 1989.
"The Leasing Industry in Chile," May 30, 1989.
Other Related Studies
Barger, Teresa, 'The Chilean Securities Market," IFC Document,
19a8.
Brock, Philip, L., 'The Chilean Financial Collapse," Department of
Ecoromics, Duke University, Durham, N.C., May 1988.
De la Cuadra, Sergio, F. and Salvador Valdes, 'Chile: Financial
Sector Notes, Instituto de Economica, Pontificia Ur.iversidad
Catolica de Chile, Santiago de Chile, June 1988.
Horch, Hans, "Securities Markets Development Issues,' Consvltant's
Report, December 29, 1988.
Kapur, Anil, aRisk SharinR Instruments Component," IBRD Document,
May 30, 1989.
Lacey, Robert.  "The Privatization of the Social Security System
in Chile," IBRD Document, February 1987.
Luders, Rolf F., "Latin American Contrasts: Capital Markets and
Development in Chile and Argentina," Catholic University of Chile,
Santiago de Chile, May 1988.
MacKenna, Francisco Perez, "Fondos de Pensiones y Mercado de
Capitales," 1988.
Montt, Felipe, "Chilean Capital Markets: Characteristics and
Medium Term Forecasts,' March 1989.
Morris, Felipe and Mark Dorfman, "Chile - Financial Markets Loan -
Banking Sector Companent," IERD Memorandum, May 9, 1989.
Salas, Julio M. and Associates,  Issue of Public Offering
Securities," Consultant's Report, 1988.
Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, Chile, "Alternativas de
Inversion Para los Inversionistas Institutionales en Chile," 1988.



ANNEX X
Page 2 of 3
III.     Related Proiects
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IBRD:
- SAL I, October 4, 1985
- SAL II, October 31, 1986
- SAL III
- Second Housing Project, March 3, 1988
- Second Industrial Finance Project, April 13, 1989.
IV.      TOR for the Technical Assistance Prngram
1. Proiect Preparation
-   "Japanese Grant Agreement (Financial Markets Project)
between the Republic of Chile and the IBRD," Government of
Japan, 1989.
2. Flow of Funds Accounts
-   "Study on Sources and Uses of Funds," Central Bank of
Chile, Departamento de Cuentas Nacionales, April 1989.
3. Technolciv Semninar and Studies
-   Outline of Technology Seminar and Terms of Reference of
Technology Financing Study
4.  Institute of Banking Studies Courses
-   "Program for the Development of High and Medium Level
Executives of the Chilean Financial System," Instituto de
Estudios Bancarios "Guillermo Subercaseaux," including
Appendix 1-4, May 1989.
5. Ministry of Finance: Development of Information Systems
-   "Budget Directorate: Improvement of Information Systems,"
Ministerio de Hacienda, Direccion de PresupLestos, April
1989.
6. Superintendency of Banks: Banking Statistics Information
Systems Development and Studies
-   "Credit Cards: Issues Related with Performance Monitoring
and Regulation," Superintendencia de Bancos e
Institutiones Financieras, July 1989.
-   "Money Desk Operations Project," Superintendencia de
Bancos e Institutiones Financieras, July 1989.



ANNEX X
Page 3 of 3
-   "Information Systems Project," Superintendencia de Bancos
e Institutiones Financieras, July 1989.
_   "Banking Mergers and Takeovers Project," Superintendencia
de Bancos e Institutiones Financieras, July 1989.
- l"Securitization Project," Superintendencia de Bancos e
Institutiones Financieras, July 1989.
7. Superintendency of Securities and Insurance: Risk Rating and
Information Systems Development
-   "Expert Consulting for Risk Rating of Insurers: Work
Plan," Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, May 1989.
-   "Improvement of the Information System of the Securities
and Exchange Superintendency"; Superintendencia de Valores
y Seguras, August 1989.
8. Central Bank: Study and Information Systems Development



ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 3
En"CaL   w        Lam
PIlcgw ltrin
-a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Actions Al ready Thken        Step  to be Taken Before
or to be Taken Before         Effectivenee or Releee                           Steps to b- Taken
Policy Me- ura-                    Board Preaentation                 of First Tranche                      Before Release of Second Tranche
Macroeconomic Performance
1. Maintenance of a *table       Formulation of a broad          Sustained mcroeconoeic performnee.         Sustained  acroeeconomic performance,
macroeconomic policy         medium-term program of          coealtent with the Government's             conaletent with the Oovernment's
environment conducive to     adjustment.                     financial sector reform program,           financial sector reform program,
the balanced development                                     eatidefctory to the Bank (firat            eatisfactory to the Bank.
of the financial                                             tranchi).
markets.
The Securities Market
Infroatructure
2.  Establiahment by the         N/A                             Approval of legialation                     The Government w;il ieaue a regulation
private sector cf a                                          (effectivenea).                             relating to the law providing a legal
Depository System for                                                                                    framework for a Depository System. The
all types of eacurities.                                                                                Central Bank will adopt a plan of
action. satisfactory to the Bank.
including a eet of appropriate
incentive, and a timetable for
implemntation to cause the pension
funds to tran.fer their escurities from
the Central Bank to the Depoaitory
Systee.
3.  Creation of a unit to        Unit in place in the SVS.       N/A                                         N/A
monitor the eyatem of        Implementation already
private risk                 begun.
claseification.
4. The establishment by the      Orantin^. of permission by      N/A                                         N/A
private sector of a          the SVS for the eatabliah-
computerized stock           ment of the exchange and
exchange,                    for it to function as a
forml mrket. Esteblish-
went by ti* SIvS of a
regulatory ir awork.
The Suoolv of Socuritise
S. Reducing excessive            Review by SYS of                N/A                                         N/A
informetion rsquiremnte      informt;on re4uirementa,
for the registry of          and eubeequent aaendments.
companies and                Amendment, to Rule 15 to
securities and resovinp      streamline ond di;-eminate
duplication,                 information on the current
rules of registration.



ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 3
ftllcw .brla (Cont'd)
Actions Already Taken             Steps to be Taken Before
or to be Taken  efore             Effectivene"  or Releaes                       Steps to bc Taken
Policy Measures                     Boerd Proesntation                   ot First Trancho                      Before Relaeeo of Second Trenche
6. E-tsblis-sent, in the          Aproval of logisll4'ion.               N/A                                  N/A
private sector, of
closed-end mutual funds.      Eatablisthmnt of a
regulatory framework in the
7.  Establishment. in tho         Approval of logislation.               N/A                                   Review of the requirements for
private sector, of Real                                                                                    stebliehing Real Estate Investent
Estate Investent              Establishment of a                                                          Companies end, *here appropriate, the
.ompanies.                    regulatory fraeweork in fhe                                                 Introduction of modifications
S5S.                                                                        satisfactory to the Bank.
S. Changes to legal               Enactment of a law to                  N/A                                   N/A
frameork to encourage         permnently separate credit
the granting of bond          Insurance from general
guarantees.                   insurance.
The Demnd for Sccuritist
(a)  Prn-ion Fund-
9. Pension Funds to be            Changes to Pension Fund Law            N/A                                   N/A
granted perisesion to         (DL 3500) and regulations
have a larger                 on risk classification
discretionary investmnt       (amendmnt to SD 85).
in equities.
10  Pension Funds to be           N/A                                    N/A                                   Amendmnt to Pension Fund Law (DL 3SOO).
granted permio-ion to                                                                                     Legal drafting of changes to risk
invest in proposed                                                                                        classif;iction rwgulatof.s.
closed-end mutual funds.
11. Pension Funds to be           N/A                                    N/A                                  Amndment to Pension Fund Law (DL 3500)
granted permission to                                                                                     and change in regulations on risk
invest in short-term                                                                                      classification to permit investment of
notes of corporations,                                                                                    up to 10i of  each pension fund's
portfolio in short-term notes of
corporations.
12. Pension Funds to be           N/A                                    N/A                                  Submission to the legislative power of
granted permission to                                                                                     an amendment to Pension Fund Law
purchase  ollateralized                                                                                    (DL 3500).
securities isued by
Banks.
13. Pension Funds to be           Changes to Pension Fund Low            N/A                                  N/A
granted permission to         (M. 8500) and regulations
invest in Real Estate        on risk classification
Investsent Companie.          (amndmnt to SD 35).



ANNEX XI
Page 3 of 3
Poljev itgiat (Cont'd)
Actions Already Taken              Steps to be Taken Before
or to be Taken Before              Effectiveness or Release                   Steps to be Taken
Policy MHneures                     Board Presentation                    of First Tranch-                    Before Release of Second Trsnche
(b) Insurance Comanie
14. Liberelization of equity      Amendment to Insurance                    N/A                               N/A
investments.                 Company Lee.
15. Permieslon to invest In       Amendment to Insurance                    N/A                               N/A
closed-end mutual funds.      Company Law.
16. Permission to invest in       N/A                                       N/A                               Submission to the legislative power of
collateralized and                                                                                        en  mesndoent to Insurance Company Loe.
securitized loans of
banks.
The Banking Systs
17. Permisting the                N/A                                       N/A                               Submiesion to the legislative power of
aecuritization of bank                                                                                    propossls to change the Banking La.
loans.
18. Permitting the                N/A                                       N/A                               Submi-sion to the legislative power of
colvi ieralization of                                                                                     proposls to change the Banking Law.
bank loans.
19. Permitting banks              N/A                                       N/A                               Chng- required in Chapter III-1 of the
increased flexibility in                                                                                  Sumary of Financial Rules of the
the provision of                                                                                          Central Bank.
guarantes.
20. Introduction of               N/A                                       N/A                                Amendmnt to the Banking Law.
subordinated debt as
secondary capital for
the banks.
Lensina Cosmenies
21. Establiahment of a            Basic framework put ;n                    N/A                                N/A
regulatory frameork for       place in 1988 by the SBIF.
leasing companis.
22. asing the constraint on       N/A                             Approval of lsgislation                     N/A
the ability of pension                                        (effectiveness).
funds and life insurance
companies to purchas
bonds of leasing
ocopanies.
2S. Appointment of CORFO as       N/A                             The Government will appoint CORFO as        N/A
financial agent for                                           the financiol agent for the leasing
carrying out the                                              credit lin, and enter into a Funds
investmet component of                                       Transfer Arrangement (effectivenes).
the loan.
24. Auction procedures for        N/A                             C     w ill adopt procedures for the         N/A
tho leasing credit line,                                      leasing credit line setiefectory to the
Bank (effectiveness).



