Page  1
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Financial Markets Project)
 
between
REPUBLIC CHILE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
Dated September
8, 1989
 
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September
8
1989, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE the Recipient) and 
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) acting as 
Administrator
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN 
(Japan).
 
WHEREAS
(A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 3, 1987 between Japan and 
the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, ant the Bank has agreed, to administer grant
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects
supported by the Bank in accordance with the  provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS
(B) the Recipient has requested and Japan has agreed to make available a 
grant
(the Grant) out of said grant funds to finance the cost of carrying out the 
technical assistance described in Schedule
1
to this Agreement
(the Technical 
Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
 
WHEREAS
(C) the Recipient has requested the Bank to carry out the Technical 
Assistance;
WHEREAS
(D) the Bank has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section
1.01. The Technical Assistance shall be undertaken by consultants (the 
Consultants) who shall, as far as practicable, include Consultants with expertise in 
the following areas:
 
(a)
Financial intermediation;
Page  2
(b)
Technology development financing; and
 
(c)
The leasing industry.
 
Section
1.02. As used in this Agreement, the terms hyena and "Y" 
mean the
currency of Japan, and the term
"Consultants" includes individual consultants as well 
as any consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to in Section l.01. 
Section
1.03. The Consultants are expected to commence their services on January 
15, 1989 and to provide a total of approximately 5 
man
-
months of service between that
time and April
30, 1989.
 
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Administrator
Section
2.01.
The Administrator shall make reasonable efforts to secure the
services of the Consultants.
 
Section
2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance on a grant 
basis the following expenditures in connection with the services of the
Consultants:
 
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances; 
 
(b)
local travel expenses; and
 
(c)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications  and reports, incurred 
by the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the performance of their services.
 
Section
2.03.
The amount of the Grant to be provided by Japan for the Technical
Assistance pursuant to Section
2.02 shall not exceed the equivalent of four million 
five hundred thousand yen
(Y4,500,000).
Section
2.04.
The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants
shall be the responsibility solely of the Administrator and shall be done according to
the Administrator's applicable procedures.
 
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section
3.01. The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator and the 
Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried out promptly and
effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions to its
officials, agents and representatives.
 
Section
3.02. The Recipient shall: 
 
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to the
Technical Assistance
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) and all dependents of such personnel promptly to be 
provided with any necessary entry and exit visas, residence and work permits, exchange
documents and travel documents required for their stay in the Recipient's territories
during the duration of the Technical Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials and 
supplies required for the Technical Assistance and any personal effects of the
personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance
(other than
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and 
the dependents of such personnel;
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to the
Technical Assistance;
Page  3
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical 
Assistance
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Recipient's territories) and dependents of such personnel to bring into, and withdraw 
from, the Recipient's territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for their
personal use; and
(e)
pay or undertake to pay on behalf of the Consultants and the personnel of 
the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance from any and all present or
future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all
liabilities with respect thereto imposed under the laws and regulations ln effect in
the Recipient's territories on the Consultants and such personnel in respect of:
 
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such personnel 
(other than 
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) 
in connection with the carrying 
out of the Technical Assistance;
(ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by
the Consultants for the purpose of carrying
out the Technical Assistance and which,
after having been brought
into such territories, will be subsequently withdrawn
therefrom by them;
(iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by
the Consultants for the purpose of carrying
out the Technical Assistance and which
will be consumed therein or
become the property of the Recipient; and
(iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the 
Consultants or such
personnel
(other than nationals of the 
Recipient or permanent residents of the
Recipient's
territories) or the dependents of such personnel for their personal use 
and which will be consumed therein or subsequently withdrawn therefrom by them upon
their respective departure from the Recipient's territories, provided
that the
Consultants, such personnel and their dependents
shall follow the usual customs
procedures of the Recipient in
importing property into the Recipient's territories.
 
Section
3.03. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims 
arising out of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be brought by
third parties against the Administrator. The Recipient shall indemnify the 
Administrator against any costs, claims, damages or liabilities arising out of, or
resulting from, any acts or omissions in connection with the Technical Assistance.
 
Section
3.04. The recipient shall make available to the Consultants free of 
charge such data, services, facilities, equipment and counterpart personnel as shall
be necessary for purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance. If any member of 
the counterpart personnel fails to perform adequately any work assigned to him by the
Consultants that is consistent with the position occupied by such members, the
Consultants may request the replacement of such member, and the Recipient shall not
unreasonably refuse to act upon such request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section
4.01. The Recipient and the Administrator shall, from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on eke Technical Assistance and consult on
any reports prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any recommendations
made in those reports
.
Section
4.02. The Administrator may use any reports prepared by the Consultants 
for any purpose that the Administrator may consider appropriate but those reports may
not: be made public except by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
 
ARTICLE V
Page  4
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section
5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section
5.02. The Recipient may at any time request the Administrator in writing 
to terminate the Technical Assistance. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a 
request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the
Recipient, terminate the Technical Assistance if any circumstances arise that, in the
opinion of the Administrator, interfere or threaten to interfere with the successful
implementation of the Technical Assistance, the accomplishment of its purposes, or the
execution of the Technical Assistance in accordance with the terms and conditions of
this Agreement.
Section
5.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the 
Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any further
action that may be necessary or desirable. 
 
Section
5.04.
The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient
and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.
The Recipient shall
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator
pursuant to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section
6.01.
The officials implementation of the implementation of this
Agreement shall be:
 
For the Recipient:
 
Mr. Pablo Ihnen
Director of Budget
Ministerio de Hacienda
Teatinos
120
Santiago
Chile
Cable address:
Telex:
 
352-240658
For the Administrator:
 
Mr. Pieter Bottelier
Director, Country Department IV
Latin America and Caribbean Region
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America,  as of the day and year first
above written.
Page  5
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By
/s/ Enrique Seguel Morel
 Authorized Representative
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By
/s/ Rainier Steckhan
 Acting Regional Vice President
 Latin America and the Caribbean
 
SCHEDULE
Description of Technical Assistance
A.
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION STUDY
 
(l)
Objectives of the Study
 
The main objectives of the study are to analyze the changing sources and uses of
funds in Chilean financial markets with a view to:
 
.
identifying the main shifts  in the
pattern of intermediation that have
taken place  in recent years;
.
determining  if  there  are  any
constraints  or problems  in financial
markets  that hinder the developments of
particular forms of intermediation or
particular maturities of lending; and
.
establishing if certain categories of
potential borrower have restricted access
to some types of funding.
 
(2)
Detailed scope of Work Program
 
The work program for the study of financial intermediation in Chile will contain
the specific elements set out below.
 
Chapter I
-
This  introductory chapter will describe and analyze the main
structural issues of the domestic financial markets. The five sections in this chapter 
will cover:
 
(a)
General review of recent developments and an overview of the financial 
market and its main characteristics
.
(b)
Summary of main normative issues: regulatory norms, main regulatory and 
supervising agencies
(including private  risk rating).
 
(c)
Demand for funds analysis: identification and quantification of main 
groups by size, economic sector and institutional status.
 
(d)
Supply of funds analysis identification and quantification of main groups 
by size, institutional sector, and role of the foreign sector.
Page  6
(e)
Analysis of main intermediaries: outline of main activities, regulation, 
evolution and quantification of intermediated volumes: banking, pension funds and 
other non-bank sectors.
 
Chapter
2
-
This chapter will seek to identify any problems or constraints in
the credit markets. It will cover:
 
(a)
Access problems to credit markets. Specific sectors, if any, which have a 
limited access possibility will be identified. The guarantee and collateral aspects of 
loans will be analyzed.
 
(b)
Segmentation of the market. The main purposes of this section is to 
identify any market segmentation, including currency and exposure considerations,
especially from the point of view of the following variables which affect the supply
and demand for funds: size, economic and institutional sector.
 
(c)
Analysis of spreads and interest rates level. The purpose of this section 
will to be examine interest rate levels as possible indicators of relative scarcity of
funds. Those variables affecting the spreads between active and passive rates will be 
identified.
 
(d)
Competition between different intermediaries. The degree of competition 
between different types
(and also within each type) of intermediaries will be 
identified.
 
Chapter
3
-
The purpose of this chapter is to build forecasts for a five year
horizon.
For that purpose demand and supply of funds, volumes and interest rate levels
(and spreads) will be forecast. Given its relative importance, the emphasis will be on 
the banking and pension funds sectors. The importance of foreign flows, the public 
sector budget, the presence of the Central Bank, the special programs for commercial
banks and the effect of a greater indebtedness of open corporations directly with the
public, will be analyzed in depth. Within this chapter the main focus will be on 
pension funds
(AFPs)
and the constraints regulation may impose on volumes of
particular investments within their portfolios. The forecast will take place in the 
context of an accounting-financial simulation model.
 
Chapter
4
-
Summary and Conclusion. 
B.
LEASING SECTOR STUDY
 
(1)
Objectives of the Study
 
The overall objectives of the study is to develop a comprehensive understanding
and analytical framework for the leasing industry in Chile that would assist in
rationalizing a possible lending operation by the Administrator in support of this
type of financial instrument. The purpose of the study is to:
 
.
examine whether a credit line to leasing
companies utilizing the proceeds of a
possible loan from the Administrator
would substitute for domestic credit
mobilization given the current
constraints in the regulatory climate;
.
evaluate whether the possible credit line
would serve to redress the balance in
channelling loans from the Administrator
to domestic industry that is currently
weighted heavily in favor of the banking
system; and
.
analyze the differences in the cost
structure to the ultimate user of leasing
as opposed to buying with finance
provided by the domestic banking system.
 
(2)
Detailed Scope of Work Program
Page  7
.
Examination of the various regulatory
constraints on the alternative sources of
funding available to leasing companies,
e.g.
commercial banks,  bond markets
(pension funds, insurance companies,
etc.), foreign sources including
suppliers credit, etc.
 
.
Comparison between the financing
constraints faced by leasing companies
and those confronted by commercial banks
and other private institutions.
 
.
Analysis on how the leasing companies are
utilizing these  alternative  sources  of
funding  and by developing a
"simulation
model
", and determination as to which
financial constraints might impinge on
the leasing companies in the future.
 
.
Examination of whether there  is  likely
to be a shortage of medium to long term
funds for leasing companies under the
various  likely scenarios for the growth
of their business;
.
Analysis of the various interest rate and
maturity structures in both UF
(pesos)
and US$ among the various alternative
sources of funding available to leasing
companies and the ultimate beneficiaries.
 
.
Demonstration of whether medium to long
term funds are available  to  leasing
companies  and to  the ultimate
beneficiaries and What: are  the specific
sources of these funds and under what
conditions are they available; and
.
Evaluation of the transaction cost
differentials between leasing a piece of
equipment and buying the same with
credit. Also, identification of the cost
involved for the borrower in breaking
both types of contracts, assuming a
hypothetical example in which a customer
needs to choose between the financing of
equipment worth US$100,000. If the
financial costs for leasing is higher
than buying through credit operations,
analysis of what are the economic and
financial justifications for leasing and
how do these benefits impact on the
operating costs of the firm under the
above example.
 
C.
TECHNOLOGY FINANCING STUDY
(1)
Objectives of the Study
The objective of the study is to further improve the capabilities of financial
institutions in meeting the needs of firms in research and development. The purpose of 
the study is to:
(a)
examine the alternative types of financial risk-sharing instruments, e.g. 
grants, conditional loans, equity and venture capital investments, that are currently
Page  8
available to research institutions and manufacturing firms in fostering the
development of research and development through the different stages of the innovation
cycle, i.e. from research, product and process development through commercialization; 
and
(b)
evaluate and recommend alternative organizational structures that would 
contribute towards increasing the efficiency ant effectiveness of research
institutions that are under the control of CORFO.
 
(2)
Detailed Scope of Work Program
 
(a)
Analysis of what are the various types of financial instruments  that are 
currently available to research institutions and manufacturing firms in promoting the
development of research and development through the different stages of the innovation
cycle.
 
.
Analysis  of what  types  of
organizations  are responsible for this
funding and how efficient and effective
are these organizations.
 
.
Examination as to how are these
organizations funded  and  what  percent
of  their  total contributions originate
from the Government,  and whether these
organizations mainly provide grant funds
or other types of risk sharing
instruments in promoting research and
development.
 
.
Analysis of how effective has this
funding been in the commercialization of
indigenous technological development,
and what financing instruments are
available  to  manufacturers  in
developing
"prototype" products at the
stage of product and process development.
 
.
Analysis of how effective these
organizations have been in meeting the
technological development needs of
industry and what are the current plans
in rationalizing the various research
institutions under the direct
organizational control of CORFO.
 
.
Examination of what alternative
organizational structures  can be
proposed  to  improve  the efficiency of
these organizations so that they are
closer to the needs of the ultimate user
and be self-standing in their financial
obligations.
 
