Page  1
                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                    LOAN NUMBER 3143-CH
Project Agreement
(Financial Markets Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORACION DE FOMENTO DE LA PRODUCCION
Dated February 7, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3143-CH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CORPORACION DE FOMENTO DE LA PRODUCCION (CORFO).
WHEREAS  (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the REPUBLIC OF 
CHILE (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty million 
dollars ($130,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that CORFO agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a funds transfer arrangement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and CORFO, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement 
will be made available to CORFO, as the financial agent of the Borrower on the terms 
and conditions set forth in set forth in said Funds Transfer Arrangement; and
WHEREAS CORFO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CORFO declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, and commercial
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for carrying out Part A of the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and CORFO shall otherwise agree, CORFO shall carry out Part A 
of the Project, as the financial agent of the Borrower, in accordance with the Leasing 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  CORFO shall enter into and duly perform all its obligations under 
the Funds Transfer Arrangement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CORFO shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have  the effect of failing to enforce, 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Funds Transfer Arrangement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.03.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.04.  CORFO shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a)  CORFO shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Funds Transfer Arrangement,  and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CORFO shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CORFO of its obligations under this 
Agreement under the Funds Transfer Arrangement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CORFO
Section 3.01.  CORFO shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and commercial practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a)  CORFO shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with consistent|.y maintained sound accounting practices the 
resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project and its operations and 
financial condition, and shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and 
record the progress of each Leasing Sub project.
(b)
CORFO shall:
 
Page  3
(i)
have  the records and accounts  referred to in Section 4.01(a) of 
this Agreement 
and its financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
 (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such 
year, 
(A)  certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year 
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records, and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CORFO 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CORFO thereof.
Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,  telegram, cable, 
telex or radio gram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
Page  4
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United State of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For CORFO:
Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion
Moneda 921
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
240690 CORFO CL
240421
Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CORFO may be 
taken or executed by the Vicepresidente Ejecutivo or such other person or persons as 
the Vice Presidente Ejecutivo shall designate in writing, and CORFO shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated Specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America,  as of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CORPORACION DE FOMENTO DE LA
   PRODUCCION
By /s/ Julio Canessa
 Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  5
Procurement and Goods
Section I:
Procurement of Imported Goods under Part C of the Project
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods under Part C of the Project estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international 
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following 
modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the, following is 
substituted there for:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in timely manner of the 
opportunity to bid. 
This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's invitation 
list, to apply for prequalification, or 
to bid; such advertisements should placed in at least one 
newspaper of  general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition at least one of the 
following forms: 
(i)
a notice in the United Nations Publication Development Business; 
or
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and, territories 
referred to in the 
Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the goods 
required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines: 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and specified in the 
bidding documents."
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Contracts for the procurement of goods under Part C of the Project estimated to 
cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)
by purchasers subject to the Borrower's public procurement procedures for 
the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided that such 
procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Bank; 
(b)
by other purchasers,  in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except 
where direct contracting is permitted under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
Section II:
Procurement of Goods under Part A of the Project
 
Part A:
International Shopping
 
Goods or groups of goods under Part A of  the Project estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis  of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least 
three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  6
Contract for goods under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $500,000 shall be awarded in accordance with established commercial 
practices acceptable to the Bank.
Section III:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
With respect to each contract referred to in Section I, Part A of this Schedule, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the 
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such 
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the 
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and 
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably 
request.
2.
With respect to each contract referred to above in Section I, Part B and Section 
II of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,  prior to the submission 
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in 
respect thereof,  such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably 
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract. When payments 
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,  such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Leasing Implementation Program
Section I.
General Covenants
 
1.
CORFO undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, it shall on lend 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated for Part A of the Project by making Subloans  to 
Eligible  Enterprises for purposes of financing Leasing Subprojects, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Schedule and in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.
(a)
When making a Subloan to finance a Leasing Subproject, CORFO shall enter 
a written contract, satisfactory to the Bank, with each Eligible Enterprise which 
shall include the terms and conditions and general provisions set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CORFO shall not waive or fail 
to enforce any provision of any Leasing Subloan Agreement.
3.
CORFO shall exercise its rights in relation to each Leasing Subproject in such 
manner as to:  (i) protect the interest of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with 
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section  II.
Auction Procedures
 
1.
When making Subloans to finance Leasing Subprojects, CORFO shall auction the 
right to receive a Subloan under procedures, satisfactory to the Bank,  and which 
shall include,  inter alia, those set forth in this Section.
2.
Auctions shall be held by CORFO at least once every three months.
 
3.
CORFO's executing agent's fee shall be factored into Minimum Rates for auctioned 
Sub loans.
4.
Minimum Rates for auctioned Subloans shall be recommended by an advisory 
committee of representatives of Central Bank, Ministry of Finance and CORFO and such 
recommendations and the setting of such rates by CORFO shall be determined utilizing a 
methodology satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
CORFO shall retain the right to reject any bid for a Subloan on the basis that: 
(a) the bidder is not an Eligible Enterprise; (b)  that the Subloan proposes to 
finance equipment other than Eligible Equipment; (c) the bid does not meet the minimum 
Page  7
charges for a Subloan; (d) the terms and conditions proposed by the bidder are not 
consistent with the terms and conditions required by the Schedules to this Agreement; 
or (e) for any other basis acceptable to the Bank.
6.
CORFO shall charge a penalty fee to an Eligible Enterprise that has been awarded 
the right to receive Sub-loan pursuant to an auction,  but which has not entered into 
a Leasing Subloan Agreement,  or has not drawn down the entire principal of the 
Subloan in question, within a specified period of time acceptable to the Bank.
Section III.
Eligible Enterprises
 
1.
In order to be qualified to receive a Subloan an enterprise must:
 
(a)
be privately held and registered with the SVS or SBIF;
 
(b)
be classified as an issuer in risk category "A" by at least two risk 
classification companies registered with SVS or SBIF or, if it is a newly instituted 
enterprise which is not yet eligible to receive such classification, it must satisfy 
such standards of creditworthiness as are acceptable to the Bank; and
(c)
not have more that 35% of its indebtedness financed by CORFO or from 
CORFO resources, inclusive of amounts lent pursuant to Subloans under this Project.
Section IV.
Eligible Equipment
 
1.
In order to be qualified as eligible, equipment must be goods that:
 
(a)
can be utilized, and are intended to be utilized, for productive purposes 
within the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
are not included in the Negative List;
 
(c)
are not unsafe due to untried technology or the potential to cause 
environmental, public health or personal harm;
(d)
are not used capital goods or vehicles for personal use;
 
(e)
have not been previously financed under the Project; and
 
(f)
have not been previously owned by the lessee in question.
 
2.
No expenditures for equipment required for a Leasing Subproject shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Leasing Subproject shall have been approved by the Bank and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the application and information required under 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Section IV in respect of such Leasing Subproject; or
(b)
the Leasing Subproject shall have been a free-limit Leasing Subproject 
for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 3 (b) of this Section IV in respect of such free-limit Leasing Sub project. 
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Leasing 
Subproject shall be a Leasing Subproject in an amount to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan in connection
with which the purchase price of the equipment in question shall not exceed the sum of 
$1,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Subloan in question and used to 
finance equipment to be leased to the lessee in question, the foregoing amount being 
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank. 
3.
(a)
When presenting a Leasing Subproject (other than a free limit Leasing 
Subproject) to the Bank for approval, CORFO shall furnish to the Bank an application, 
in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the Eligible 
Enterprise and of the lessee and an appraisal of the Leasing Subproject, including a 
Page  8
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Leasing Subproject, including the 
financial terms and conditions in connection with the purchase and lease of the 
equipment in question; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably 
request. 
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Leasing Subproject shall contain: (i) a 
summary description of the Eligible Enterprise,  the lessee and the Leasing 
Subproject, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) the financial terms and conditions in connection 
with the purchase and lease of the equipment in question.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of Subloans
Section I.
Terms and Conditions
 
Each Subloan, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, shall include the following 
terms and conditions:
(i)
Currency. Sub loans shall be denominated in pesos or in dollars,  
and shall be 
repayable in pesos, any rate of exchange to be 
determined as of the date of each 
repayment;
 
(ii)
Term. Sub loans may be made for a term of up to ten years and may 
not include a 
grace period, such term not to exceed the 
period during which the proceeds of the 
Subloan remain 
invested by the Eligible Enterprise in one or more Leasing 
Sub-projects.
(iii)
Interest Rate. The interest rate on each Subloan shall be 
determined by prevailing 
market conditions as determined by each 
auction held by CORFO pursuant to the 
procedures set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, provided, however, that each 
Subloan shall 
bear at least a minimum annual interest rate equivalent to the 
average interest charged on UF-indexed peso loans in Chile, calculated in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank if such Subloan is denominated in pesos, or a rate 
equivalent to LIBOR if such Subloan in denominated in 
dollars.
 (iv)
Maximum Percentage of Financing.  A Subloan may finance up to 100% 
of the total 
costs of each Leasing Subproject, 
exclusive of 
taxes. The total cost of each 
Leasing Subproject shall be 
calculated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and 
shall be 
based on the reasonable price of Eligible Equipment.
Section II.
General Provisions
 
Each Leasing Subloan Agreement shall provide:
(i)
for the obligation of the Eligible Enterprise to carry out and 
operate the Leasing 
Subproject with diligence and efficiency and 
in accordance with appropriate 
financial, administrative and 
commercial standards and practices;
(ii)
that the equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be procured 
in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
(iii)
that the equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of a Leasing 
Subproject;
Page  9
 (iv)
that CORFO can inspect by itself, or jointly with representatives 
of the Borrower 
and the Bank if the Borrower or the Bank shall 
so request, the Eligible Equipment 
financed by the Subloan 
and any relevant records or documents;
(v)
for the obligation of the Eligible Enterprise to furnish all such 
information as 
the Borrower, the Bank, or CORFO shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing 
and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Eligible 
Enterprise 
and to the benefits to be derived from the Leasing Subproject; and
(vi)
the right of CORFO to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Eligible Enterprise to 
the use of the proceeds of the Subloan upon 
failure by such Eligible Enterprise to 
perform any of their obligations 
under the contract with CORFO.
