Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3143-CH
Loan Agreement
(Financial Markets Project)
among
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVEL0PMENT
and
BANCO CENTRAL DE CHILE
Dated February 7, 1990
 LOAN NUMBER 3143-CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1990, among the REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower), 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO CENTRAL DE 
CHILE (Central Bank).
WHEREAS  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
(B)
the Bank has received a letter dated November 14, 1989 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve reform of 
the Borrower's financial markets sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring 
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program and requesting assistance 
from the Bank in meeting its financing
Page  2
(C)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by CORPORACION DE FOMENTO DE LA 
PRODUCCION (CORFO), as the financial agent of the Borrower,  with the Borrower's 
assistance and,  as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to CORFO pursuant to a funds transfer 
arrangement, the proceeds of the Loan required to carry out Part A of the Project as 
provided in this Agreement;
(D)
the Central Bank has agreed to undertake certain obligations relating to 
the Project, as set forth in this Agreement;
(E)
the Borrower has obtained and intends to obtain additional funding from 
Japan by means of the Japanese Grant Facility and, accordingly, has entered into and 
intends to enter into an agreement or agreements with respect to such funds 
(hereinafter referred to as the Grant Agreements) for purposes of
carrying out Part B of the Project with the assistance of the Central Bank, SVS  SAFP 
and SBIF (as such agencies are hereinafter defined); and
WHEREAS the Bank in support of the Program has agreed, on the Borrower upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even 
date herewith between the
Bank and CORFO;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, (the General Conditions), with the 
modifications set forth below, constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the  Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Project and the 
Program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the 
Borrower, CORFO, the Central Bank and the Bank of their respective obligations 
under 
the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
(b)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CORFO of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Funds Transfer Arrangement" means the arrangement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CORFO pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended form time to time;
(c)
"Eligible Enterprise" means an on-going enterprise, established under the 
laws of the Borrower, engaged in the business of leasing equipment within the 
territory of the Borrower, which has satisfied the conditions set forth in Section III 
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(d)
"Leasing Subproject" means the purchase of equipment qualified under 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, for purposes of leasing such 
equipment within the territory of the
Borrower;
Page  3
(e)
"Sub loan" means a loan made, or proposed to be made, by CORFO to an 
Eligible Enterprise for a Leasing Subproject; 
(f)
"Leasing Subloan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between CORFO and each Eligible Enterprise for purposes of financing a Leasing 
Subproject pursuant to Section I, paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement,
(g)
"Auction Procedures" means those procedures for operating the system of 
auctioning access to Sub loans Section II of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(h)
"Minimum Rates" means the minimum fees and interest rates to be charged 
in respect of Subloans made available by CORFO at a particular auction;
(i)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central de Chile, the Central Bank of the 
Borrower;
(j)
"SVS" means Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, the Securities and 
Insurance Superintendency of the Borrower;
(k)
"SVS Unit" means that unit established within SVS to monitor the 
performance of private risk classification companies;
(l)
"SAFP" means Superintendencia de Administradoras de Fondos de Pensiones, 
the Superintendency of Pension Fund Administrators, of the Borrower;
(m)
"AFPs" means Administradores de Fondos de Pensiones, pension plan 
administrators, qualified and organized under the laws of the Borrower;
(n)
"SBIF" means Superintendencia de Bancos e Instituciones Financieras, the 
Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions of the Borrower;
(o)
"Insurance Companies" means insurance companies, organized and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower, in the territory of the Borrower;
(p)
"Commercial Banks" means financial institutions engaged in commercial 
banking, organized and operating under the laws of the Borrower, in the territory of 
the Borrower;
(q)
"Securities" means stocks, bonds, notes and other tradeable financial 
instruments issued by enterprises organized under the laws of the Borrower or traded 
in the territory of the Borrower;
(r)
"Collateralized Instruments" means financial instruments issued by 
enterprises, organized under the laws of the Borrower, which are secured by 
collateral;
(s)
"Securitized Instruments" means undivided interests in pooled financial 
instruments, issued by Commercial Banks; 
(t)
"Depository System" means a system of one or more private depositories to 
be established under the laws of the Borrower for the deposit, save-keeping and 
transfer of securities;
(u)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(v)
"UF" means Unidad de Fomento, a monetary reference unit rower readjusted 
daily in accordance with the provisions Supremo No. 40 (Hacienda), dated January 2, 
1967, as the date of this Agreement;
(w)
"LIBOR" means the average rate per annum at which term deposits in 
dollars maturing in 180 days are offered in the London inter bank market at 11:00 a.m. 
(London time) two business days before the date the rate of interest for a Subloan is 
determined or adjusted, inclusive of all commissions, taxes and any charges thereon. 
For this purpose, "business day" means a day on which dealings in dollar deposits 
between banks may be carried on in London, England and on which commercial banks are 
Page  4
open for
business n Santiago, Chile,
(x)
"CORFO Legislation" means the law of the Borrower No. 6640, published in 
Diario Oficial of the Borrower, dated January 1, 1941, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement, and DFL (Decreto con Fuerza de Ley) No. 211, dated March 26, 1960, 
published in April 6, 1960, as amended to the date to this Agreement, which 
established CORFO:
(y)
"DL 3500" means the Decree Law No. 3500 of the Borrower, of November 4, 
1980, published November 13, 1980 in Diario Oficial of the Borrower, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement, which,
among other things, regulates investments by pension plans; and
(z)
"Banking Laws" means DFL (Decreto con Fuerza de Ley) No. 252 of March 30, 
1960, of the Borrower, published on April 4, 1960 in Diario Oficial of the Borrower as 
amended to the date of this
Agreement, and all regulations thereto, and such other legislation or regulations of 
the Borrower or its agencies or departments that regulate banking in Chile:
(aa)
"Cartera Vendida" means the system of selling risky or poor performing 
loans held by Commercial Banks to Central Bank and of repurchasing such loans by 
Commercial Banks;
(bb)
"Insurance Laws" means DFL (Decreto con Fuerza de Ley) No. 251 of May 20, 
1931, of the Borrower, published on May 22, 1931 in Diario Oficial of the Borrower as 
amended to the date of
this Agreement, and all regulations thereto, and such other legislation or regulations 
of the Borrower or its agencies or departments that regulate the provision of 
insurance in Chile:
(cc)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev. 3 (1986):
(dd)
"Negative List" means those items referred to in paragraphs 3 (d), (e) 
and (f) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(ee)
"peso" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement.  various currencies  that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred thirty million 
dollars ($130,000,000) being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account  in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the 
reasonable cost of eligible items required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30,  1995, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
Page  5
the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,  the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,  calculated 
at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter,  plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period,  
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter. "
"(c)
(iii)`Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan 
Agreement, shall:
Page  6
(i)
carry out Part C of the Project, through Central Bank;
 
(ii)
cause CORFO to carry out Part A of the Project, as its financial 
agent, and to 
perform, in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement, all the 
obligations of CORFO therein set 
forth;
(iii)
take, or cause to be taken all action,  including the provision of 
funds,  
facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable CORFO 
to perform its 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
(iv)
carry out Part B of the Project with the assistance of Central 
Bank, SVS, SAFP and 
SBIF; and
(v)
provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities and other 
resources required for 
purposes of carrying out Parts B and C 
of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall designate CORFO as  its financial agent for purpose of 
carrying out Part A of the Project and shall make the portion of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated to Part A of
the Project available to CORFO, as the administrator of such funds, under a Funds 
Transfer Arrangement to be entered into between the Borrower and CORFO, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Funds Transfer 
Arrangement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree  the Borrower shall not fail to enforce, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Funds Transfer Arrangement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02.  (a)  The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time,  at the 
request of either party,  exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the Actions specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment, a report of the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.03.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants'  services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions  
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by CORFO pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.05.  Prior to June 30, 1990, the Borrower shall review and discuss 
with the Bank the scope of work and functioning of the SVS Unit. The Borrower shall 
take whatever measures are necessary or appropriate to improve the monitoring ability 
of such unit if such measures are identified and agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Bank as a result of any such review.
Section 3.06.  Prior to September 30, 1990, the Borrower shall:
(a)
conduct a public seminar  to publicize and explain streamlined 
requirements for issuance of Securities
Page  7
(b)
publish and circulate widely to the private sector a brochure explaining 
the methods for issuing Securities and publish a thorough compilation of the laws and 
regulations of the Borrower related to the issuing of Securities; and
(c)
review with the Bank proposals to permit pension funds to invest in 
Commercial Paper and establish a maximum amount, satisfactory to the Bank, of such 
investments that would be permitted as percentage of total investments held by each 
pension fund in its portfolio. For purposes of this Section "Commercial Paper" means 
financial instruments with maturities not exceeding one year which are traded in Chile 
and registered with the SVS or the SBIF.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, by each June 30 and 
December 31 commencing in the year 1990 and throughout the execution of the Project, a 
status report on the functioning of the Cartera Vendida and on the subordinated debt 
obligations of the Commercial Banks to the Central Bank, which have replaced the 
repurchasing obligations under the Cartera Vendida.
Section 3.08.  Prior to September 30, 1990, the Borrower shall carry out the 
study referred to in Part B.4 of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, and shall discuss the results of such study with the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial ant Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently 
maintained sound accounting practices the resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower,  and the Central Bank, 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
the Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above, including 
the Special 
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year 
certified copies of the report of such audit 
by such auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as  the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure  the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph  
(a)  of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
Page  8
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02  (k) of the General conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CORFO shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement:
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement,  an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that CORFO will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(c)
CORFO Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CORFO to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CORFO or for the suspension of 
its one rations
(e)
CORFO shall have changed, or failed to apply, the Auction Procedures 
without the Prior consent of the Bank;
(f)
the Borrower shall have ceased to apply the UF, or the UF, in the Bank's 
opinion, shall have ceased to reflect the variations in the Borrower's consumer price 
index, or any event shall have occurred which would make the adjustment of loan 
principals on the basis of UF inapplicable, unenforceable or illegal in the territory 
of the Borrower, unless the Borrower shall have adopted an equivalent indexation 
system or a market based system for determining principal and interest rate on debt 
obligations, satisfactory to the Bank, and the Borrower and CORFO shall have applied 
such new system to Subloans financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(g)
a situation shall have arisen which shaLl make  it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(h)
the Grant Agreement or Agreements shall have failed to become effective 
by January 31,  1990 or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however,  
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement;
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the Borrower 
to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,  pursuant to the terms of 
any Grant Agreement providing therefor; and
(j)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h)  of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
Page  9
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) or (f) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has designated CORFO as its financial agent to Section 3.01 
tb) of this Agreement;
(b)
the Funds Transfer Arrangement has been entered into on behalf of the 
Borrower and CORFO;
(c)
the Borrower has adopted legislation providing for a Depository System;
 
(d)
the Borrower has raised the limit of bonds which can be issued by an 
enterprise, organized under the laws of the Borrower and engaged primarily in the 
business of leasing equipment, for purchase by AFPs and Insurance Companies to twice 
the permanent capital of such enterprise; and
(e)
CORFO has adopted Auction Procedures satisfactory to the Bank and 
provided the came to the Bank.
Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional atters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions,  to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank.
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CORFO, 
and is legally binding upon CORFO in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the designation of CORFO as the financial agent of the Borrower as 
provided in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement is legally valid and binding upon the 
Borrower and CORFO in accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the Funds Transfer Arrangement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and CORFO, entered into on behalf of the parties thereto, and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and CORFO in accordance with its terms: and
(d)
that the legislation referred to in condition (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement has been duly adopted and the legislative and regulatory changes that are or 
may be required by condition (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement have taken effect, 
and that no other actions or ratifications are required by any party or governmental 
agency or department in order for such changes to be applicable and binding law within 
the territory of the Borrower.
Section 6.03.  The date May 9, 1990 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the Purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  10
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Teatinos 120, Piso 12
Santiago,
Chile
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CL
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United 
States of America,  as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Octavio Errazuriz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO CENTRAL DE CHILE
By /s/ Octavio Errazuriz
Authorized Representative
Countersigned on behalf of the
Page  11
Controller General and of the
Treasurer General of the
Republic of Chile
By /s/ Octavio Errazuriz
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                        Amount of the
                       Loan Allocated        % of
                        (Expressed in    Expenditures
     Category        Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)  Subloans           50,000,000       100% ofthe
     under Part                          amounts disbursed
     A of the                            by CORFO for each
     Project                             Subloan
(2)  Imported Goods     80,000,000       100% of Foreign
     under Part C                        Expenditures
     of the Project
     of the Project
          TOTAL        130,000,000
2.
For purposes of this Schedule the term "Foreign Expenditures" means expenditures 
in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$16,000,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after September 23, 1989;
(b)
payments made by CORFO under Category 1 in respect of a Leasing 
Subproject, in connection with which the purchase price of the equipment is equivalent 
to $1,000,000 or more, unless such
Leasing Subproject has been approved by the Bank;
(c)
payments in respect of Category 2 unless the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that the Borrower's macroeconomic framework is consistent with the Program;
(d)
expenditures for goods under Category 2 included in the following SITC 
group or sub-groups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to 
the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
     Group         Subgroup        Description of Items
     112               -           Alcoholic beverages
     121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured,
Page  12
                                   tobacco refuse
     122               -           Tobbaco, manufactured
                                   (whether or not
                                   containing tobacco sub-
                                   stitutes)
     525               -           Radioactive and
                                   associated materials
     667               -           Pearls, precious and
                                   semi-precious stones,
                                   unworked or worked
     718             718.7         Nuclear reactors, and
                                   parts thereof, fuel
                                   elements (cartridges).
     897             897.3         Jewelery of gold, silver
                                   or platinum group metals
                                   (except watches and
                                   watch cases) and
                                   goldsmiths' or
                                   silversmiths' wares
                                   (including set gems)
     971               -           Gold, non-monetary
                                   (excluding gold ores and
                                   concentrates); and
(e)
expenditures for goods under Category 2 supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank 
shall have financed or agreed to
finance; and
(f)
expenditures for goods under Category 2 intended for a military or 
paramilitary purposes or for luxury consumption.
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to, or on the order of, the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
under Category 2 after the aggregate
of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of 
such commitments in respect of Category 2 shall have reached the equivalent of 
$40,000,000, unless the Bank shall have been satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.02  (a)  of this Agreement,  and based on evidence satisfactory 
to the Bank, that:
(a)
the Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in carrying out the 
Program;
(b)
the Borrower's macroeconomic framework is consistent
 
(c)
the actions described in the Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
If,  after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Bank shall 
have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within ninety days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, or any portion 
thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in reforming its 
financial sector, strengthening its securities and banking markets and its leasing 
Page  13
sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives
Part A:
Leasing Sector Support
 
The provision of Subloans to Eligible Enterprises for purposes of financing 
Leasing Subprojects.
Part B:
Technical Assistance and Studies
 
1.
Technical assistance to strengthen governmental institutional capabilities in 
supervising and monitoring financial markets.
2.
Training to upgrade managerial skills in the financial sector.
 
3.
Technical assistance to overcome any constraints to the development of the 
Borrower's technological capacity.
4.
Carrying out a study of all investment possibilities for the pension funds and 
an analysis of what further changes in the portfolio regulations would be required to 
enable them to diversify their investments.
Part C:
Imports
 
Financing of imported goods required during the execution of the Program.
*   *   * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1995
through   August 15, 2006
5,415,000
 
On  February 15, 2007
5,455,000
 
Page  14
_______________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment, multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Category" means Category 1 set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of equipment required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Category in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 7,500,000 
dollars to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  15
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals  of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
Eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding  the Provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocate to the Eligible 
Category for Part A of the Project,  less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to Part A of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Category for Part A 
of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  16
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
 SCHEDULE 5
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (c)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
The Borrower shall have issued the regulations relating to the legislation 
referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement and shall have taken the necessary 
or appropriate measures to put in place the Depository System.
2.
The Central Bank and any authority having jurisdiction shall have adopted a plan 
of action, satisfactory to the Bank, including a set of appropriate incentives and a 
timetable for implementation
thereof, to cause the AFPs to transfer securities held by such AFPs from Centra| Bank 
to the Depository system.
3.
The Borrower shall have taken the measures, necessary or appropriate, including 
amending DL 3500 to permit: the pension funds to invest in closed-end mutual funds and 
short-term notes of corporations organized under the laws of the Borrower, within 
portfolio limits acceptable to the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall have submitted to its legislative body for approval, draft 
amendments to its Banking Law, Insurance Law, DL 3500 and such other laws as are 
applicable: (i) to permit Commercial Banks to issue Collateralized Instruments and 
Securitized Instruments and to sell such instruments to third parties, without 
previous authorization of SBIF; (ii) to permit Insurance Companies to invest in 
Collateralized Instruments and Securitized Instruments; and (iii) to permit pension 
funds to invest in Collateralized Instruments.
5.
The Borrower shall have taken all measures necessary and appropriate, including 
amending its Banking Law and such other laws and regulations as are applicable, to 
permit Commercial Bank:
(i)
to issue subordinated debt, at least 50% of the value of which 
could be used as 
contributing to the capital base of the 
issuing Commercial Bank, up to a limit of 
20% of the total 
capital and reserves of such Bank
(ii)
greater flexibility in providing guarantees in their lending 
operations by 
eliminating the glob a limit that 
restricts the total value of guarantees offered 
by a 
Commercial Bank.
6.
The Borrower shall have reviewed with the Bank, the requirements for 
establishing real estate investment companies and shall have modified such 
requirements, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to facilitate the establishment of 
such investment companies.
