Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/29/2011 
Report No.:  AC6002
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Original Project ID: P065920 
Original Project Name: Gaza Emergency 
Water Project 
Country:  West Bank and Gaza 
Project ID:  P122268 
Project Name:  GZ-Gaza II Emergency Water  Additional Financing III 
Task Team Leader:  Zeyad Abu-Hassanein 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date: April 12, 2011 
Managing Unit:  MNSSD 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Sub-national government administration (67%);Water supply (15%);Sanitation 
(12%);Sewerage (6%) 
Theme:  Other urban development (29%);Pollution management and environmental 
health (29%);Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (14%);Other human 
development (14%);Rural services and infrastructure (14%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 Special 
Financing 
3.00
3.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Repeater [] 
 
 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
This additional financing has the same development objective as the parent Gaza 
Emergency Water Project: to establish a well-functioning water utility in Gaza and 
sustain the water and sanitation service provision for the Gaza population. The project 
has a secondary PDO of building the capacity of the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA).   
 
3. Project Description 
The 3.0 million budget for the third additional financing are dedicated to finance:  
 
(1) the operating costs of the water utility (1.5 million). This will cover the electricity 
and fuel, telecommunications bills, cost of PMU staff, rental of utility offices, insurance, 
and maintenance of vehicles and equipment.  
 
(2) consultant services to help the Coastal Municipalities Water Utility (CMWU) 
enhance its management systems and provide training to its staff (0.15 million).  
Page  2
(3) capital and operating fund of the utility (1.65 million. This fund will finance the 
procurement of goods and works to maintain and rehabilitate the water networks, 
sewerage networks, electromechanical parts and rehabilitation of pumping stations and 
treatment plants, replacement and rehabilitation of water meters, etc.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Gaza Strip, The project will work in all municipalities and village councils of Gaza Strip.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Tracy Hart (MNSEN) 
Ms Sabine W. Beddies (MNSSO) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Only OP/BP 4.01 on environmental assessment is triggered by the project. An 
environmental management plan (EMP) was prepared in March 2001 as part of the 
preparation of the parent project (Gaza Emergency Water Project). The project activities 
of the third additional financing are continuing the activities in the parent project and the 
first 2 additional financings, mainly rehabilitation of water and sanitation networks, water 
wells, pumping stations and alike. The works are conducted on existing facilities and no 
land taking is expected and no cultural resources or natural habitat are affected. No other 
safeguards policies are triggered and no long term or large scale negative impacts are 
expected. The overall impact of the project will improve the environmental situation in 
Gaza by managing and rehabilitation of the water and sanitation networks and facilities.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The environmental situation in general will improve as a result of the project by 
addressing rehabilitation of water and sewerage networks and facilities, consolidating the 
Page  3
service provision in one utility, managing the random water abstraction and/or 
wastewater disposal.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The short term impacts during construction and/or rehabilitation works are 
addressed/minimized by implementing the measures detailed in the EMP for earthworks, 
water and sanitation works. A dedicated staff from the CMWU is following up the 
implementation of the EMP and reporting directly to the director of the PMU.The 
implementation of the environmental management plan proved satisfactory during the 
course of the parent project and the consequent two additional financing. Furthermore, 
the CMWU managed satisfactorily the risk of the North Gaza Treatment plant and 
monitoring the water quality in the entire Gaza Strip regularly. Part of the proceeds of the 
fund of this additional financing will finance the operating cost of PMU staff that will 
cover the environmental staff and monitoring of environmental indicators of water and 
wastewater quality as well as managing the operation of the North Gaza Wastewater 
treatment plant.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The PMU/CMWU are closely coordinating project activities with the Palestinian Water 
Authority (PWA), North Gaza Emergency Sanitation Project (NGEST) project 
management unit, as well as beneficiary municipalities under the umbrella of CMWU. 
The EMP is disclosed on CMWU website and updated regularly. Consultation with 
constituent municipalities is done regularly as part of the governing board of the utility 
which is composed of the mayors of the municipalities under the CMWU utility.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
01/06/2011 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
01/13/2011 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
01/16/2011 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Page  4
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
N/A   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  5
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Zeyad Abu-Hassanein 
02/08/2011 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Banu Setlur 
02/08/2011 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Colin S. Scott 
02/08/2011 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Hocine Chalal 
02/09/2011 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Francis Ato Brown 
02/09/2011 
Comments:   
