Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF094535 GZ 
 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Second Additional Financing for the Gaza Emergency Water Project) 
 
between 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
Dated July 14, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF094535 GZ 
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 14, 2009 between the PALESTINE LIBERATION 
ORGANIZATION 
(the “Recipient”) (for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “World Bank”), acting as 
administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank, established 
on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, as amended by Resolution 
No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and Resolution No. 96-11 and IDA 96-7, and as further amended 
by Resolution No. 99-3 and IDA 99-2 and Resolution No. 03-193 and IDA 03-208 of the 
Executive Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and 
the International Development Association (the “Trust Fund”)
.
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association has 
resolved, on June 4, 2008, to, 
inter alia,
 replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of fifty 
five million dollars (US$55,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the surplus of 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (“Gaza”) and the West Bank (the “West 
Bank”), which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority; 
 
(B) 
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, among other 
things
,
sets out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank 
(the “Interim Agreement”); 
 
(C) 
Section 5(b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases described 
thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority;  
 
(D) 
under the Original Trust Fund Grant Agreement (as defined in Appendix 
I
to this Agreement) the World Bank has provided a grant to the Recipient out of the 
Trust Fund for the implementation of the project described in the Original Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement (as defined in Appendix I to this Agreement). The World Bank 
provided additional financing to the project described in the Original Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement under the Additional Financing Trust Fund Grant Agreement (as defined in 
Appendix I to this Agreement); 
 
(E) 
the Palestinian Authority, on behalf of the Recipient, has requested the 
World Bank to provide additional financing for activities related to the Original Project 
(as defined in the Appendix I to this Agreement) which are described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (the “Project”). 
Page  3
2
WHEREAS the World Bank has agreed, on the basis, among other things
,
of
the 
foregoing to extend the Grant to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Grant 
Agreement. 
 
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 1, 2008
 (“Standard Conditions”) including the modifications 
set out in Appendix II to this Agreement, constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement. 
 
1.03. 
All provisions of the Original Trust Fund Grant Agreement and the Additional 
Financing Trust Fund Grant Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
ARTICLE II - GRANT 
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
 
a
grant in an amount equivalent to three 
million United States dollars (US$3,000,000) (“Grant”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  To this end, the Recipient shall cause the 
Palestinian Authority to carry out the Project through the CMWU in accordance 
with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
Page  4
3
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World 
Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the Subsidiary Agreement referred 
to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority, as represented by the Minister of 
Finance of the Palestinian Authority. 
 
4.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 4.01, there shall be 
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World Bank 
of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, a 
certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the Recipient, 
showing the following matters:  
 
(a) 
on behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally binding 
upon it in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and the 
Palestinian Authority and is legally binding upon each such party in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
4.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement 
shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the 
Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 4.01 
(“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any event has occurred which 
would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the 
World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in this Section 
until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist. 
 
4.04. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has 
not entered into effect by the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, 
unless the World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes 
a
later date for the purpose of this Section.  The World Bank shall promptly notify 
the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Page  5
4
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
H.E. Dr. Salam Fayyad 
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance 
Palestinian National Authority 
Ramallah, West Bank and Gaza 
 
Telephone: 
    Facsimile: 
 
970-2-297 
8846 
    970-2-297 
8845 
 
 
5.03. 
The World Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at the West Bank, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
By /s/ Salam Fayyad                       
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Dina N. Abu-Ghaida 
  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the efficiency, management; 
operation and delivery of water and wastewater services in Gaza; (ii) to build capacity of the 
CMWU; and (iii) to strengthen the regulatory and institutional capacity of the PWA. 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Performance-based Management Contract
No activities will be undertaken within this component under this Additional 
Financing. 
 
Part B:
Capital and Operating Investments
Rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the water and wastewater 
infrastructure in Gaza through the carrying out of works, purchase of materials, supplies and 
construction equipment, and provision of consultants’ services. 
 
Part C
:
Institutional Reform and Capacity Building
No activities will be undertaken within this component under this Additional 
Financing.
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to maintain the 
Project Implementation Plan and the Disbursement Plan in a form and substance 
satisfactory to the Administrator. The Project Implementation Plan shall set out details of 
the procedures, guidelines, timetables and other pertinent institutional and 
implementation arrangements relating to the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause the CMWU 
to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation 
Plan and the Disbursement Plan, and except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
the Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall not permit the CMWU to amend or 
waive any provision of the PIP if, in the opinion of the Administrator, such amendment 
or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause the CMWU to 
maintain the PMU in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the 
Administrator (including specialists in procurement and financial management). The 
PMU shall coordinate all activities under the Project, including: (i) environmental 
management; (ii) financial management; (iii) procurement; (iv) monitoring and 
evaluation; and (v) preparing and submitting to the Administrator quarterly consolidated 
progress reports and financial statements. 
 
3. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause the CMWU to 
employ a Project Director in the PMU, with qualifications and experience, and upon 
terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Administrator. 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to maintain the Project 
Steering Committee consisting of senior officials of key stakeholder ministries and 
agencies. The PSC shall be responsible for providing overall oversight of the Project and 
policy guidance, including reviewing procurement plans pertaining to the execution of 
the Project. 
 
5. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause the CMWU to 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Administrator, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
Page  9
8
B. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Grant available to the Palestinian Authority under a subsidiary agreement between 
the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority, under terms and conditions approved by the 
World Bank. 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (i) to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of the Palestinian 
Authority therein set forth; (ii) to take all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate for the carrying out of 
the Project; and (iii) not to take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project. 
3. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the World Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Grant.  Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its 
provisions. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. Safeguards 
1. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall maintain the 
environmental management specialist as part of the PMU staff. 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to carry out the 
recommendations of the Environmental Management Plan, as revised, in accordance with 
the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedules and other provisions set forth therein. 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (a) to refrain from taking any 
action which shall prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Environmental 
Management Plan; and (b) not to amend, abrogate or waive the Environmental 
Management Plan or any of its provisions without prior approval of the Administrator. 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall, through the Palestinian Authority, monitor and evaluate the 
progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the 
Page  10
9
Administrator.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished to the Administrator not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of the period covered by such report. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 2.06 (b) (ii) of the Standard Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Administrator not later than June 30, 2011.
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall, 
through the Palestinian Authority, prepare and furnish to the Administrator not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Administrator. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the Standard Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) calendar year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Administrator not 
later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Administrator of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  11
10
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
 
(b)  Shopping 
 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under this 
paragraph shall include the following additional procedures: 
 
(i) 
public enterprises in parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are 
legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
law, and are not a dependent agency of the Palestinian Authority; 
 
(ii) 
foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate under the same 
conditions as local bidders.  In particular, no preference over 
foreign bidders shall be granted to local bidders in bid 
evaluation; 
 
(iii) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised on at least two (2) 
consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide circulation, and 
prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) 
days between the date on which the notification appears for the 
first time and the deadline for bid submission.  With the specific 
approval of the World Bank, this minimum period of thirty (30) 
days may be reduced to a minimum period of ten (10) days in the 
case of emergency operations; 
 
Page  12
11
(iv) 
until standard bidding documents acceptable to the World Bank 
have been introduced by the Recipient, the standard bidding 
documents of the World Bank shall be used; 
 
(v) 
qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding 
documents, and 
all 
criteria so specified, and 
only
 criteria  
so specified, shall be used to determine whether a bidder is 
qualified.  Bids of bidders not meeting such criteria shall be 
rejected as non-qualified.  The fact that a bidder meets or 
surpasses the specified qualification criteria shall not be taken 
into account in the evaluation of such bidder’s bid; 
 
(vi) 
evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding 
documents, and all evaluation criteria other than price shall be 
quantified in monetary terms. All evaluation criteria so specified, 
and 
only 
criteria so specified, shall be used in bid evaluation.  
Merit points shall not be used in bid evaluation; 
 
(vii) 
if classification of contractors is required, contractors that have 
not yet been classified but meet the required qualifications shall 
be enabled to obtain the necessary classification during the 
bidding procedure.  Any contractor that has been classified in a 
class higher than the lowest class shall not be restricted to 
bidding in his own class but shall be eligible also to bid in any 
lower class; 
 
(viii) 
bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes and shall be accepted 
whether mailed or hand-carried; 
 
(ix) 
bids shall be opened in the presence of bidders who wish to 
attend, and immediately after the deadline for bid submission.  
Said deadline, and the place of bid opening, shall be announced 
in the invitation to bid. The name of each bidder, and the amount 
of his bid, shall be read aloud and recorded when opened in the 
minutes of bid opening. The minutes of bid opening shall be 
signed by the members of the bid opening committee 
immediately after bid opening; 
 
(x) 
bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be 
returned to the bidders unopened; 
 
(xi) 
a bid containing material deviations from or reservations to the 
terms, conditions and specifications of the bidding documents 
shall be rejected as not substantially responsive.  A bidder shall 
Page  13
12
not be permitted to withdraw material deviations or reservations 
once bids have been opened; 
 
(xii) 
the bid evaluation shall be carried out in strict adherence to the 
criteria specified in the bidding documents, and the contract shall 
be awarded to the qualified bidder offering the lowest evaluated 
and substantially responsive bid; 
 
(xiii) 
a bidder shall not be required, as a condition for award, to 
undertake obligations not specified in the bidding documents or 
otherwise to modify his bid as originally submitted; and 
 
(xiv) 
there shall be no post-bidding negotiations with the lowest or any 
other bidder. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
bel
ow, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Quality-based Selection 
 
(b)  Least-Cost Selection 
 
(c)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(d)  Single Source Selection 
 
(e)  Selection of individual Consultants 
 
(f)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
Page  14
13
D. 
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
World Bank. 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of Article III of the Standard Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Administrator and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to 
such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed 
in US$) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
 
(1)  Civil Works under 
 
Part B of the Project 
 
2,000,000 100% 
 
(2)  Goods under Part B  
 
of
the Project 
 
1,000,000 100% 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
3,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
For the purposes of the table in Part A of this Section, the term “Incremental 
Operating Costs” means costs incurred by the CMWU on account of the PMU staff costs, 
rental of office space, insurance costs, communication costs, office equipment, office 
Page  15
14
supplies, utility charges, reasonable banking charges, labor costs, maintenance costs of 
equipment purchased under, or assigned to, the Project, advertisement for procurement 
purposes, project related travel and per diem allowances, and other consumables.” 
 
3.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  16
15
APPENDIX - I 
Definitions
1. 
“Additional Financing Trust Fund Grant Agreement” means a trust fund grant 
agreement between the International Development Association, acting as 
Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank, and the Recipient, 
dated June 30, 2008, (Trust Fund Number TF092142-GZ) for the additional 
financing of the project described in the Original Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Coastal Municipalities Water Utility” or “CMWU” means the autonomous body 
established pursuant to the Palestinian Authority’s Local Government Law No. 1 
of 1997, to consolidate the existing small municipal water departments into a 
service delivery unit. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
6. 
“Disbursement Plan” means the work plan dated April 30, 2009, setting forth the 
projected disbursement targets and modalities for disbursements under the 
Original Project and the Additional Financing. 
7. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan submitted by the Palestinian 
Authority to the Administrator in April 2001, as revised in June 2008, and as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Administrator, setting forth the measures to be taken during the implementation 
and operation of the Project in accordance with certain institutional, mitigating, 
and monitoring measures to offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to 
levels acceptable to the Administrator. 
 
8. 
“Original Project” means: (a) the project described in the Original Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement; and (b) the project described in the Additional Financing Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement. 
Page  17
16
9. 
“Original Trust Fund Grant Agreement” means the Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
for the Gaza Emergency Water Project (TF055245) between the Administrator and 
the Palestinian Liberation Organization (for the benefit of the Palestinian 
Authority), dated July 10, 2005, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
10. 
“Palestinian Water Authority” or “PWA” means a public authority established 
and operating in Gaza and the West Bank pursuant to Decree No. 90 of the 
Chairman of the Palestinian Authority, dated April 26, 1995, and Law No. 2 of 
1996 and Law No. 3 of 2002, as the same may be amended from time to time. 
11. 
“Project Director” means the Recipient’s Project Director, to be employed 
pursuant to paragraph I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
12. 
“Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means the Project implementation plan 
referred to in paragraph I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Administrator. 
13. 
“Project Management Unit” or “PMU” means the Recipient’s Project 
Management Unit to be maintained pursuant to paragraph I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and assigned responsibility for the carrying out of the Project on 
behalf of the Palestine Authority. 
14. 
“Project Steering Committee” or “PSC” means the Project Steering Committee to 
be maintained pursuant to paragraph I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 27, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
17. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Grant available to the Palestinian Authority. 
Page  18
17
APPENDIX - II 
 
Modifications to the Standard Conditions 
 
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 2.09 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.09. 
Visits. 
The Recipient shall, throughout the implementation of the 
Project and for a period of ten (10) years thereafter: 
 
(a) 
enable representatives of the World Bank to visit any part of the West 
Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority for purposes related to 
the Grant; and 
 
(b) 
enable the World Bank’s representatives: (i) to visit any facilities and 
sites included in the Project; and (ii) to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, and any documents relevant to the performance of its obligations under the 
Grant Agreement.” 
 
2. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 3.07 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.07. 
Financing Taxes.   
 
(a) 
The Grant Agreement may specify that the proceeds of the Grant may 
not be withdrawn to pay for Taxes levied by, or in the parts of West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority on or in respect of Eligible 
Expenditures, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  In such case, 
if the amount of any such Taxes decreases or increases, the World Bank may, by notice to 
the Recipient, adjust the percentage of such Eligible Expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant specified in the Grant Agreement, as required to ensure 
consistency with such limitation on withdrawals.” 
 
3. 
Sub-sections (a) and (h) of Section 4.02 are deleted, and consequently,  
Sub-sections (b) through (k) are re-lettered as Sub-sections (a) through (i). 
 
4. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (b) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(b) 
Fraud and Corruption. 
At any time, the World Bank determines that any 
representative of the Recipient (or any agency thereof or any entity in the West Bank and 
Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or any other recipient of any of 
the proceeds of the Grant) has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of the Grant, without the Recipient 
(or any such agency thereof or any such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority or any other such recipient) having taken timely 
Page  19
18
and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to address such practices when 
they occur.” 
 
5. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (c) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Cross Suspension
.
IBRD or IDA has suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient or any agency thereof, or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, to make withdrawals under any 
agreement with IBRD or with IDA because of a failure by the Recipient, or any agency 
thereof, or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority, to perform any of its obligations under such agreement or any other agreement 
with IBRD or IDA.” 
 
6. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (f) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(f) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. 
The Recipient or any 
other entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project has, without the consent 
of the World Bank: (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in part, any of its obligations 
arising under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, 
transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed of any property or assets financed wholly or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Grant; provided, however, that the provisions of this 
paragraph shall not apply with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business 
which, in the opinion of the World Bank:  (A) do not materially and adversely affect the 
ability of the Recipient (or such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising 
under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project; and (B) do not materially and adversely affect the financial condition or 
operation of the Recipient (or such other entity).” 
 
7. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (g) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(g) 
Condition of Recipient.  
If the Grant has been made to a Recipient which 
is not a member of IBRD: 
 
(i) 
Any action has been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment 
or suspension of operations of the Recipient (or of any other 
entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project). 
 
(ii) 
The Recipient (or any other entity responsible for implementing 
any part of the Project) has ceased to exist in the same legal form 
as that prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
In the opinion of the World Bank, the legal character, ownership 
or control of the Recipient (or any other entity responsible for 
implementing any part of the Project) has changed from that 
prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement so as to 
Page  20
19
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient (or 
such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising under 
or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement, or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project.” 
 
8. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (h) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(h) 
Ineligibility
.
IBRD or IDA has declared the Recipient ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by IBRD or IDA or otherwise to participate in 
the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by IBRD or 
IDA (including as administrator of funds provided by another financier), as a result of a 
determination by IBRD or IDA that the Recipient has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any 
financing made by IBRD or IDA.”  
9. 
Sub-section (c) of Section 4.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(c) 
Fraud and Corruption. 
At any time, the World Bank determines, with 
respect to any amount of the proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient (or any agency 
thereof or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority, or any other recipient of the proceeds of the Grant) without the Recipient (or 
any such agency thereof or any such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or any such other recipient of the proceeds of the 
Grant) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to 
address such practices when they occur.” 
 
10. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 4.05 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(a) 
If the World Bank determines that an amount of the Grant has been used 
in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of the Grant Agreement or these Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient shall, upon notice by the World Bank to the Recipient, 
promptly refund such amount to the World Bank. Such inconsistent use shall include, 
without limitation:  
 
(i)  
use of such amount to make a payment for an expenditure that is 
not an Eligible Expenditure; or  
 
(ii)  
(A) engaging in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive 
practices in connection with the use of such amount, or (B) use 
of such amount to finance a contract during the procurement or 
execution of which such practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient (or any agency thereof or any 
entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority, or other recipient of such amount of the 
Page  21
20
Grant), in either case without the Recipient (or such agency 
thereof or such entity in the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
World Bank to address such practices when they occur.” 
 
11. 
Sub-section (j) of Section 5.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(j) 
If, within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award have been 
delivered to the parties, the award has not been complied with, any party may:  (i) enter 
judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of competent 
jurisdiction against any other party; (ii) enforce such judgment by execution; or  
(iii) pursue any other appropriate remedy against such other party for the enforcement of 
the award and the provisions of the Grant Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment or enforcement of the award 
against the Recipient except as such procedure may be available otherwise than by reason 
of the provisions of this Section.” 
 
12. 
Paragraph (17) of the Appendix is deleted and, consequently, paragraphs (18) 
through (26) are re-numbered as paragraphs (17) through (25).
 
