                       Document of
                   The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00002370



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
    (Grant Nos. TF-55245 TF-92142 TF-94535 TF-99575)



                          ON

                TRUST FUND GRANTS

         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$31 MILLION

                        TO THE

               WEST BANK AND GAZA

                         FOR A

        GAZA II EMERGENCY WATER PROJECT



                    August 28, 2012




            Sustainable Development Group
           Middle East and North Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective January 3, 2012)

                        Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekel
                              NIS 1.00 = US$0.258
                               US$ 1 = NIS 3.853

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 - December 31


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country assistance Strategy
CMWU      Coastal Municipality Water Utility
EU        European Union
FM        Financial Management
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEWP      Gaza Emergency Water Project
GIS       Geographic Information Systems
GOI       Government of Israel
GWSREP    Gaza Water Supply Rehabilitation & Expansion Project
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction & Development
IDA       International Development Association
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group
IsDB      Islamic Development Bank
MC        Management Contract
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NDP       National Development Plan
NGEST     North Gaza Emergency Sewage Treatment Project
NGO       Non-Government Organization
NIS       New Israeli Shekels
O&M       Operational and Maintenance
PA        Palestinian Authority
PMU       Project Management Unit
PWA       Palestinian Water Authority
WB        World Bank
WB&G      West Bank and Gaza
WSSP      Water and Sanitation Services Project



Vice President:                            Inger Andersen
Country Director:                          Mariam J. Sherman
Sector Director:                           Junaid Kamal Ahmad
Sector Manager:                            Francis Ato Brown
Project Team Leader:                       Zeyad Abu-Hassanein
ICR Team Leader:                           Zeyad Abu-Hassanein

                                          1
                                      WEST BANK AND GAZA
                                    Gaza Emergency Water Project
                              Implementation Completion and Results Report

                                                           Table of Contents

Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph

  1.   PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ........................................................................ 3
  2.   KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES ....................................................................... 8
  3.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................................................. 12
  4.   ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME .................................................................................. 18
  5.   ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................................................................ 18
  6.   LESSONS LEARNED ............................................................................................................................... 21
  7.   COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS..................................... 21
  ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .................................................................................................. 22
  ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT .......................................................................................................... 23
  ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS............................................................................................ 24
  ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES ......................................... 25
  ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS ..................................................................................................... 27
  ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS ........................................................................... 28
  ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR................................................. 29
  ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS ............................................... 36
  ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ............................................................................................... 37




                                                                          2
A. Basic Information
                                                                    Gaza II Emergency
Country:               West Bank and Gaza     Project Name:
                                                                    Water Project
                                                                    TF-55245,TF-
Project ID:            P065920                L/C/TF Number(s):     92142,TF-94535,TF-
                                                                    99575
ICR Date:              08/09/2012             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    PLO FOR THE
Lending Instrument:    ERL                    Borrower:
                                                                    BENEFIT OF THE PA
Original Total
                       USD 31.00M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 30.41M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 30.41M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Coastal Municipalities Water Utility
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 CARE
 Oxfam
 Save the Children
 Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA)
 AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
 KfW
 United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
 European Union
 Islamic Develpment Bank (IDB)
 United Nations International Childrens' Education Fund (UNICEF)
 Italian Development Cooperation Department
 UNRWA
 International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)
 Qatar Red Crescent
 ACH
 GVC
 Aneera
 Islamic Relief
 ESSP
 PHG
 Turkish Red Crescent
 Al-Tawen

B. Key Dates
                                                                          Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process         Original Date
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/29/2000     Effectiveness:                         07/25/2005
Appraisal:            04/04/2005     Restructuring(s):                      05/06/2008



                                              i
Approval:                  06/07/2005       Mid-term Review:                            11/26/2006
                                            Closing:                 01/31/2012         01/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                               Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                            High
Bank Performance:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                              Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                                   (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                                 Quality of
                             Yes                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                          Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                       Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sanitation                                                                 12               12
Sewerage                                                                    6                   6
Sub-national government administration                                     67               67
Water supply                                                               15               15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                       14               14
Other human development                                                    14               14
Other urban development                                                    29               29



                                                       ii
Pollution management and environmental health                      29                  29
Rural services and infrastructure                                  14                  14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Inger Andersen                      Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:         Mariam J. Sherman                   Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager:           Francis Ato Brown                   Jonathan D. Walters
Project Team Leader:      Zeyad Abu-Hassanein                 Suhail J. S. Jme'An
ICR Team Leader:          Zeyad Abu-Hassanein
ICR Primary Author:       Kwaw Andam


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The primary objectives of the project were to improve the provision of adequate water
and wastewater services in Gaza, and to functionally establish the Coastal Municipalities
Water Utility (CMWU) as an autonomous well-run modern utility.In addition, the project
had a secondary objective to strengthen the PWA's capacity to assume sector regulatory
functions.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                             documents)           Values         Target Years
                Services consistently meeting standards:
Indicator 1 a:
                (1) Drinking water delivery meets the quality and quantity standards.
                                                              Drinking
Value           Drinking water in the                         water in the Drinking water in
quantitative or network is 99 percent                         network is      the network is 99.8
Qualitative)    disinfected.                                  99.8 percent percent disinfected.
                                                              disinfected.
Date achieved 07/31/2005                                      01/31/2012      12/06/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                Services consistently meeting standards:
Indicator 1 b:
                 (2) Wastewater collection and disposal services meets the standards.


                                               iii
Value
                                                                                 95 (based on
quantitative or Not determined.             100                 85
                                                                                 original design)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/31/2005                    07/31/2008          01/31/2012       12/06/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                CMWU fully functional and operational: Sets clear objectives and monitors the
Indicator 2 : performance of its services through action plans on investment needs and
                priorities.
                                                                Autonomous
Value                                       Autonomous fully fully               Autonomous fully
                The CMWU does not
quantitative or                             functioning utility functioning      functioning utility
                exist physically.
Qualitative)                                established.        utility          exists.
                                                                established.
Date achieved 07/31/2005                    07/31/2008          01/31/2012       12/06/2011
Comments
                Achieved. The CMWU sets clear objectives and monitors the performance of its
(incl. %
                services through action plans on investment needs and priorities.
achievement)
                Capacity of PWA strengthened: PWA monitors water abstraction, groundwater
Indicator 3 : and wastewater qualities on a regular and comprehensive basis and publishes
                periodic reports about compliance with adopted standards.
                PWA has its mandate and                         PWA will be
                organizational chart to                         able to assume
                function as regulator. The                      its
                                            PWA will be able
Value           regulatory department                           responsibilities
                                            to assume its
quantitative or needs strengthening to                          as               N/A
                                            responsibilities as
Qualitative)    carry out its                                   environmental,
                                            sector regulator.
                responsibilities. Only the                      economic, and
                wells licensing function is                     water quality
                well set.                                       regulator
Date achieved 07/31/2005                    07/31/2008          01/31/2012       01/31/2012
Comments
                The project did not allocate funds to this component after the confiscation of
(incl. %
                PWA offices.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                             approval                             Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                            documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Percent of time when water wells are operational.
Value
(quantitative   88                          90                  90              90
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/31/2005                    07/31/2008          12/31/2009      12/06/2011
Comments
                Achieved.
(incl. %


                                                 iv
achievement)
                  Volume of water billed to volume of water produced from all available sources
Indicator 2 :
                  (percent).
Value
(quantitative     62                         76                   70              62
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/31/2005                 07/31/2008           12/31/2009      12/06/2010
Comments
(incl. %          89% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of hours all customers receive water each day.
Value
(quantitative     6                          12                   8               6-8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/31/2005                07/31/2008             01/31/2012      12/06/2011
Comments          The constraint in achieving this target is the electricity supply deficit. Customers
(incl. %          are adapting to the low hours of water supply by increasing in-house storage to
achievement)      ensure continuous access to water.
                  Wastewater effluent quality meets agreed standards (percent of effluent that
Indicator 4 :
                  meets the standards).
Value
                                                                                  95 (based on
(quantitative     Not determined.            100                  85
                                                                                  original design)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/31/2005                 07/31/2008           01/31/2012      12/06/2011
Comments
                  Major infrastructure investments are ongoing to improve wastewater treatment
(incl. %
                  plants in Beit Lahia, Gaza, Khan Younis, and Rafah.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Annual gross revenue collection (percent).
Value
(quantitative     40                          N/A                 50              35-55
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/31/2005                                     01/31/2012      12/06/2011
                  The original target indicator was an increase in the collection rate from its base at
Comments
                  the time (unspecified).
(incl. %
                  The CMWU conducted successful campaigns to improve collection, but
achievement)
                  collection rates remain low due to prevailing poverty and high unemployment.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                          IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     08/04/2005           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                             0.00
  2     12/30/2005       Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                             2.92
                              Moderately
  3     06/28/2006                               Moderately Satisfactory                       4.32
                            Unsatisfactory
  4     01/24/2007       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                       7.25



                                                    v
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  5    03/30/2007                                                               7.99
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  6    06/07/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory      8.80
  7    10/11/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory     10.23
  8    01/23/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory     13.32
  9    06/29/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory     15.26
 10    12/09/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory     18.24
 11    06/25/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory     20.85
 12    06/07/2010   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory     23.98
 13    05/09/2011   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory     27.36
 14    01/01/2012   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory     29.70


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     of US$5 million was used to
                                                     finance: (i) cost overruns
                                                     associated with the institutional
                                                     strengthening of the Coastal
                                                     Municipality Water Utility
                                                     (CMWU); and (ii) costs
 05/06/2008       N       MS    MS           14.65   associated with the operations
                                                     and maintenance of water and
                                                     wastewater facilities in Gaza
                                                     Strip for an additional year,
                                                     beyond the project’s original
                                                     closing date of January 31,
                                                     2009.




                                              vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

Country Background

 1.     The project was developed in the difficult context of a deep political, social,
economic, and institutional crisis which had engulfed the West Bank and Gaza (WB&G)
during the second Palestinian Intifada (2000-2005). During the first two years of the
crisis, Palestinian economic and social indicators had fallen dramatically: real gross
national disposable income per capita declined by 29 percent between 1999 and 2003,
while overall gross national income losses reached US$5.2 billion - equal to almost one
year of pre-Intifada Palestinian national income.

  2.    The physical damage from the crisis was estimated at more than US$1.7 billion at
replacement cost; capital stock declined by about 20 percent; total investment fell from
about US$1.45 billion in 1999 to US$500-550 million in 2002. Per capita real income at
the end of 2002 was only about half of what it had been three years earlier; the share of
the population living in poverty - defined as those consuming less than US$2.1 of goods
and services per day - tripled, to about 60 percent of the population; the health status of
the Palestinian population declined; and real per capita food consumption dropped by up
to a quarter when compared to 1998 levels. The crisis not only devastated the Palestinian
economy and society, but it also placed the Palestinian Authority’s (PA’s) finances under
severe pressure, making it difficult for it to meet its basic domestic commitments.

Sector Background

  3.    The water sector is managed by the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA), an inter-
ministerial body with a mandate to provide oversight through policy, planning, and
regulation. As part of the World Bank-funded Water and Sanitation Services Project
(WSSP, TF26056, US$25 million, followed by US$6 million, FY97), a new water law
had been passed in March 2002. Water and wastewater services had been provided in a
fragmented manner by municipal water departments within the 25 municipalities and
village councils of Gaza. As part of the sector reforms under the new water law, a
regional utility, the Coastal Municipalities Water Utility (CMWU), had been legally
established in 2002, with the backing of the PWA and the Ministry of Local Government.
The CMWU was set up as an attempt to consolidate the existing small municipal water
departments into a more efficient operating and service delivery unit.

  4.    The crisis during the Intifada resulted in physical damage to water infrastructure
and adversely affected the reform program. An estimated US$900 million in overall
infrastructure sector damage was inflicted on WB&G between September 2000 and July
2003. The water and wastewater sector accounted for about US$140 million, or about 25
percent of the total cost of damage. Most of the damage involved broken supply lines and
the destruction of water pumps and installations. As the crisis deepened, the PWA and
municipalities were unable to collect fees from an increasingly impoverished citizenry.

                                            3
Supplies and spare parts were depleted, and access to networks to undertake essential
maintenance and repairs was curtailed by closures and curfews. As a result, many
waterlines and sewers were not maintained regularly. In addition, the crisis weakened the
ability of both the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) and the municipalities to meet
their financial commitments to the Israeli Water Corporation (Mekhorot) for supplies
provided, leading to a considerable build up of arrears that the PA in the end had to settle
with the Government of Israel (GOI)1.

  5.   Finally, with the crisis, the damage sustained to plant and equipment severely
retarded PWA’s and the municipalities’ ability to implement their originally planned
development and institutional reform programs. This was mainly due to the physical risks
and movement restrictions on workers, contractors and consultants. The risks to life and
limb and the cost and difficulties of doing business reduced the willingness of
management contractors (agents) and potential investors to participate in the management
and development of the sector, negatively impacting progress in preparing new projects.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

  6.     The World Bank had had a long history of supporting water sector development in
the WB&G through a series of water and sanitation projects since the beginning of the
peace process in October 1993 2 . This project sought to consolidate and sustain the
achievements of the earlier Bank-supported Gaza Water and Sanitation Services Project
(WSSP, TF26056, US$25 million, followed by US$6 million, FY97), which had helped
rehabilitate the networks and systems in Gaza. The Bank had played a leading role in
introducing institutional reforms in the water sector in Gaza under the WSSP. Among the
initiatives was the introduction of a private sector operator under a performance-based
Management Contract (MC) to operate and manage water and wastewater services
throughout Gaza, and laying the foundation for the functional establishment of the
CMWU. The WSSP’s outcome was rated Moderately Satisfactory by the Bank’s
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG).

 7.     As the implementation of the WSSP came to an end, a follow-on operation was
envisaged, since it was acknowledged that the task of entirely transforming the sector
could not be accomplished in a single project. The plan was to strengthen the
establishment of the Coastal Municipalities Water Authority (CMWU), and to deepen the




1
  In addition to abstractions from groundwater aquifers underneath the Gaza Strip, which fulfill 95 percent
of the demand for water supply, the Israeli Water Company (Mekorot) supplies a few million cubic meters
of water annually to Gaza.

2
  Previous projects in this sector were the Water and Sanitation Services Project (WSSP, TF26056, US$25
million, followed by US$6 million, FY97), the Northern Gaza Emergency Sewage Treatment Project
(NGEST, US$7.8 million, FY05) and the Emergency Water Project (US$12.5 million, FY04).


                                                    4
level of private sector participation in the follow-on project, possibly to the stage of a
concession agreement, considerably advancing sector development in Gaza.

  8.   For reasons largely related to the crisis, the latter had proved impossible because
the physical and financial risks had become too high. Despite this setback which
considerably delayed the preparation of the new project, PWA and the Bank had
managed to maintain private sector interest in continuing to build capacity in Gaza,
culminating in a successful international competitive bidding, evaluation and
subsequently signing of a performance-based MC in April 2005 just prior to the launch of
the Gaza Emergency Water Project (GEWP).

  9.     The WB’s role and experience with emergency operations was another factor to
justify involvement at the time of project preparation. The Bank had considerable global
experience in designing and implementing operations in response to natural disasters and
emergencies arising in conflict affected settings. Thus, the number of Bank-supported
emergency recovery projects had increased, and the Bank had developed its own
understanding of how to operationalize sustainable interventions in emergency situations.
In WB&G, specifically, the Bank was often relied upon by the PA and donors to lead
such efforts, and had done so successfully.

1.2   Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

 10. The primary objectives of the project were to improve the provision of adequate
water and wastewater services in Gaza, and to functionally establish the Coastal
Municipalities Water Utility (CMWU) as an autonomous well-run modern utility. In
addition, the project had a secondary objective to strengthen the PWA’s capacity to
assume sector regulatory functions.

 11. The project had three sets of indicators:
 Services consistently meeting standards: Drinking water delivery meeting the quality
   and quantity standards; Wastewater collection and disposal services meeting the
   standards.
 CMWU fully functional and operational: Sets clear objectives and monitors the
   performance of its services through action plans on investment needs and priorities.
 Capacity of PWA strengthened: PWA monitors water abstraction, groundwater and
   wastewater qualities on a regular and comprehensive basis and publishes periodic
   reports about compliance with adopted standards.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

 12.   The PDO was not revised.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries


                                            5
  13. The primary target population was the entire population of Gaza within the
service areas under the project (estimated at appraisal at around 1.2 million and at 1.6
million at project closure). Low income households3 were especially expected to benefit
from access to reliable piped water supplies at much lower prices than charged by
vendors. These households would also experience health and environmental benefits from
improved access to water and wastewater services.

1.5        Original Components (as approved)

    14.    The project comprised three components:

  15. Component 1: Performance-based Management Contract (US$8.6 million).
This component would finance the fixed fees for key staff of the operator to supply
services and management of operations required by the Management Contract (MC). This
component would also finance the annual performance incentive fees based on the
attainment of specific performance targets built into the MC. The payment would depend
on the extent of the achievement of performance targets specified in the MC and would
be determined by the application of a performance factor (composite score) to the
maximum annual performance incentive fee of US$800,000. The agreed term of the MC
was 3 years with a provision for a four-year extension. The MC would be tendered
competitively following the Bank’s procurement guidelines. The main performance
targets for the MC were clustered around:
 Structuring the newly established utility by proposing its organization structure,
    staffing plan, payroll system, human resource management, strengthening the capital
    investment and planning systems.
 Improving water quantity by reducing water losses and increasing the supply capacity.
 Improving water quality via the maintenance and upgrade of the existing disinfection
    program including improving the performance of the existing wastewater works.
 Improving the management systems of the water and wastewater services with
    emphasis on operation and maintenance systems, financial management, customer
    services, billing and collection, and human resources development.

  16. Component 2: Capital and Operating Investment Fund (US$12.0 million). This
component financed the purchase of materials, supplies and equipment essential for
operations and maintenance of water and wastewater systems for which collected
revenues were unable to cover. This fund would be under the control of the operator;
however, the CMWU Board would approve annual procurement plans prepared by the
operator in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines. This would reduce
procurement concerns, and provide the operator with funds to direct the achievement of
the performance standards set in the MC.




3
    As defined by the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS).


                                                       6
  17. Component 3. Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Component (US$2.3
million). This component would focus on completing a list of activities considered to be
the cornerstones for building the utility. The list of such activities constituted the short- to
medium-term agenda for functionally establishing the CMWU. This component would
fund the existing Project Management Unit (PMU) to continue its supervisory functions
of the MC operator. In addition, funding was included for key capacity building tasks for
the PWA targeted at enabling a more effective regulatory framework to be in place.
These tasks would build on and complement the larger institutional capacity building
program funded by the Norwegian-Netherlands program.

1.6    Revised Components

 18. The components were not revised. The performance-based management contract
(Component 1) was effectively terminated in 2008, and the remaining funds for that
component (USD 1,495,000) were reallocated to cover civil works and goods
(Component 2). Section 2.2. provides details on the reasons for contract termination.

1.7    Other significant changes

  19. The Bank provided additional financing at three points during the project’s
duration. These changes resulted from the need to respond to the unrest and separation of
Gaza in 2007. The overall effect of this deteriorating security and political situation, and
the resulting border closings, was a severe reduction in the availability of goods and
construction materials needed for the project, leading to delays and higher project
management costs.

  20. Additional financing was used as an instrument of choice for the WB&G portfolio.
The additional financing tool gave the required flexibility to the portfolio, which was
relevant in the constantly changing environment in the West Bank and, in particular, in
Gaza. The preparation time for such projects being less than ones being designed de
novo, the Bank’s program was able to respond quicker to emerging priorities. The goal
was to respond to uncertainty with flexibility--along with a balance between short and
medium term needs. The reliance on additional financing to scale up assistance to bolster
successful components of interventions was a result of the experiences during 2000-2004,
and again during 2006-2008, when international assistance to WB&G stalled,
demonstrating that having only one channel of providing assistance was risky.

  21. For this project, the first additional financing of US$5 million, approved on June
30, 2008, was used to finance: (i) costs associated with the operations and maintenance of
water and wastewater facilities in Gaza Strip for an additional year, beyond the project’s
original closing date of January 31, 2009; and (ii) cost overruns associated with the
institutional strengthening of the CMWU.

 22. The second additional financing of US$3 million, approved on July 14, 2009, was
provided to meet the CMWU operational costs to undertake the reconstruction activities

                                               7
following conflict in December 2008. The closing date of this second additional financing
was scheduled for December 31, 2010, but was extended to June 30, 2011.

 23. The third additional financing in the amount of US$3 million, approved on April
12, 2011, was provided to enable CMWU to maintain the service targets, and to cover the
operational expenses of the utility for one more year.

  24. The first and second additional financing closed on June 30, 2011, while the third
closed on January 31, 2012, constituting official project completion.


2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

  25. Project Design and Lessons Learned: The project design took into account
lessons learned from the previous project, the Water and Sanitation Services Project
(WSSP, TF26056, US$25 million, followed by US$6 million, FY97). Based on these
lessons, the project design was simple and appropriate for the conditions in the operating
environment. The main guiding lessons were on client commitment and the design of an
effective MC. The following considerations guided the design of the project:
 The client's strong commitment for development of the sector through the Project was
    a key factor that not only helped formulate the Project concept/design, but also
    facilitated its implementation at every successive stage. The consolidation of the
    municipalities' water departments through the creation of the CMWU as the sole
    entity responsible for the provision of water supply and wastewater disposal systems
    demonstrated the commitment of the Client in the implementation of its stated
    strategy for the sector.
 The introduction of the private operator in the earlier project had caused a significant
    turnaround in the sector's overall performance through a "public-private partnership"
    that was based on mutual trust and confidence. This created an enabling environment
    for other donors to step in, and provided much needed financing for the sector's
    further development.
 The PA had faced obstacles in committing to a long-term arrangement for private
    participation, or in attracting private sector investment that would be willing to bear
    commercial and political risks. Tariffs were too low to support a sustainable long-
    term arrangement for private participation, as shown by the unsuccessful bidding
    process for an eight year operating lease MC. These considerations motivated the
    design of a three-year contract.
 The difficulties in securing agreements to allow the long-term involvement of the
    private sector were also due to a lack of an appropriate regulatory framework. Putting
    in place a short-term MC would allow the authorities to focus on adopting an
    appropriate strategy, creating a proper regulatory framework, adjust tariffs and
    subsidies; thus creating an environment that had the proper conditions for private
    sector participation and risk taking.


                                            8
  26. Assessment of Risks: The Bank team identified several critical risks related to
implementing a project in WB&G, including: (a) non-performance of the operator either
as a result of (i) poor selection; or (ii) lack of cooperation between municipalities and
village councils; (b) lack of counterpart funds, i.e., revenues to pay for CMWU staff
salaries and other operation and maintenance expenditures, and (c) the potential for
political instability, that could have several negative implications: (i) access obstruction
due to border closure, (ii) administrative difficulties to implement the service
improvement program by the operator; and (iii) foreign exchange restrictions that could
hamper imports necessary to achieve performance targets, and investments to improve
and expand water and wastewater services. In hindsight, this analysis correctly identified
the key risks that later impacted the project implementation.

2.2    Implementation

  27. In the first phase of the project (2005-2008), implementation followed the original
design of the project, which hinged on the use of a MC with an international operator to
improve the service of the CMWU, with financial incentives for the operator to achieve
targets on performance. Procurement implementation experienced some delays which
were partly attributed to weak capacity, particularly at the beginning, but mainly to the
unavailability of goods and construction materials in the local market which resulted
from the access restrictions imposed on Gaza. The CMWU entered into a 3-year
management contract agreement with an international operator to assist utility
restructuring and enhancing service improvements to help achieve the project objective.
The CMWU also appointed a Project Management Unit (PMU) to oversee the
implementation of the management contract. These steps attracted additional donor funds
to support the development of the water and wastewater sector.

  28. In spite of the initial progress, the security conditions resulting from the
separation of Gaza created serious difficulties in successfully implementing the
management contract between the CMWU and the international operator. Due to
disagreements on contractual issues, and the prevailing security situation with the
separation of Gaza, the operator was not able to work effectively in Gaza. Moreover,
although the project’s secondary objective was to strengthen the capacity of the PWA,
another outcome of the separation of Gaza was that the PWA could not perform its
regulatory functions. This effectively terminated the capacity building activities
envisaged for PWA under the project.

  29. The project’s mid-term review (MTR) was conducted in November-December
2006. The MTR noted that the operator’s were located just outside Gaza. This
arrangement proved to be inefficient, as the absence of the operator’s staff from the
implementation site limited their performance and caused serious delays in the
implementation of some key activities like the CMWU restructuring and the
establishment of the CMWU account and financial management system. Thus, the MTR
recognized the need for restructuring the project and considered three options for doing
so – maintaining the contract with an accelerated implementation plan to catch up on the

                                             9
delays, lowering the scope of the contract to a feasible level, or terminating the contract.
Ultimately, the contract with the operator was terminated in late 2008. After the
termination of the MC with the operator, the CMWU delayed some payments to the
operator, pending resolution of outstanding issues. This disagreement between the
operator and the PWA/PA was resolved, following proactive engagement by the Bank as
part of its supervision.

  30. Given the difficulties with implementing the project as planned, the mode of
implementation of the three components of the project was revised through three major
reallocations of the trust fund grant proceeds and amendments to the Trust Fund Grant
Agreement (TFGA), although the PDO and the components were not changed. The
substance of the three components changed significantly by shifting large portions of
proceeds that were allocated to the MC and consultancies from component 3 to cover
more of goods, works, and operational and incremental costs (component 2 of the capital
and operating fund). Parallel amendments to the TFGA were made to the definition of
"operating and incremental costs" to accommodate the emerging needs of the new
implementation arrangements such as staffing of the expanded PMU and technical teams
on the ground and running costs of facilities, among others.

  31. In the second phase of the project (2008-2011), after the contract had been
terminated, the CMWU stepped in to undertake some of the functions of the private
operator. The local staff that had worked with the operator and had accumulated
significant operational experience joined the permanent staffing structure of CMWU and
formed the core team of operations of the utility and the PMU implementing the project.
In the absence of the PWA, the CMWU became the main vehicle for continued donor
engagement in the water and sanitation sector. The CMWU therefore had to be supported
to meet additional development, planning, and monitoring roles in the water sector, which
brought additional operating expenses. The CMWU made major investments in
infrastructure, and provided services to the municipal water departments. With this switch
in implementation arrangements, the project achieved the targets for maintaining and
improving water and wastewater service provision.

  32. There were three sets of additional financing (see section 1.7) that focused on
extending the activities under Component 2, which included financing of materials and
supplies, and the CMWU capacity building under Component 3. The first additional
financing, AFI in 2008, was aimed at strengthening the ability of CMWU to consolidate
the ongoing institutional reform process by covering the operational expenses for one
more year. AFI also covered the costs overruns due to higher input costs as a result of the
border closures in 2007 and 2008. The second additional financing, AFII in 2009,
covered costs for repair, rehabilitation, and reconstruction of water and sanitation
facilities that were severely damaged during an escalation of conflict in Gaza in
December 2008-January 2009. These hostilities, coupled with related restrictions on
movement of construction materials, had led to delays in implementation. The third
additional financing, AFIII in 2010, financed the operating expenses of the CMWU for
one more year.



                                            10
2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

  33. Design: At appraisal, the team prepared a results framework that identified the
projects expected objectives, results, and outcomes, the indicators, and the use of the
outcome information and results monitoring. While the results framework did not
include baseline values for the outcome indicators, baselines were included as early as in
the second ISR archived six months after approval.

  34. Implementation: The CMWU collected data to measure the achievement of
targets such as the operational time of water wells, disinfection rates for water,
wastewater effluent quality, number of hours customers were receiving water, and
revenue collection.

  35. Utilization: The CMWU used the M&E data to measure the achievement of
targets and for planning investments. For example, the CMWU used the monitoring of
water quality to inform donors about the level of service provision, helping donors to
make decisions about future investments. The Bank team also undertook regular
implementation support missions and progress against the KPIs indicators was discussed
and documented in aide memoires and Implementation Status and Results Reports
(ISRs).

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

 36. Safeguards Compliance: At appraisal, the project was classified under the
environmental category “B?, and accordingly an Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) and Environmental Mitigation Management Plan (EMP) were completed as part of
project preparation. In terms of social safeguards, the appraisal included a social
assessment, which considered the likely impacts of raising water tariffs. The project did
not lead to any major adverse environmental or social impacts.

  37. The CMWU implemented the EMP, and for infrastructure investments such as
rehabilitation of wastewater treatment plants, the environmental impacts during
construction were successfully managed by CMWU. As part of AFI, CMWU prepared
and successfully implemented an emergency management plan for the North Gaza
Wastewater plant in Beit Lahia. The EMP was updated and re-disclosed during the
preparation of AFIII.

 38. Fiduciary Compliance: Following the termination of the MC of the operator,
CMWU, through the PMU, took over the procurement responsibility and managed to
gradually build adequate procurement capacity throughout project implementation.
Procurement performance was mostly rated moderately satisfactory; however, no major
noncompliance was reported.

  39. No major fiduciary noncompliance was noted. Fiduciary review findings and
recommendations were discussed with CMWU-PMU team and corrective measures were

                                           11
agreed and monitored. Besides its fiduciary role, the Bank team continuously provided
implementation support to CMWU procurement team, including several procurement
training workshops, in which CMWU procurement team were actively involved.

  40. The project’s FM team produced timely IFRs with proper disbursement and
procurement plans, audit reports were submitted on a timely basis every year with
unqualified "clean" audit opinion, and the flow of funds was smooth without major
interruptions.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

  41. GEWP II closed on January 31, 2012, with a follow up project under preparation.
The follow-up operation, the West Bank and Gaza: Water Supply Rehabilitation and
Expansion Project (US$6.4 million; proposed for FY13), will seek to improve the quality
and efficiency of water supply and wastewater service provision in Gaza via (i)
rehabilitation and expansion of water supply and wastewater networks and facilities and
(ii) building the capacity of the CMWU and the PWA. The project's institutional reform
activities will aim at a cooperative relationship between the CMWU and the PWA,
consistent with the roles and responsibilities of the sector reforms taking place. The
sector reforms stipulate a regulatory role for PWA while the CMWU is delegated the role
of service provision and projects implementation to improve the service.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes


3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

(a) Relevance of Objectives:

  42. The project’s main development objective – improving the provision of adequate
water and wastewater services in Gaza – addressed one of the most important needs of
the population particularly in the wake of the crises, and therefore the objective was
highly relevant at appraisal. Due to the prevailing poverty, slow economic growth, and
water resource constraints, the objective still remains relevant to development in the Gaza
Strip, and to the Bank’s aims for addressing high priority issues in the water sector. The
project was an important part of the Bank’s support for water and sanitation services
under the Fourth Pillar of the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note (FY08-10). Likewise, the
focus on functionally establishing the CMWU as an autonomous utility, and
strengthening the capacity of the PWA as the regulator were all well-placed. Institutional
strengthening continues to be a relevant focus of the Bank’s engagement in the water
sector under Pillar 1 of the latest Bank Interim Strategy Note (FY12-14). The project’s
focus fits well within the Palestinian Authority’s National Development Plan (NDP) for
2011-2013, which seeks to strengthen public institutions to deliver public services.

(b) Relevance of Design



                                            12
  43. At appraisal, given that the main obstacles for improved service delivery were the
lack of infrastructure and the institutional weaknesses, the project’s approach of financing
materials, supplies, and equipment, and supporting institutional reforms was appropriate.
The support for private sector participation (Components 1 and 2) and capacity-
strengthening activities for CMWU and PWA (Component 3) were rightly aimed at
increasing efficiency in service provision and strengthening the water sector’s institutions.
The project also aimed for simplicity in its design. For example, due to the likely
political and commercial risks, the project design called for a short-term MC of three
years, instead of a long-term engagement with the private sector.

(c) Relevance of Implementation

  44. At preparation, given the achievements under the preceding project, the
implementation arrangements were relevant. The project was successful in adjusting
these arrangements over time to remain relevant to the evolving political and security
situation. At the beginning of the project, the CMWU entered into a 3-year management
contract agreement with an international operator to help achieve the project objective.
The CMWU also appointed a Project Management Unit (PMU) to oversee the
implementation of the management contract. These steps attracted additional donor funds
to support the development of the water and wastewater sector in Gaza.

  45. After the contract with the operator was terminated in late 2008, the CMWU took
over the role envisaged for the private operator, made major investments in infrastructure,
and provided services to the municipal water departments. With this switch in
implementation arrangements, the project remained successful in maintaining and
improving water and wastewater service provision, in spite of the challenges of operating
in the prevailing security and political situation.

Overall Relevance Rating: High


3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

  46. The project’s two main objectives – to improve the provision of adequate water
and wastewater services in Gaza and to functionally establish the Coastal Municipalities
Water Utility as an autonomous well-run modern utility – were mostly achieved. The
project’s secondary objective – to strengthen the PWA’s capacity to assume sector
regulatory functions – was partially achieved.

 Regarding the first objective, water and wastewater services were adequately
 improved, despite the extremely difficult conditions in Gaza. The water services in
 general were adequate in terms of quantities added through drilling of new wells,
 improving the water quality through abandoning high salinity wells, continuous
 rehabilitations, maintenance and replacements that resulted in a high level of
 availability of all water wells and electromechanical equipment. More than 50 water
 production wells were drilled or rehabilitated; the water systems were almost 100%

                                            13
    disinfected by maintaining and installing chlorine dosing units; more than 30,000
    meters of old asbestos main pipes were replaced; electro-mechanical equipment for
    seven brackish water desalination plants were repaired; 15,000 domestic meters and 20
    public meters were installed; new water service connections were installed; sewer lines
    were regularly maintained; and wastewater treatment facilities in Beit Lahia and Rafah
    were rehabilitated (see Annex 2 for more details). The functionality of the water wells
    was maintained at more than 90% throughout the lifetime of the project.

  47. Based on the monitoring data available at project closure disinfection rates are at
the target of 99.8 percent, water wells’ operational time is at the targeted 90 percent, and
wastewater effluent quality meets the required standards. In meeting the service targets,
the CMWU’s investments were supported by World Bank financing as well as leveraged
financing from other donors4. Due to the electricity supply deficit, the average hours of
access to water supply have not improved significantly over the baseline and are still at 6-
8 hours.

  48. In terms of wastewater management, the project established a monitoring program
to those plants which are operational like the Northern and Gaza wastewater treatment
plants. Rafah plant was rehabilitated by the project and other donors. In all cases the
project acted as a focal point were all donors’ efforts were streamlined. Moreover, the
project helped in coordinating efforts to implement an emergency response plan
following the rupture of the temporary effluent basin at Beit Lahia wastewater treatment
plant. The CMWU implemented a plan to strengthen the embankment surrounding the
big effluent lake and to construct a disposal system to nearby temporary disposal basins.


  49. Regarding the second major objective – functionally establishing the CMWU –
the project contributed significantly to the CMWU’s establishment and supported the
utility’s operations. The project supported the establishment of the CMWU’s
organizational structure, renting and furnishing the CMWU regional offices, setting up of
technical and administrative departments, payroll system, undertaking utility staff skills
assessment, finalization of the utility financial manual, finalization of the water and
wastewater billing system, opening the utility bank account, ongoing implementation of
the customer services information system and ongoing procurement of the utility
financial system, and setting up planning systems. A review by the World Bank’s
Independent Evaluation Group 5 recognized the progress in establishing the CMWU,
calling it ‘the most promising organizational initiative so far in the water sector’.




4
  The client reported that the project’s financing served as a platform for CMWU to obtain fi nancing from
other donors.

5
    Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). The World Bank in the West Bank and Gaza, 2001-2009.


                                                   14
 50. As part of its functions as a utility, the CMWU now implements a water and
wastewater monitoring program, conducts physical inspections of facilities, and
undertakes a public education program to create awareness on subjects such as water
conservation and billing. The CMWU has upgraded to a comprehensive maintenance
program in which it undertakes specialized maintenance works and repairs through
service contracts. The CMWU also took a leading role in dealing with emergencies, as
well as in developing and implementing an operational emergency plan for the North
Gaza Wastewater Treatment Plant, in order to mitigate potential flooding risks associated
with the accumulation of wastewater in Beit Lahia, north Gaza.

  51. The achievement of some institutional objectives related to the establishment of
the CMWU, notably those related to the CMWU restructuring, were delayed following
the separation of Gaza. The political situation in Gaza made it difficult for the operator’s
international personnel to enter Gaza. The deteriorating economic situation adversely
affected the revenue collection efficiency and contributed to commercial losses. The
collection efficiency dropped from 40% to 18% between 2005 and 2008, but had picked
up to 35-55% by project closure in 2011. Therefore, the targets on collection rates were
only partially achieved, due to prevailing poverty, high unemployment, political divisions
that exacerbated poor management of the municipal departments that are responsible for
billing and collection, and lack of enforcement.

  52. The political situation also impeded efforts to consolidate additional municipal
departments under the umbrella of the CMWU. At project closure, one municipal utility
was fully integrated under the CMWU, thirteen were partially integrated, and eleven were
independent of CMWU. The integration of utilities under the CMWU is a key step on the
path to ensuring that the utility becomes financially viable, through improvements in
revenue collection. However, the prevailing political and economic situation, with
severely low employment among CMWU’s consumers, that makes it difficult for the
utility to raise tariffs to improve its financial situation.

  53. Regarding the project’s secondary objective of strengthening the PWA , the
project’s achievements were mixed. The PWA improved its regulatory role,
communications, and licensing arrangements during project implementation at the early
stages of the project. However, by project closure, the PWA’s role had been undermined
following the separation of Gaza, and it was therefore not as effective as it had been
during project preparation. On this secondary objective, the project’s achievements were
moderately satisfactory, although the outcome was due to the political conflicts that
occurred during the project, and therefore outside the span of control of the implementing
agency.

 54. The project’s progress towards achieving outcomes was rated ‘moderately
satisfactory’ throughout supervision, with the exception of a couple of supervision
missions in mid-2006 and early 2007, when it was rated 'moderately unsatisfactory'.

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                            15
3.3     Efficiency

 55. Due to the changes in the operating context after the separation of Gaza, and
subsequent changes in project design and implementation, this ex-post assessment does
not replicate the appraisal-stage financial analysis (described in Annex 3), which
projected operating surpluses for the utility based on efficiency gains from the
management contract (MC). As described in section 2.2, the MC did not function as
expected and it was terminated in 2008.

  56. Based on a qualitative review 6 , the ICR concludes that the project was cost-
effective, given the unique operating context. First, the project management costs were
much higher than planned. Due to the political and security situation prevailing in Gaza,
the global increase in energy prices and other raw materials costs, as well as the
weakening of the US dollar in relation to the Euro, there was a sharp increase in the costs
for all inputs in the project. Secondly, due to prevailing unemployment and poverty,
collection efficiency remained low and did not cover the running costs of the utility.

  57. In spite of these major challenges, the CMWU has secured safe water supply at
adequate levels of quality for the targeted population, even during the periods of political
conflict. Although the project has not yielded the expected financial sustainability for the
utility, other benefits have been realized at reasonable costs (see section 3.2). The
institutional components of the project also ensured the retention of expertise in CMWU
and improved management of the utility. Importantly, the project also leveraged
financing from other donors on the order of five times its total cost.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

  58. An overall outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory is justified, based on the
highly relevant objectives, design, and implementation, the Moderately Satisfactory
rating for achievement of objectives, and taking into account the efficiency (cost-
effectiveness) with which the objectives were achieved in very difficult implementation
circumstances.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development




6
  There are no reliable data available for cost comparisons or benefit-cost analyses, due to the unique
context in which the project was implemented, with a series of emergencies arising from the separation of
Gaza and subsequent political and economic crises which affected costs of inputs and movement of goods
across the border.


                                                    16
  59. The project’s focus was on improving water and wastewater service provision for
the entire population of Gaza, and on improving the institutional capacity of the sector,
through the establishment of the CMWU and the strengthening of the PWA. Therefore,
there were no specific poverty or gender impacts envisaged.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

  60. The Palestinian political split impeded the progress of the MC and the
consolidation of all the municipal water departments into the CMWU. After the
termination of the MC, the CMWU took on the functions of the operator. Currently,
CMWU is responsible for water and sanitation service provision in a large number of
Gaza municipalities. One utility, Rafah, is fully integrated as a branch of the CMWU.
Thirteen others, such as Khanyounis and Deir-El-Balah, are partially integrated7 while
other municipalities, e.g. Gaza, are still outside the utility for political reasons, yet
receiving some operational support from the utility.

  61. Despite these challenges, the CMWU has made tangible progress improving the
access of households to water supply, disinfection of water supply, reducing losses in the
networks, and maintaining the water and wastewater facilities to cope with increasing
demand of the population. The utility projections for improving its collection and service
cost recovery has been delayed by a crippling political environment and unprecedented
widespread of poverty and unemployment in Gaza in the last few years. Despite the
difficult political conditions in Gaza, CMWU stayed on course as a politically neutral and
independent body providing service to the Gaza population. During the hostilities of
December 2008-January 2009, CMWU was the main body maintaining the service
provision during the hostilities and undertaking the rehabilitation and damage repairs
efforts afterwards. Over the past seven years since its establishment, CMWU has
implemented a large portfolio of projects worth more than US$150 million by the Bank
and many other donors. However, while the CMWU has been effective in acquiring
donor financing for infrastructure improvements, it has been much less effective in
evolving into a financially sustainable service provider.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

3.6      Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)




7
  For these partially integrated utilities, the CMWU undertakes tasks such as billing, collection, repairs and
chlorination, but the assets of the municipal water utility have not been transferred to CMWU, and revenues
from water tariffs are collected by CMWU on behalf of the municipality.


                                                     17
4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

  62. Economic, political, and financial risks, many of which were identified at
appraisal, continue to threaten to derail any progress towards improving water and
wastewater services and maintaining institutional reforms. On the economic front, high
unemployment and stagnant economic growth are real challenges for the utility in
establishing a stable consumer base from which tariffs can be collected. The economic
crises also make it difficult for the utility to increase tariffs when necessary. The political
situation remains unstable, and any significant deterioration could lead to worsening of
service delivery as the institutional reforms may be stalled. The political situation
threatens the institutional reforms in two main ways. First, the inability to sustain a
relationship with a private operator means that the gains from a MC cannot be realized.
Second, the uncertain political environment threatens the development of a strong
regulator in the water sector. Lastly, regarding financial risks, since collection rates have
not improved to the levels proposed at appraisal, even with extensions of project closure,
thus bringing into question the financial viability of the CMWU.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance
(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

  63. The Bank identified and prepared a project that addressed critical needs for
improvements in water and wastewater services. At appraisal, the Bank ensured that the
project design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and
institutional, including procurement and financial management, were adequate. In
addition, major risk factors and the lessons learned from emergency operations in WBG
supported by the Bank were considered and incorporated into the project design.
However, a shortcoming at entry was the lack of a detailed baseline in the M&E
framework for tracking the outcome indicators.

(b)     Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

  64. The rating for Bank’s performance during supervision is based on the high quality
of supervision provided by task teams on technical details, fiduciary issues, and
safeguards policies, and the responsiveness of the Bank in providing additional financing
at three critical points. However, this positive assessment is tempered by the fact that the
project’s components were never formally revised after key events such as (i) the
withdrawal of the operator and (ii) the disruption of PWA's work following the separation

                                                   18
of Gaza in 2007. On average, the Bank carried out two supervision missions per year,
during which the team reviewed procurement matters, to ensure the efficiency of
procurement decisions for the different components. In addition to contracts under prior
review, the Bank carried out five ex-post procurement reviews during the project’s
lifetime. During the times of tight restrictions on access of people into Gaza, Bank
procurement supervision was done remotely (through VCs) and procurement reviews
mainly depended on desk reviews of procurement/contract documents provided by
CMWU. The Bank’s field-based teams in WB&G provided continuous support and
engagement with the CMWU.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

 65. The rating for overall Bank performance is based on the ratings above given to the
Bank on both ensuring quality at entry and quality of supervision in a difficult operating
environment.


5.2     Borrower Performance
(a)     Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

  66. The ICR review focused this assessment on the performance of the Palestinian
Authority, taking into account the political conflicts in WB&G8. Given this context, the
ICR team noted that the PA showed a commitment to achieving the project’s objectives.
The PA ensured coordination of financial management and procurement to enable project
implementation. However, there were some shortcomings in the PA’s performance,
mainly its inability to maintain an enabling environment for the development of the
institutional framework envisaged in the project. While there is PA support for
institutional reform, the political instability in Gaza led to local political opposition to
implementation, which significantly impaired the achievement of the project’s objectives .
Although this assessment also takes into account the fact that some of the issues arising
from the political conflict and security issues were outside the PA's control, the overall
assessment of the ICR review is that the PA’s performance was Moderately Satisfactory.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance




8
  At appraisal in 2005, the Palestinian Authority was the Bank’s counterpart in the Gaza Strip. Since 2007,
the subsequent separation of Gaza, and border closures by the Israeli government, the project has been
implemented under the difficult political conditions with the CMWU maintaining political neutrality and
focusing on its technical functions.


                                                    19
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

 67. The PWA, as the initial implementing agency, addressed issues in a timely
manner during project preparation and appraisal, considering that this project was
developed when there were high uncertainties regarding the security situation in Gaza.
The PWA carried out all project management functions adequately until the separation of
Gaza.

  68. When the PWA’s capacity-building activities stalled, the CMWU became the
implementing agency. Despite the difficult political and security conditions in Gaza, the
CMWU showed commitment and competence in making investments for provision of
adequate water and wastewater services to the entire population of Gaza, such as drilling
of new water wells, maintaining of all water and wastewater works and proper
disinfection of drinking water. The CMWU was also successful in attracting parallel
financing from donors and has gained credibility to act as a focal point to channel donors’
money into the water and wastewater operations. The CMWU has made efforts to
interact with consumers through its service centers, and at project closure the CMWU and
PWA were constructing a fruitful working relationship that would allow them to play
their roles as utility and regulator respectively.

  69. While the CMWU’s efforts contributed to a partial achievement of the project’s
objectives, the CMWU’s performance has not been completely satisfactory in terms of its
relationships with other stakeholders such as the PWA and the local municipalities. The
CMWU’S focus on implementing donor-funded projects leads to a focus on being
responsive to donors as a project implementer, heavily dependent on donor financing.
Donors tend to provide funding for specific areas or projects, oftentimes in response to
emergency situations. This may not be compatible with CMWU’s aim of becoming a
regional utility that sets goals with long-term planning. This creates tensions because the
PWA, as the regulator, expects the CMWU to focus on service provision. The CMWU
cannot play its expected role as a regional utility, and this then undermines the PWA’s
regulatory role, which is to supervise a functioning utility. Similarly, the CMWU has so
far been unable to fully integrate most of the local utilities because its relationship with
the municipalities is not well defined. The CMWU provides services such as repairs and
chlorination for the municipalities, but the municipalities have little incentive to pursue
the consolidation of utilities. Based on these shortcomings in the relationships among the
stakeholders, which had adverse impacts on the achievement of the project’s institutional
objectives, the Agencies performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

  70. The overall client performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory, as both the PA
and implementing agencies were committed to achieving the objectives and made efforts
to address any issues in a timely manner. Nevertheless, there were some shortcomings in
both the PA’s (maintaining an enabling political and security environment) and agencies’


                                            20
(maintaining institutional relationships) performance, which warrant a less than fully
satisfactory rating.

6.     Lessons Learned

 71. For follow-up operations, the infrastructure investments, the capacity building
measures, and operational assistance to CMWU should be designed to (i) maintain and
sustain the core functions and operations of the utility, (ii) provide enabling measures to
improve the efficiency of the utility, and (iii) provide incentives to increase collection and
cost recovery, and build the financial sustainability of the utility.

  72. Beyond infrastructure investments, stakeholders in the sector should encourage
the CMWU, the PWA, and the municipalities to pursue institutional reforms that would
lead to a consolidated CMWU that serves as a regional utility, able to achieve economies
of scale.

  73. The current difficult political and security circumstances prevailing in Gaza
justify continuing the operational assistance to the utility to maintain its services.
However, the utility should be encouraged to take further steps to improve its financial
standing, invest to improve operational cost recovery, prepare a viable tariff structure and
liaise for its approval and implementation. CMWU is currently preparing a strategic plan
towards those objectives. Furthermore, assistance to utility should be provided based on
performance and results.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners
(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies




                                             21
Annex 1.    Project Costs and Financing
(a)  Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                               Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
           Components                                          Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                                  Appraisal9
                                                                  millions)
1. Private Sector operator
(Management Contract)
         1.1 Fixed Fee                           6.2
         1.2 Incentive Bonus                     2.4
                           Subtotal              8.6                    4.5               52.33%

2. Capital and Operating
                                                12.0                   22.5               187.5%
Investment Fund

3. Institutional Reform and
Capacity Building
         3.1 For CMWU                            1.2
         3.2 For PWA                             0.4
         3.3 Technical and
                                                 0.7
         financial audits
                           Subtotal              2.3                    4.0              173.91%
              Total Baseline Cost               22.9                   31.0              135.37%
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
               Total Project Costs              22.9                   31.0              135.37%
Front-end fee PPF
Front-end fee IBRD
      Total Financing Required                  22.9                   31.0              135.37%


(b)     Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of          Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing          (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                             millions)    millions)
Borrower                                                  2.90         0.00         .00
Special Financing                                         20.00        30.41        152.05%




9
  The differences in appraisal and actual estimates of project cost are due to the additional financing
provided to the project and the extension of the project for an additional three years beyond the original
closing date.


                                                   22
Annex 2.       Outputs by Component

Component 1: Performance-based Management Contract
    Fees for staff of operator


Component 2: Capital and Operating Investment Fund
    Drilling of more than 50 water production wells with small pumping capacity (new wells
      or replacement of existing polluted wells)
    Supply of chemicals and dosing pumps and chlorination of 99.7% of water supply
    Replacement of more than 30,000 meters of old service connections and old asbestos
      main pipes
    Installation of 15,000 domestic meters and 20 public meters
    Repairs of electro-mechanical equipment for seven brackish water desalination plants.
    Regular maintenance of sewer lines
    Rehabilitation of existing wastewater treatment facilities in Beit Lahia and
      RafahPurchasing systems hardware and software
    Construction of new administrative facilities
    Covering incremental costs of water and wastewater facilities

Component 3. Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Component
    Establishment of CMWU organization structure
    Renting and furnishing the CMWU regional offices
    Preparation of utility staff skills assessment
    Preparation of utility financial manual
    Preparation of water and wastewater billing system
    Establishment and implementation of customer services information system
    Procurement of the utility financial system




                                            23
Annex 3.       Economic and Financial Analysis

At appraisal, a simplified financial analysis estimated the net present value (NPV) of the
operating surplus with the MC at US$1 million, based on project implementation from
2005 to 2008. A longer-term forecast estimated that the MC would lead to an operating
surplus of US$9.8 million for the year 2012. The appraisal analysis was based on the
assumptions that there would be improvements in the performance of the CMWU, with
the MC bringing efficiency gains, and with projected improvements in tariffs, collection
rates, and higher consumption. Given the termination of the MC, and the significant
changes in project implementation within the context of the evolving political situation in
Gaza, the appraisal-stage financial analysis is no longer relevant and therefore is not
replicated for this assessment.

Based on a qualitative review, the ICR concludes that the project was cost-effective,
given the unique operating context. There are no reliable data available for cost
comparisons or benefit-cost analyses, due to the unique context in which the project was
implemented, with a series of emergencies arising from the separation of Gaza and
subsequent political and economic crises which affected costs of inputs and movement of
goods across the border. The project management costs were much higher than planned.
Due to the political and security situation prevailing in Gaza, the global increase in
energy prices and other raw materials costs, as well as the weakening of the US dollar in
relation to the Euro, there was a sharp increase in the costs for all inputs in the project.
Due to prevailing unemployment and poverty, collection efficiency remained low and did
not cover the running costs of the utility.

The CMWU has provided safe water supply at adequate levels of quality for the targeted
population, even during the periods of political conflict. During the lifetime of the project,
the utility had positive balances on its cash flow statements, with revenues coming from
the project’s contributions. The utility used these revenues to cover the costs of operating
expenses, including repairs, and fees for the operator, before the contract was terminated.
The financial position of the utility can be attributed to several factors, including (i)
although CMWU incurs operating and maintenance expenses throughout Gaza, it collects
revenues only from Rafah, which represents 12 percent of water service connections in
Gaza; (ii) collection efficiency has not increased to 75 percent as envisaged in the ex ante
analysis at appraisal; (iii) due to the prevailing unemployment and poverty, the CMWU
has not received increased revenues from higher tariffs and higher consumption, as
assumed in the ex ante analysis.




                                             24
Annex 4.        Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
           Names                                                         Responsibility/
                                          Title                  Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Suhail J. S. Jme'An        Sr. Financial Analyst               EASWE Preparation TTL
Zeyad Abu-Hassanein        Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist   MNSWA 3rd SPN TTL
Richard W. Pollard         Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist   MNSWA 2nd SPN TTL
Fifi Antar                 Program Assistant                   MNCGZ ACS
Hyacinth Brown             Sr. Finance Officer                 CTRLA
Khairy Al-Jamal            Sr. Operations Officer              EASIS
Kingsley Robotham          Consultant
                           Sr. Water Supply and Sanitation
Sana Al-Nimer                                                  MNSWA
                           Specialist

Supervision/ICR
Zeyad Abu-Hassanein        Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist   MNSWA 3rd SPN TTL
Richard W. Pollard         Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist   MNSWA 2nd SPN TTL
Sana Kh.H. Agha Al Nimer   Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist   MNSWA TTL
 Khairy Al-Jamal           Senior Infrastructure Specialist    EASIS Initial SPN TTL
 A. Amir Al-Khafaji        Consultant                          MNSSD
 Fifi Z. Antar             Program Assistant                   MNCGZ ACS
Iyad Rammal                Sr. Infrastructure Specialist       MNSWA
 Lina Fathallah Rajoub     Procurement Specialist              MNAPR Procurement

Randa Talal Faisal         Team Assistant                      MNCGZ ACS
Colin S. Scott             Lead Specialist                     PA9SS Social Safeguards
Philippe Huc               Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist   MNSWA
Maya Khelladi              Consultant                          MNSSD
Nadi Mashni                Sr. Financial Specialist            MNAFM
Nikolai Soubbotin          Sr. Counsel                         LEGEM
Adel Fahed J. Odeh         Operations Analyst                  MNC04
Samir Sahhar               Consultant                          MNAFM
Magalie Pradel             Language Program Assistant          MNSSD ACS
Suhair M. Saah             Consultant                          MNAFM FM
Kwaw Andam                 Young Professional                  CFPMI ICR Lead Author




                                           25
(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                            USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks       (including travel and
                                                            consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                   0.17
  FY00                                           19                     61.91
  FY01                                           26                    107.05
  FY02                                           14                     60.99
  FY03                                           10                     40.97
  FY04                                           13                     56.87
  FY05                                           30                    113.70
  FY06                                                                   0.12
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00
                          Total:             112                       441.78
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                   0.00
  FY00                                                                   0.00
  FY01                                                                   0.00
  FY02                                                                   0.36
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                           22                     67.88
  FY07                                           15                     39.09
  FY08                                           30                     97.15
  FY09                                            3                      0.00
                          Total:                 70                    204.48




                                            26
Annex 5.   Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N/A




                                   27
Annex 6.   Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                  28
Annex 7.   Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                   The Palestinian National Authority

                    Coastal Municipalities Water Utility




                      Gaza Emergency Water Project
                       Financed by the World Bank


             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                  (ICR)

                                    By




                     The Project Management Unit



                                May 2012
                              Gaza- Palestine




                                    29
1.      Introduction
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) gives a brief overview on the
implementation of the World Bank financed project named as Gaza Emergency Water
Project (GEWP) which started in year 2005 and continued for six years with three
additional funds totaling USD 31 million and was spent in accordance with developed
procurement plans prepared to achieve all the objectives of the original project activities
just before the closing date, 31 January 2012.
1.0 Background
Gaza Emergency Water Project has started on the 1st of July 2005 under a MC signed
between the CMWU and the operator, INFRAMAN then continued to be managed by
PMU afterwards.
Due to the hardship period passed through the service area, especially the Israeli
Authority’s closure of commercial gates and restrictions on materials, equipments and
spare parts necessary for the water operations and maintenance works and the subsequent
Israeli Offensive on Gaza (Dec 08-Jan 09); the implementation of some plans and
programs under GEWP were in considerable delay which resulted in project extension for
three years with three additional finances. On the other hand, those were among other
essential reasons behind the early termination of GEWP’s Operator - INFRAMAN.
Furthermore; in addition of the lack of performance; unfortunately, by the end of
February 2008, INFRAMAN had illegally suspended their activities under GEWP which
lead to contract termination on March 2008.
Since then, after the WB approval the CMWU enacts the so called “Plan B? in order to
accomplish targets and their implementation time frame during the remaining period of
GEWP; especially the restructuring tasks like utility’s staff transfer, CCISS and the
financial system for the utility.
Therefore, in order to maintain the achievements of GEWP targets and reach the original
projects development objectives, it has been recognized by the CMWU and the WB,
during early 2008 supervision mission, the necessity to extend the GEWP by allocating
an additional budget (5 MUSD) to GEWP budget. Also, another (3 MUSD) has been
allocated by the WB as a response for the damage assessment report and the fast track
repair after the Israeli offensive on Dec 2008-January 2009. Then the third additional
fund (3 MUSD) has been allocated to complete the original main activities and achieving
its objectives by sustaining the operations of Gaza water and wastewater services
provision under all relevant prevailing conditions, serious catastrophic economy, long
term borders closures for materials to pass through and security constraints continue to
influence the whole life aspects within the GEWP project service area. PMU /CMWU
with high level of determination succeed to apply all possible and fairly applicable means
and tools to safeguard and secure the water and wastewater services for the people of
Gaza strip.
2.0 Main Objectives
The main objectives of this project are the following:
     a. Structuring the newly established utility by proposing its organization structure,
        staffing plan, payroll system, human resource management, strengthening the
        capital investment and planning systems.

                                             30
     b. Improving water quantity by reducing water losses and increasing the supply
        capacity.
     c. Improving water quality via the maintenance and upgrade of the existing
        disinfection program and improving the performance of the existing wastewater
        works.
     d. Improving the management systems of the water and wastewater services with
        emphasis on operation and maintenance systems, financial management, customer
        services, billing and collection, human resources development.

2.      Achievements:
The CMWU in close cooperation with the World Bank and PWA had worked
successfully towards achieving the GEWP objectives and targets as indicated in the
achievement table and in accordance with performance indicators indicated in Annex (1
and 2).
3.      CMWU successful stories:
This section will focus on the following successful stories that CMWU consider as
exceptional achievement under the prevailing conditions in the Gaza Strip and resulted
from the unique cooperation and professional attitude that presented the different
technical and administrative departments of the CMWU:

     a. Producing the damage assessment report of water and waste water infrastructure
        during the Israeli Offensive within one week after the cease fire,
     b. Recovery Plan developed by CMWU and the implementation of a fast track
        repairs in cooperation with the CMWU partners (WB, UICEF, ACF, ICRC,
        OXFAM and others) in accordance with the damage assessment report. A fast
        track response report has also been developed and published,
     c. Establishing a mobile maintenance workshop for CMWU for rapid intervention,
     d. Upgrading of Rafah WWTP and Gaza WWTP
     e. The inauguration for the CMWU regional office in Rafah, Khanyounis and
        Middle Area.
     f. Drying out the lagoon at NWWTP
     (See Annex 3 for the details)
4.       Challenges:
In general the implementation of the project throughout the entire life of six years was
successful even there were so many challenges, this is due to:

     1. The effective management practice and continuous follow up.
     2. The high technical standard of the staff’s personnel.
     3. Conducting the tasks of the project in a highly professional manner with the best
        management practice.
     4. The constructive cooperation between CMWU, and the Palestinian Water
        Authority.
     5. The continuous support from the municipalities as their staff was involved in the
        various stages of the project preparation and implementation.

                                           31
     6. Parallel Capital Investments programs (Annex 4)

However and due to some outstanding conditions the following obstacles were
encountered. This can be summarized as:

     1.   Termination the contract with the operator due to lack of performance.
     2.   Outstanding conditions due to the prevailing conditions.
     3.   The low level trained municipal employees who transferred to CMWU.
     4.   Procurement problems due to continuous closures of borders.
     5.   Unreliable power supply.

Thanks to the support of the World Bank and the Palestinian Water Authority and all
responsible agencies, all these problems were resolved and mitigation measures were
adopted.
5.        Sustainability
GEWP has contributed to functionally establishing the utility towards the sustainability of
water and wastewater services. This has been achieved through the project tasks and
performance indicators, and the strong commitment of the CMWU. In general, the most
important achievements were:
     Even though, there were restrictions and delays in the entry of goods and
       materials for infrastructure development and rehabilitation especially the water
       meters, CMWU has worked efficiently to improve the system efficiency through
       the leak detection campaigns, meters repair, so the system efficiency has reached
       63 %.
     The CMWU was gradually (stepwise) working with the original 25 water
       departments in Gaza to integrate them within CMWU, under a unified
       management. CMWU has issued bills in 14 municipalities covering 45,000
       customers. Comprehensive transfer financially and administratively is in progress.
       Collection efficiency continues to improve in Rafah and Khanyounis which has
       reached 55-60% compared with 18% when the services were managed by the
       municipalities.
     The GEWP team has successfully upgraded the wastewater treatment plants and
       sewage system collection and paved the way towards starting the construction of
       Khanyounis central treatment plant which raised the potential for wastewater
       reuse.
     The CMWU has considered the public health as a prime concern. This was done
       through implementing a very successful disinfection program for drinking water
       reaching 99.5% disinfection.
     The CMWU continues to be very successful in attracting donors financing for
       infrastructure and service improvement activities.
     The CMWU has achieved a well modern computerized system like (CMMS)
       computerized maintenance management system, (GIS) geographic information
       system, (CCISS) customer services and collection system.
     The CMWU has been working on the strategic plan for the next five years with
       clear vision and mission towards improving and sustaining of the utility and the
       services.
                                             32
       The CMWU has attracted funds to build its own lab, head quarters, stores and
        workshop.
6.       Project Management and Institutional Framework Setup
Toward the implementation of this project, CMWU fulfilled its obligations with respect
to the setup of necessary institutional framework and creating and/or appointing the
various necessary bodies. This includes the formation of the General Assembly and the
Board of Directors of the Utility; also, as committed in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement,
the establishment of the Project Management Unit (PMU), formation of the Steering
Committee (SC), formation of the Operation Team who was managed by the PMU, and
appointing an independent Auditor;

8.1      General Assembly of the Utility

The Coastal Municipalities Water Utility was created by Decree of the Minister of Local
Government No. (22 /13 / ‫ )ق و‬dated ( October , 2000 ). The General assembly as part of
the CMWU Institutional structure is responsible for the endorsement of the general policy
principles of the CMWU, approval of projects implementation plan proposed by the
Board of Directors, discuss and endorse the yearly report, and elect the Board members.
The representation of the municipality in the General assembly is in proportion to the
total assets transferred to the CMWU. The regular assembly meeting is on yearly basis.
Four general assembly meetings have been held besides continuous visits from the
General Manager of CMWU to the municipalities especially in to motivate them for the
unified water bill and the completion of staff transfer.

8.2      Board of Directors of the Utility
In accordance to the CMWU By-Laws, the Board of Directors consists of nine members
as the following:
          Five municipalities represent the five governorates of Gaza Strip (Gaza,
            Jabalia, Deir El-Balah, Khan Younis and Rafah).
          Three municipalities representing smaller communities in three different
            geographical representations (North, Middle and South).
          One representative from the Ministry of Local Government, and
          The Chairman of the Board of Directors was selected (Dr. Maged Abu
            Ramadan).
The main responsibilities of the Board of Directors is the overall responsibility for the
project execution with the assistance of the Project Management Unit (PMU), determine
the general policy principles of the CMWU, approve all the administrative, financial,
procurement, technical and legal issues of the utility, prepare the yearly report to be
endorsed by the General Assembly. Forty Six Board meetings have been convened to
follow up the project and the utility progress.
8.3      Project Management Unit
As it is indicated in the agreed minutes of negotiations of the Trust Fund Grant for
GEWP (item 8), the IDA team confirmed during the project appraisal mission in April
2005 its no-objection to the proposed PMU staff using the Individual Consultant
Selection method. The PMU expenses were covered under the operation cost to the

                                           33
CMWU category. The PMU reports were directly presented to the CMWU Board. The
PMU was responsible for following of the day-to-day project activities and monitoring
the performance indicators during the implementation period. The PMU also liaises with
other government entities such as PWA, the Ministry of Local Governments and others to
ensure effective implementation of the project. Moreover, the PMU has been
coordinating with all humanitarian agencies during the Israeli military operations in order
to overcome the hardship period, and to overcome the catastrophic event at the NWWTP.
This unit was composed of a Project Director, fifteen Consultants Engineers to cover all
tasks, Financial and Procurement Officers, Human Resources Manager and fourteen
supporting staff. On March 2007 the board of directors has elected the Project Director to
be the CMWU General Director. The PMU has been integrated with the general CMWU
hierocracy.

8.4     Steering Committee
As agreed in the TFGA, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) is retained during the
implementation of the MC. The (PSC) chaired by PWA and includes the CMWU, the
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Local Government, Ministry of Public Works, Ministry
of Planning, Environmental Quality Control Authority, Ministry of Health and Ministry
of Agriculture, a representative of the Private Sector was suggested to be added by the SC
members. The (PSC) was responsible for providing overall project oversight and policy
guidance including reviewing the quarterly progress reports and the annual procurement
plan for the use of the COIF that was developed by the PMU during the course of
implementing the project.
The Ten Steering Committee has taken place, which mainly focused on project progress
and parallel investment program in water and wastewater projects.


8.5    Operation Staff

In accordance with the terms of the MC the water and wastewater staff (operation staff)
has been transferred to the newly established CMWU under the management of the PMU.
This has facilitated the role of PMU towards an efficient implementation of the project.
The operation staff includes a wide range of specialties including water and wastewater
engineering, management, accounting, billing, administration, customer services,
computer skills and modeling. The lists of operation staff have been updated continuously.

In order to build a strong operational utility, the CMWU had carried out skills assessment
of the Operations Staff, and drafted a job description for each of the assigned task.
Moreover, a comprehensive training and development program for the Operations Staff
was accomplished. Also, the CMWU has established a detailed organizational structureof
the operation staff which was approved by the Board of Directors. On the other hand, an
important step towards functionally establish the utility was undertaken by the Board of
the Utility where the operation staff has been transferred technically and administratively
under the PMU management, locations for the CMWU regional offices in order to ease
the management of the operation staff have been identified, hired and furnished. The
operation staff had finished the mobilization in all operational areas in Gaza strip. The

                                            34
hired a local consultant has managed the procedures of assessing the skills of the
transferred staff from the municipalities (operation team) aiming at:
        Utility staffing plan
        Detailing of the Organization Chart as attached in (Annex 5)
        Transfer Plan
        Training plan
        Detailed job description
        Harmonization of the jobs
       The PMU/CMWU has selected a local consultant for the transfer plan
       implementation where the consultant was requested to interview the rest of the
       transferred staff and to complete the allocation of the staff in the organization
       chart, then to perform on job training for the operation staff on the new prepared
       job description.

7.     PROJECT DISBURSEMENT SUMMARY
By the Closing Date of the GEWP, the total project cost including the committed
contracts that signed under the various components of the project is estimated at US$31.0
million (Annex 6).




                                            35
Annex 8.   Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                  36
Annex 9.      List of Supporting Documents

CMWU. GEWP Yearly Progress Reports. August 2006; August 2007; August 2008;
October 2009; January 2010; October 2010; March 2011; December 2011.

CMWU. Damage Assessment Report: Water and Wastewater Infrastructure and Facilities.
January 2009.

CMWU. Implementation Completion Report. May 2012.

CMWU. Operation Year 2012 (Presentation). May 2012.

Independent Evaluation Group (IEG), World Bank. The World Bank Group in the West
Bank and Gaza, 2001-2009.

Palestinian National Authority. Millennium Development Goals Report. June 2010.

Palestinian National Authority National Development Plan 2011-2013: Establishing the
State, Building our Future. April 2011.

Palestinian National Authority. Palestinian Reform and Development Plan 2008-2010.
April 2011.

World Bank. Assessment of Water Supply Service Provision in Gaza Strip. March 2012.

World Bank. Technical Annex for Gaza Emergency Water Project. May 2005.

World Bank. Interim Strategy for West Bank and Gaza for FY08-FY10. March 2008.

World Bank. Interim Strategy Note for West Bank and Gaza 2012-2014. February 2012.

World Bank. Project Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Implementation Status
Reports, and Additional Financing Documents. Various dates.




                                         37
                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33512R1
                                                                                                                                                                To                         35°30'E
                                                                                                              35°00'E                                         Nazareth

               WEST BANK                                                                                                           To Haifa

               AND GAZA
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                        32°30'N                                                                                                                                   32°30'N
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                       Yamoun
                                                                                                                                                                    Jenin
                 MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                    Ya'bad
                                                                                                                                 Kaffeen
                 RAILROAD                                                                                                                                      Qabatia

                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949                                                                                                     JENIN
                 NO-MAN’S LAND AREAS,
                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949                                                  To Netanya               TULKARM
                                                                                                                                      Anapta                                     Tubas
                                                                                                                        Tulkarm                                                          TUBAS
                 JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY                                                                                                                               Tammun
                 EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
                 THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980                                                                                                             Mt. 'Eval
                                                                                                                                                        (940 m)
                 GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                          Nablus
                                                                                                   Qalqilyah
                 ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY                                                                               QALQILYAH                              NABLUS
                                                                                           To                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Tel Aviv                                                                                                                    Um Qais
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                 SALFIT
                                              34°30'E                                                                                     Salfit   West




                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                               Jordan Rive
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                       To
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                      Ramla
                                                                                                                                                                                                             JORDAN
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
32°00'N
                                                                                       To
                                                                                    Tel Aviv
                                                                                                                                                   Bank                                                        To 32°00'N
                                                                                                                                                                 Tall Asur                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                                 (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                                       RAMALLAH                                          JERICHO

                                                                                                                                                     Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Amman
                                                                                                                                                                                           Jericho
           Mediterranean
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                           Sea                                                                                                                                                                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM


                                                                                                       To                                           Bethlehem
                                                                                                     Ashdod
                                                                          ISRAEL
                                                                                                                                                      BETHLEHEM
                                                                To
                                                             Tel Aviv
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                               Ashqelon                                                                                   Dead
                              JABALYA
                                    Beit Lahia                                                                                        (1,020 m)                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                     Hebron
                           Gaza City
                                                 Jabalya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31°30'N
                      GAZA CITY                                                                                                   HEBRON
   Gaza Nusejrat
                                                           To                                                                       Yattah
DEIR EL BALAH                     El Bureij             Beersheba
           Deir el Balah                                                                                          Zohar

      KHAN
      YUNIS
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                      Khan                                                                                                                                               Zofar
                      Yunis                                                          To
                                                                                  Beersheba
              Rafah
                           RAFAH                                                                                                                                                                JORDAN
                Abu 'Awdah
   To           (105 m)
El Arish
                  To                          WEST BANK
                  Elat                        AND GAZA

 ARAB                                                                                                     0        5        10     15 Kilometers

REP. OF
EGYPT                                                                                                     0             5            10            15 Miles

31°00'N                                                                                                                                                                                                           31°00'N

                                              34°30'E                                                           35°00'E                                                                     35°30'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUNE 2007
