Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR00002796
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IDA-44020)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 95.3 (US$ 218.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOR
DA NANG PRIORITY INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT PROJECT
December 19, 2013
Vietnam Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and the Pacific Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 15, 2013)
Currency Unit=Vietnamese Dong
VND 21,107 = US$ 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
3CSP               3 Cities Sanitation Project
ADB                Asian Development Bank
BOM                Board of Management
BOQ                Bill of Quantities
CBA                Cost Benefit Analysis
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CCTV               Closed Circuit Television
CMC                Construction Management Consultants
CSO                Combined Sewer Overflow
Da Nang Traffic Light and Public Transport Management
DATRAMAC           Cnr
Centre
DD                 Detailed Design
DDWMC              Da Nang Drainage and Wastewater Management Company
DH                 Displaced Households
DN PC              Da Nang City People's Committee
DOF                Department of Finance
DONRE              Department of Natural Resource and Environment
DOT                Department of Transport
DP                 Displaced People
DPC                District People's Committee
DPI                Department of Planning and Investment
DWD                Drainage and Wastewater Division
EMF                Environmental Management Framework
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
FDI                Foreign Direct Investment
GIS                Geographic Information System
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GSO                General Statistics Office
GTAP               Governance and Transparency Action Plan
HH                 Household
ICB                International Competitive Bidding


﻿IDA                International Development Association
JICA               Japanese International Cooperation Agency
KPI                Key Performance Indicators
LIA                Low-Income Area
MIS                Management Information Systems
MOF                Ministry of Finance
NPV                Net Present Value
O&M                Operation and Maintenance
PAD                Project Appraisal Document
PC                 People Committee
PCU                Passenger Car Unit
PDO                Project Development Objective
PHRD               Policy and Human Resources Development
PIIP               Priority Infrastructure Investment Project
PMU                Project Management Unit
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
QA/QC              Quality Assurance / Quality Control
QAE                Quality at Entry
QAG                Quality Assurance Group
RAP                Resettlement Action Plan
RPF                Resettlement Policy Framework
RF                 Results Framework
SCDP               Sustainable City Development Project
SOE                State Owned Enterprise
UDC                Urban Drainage Company
UTMD               Urban Transport Management Department
WWMS               Waste Water Management System
WWTP               Waste Water Treatment Plant
Vice President:    Axel van Trotsenburg
Country Director:    Victoria Kwakwa
Sector Manager:        Jennifer Sara
Project Team Leader:   Cuong Duc Dang
ICR Team Leader:     Federica Ranghieri


﻿VIETNAM
Da Nang Priority Infrastructure Investment Project
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes   ................   ..... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes         ........................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.     ....................    ..... 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance    ................     ........ 19
6. Lessons Learned           .....................................     ......... 21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..... 22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                       ................................. 23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component           ...............................  ..... 24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis   ............................. 28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...... 37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results................................. 39
Annex 6. Lessons Learned          ................................     ......... 41
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results......................... 43
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....     ..... 44
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders   .   .......... 46
Annex 10. Pictures and Photographs       ..........................    ........ 47
MAP


﻿DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information
VN-Priority
Country:             Vietnam             Project Name:        Infrastructure
Investment Project
Project ID:          P086508             L/C/TF Number(s):   IDA-44020
ICR Date:            11/13/2013          ICR Type:            Core ICR
SOCIALIST
Lending Instrument:  SIL                 Borrower:            REPUBLIC OF
VIETNAM
Original Total      XDR 95.30M           Disbursed Amount:    XDR 95.29M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     XDR 95.29M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies: Da Nang People's Committee
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: NONE
B. Key Dates
Revised / Actual
Process           Date           Process       Original Date     es)
Date(s)
Concept Review:    02/08/2006   Effectiveness:      11/25/2008       11/25/2008
Appraisal:          11/26/2007  Restructuring(s):
Approval:          05/22/2008   Mid-term Review:    10/10/2011       03/12/2012
Closing:            06/30/2013      06/30/2013
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:             Moderate
Bank Performance:                        Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank               Ratings             Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:    Satisfactory        Government:          Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory     Implementing         Moderately Satisfactory
I              lAgency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                             Overall Borrower
PerorBan:         Satisfactory        Perorn   e       Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                             Performance:


﻿C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation         Indicat         QAG Assessments           Rating
Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem Project                Quality at Entry   N
No                                   INone
at any time (Yes/No):                    (QEA):
Problem Project at any  NoQuality of                        Non
time (Yes/No):                            Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before       Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Flood protection                                        14               14
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector    7                7
Sub-national government administration                   3                3
Urban Transport                                         48               48
Wastewater Collection and Transportation                 28               28
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery            13               13
Infrastructure services for private sector development   25              25
Municipal governance and institution building            24              24
Pollution management and environmental health            13              13
Urban services and housing for the poor                  25               25
E. Bank Staff
Positions                  At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:       Axel van Trotsenburg          James W. Adams
Country Director:     Victoria Kwakwa               Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:       Jennifer J. Sara              Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:  Cuong Due Dang                Cuong Due Dang
ICR Team Leader:      Federica Ranghieri
ICR Primary Author:    Federica Ranghieri


﻿F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project aims to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability of urban
services under the control of Da Nang City through a package of priority investments
including urban upgrading, environmental improvement and strategic road access, as well
as measures for institutional strengthening for management of urban services.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
n/a
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Original Target  Formally     Actual Value
Values (from     Revised      Achieved at
approval       Target      Completion or
documents)      Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of people satisfied with access to new services in LIA
Value
quantitative or 0                   75 %                        76.3 %
Qualitative)  _______                  ____
[Date achieved 07/01/2008          06/30/2013                  06/30/2013
Comments      Target achieved for % of beneficiaries satisfied, recognizing that there was a
(incl. %      reduction in the total number of beneficiaries due to the transfer of some Project
achievement) tasks to the new Project.
Indicator 2: Actual payments made by HHs for wastewater services
Value                              25,000 (VND                  27,076 (VND
quantitative or 5,000 (VND million)  million)                   million)
Qualitative)
[Date achieved 107/01/2008          06/30/2013                  06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Slightly above what was originally planned.
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target               Actual Value
FormallyromAchieved at
Indicator      Baseline Value      Values (from     Revised     cmplet
approval                   Completion or
documents)                  Target Years
Indicator 1 : Component A - percentage of HH in Project that have piped water supply on plot
Value
(quantitative  55%                  80%                         95.5%
or Qualitative) ___    ___      _      _   ___
[Date achieved 06/30/2008         {06/30/2013                  06/30/2013
Comments      Very positive results have been achieved: about 19 % above the target values.
(incl. %


﻿achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Component A - percentage of HH in Project's LIAs with drainage/wastewater
collection
Value
(quantitative  50%                  75%                          97.5%
or Qualitative)
[Date achieved 106/30/2008          06/30/2013                   06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Very positive results have been achieved: about 22 % above the target values.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Component A - percentage of operating costs of micro-credit recovered through
fees and interest
Value
(quantitative  60%                  100%                         257.8%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2008            06/30/2013                   06/30/2013
Comments Excellent results: the recovery of operating costs for micro-credit has exceeded
(incl. %        x
achievement)  he target of 100% by more than double.
Indicator 4 : IComponent A - average land values in Project LIAs (VND millions/m2)
Value
(quantitative  0.7                  10                           6.6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2008            06/30/2013                   06/30/2013
Comments      Target was partially achieved as the average land price in the Project LIAs did
(incl. %      not increase as projected in the final years due to difficulties in the real estate
achievement)  market and low demand for land purchase.
Indicator 5 :  Component B - Level of water pollution as measured by BOD levels in Phu Loc
River outlet (mg/1)
Value
(quantitative  215                  25                           16
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2008            06/30/2013                   06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Very positive results have been achieved: about 30% above the target values.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : IComponent B - percentage of cost recovery for waste water service
Value
(quantitative  30%                  100%                         97.7%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2008            106/30/2013                  06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Slightly below the target.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Component B - Percentage of HH in the city affected by flooding
Value
(quantitative  30%                  7.5%                         8.5%
or Qualitative)


﻿Date achieved 07/01/2008            06/30/2013                  06/30/2013
Comments      Slightly below the target. Investment in infrastructure such as pumping plants
(incl. %     and sewage systems reduced the number of flooding areas significantly, reaching
achievement)  8.5%.
Indicator 8 :  Component C - reduced congestion in strategic corridors: existing Tran Dai
Nghia (Passenger car unit - PCU)
Value
(quantitative  19,200              23,690                       12,818
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2008            06/30/2013                  06/30/2013
Comments
Cominc   s %Very positive results. Traffic in Tran Dai Nghia road is now shared with the
ac.      t   Project road.
achievement)
Indicator 9: Component C - reduced congestion in strategic corridors: existing PR603
Value
(quantitative  6,400               6,770                        9,445
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2008           06/30/2013      1            06/30/2013
The Southern Road is still under construction and is not currently carrying any
Cmn    ts. %   traffic. However, current traffic volume shows that there is a high demand for
(ie.    t   both the Southern Link and Road 603 due to the rapid development of colleges
and residences.
Indicator 10 : Component C - Component C - reduced congestion in strategic corridors: new
NTP
Value
(quantitative  0                   31,000                       8,159
or Qualitative)
[Date achieved 107/01/2008          06/30/2013                  06/30/2013
Traffic flow is 8,159 PCU day. This route was put into operation on 30/04/2013
Coments %and traffic levels are beginning to increase. The bulk of the traffic consists of
.         trucks carrying materials for the construction of residential areas along 2 sides of
achievement)  he
the route .
Indicator 11: Component C - reduced congestion in strategic corridors: new DSR
Value                                               component
(quantitative  0                    8,000          0ostponed     0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2008            06/30/2013      06/30/2013  06/30/2013
Comments      Not achieved. 52% of the southern ring road has been constructed, and the
(incl. %      remaining section was transferred to the ongoing follow-on Project (SCDP), and
achievement)  will be completed by the end of 2014 (SCDP).
Indicator 12 : Component C - new plots developed annually in Southern development areas
Value
(quantitative  0                   2,000                        935
or Qualitative)
[Date achieved 107/01/2008          06/30/2013                  06/30/2013
Comments      Achieved. Once the people were aware of the Project, they bought land along the
(incl. %      Project corridor. The cumulative figure (12,314) is much higher than cumulative
achievement) target (5,700).


﻿Indicator 13 : Component D - Number of LUCs issued per annum
Value
(quantitative  16,000               8,000                       15,500
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2008            06/30/2013                  06/30/2013
Achieved. According to statistics of the city authorities, 15,500 certificates of
Comments      land use rights were issued in 2013. The cumulative number is 144,205, far
(incl. %      exceeding the target of 73,000. The actual baseline value was re-calculated as
achievement)  20,956 during implementation. Even considering the new baseline, the results
have been achieved.
Indicator 14 : Component D - Level of annual revenue collection by DOF (VND billions)
Value
(quantitative  6,871                11,065                      6,200
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2008           06/30/2013                   06/30/2013
Comments      Achieved. While in the last year the annual revenue was about half of that
(incl. %     expected, the cumulative revenue during the Project period is much higher:
achievement)  59,355 achieved vs. 52,011 projected.
Indicator 15: Component D - Number of days per year of wastewater treatment performance
exceeding design capacity in flows, effluent standards for BODs and SS.
Value
(quantitative  360                  30                           292
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2008           06/30/2013                   06/30/2013
Comments      Partially achieved. WWT plants are operating at 80% of design capacity. While
(incl. %      the construction of Hoa Xuan WWTP and upgrading existing WWTPs are still
achievement)  ongoing, the effluent water quality did not improve much.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
Date ISR                                                     Ata
No.     Ate                DO                     IP            Disbursements
(USD millions)
1    05/12/2009       Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory           2.23
2    05/21/2010        Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 7.73
3    06/27/2011       Satisfactory          Satisfactory                22.73
4    05/07/2012        Satisfactory         Satisfactory                48.73
5    12/31/2012       Satisfactory          Satisfactory               107.73
6    06/25/2013        Satisfactory          Satisfactory              145.93
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


﻿I. Disbursement Profile
-   Original ---- Formally Revised -- Actual
200-
150 -
100-
rq   r"
0-
CY     a                                                  flf
C  C ,             -      N     N            fl    f      f
0q    0l    -1     -,     -1                 1      1
0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0C,0                                 0


﻿
﻿1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Vietnam's poverty reduction and economic growth achievements over the last 15 years
have been impressive. The annual real GDP growth averaged around 7.5-8.5% at the time
of appraisal, and around 6% over the past 5 years. The rate of poverty fell from 58% in
1993 to below 16% in 2006, indicating widespread improvements in the lives of the
Vietnamese population. In 2007, Vietnam had an official total population of about 85
million (89 million in 2012). The urban population was estimated to be 19 million (23%
of the population). Vietnam's urban population was projected to increase rapidly over the
next 15 to 20 years to a total of about 40-45 million, putting significant pressure on urban
development and management.
As Da Nang transforms itself into a major urban and economic center in Vietnam, the
city needs to improve living conditions for its urban poor, and improve the environmental
infrastructure needed for a coastal city dependent on tourism. Key issues identified by the
Government at the time of appraisal were: (i) lack of infrastructure; (ii) environmental
degradation; and (iii) limited capacity to plan and manage rapid urban growth.
Rationale for Bank involvement
The GOV requested financial support from the World Bank to improve the efficiency,
effectiveness and sustainability of urban services through a package of priority
investments including urban upgrading, environmental improvement and strategic road
access, as well as measures for institutional strengthening of urban agencies that became
the PIIP. The rationale for the Project included the need to equip the city to cope more
effectively with population growth over the medium to long term, and support Da Nang's
drive for continued growth and improved living conditions, particularly for the urban
poor. The Project design was consistent with the Bank Country Partnership Strategy and
the GoV Urban Development Strategy. Da Nang City had a good track record in
implementing previous Bank supported operations, and had continued its commitment to
strengthen capacities.
Bank involvement has helped ensure that Da Nang's development is both socially and
environmentally sustainable through applying appropriate safeguards policy and by
bringing in international experience to develop technical solutions and urban service
management. Given the Bank's long-term working relationship with Da Nang and its
extensive experience in assisting urban development in the East Asia Region, the Bank
was suitably equipped to support this Project.
1


﻿1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The Project aimed to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability of urban
services under the control of Da Nang City through a package of priority investments
including urban upgrading, environmental improvement and strategic road access, as well
as measures for the institutional strengthening of management of urban services.
Key Indicators: Baseline indicators include: i) number of people satisfied with access to
new services in Low Income Areas (LIAs), and ii) actual annual payments made by
house-holds (HH) for wastewater services. An additional 12 intermediate outcome
indicators were also included in the RF.
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority), Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification
The PDO and key indicators were not revised during the Project implementation.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
As of June 2013, the number of Project beneficiaries was approximately 402,746,
representing 80% of the target. When the South Link Road and the Hoa Xuan and Son
Tra WWTPs are completed (at the end of year 2014), the number of beneficiaries is
expected to grow to over 515,000 people. The Project brought benefits to many urban
residents. A total of 61,824 people in LIAs are now living in new apartments. In total,
336,810 people have benefited from sanitation, access to new roads, clean water,
drainage, solid waste, and lighting services. During the Project, 4,112 people participated
in training courses and took part in consultations and participatory activities to build their
capacity. The participation of female beneficiaries was particularly high at 60.7%,
exceeding the planned target of 50%. The urban population provided with access to an
all-season road through the Project was 221,815 people (6% more than expected), of
which 129,295 are residents of LIAs, and 9,520 live in resettlement areas. The number of
people with access to regular solid waste collection services and electricity is above
65,000 (slightly exceeding the estimates made at appraisal).
1.5 Original Components
The Project originally included four components. These components were implemented
in two Phases.
*  Component A: Urban Area Upgrading. Tertiary Infrastructure Upgrading,
Resettlement Sites and Housing Improvement Loan Program. This component
funded: (a) tertiary infrastructure upgrading and service improvements in 14 Low-
Income Areas (at the community level); (b) construction of three resettlement
sites; and (c) micro-finance for housing improvement.
*  Component B: Environmental Infrastructure Improvement. This component
funded: (a) Drainage linked to the tertiary systems of all 14 Low Income Areas;
(b) improvement to primary and secondary drainage systems; and (c) Phu Loc
2


﻿River environmental improvement; and (d) improvement and extension of
primary wastewater systems.
*  Component C: Urban Roads and Bridges. The component supported the
construction of two major road links for improving access to the new district of
Cam Le: (a) City center to Southern area; and (b) Southern Da Nang Link Road
Section.
*  Component D: Capacity Building and Project Implementation Support, to provide
technical assistance and training to enhance the capacity of Da Nang City's
departments to carry out their responsibilities in: (a) housing and land
management; (b) urban development management; (c) urban technical
infrastructure management; (d) municipal finance management; and (e) to support
the PMU in Project implementation.
1.6 Revised Components:
The components themselves were not revised. However, due to cost escalations, the
quick preparation of a follow-on Project (SCDP), and a desire to close this Project on
time, several investments were transferred to SCDP, as described below:
-  Component A: Urban Area Upgrading was entirely completed by the original
closing date of June 30, 2013. No changes were made to this component.
-  Component B: Environmental Infrastructure Improvement was substantially
completed with the exception of the construction/upgrading of the new Hoaxuan
WWTP, and the new Lienchieu and existing Sontra WWTPs which will be
completed under SCDP.
-  Component C: The Vo Chi Cong road (city center to south Camle) has been
completed and the ongoing construction of the southern link road will be
completed by December 2013. A slight change was made to the Southern link
road to extend it an additional 1.3 km (from the intersection with Tran Dai Nghia
to the An Nong Road) in order to complete the ring road in the South of the city.
Also, the width of the median of the road was expanded from 3m to 9m in order
to be able to accommodate a mass-transit (BRT) corridor in the future.
-  Component D: Capacity Building and Project Implementation Support has been
largely completed.
1.7 Other significant changes
The total cost of the Project increased by USD 36.9 million specifically because: (i) the
detailed design of Component B and C (85% of the total Project cost) identified higher
costs than the estimates made at the time of Project appraisal in 2007, and (ii) high
inflation in the period from 2008 - 2010 as well as a number of adjustments and changes
in the technical designs led to a significant increase in costs.
Cost estimates were updated in 2010 and 2011 following the findings of the mid-term
review which highlighted that alternative and more recent designs of specific components
(mainly relating to the WWTP) were available which were more appropriate for the
needs of the City. This flexibility and the ability to make adjustments proved successful
3


﻿in meeting the client's demand, but increased the cost and delayed the construction
process. Amore timely evaluation would certainly have helped in identifying issues and
reducing delays.
The total Project costs increased from USD 218.5 million to USD 244.11 million, of
which the proportion of IDA funding increased by about USD 30 million. Counterpart
funding decreased from USD 66.03 million to USD 64.87 million. It has been agreed
between the GoV and the Bank, that rather than providing additional financing for the
PIIP, certain activities that were originally included under the PIIP will instead be
transferred to Component 5 of the SCDP. The funding shortfall for these activities will
be financed through the SCDP. The actual total amount disbursed under the PIIP is USD
204.21 million. The detailed disbursement is provided in the table below:
Component             Original Total   Actual Total   Transferred to
(USD)           (USD)        SCDP (USD)
A. Urban Area Upgrading             52.7           36.33             0
B. Environmental Infrastructure     65.4           61.02            16.6
Improvement
C. Urban Roads and Bridges          96.2           105.01           20.1
D. Capacity Building and Project     4.2            1.85            0.2
Implementation Support
Total Cost (including taxes)       218.5           204.21           36.9
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Background analysis:
The PIIP was designed by identifying all of the LIAs within the city of Da Nang. The
LIA's with the greatest need and those which were suitably located to create a geographic
concentration of areas (to take advantage of the economies of scale) were selected. Based
on demand from the city, a comprehensive multi-sectoral approach was adopted by the
Project to combine water supply, drainage, sewerage, electricity distribution and road
alley improvements into a single package of works. This multi-sectoral approach was the
first of its kind in Vietnam. It proved to be effective, despite delays and complexities, and
is potentially replicable in other areas of the country.
Assessment of Project design: Project design responded to a clear need to upgrade
urban settlements and improve the sanitary conditions in the river basin through the
development of wastewater collection and drainage infrastructure as well as institutional
strengthening of the sector. The PDO was realistically achievable and well linked to its
components. The institutional arrangements for the Project were appropriate and the
4


﻿relevant environmental and social factors were adequately incorporated into the Project
design. The necessary safeguard policies, including the Environmental Assessment
safeguard (OP 4.01), social safeguards Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and
Cultural Resources (OP4. 11) were satisfactorily applied to the Project.
Overall, the Project was well prepared to respond to the multi-sector challenges. Its
design followed an approved master plan and was well aligned with the emerging
devolution priorities. However, some short comings were experienced including delays to
Project activities, largely due to a cost overrun under the PIIP. To address these delays,
certain activities were transferred to SCDP as described under section 1.7 above. Other
issues include the Project design of Component B (specifically the Hoaxuan and the
Lienchieu WWTPs) which required significant modification and a reduction in the scope
of the investments under Component C due to improper handling of land acquisition and
relocation processes during Project implementation. Additional investments in the
preparatory phase would have contributed to a better overall design that captured the best
available technologies and construction features at the start, thus reducing time spent in
re-designing and partial re-scoping.
Government's Commitment and Stakeholder participation: Extensive dialogue was
held with all relevant ministries and city departments during the preparation stage. Public
consultations which including Project beneficiaries and other relevant stakeholders were
conducted during Project preparation. Approximately 1000 beneficiary households in the
Project area were surveyed during the appraisal process.
The Da Nang People's Committee was fully responsible for Project execution as well as
for overall Project management and oversight at the city level. The City established a
Board of Management (BOM) chaired by the Vice Chairman of Da Nang PC comprised
of representatives of the relevant Agencies, including the Departments of Planning and
Investment, Natural Resources and Environment, Finance, Construction, Transport and
Public Works, and the Director of the PIIP PMU. The role of the Board was to make
policy decisions relating to the planning, design, and management of the Project and to
coordinate amongst the different departments involved in the Project. The Da Nang
Women's Union was designated to manage the Fund for housing improvement, with the
aim of transforming the organization into a professional and effective microfinance
organization.
Assessment of Risks: Due diligence undertaken by the Bank task team indicated that
there were no major reputational risks to the Bank. Risks directly associated with the
Project were identified, including a substantial risk related to slow implementation due to
procurement processing delays, a lack of coordination among departments and
inadequate technical and financial resources. Several mitigation measures were planned
and the overall Project risk was rated as moderate. Specific risks relating to individual
components were also identified: relocation (Component A); compensation, limited
willingness of residents to connect to the new wastewater system and to pay for the
service received (Component B); and over-design of roads and bridges (Component C).
The risks identified and the mitigation measures taken are assessed to be appropriate.
5


﻿2.2 Implementation
This was technically a very large and complex Project that faced considerable
resettlement challenges and required design adjustments. The Project experienced some
implementation difficulties as is commonly the case for relocation and infrastructure
works of this nature that are undertaken in congested and consolidated urban areas.
The Project was completed by June 2013, but re-scoping was required and there was an
increase in the Project's cost. Given that SCDP was already within the WB financed
investment pipeline and the activities affected by cost increases were in line with the
agreed Development Objectives of SCDP, the PC approved the PMU's proposal to
request an additional allocation for SCDP to cover the cost associated with completing
PIIP. The main reasons for the re-scoping and the cost increases were identified and
reported in section 1.7 above.
Complexity of multi-sectoral Projects presents design and implementation
challenges. The concept of an integrated multi-sectoral approach was new at the time of
appraisal, and this resulted in a fragmented approach where the activities and investments
included in PIIP were first designed in isolation and later assembled under a broader
strategy, which included other investments made by the city. Although implementation of
the PIIP suffered from a lack of coordination and clear strategy, it has acted as a stepping
stone to more integrated future Projects that can bring cross cutting improvements to the
city and its environment. Shortcomings have been encountered including revisions to
Project infrastructure design following the mid-term review, as well as a lack of
recognition of all the constraints related to construction, such as land acquisition,
relocation and competing interests. Despite this, the multi-sectoral vision that this Project
has established will have a very significant impact on the design of future urban Projects
in the country (and probably in the region).
The capacity of the PMU and the Project Owner had to be enhanced significantly, to
achieve effective Project implementation. The PIIP was larger, more complex and
required more diverse competencies than previous WB financed Projects in Da Nang, and
yet it was implemented in a significantly shorter period of time. In order to meet these
challenges, targeted training courses were provided to the PMU and the Project owner on
Project management, financial management, procurement and safeguards which
significantly increased their capacity to implement the Project.
Several contracts were delayed due to lengthy processes of contract procurement,
appraisal and approval. Procurement processes were required to be harmonized with
Bank procedures and accelerated during the last years of the Project. The decentralization
of responsibilities from DPI to DOT improved the timeliness of Project execution, but
this only occurred in the final phase of the Project. At the early stage of PIIP, the PMU's
procurement decisions were subject to the DPI's clearance and People's Committee's
approval, whose processes were proven to be time consuming resulting to delays in some
packages. While recognizing the key role that DPI played since the very beginning of the
6


﻿Project, it has to be noted that the process of decentralization of procurement that started
in the second Phase of PIIP proved successful and will be fully operational for SCDP.
Better assessment and timely negotiations for land acquisition and management
would have reduced delays. Shortcomings were encountered relating to the revisions of
Project infrastructure design following the mid-term review as well as a lack of
appreciation of the constraints related to construction in all Components. Had Project
implementation included upfront negotiation on land management, many of the delays
and impediments may have been mitigated.
Integrated bidding, operation and contract management assured better results and
effectiveness. During implementation of the Hoa Xuan wastewater treatment plant, the
city proposed to the World Bank to tender in the form of "Design - Construction -
Operation" with an operation period of 10 years and allows bidders to offer alternative
technical solutions for some of the major systems of the plant. This was the example first
model of bidding and contract management applied in order to associate construction
responsibility with urban wastewater operation, which delivered better results and
increased effectiveness.
Strong ownership is critical to successful Project implementation Obtaining buy-in
from the Da Nang PC during Project preparation was critical to Project understanding
and subsequent implementation. The People's Committee explicitly endorsed the urban
upgrading concept, selected the low-income areas, and established institutional
arrangements for Project implementation.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design: During appraisal it was agreed that the PMU would consolidate the data at the
Project level and produce annual reports to monitor progress through an Integrated
Project Implementation Performance Audit. Baseline data for results' indicators of all
components were obtained and no major capacity constraints were foreseen. The PDO
indicators generally related to monitoring the progress of outcomes relating to
Component A and were not able to capture the outcomes of the other components. The
intermediate indicators covered all Components. Overall, the design of M&E system was
reasonably effective; nevertheless additional indicators were introduced in the final stages
to monitor the effectiveness of all Components.
Implementation: Project progress and outcomes were regularly monitored and reported
in periodic progress reports, ISRs and AMs. Physical, financial, environmental,
resettlement and land acquisition progress was monitored and reported on in semi-annual
progress reports. Initially external resettlement and environmental monitoring reports
were prepared and submitted quarterly and latterly, twice per year. The PMU provided
updates of all key monitoring indicators regularly.
Utilization: A comprehensive assessment of Project performance was made at the mid-
term review. Based on the assessment, the borrower and IDA decided to adjust the scope
7


﻿and investment allocation, in particular for Components B and C. Project indicators are
being used and will continue to be used to monitor water quality and overall
environmental quality of the river basin. Water quality in the canal and the river at the
discharge point will continue to be monitored as part of regular environmental
surveillance to ensure pollution levels do not exceed the established limits. Core
indicators will continue to be used even after Project completion to monitor sustainability
of the activities.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Social Safeguards
The relevant social safeguard policies were fully complied with. The Project has
substantially improved the living and environmental conditions of the selected low
income areas, as well as promoted the community participation approach to urban
upgrading. However, there were also potential adverse impacts related to the need for
land acquisition and involuntary resettlement under the Project which resulted in the
triggering of OP 4.12 on involuntary resettlement.
At the Project design stage efforts were made to minimize adverse social impacts through
design modifications, including realignment and reduction of the scale of proposed civil
works and consultation with the affected people in low income areas on how to minimize
the impact. The Project acquired around 189.1 ha of land, with 3,518 affected HHs, of
which 936 were only partially affected and had to be resettled and 1,670 lost agricultural
land. The number of resettled HHs increased by 12% compared with the original 711
planned. This increase was due to several reasons; some HHs split their plot (two families
living at the same plot split their plot into two), some HHs were voluntarily relocated to
better resettlement areas, closer to the Southern Link Road route.
The Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was prepared following local laws and
policies of the World Bank (OP 4.12). Its objective was to ensure that all displaced
people (DPs) would be compensated for their losses at replacement cost and would be
supported by measures to assist them to improve, or at least maintain, their pre-Project
living standards. Three Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) have been prepared in
accordance with the RPF and they each include a detailed impact inventory, a socio-
economic survey, and an extensive consultation process with the affected population as
well as with the relevant government agencies. Most compensation was completed as
planned. Compensation and resettlement for the Southern Ring road was completed by
June 2013 (except for those activities transferred to SCDP).
In general, the Project RPF and RAPs were implemented satisfactorily and the Project
resettlement policy objectives have been met. According to the resettlement independent
monitoring consultant, almost all Project affected people (DPs) have been able to restore
their lost assets and livelihoods. Da Nang used many of the available resettlement sites in
the city for the relocated DPs to meet their demand of relocating inside their vicinity. All
relocated HHs have been allocated land plot(s) to move in to in a resettlement site, thus
meeting all the objectives. The grievance redress system has functioned well in
satisfactorily resolving the complaints/proposals received from the DPs. As a result of the
8


﻿Project, the municipality embraced the same principles when developing its own system
under the PIIP and is implementing similar principles for the overall resettlement
policies.
Environmental Safeguards
The Project was designated as category "A" based on the potential environmental impacts
relating to the large scale construction of primary and secondary drainage and sewers,
infrastructure for resettlement sites, construction of roads and bridges, and the impact on
local households as a result of resettlement. Two safeguard policies were triggered: OP
4.01 on Environmental Assessment and OP 4.11 on Physical Cultural Resources.
Consequently, a comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment, Environmental
Management Plan, and Resettlement Action Plan were carried out in close conformity
with Bank and Vietnamese national policies to address environmental and social issues
relating to OP 4.01 and OP 4.11. Environmental and social factors were adequately
incorporated in the Project design.
No unforeseen adverse environmental impacts arose during implementation. Effective
mitigation measures were taken promptly to ensure that all environmental indicators
remained within acceptable levels. Public consultations with representatives from local
authorities, NGOs and affected persons as well as information disclosure were carried out
continuously throughout Project implementation. Community meetings, hotline, public
media, newspapers, internet and environmental protection campaigns were used to
address safeguard-related issues in a timely manner. No complaints were received from
any affected persons during Project implementation.
Monitoring results showed that (a) there were not any significant environmental impacts
during construction, (b) contractors complied with environmental covenants in contracts
under close supervision of the PMU, its supervision consultants and local communities,
(c) the ambient environment was not adversely affected by Project activities, and (d)
greening measures were incorporated into technical designs and observed in Phu Loc
river and the resettlement areas. More importantly, the Project resulted in significant
environmental benefits such as reduced flooding and water pollution through
infrastructure investments.
Environmental auditing reports from the independent environmental consultant and
quarterly EMP implementation reports were submitted to the Bank regularly for review.
Requirements of the Environmental Management Plan were fully addressed, with great
care taken to minimize traffic and other disruptions in the vicinity of construction sites
due to dust, noise, wastewater and solid waste. Safety of both the public and workers, has
been given high priority at the construction sites. Throughout Project implementation, the
Bank's environmental safeguard policies have been fully complied with.
The Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11) safeguard policy was triggered due to the
relocation of some graves and the presence of two temples and four worship houses
located in the Project area. Mitigation measures were developed in the EIA and the EMP
9


﻿to minimize impacts. Households affected by the relocation of graves were consulted and
were satisfied with the mitigation measures proposed by the Project owner and the local
authority.
Financial Management
The Financial Management (FM) reviews carried out by regular supervision missions
identified that an adequate financial management system was in place that could provide,
with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information that Bank loan proceeds were
being used for their intended purposes. The Project FM rating was consistently rated as
Satisfactory since late 2008. The reviews also recognized the adequacy of financial
management staffing, accounting and internal control systems, maintenance of supporting
documents in the Project and implementation of auditor recommendations for annual
audit. Quarterly financial reports of acceptable quality were submitted on time. Annual
audited financial reports were submitted to the Bank on time with unqualified (clean)
audit opinions, with only one qualifying with exception audit opinion in the first FY2008
audit. The Project accounting systems were observed to be in order and payments were
well-controlled. Independent performance audit is a good practice and provides another
layer of control in addition to the checks on outputs performed by the Project and the
supervising consultants. The verification and payment for contracts were conducted in a
timely fashion and were accurate and consistent with the provisions of the Vietnamese
government and the World Bank. The financial management of the Revolving fund was
satisfactorily maintained throughout the implementation of the Project.
The Project is one of the few examples of the application of the reporting based
mechanism to fund flow arrangements. This approach demonstrated its efficiency and
effectiveness in planning and budgeting. The fund sources for the Project were allocated
promptly and in full.
Besides regular FM supervision missions, a special and integrated financial management
and procurement review for the Project was performed in April 2013 to confirm the
adequacy of the Project contract management arrangements, specifically as they were
being applied to consulting contract packages. It was concluded that adequate financial
arrangements were in place at the PMU to properly manage and control consultant
contracts throughout the contract cycle from planning and procurement, to contract
execution.
The financial and economic analysis presented in Annex 3 confirms the viability of
Project components despite increases in the investment costs of Component B and C and
partial investment deference to SCDP.
10


﻿Procurement
Generally, procurement guidelines were complied with. A total of 70 out of 71 contracts
under the Project were awarded (38 packages used the international competitive method,
32 packages used the national competitive method). The procurement implementation
was initially delayed, mainly because of (i) the slow procurement process of critical
detailed design consultants' contracts; (ii) the subsequent non-performance of one
consultant requiring a major portion of that contract to be rebid, (which subsequently was
significantly accelerated). The overall procurement progress was still behind the original
plans leading to a number of major contracts uncompleted by the Credit's expiry date.
The implementation of those contracts will be financed out of the SCDP.
The PMU's procurement performance is assessed as moderately satisfactory. Although
the Bank recognizes the PMU's great effort in reducing delays; the overall procurement
progress lagged behind the original schedule resulting in a number of major contracts that
remained incomplete at the closing date.
Regarding contract management, although there were some shortcomings in the
management of consulting services contracts (such as failures to obtain Bank no-
objections to some major modifications), the PMU's contract management work,
especially for large civil works contracts (bridges and roads), was well implemented as
compared to similar Projects in the country and made a significant contribution to the
timely completion of those contracts. The procurement implementation capacity of the
PMU's procurement team has grown significantly through the implementation of the
Project and their performance in the later years of the Project implementation was
outstanding.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The PIIP instilled a long term planning mentality in the city that is guiding the city in the
design and implementation of the new SCDP. Integrated city development planning was
a new and challenging concept to Da Nang prior to the PIIP but now it is a well-
established practice, whose outcomes will help other cities in Vietnam to think in a more
integrated and long term fashion.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
RATING: Satisfactory
The last contract (upgrading of Son Tra WWTP) was included in the SCDP.
11


﻿The Project's objectives, component design and implementation were aligned with the
Bank's Vietnam Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) at the time of preparation as well as
with the 2012-2016 CPS. The Project directly supported all three pillars of the new CPS:
(a) strengthening Vietnam's competitiveness in the regional and global economy; (b)
increasing the sustainability of its development; and (c) broadening access to opportunity,
through improvements in the quality of and access to urban infrastructure. The Project
also addressed the cross-cutting themes: (a) strengthening governance; and (b) improving
the City's resilience in the face of natural disasters.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
RATING: Moderately Satisfactory
The PDO was largely achieved despite the delays, extra costs, and reduced scope of the
Project during implementation. The targets for the two PDO level indicators were fully
met, with 76.3% of people satisfied with the new services in LIAs versus the target of
75% (although the total number of beneficiaries was reduced from 500,000 to 402,476,
and the actual payments made by HHs for wastewater services was 27,076 VND million
versus 25,000 VND million). The efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability of urban
services has been improved through urban upgrading, environmental improvements, road
access, and institutional strengthening of the management of urban services.
Improve effectiveness and sustainability of urban services through urban upgrading.
Fully achieved.
Upgrading tertiary infrastructure of low-income areas: Thirteen low-income areas
were upgraded in the wards of Da Nang city2, and. have been provided with asphaltic
concrete roads, cement concrete in alleys, street lighting, water supply systems, drainage
systems, and social infrastructure including community housing, kindergartens and
markets. The upgrading contributed to improving the living conditions and the
environment for 13,600 HHs. A total of 61,824 people benefitted from this Component.
These figures exceed the estimates at appraisal (the PAD included estimates of 9,859
HHs and 50,104 people respectively). The percentage of HHs with access to services is
higher than was designed for (95.5% of HHs have piped water supply, while the PAD
target was 80%). Most of the Project investments (such as community housing and
resettlement apartments) were replicated by city funded Projects, enhancing the positive
impact on upgrading throughout the city and becoming a new building reference, while
assuring sustainability of the investment.
Construction of resettlement areas: Construction at all 3 resettlement sites (Thanh Khe
Tay, Hoa Minh, Hoa Quy totaling $6.5 million) was completed by early 2011. The
Project included construction of three resettlement areas and three apartment blocks,
2 The PAD originally stated 14 LIAs, as proposed by the city. Hoa Hiep Bac ward had already been
upgraded using the city fund due to its urgent need, therefore only 13 LIAs benefitted from PIIP.
12


﻿providing 613 lots, 198 apartments for relocated households, and a school including 20
rooms for children from HHs affected by the Project. Project affected HHs were
gradually moved into the new apartments and land lots.
Housing improvement fund and efficiency of operating costs of micro-credit: The
fund, which has a value of 1 million USD has been managed by Da Nang Women's
Union and operated under the loan with an interest rate of 4% per annum. By June 2013,
the fund had disbursed 1,989 loans with total value of VND 28.320 billion, which
consisted of 1,792 loans for housing improvement totaling 26.845 billion VND from Da
Nang PIIP and recovered capital and 197 loans for economic development totaling 1.475
billion VND through collection of savings from customers. Payment rates for seed
money, interest and ward savings achieved almost 100% (three borrowers short).
Improve efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability of urban services through
environmental improvements. Fully achieved.
Reducing the level of water pollution of the Phu Loc river: The Phu Loc River and its
surroundings were extremely polluted. The Project constructed canals, rain water drains,
sewage systems and dredged approximately 57,000m3 of sludge from the area. The
works have improved the area substantially, eliminated substandard housings along
riversides, created an attractive view, and significantly improved people's living
conditions. Environmental quality has been improved through the collection and
treatment of waste water with the result exceeding the target value (16 as compared to 25
mg/1 BOD level). When the Hoa Xuan wastewater treatment plant begins operating and
renovation and upgrade works at existing plants (Hoa Cuong, Phu Loc, Son Tra and Ngu
Hanh Son) are completed, the planned standard A in BOD and SS is expected to be met.
Enhancing waste water collection, drainage and sewage, through a pilot household
connection program: a pilot HH connection program was implemented in Phase 1 and
completed on May 3, 2011. This was a new activity, not only in Da Nang but also
nationally. The works have provided 1,601 wastewater connections to the upgraded
tertiary water system. In the pilot areas, connection rates have increased from below 10%
to around 50-60%. The pilot program on HH connections has proved successful, reaching
the 100% target set. Phase 2 provided HH connections to all upgraded LIAs, reaching
higher percentages than expected (97.5% versus 75%). A HH connection policy was
approved by the City of Da Nang. The SCDP will continue the HH connection program,
and by 2020 about 40,000 additional HHs are expected to be connected.
Hydraulic model for drainage system: the hydraulic model provided a reliable database
of information relating to the urban storm water and wastewater entering the City's
combined sewer system as well as the hydraulic loads and capacities of the component
pipes and culverts.
Improvement of the drainage system in Lien Chieu, Son Tra districts and central
areas - Hai Chau/Thanh Khe districts and reducing flood areas: the Project
developed more than 9,375 km of wastewater drains, providing sewerage and reducing
13


﻿flooding in the district. The proportion of HHs flooded was reduced significantly: from
35% up to 8.5% in June 2013. The result is below the target mainly because the area
experienced rapid urbanization, with asynchronous infrastructure construction to connect
to the Project's sewage system. However, most of the remaining flooding was limited in
its extent: less than 0.2 ha, depth of about 20 cm, and of short duration (20 minutes).
Sustainability of WWM system: at Project Appraisal it was determined that the WW
tariff levels were extremely low, due to significant subsidies for the operation of the
wastewater and drainage services provided by the municipality. It was proposed to
increase tariffs in an incremental fashion. In order to ensuring that income would be
sufficient to cover operating expenses for the drainage system, the city approved the
schedule of wastewater fee increases to 2015. In the year 2010, collection reached VND
17 billion, increasing to VND 39 billion in 2011 and VND 50 billion in 2012. Collection
rates are estimated to reach VND 65 billion in 2013. Overall, 97.7% of cost recovery for
waste water services was achieved, slightly below the 100% anticipated in the PAD.
Efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability of urban services through strategic road
access. Partially achieved.
Tran Dai Nghia route was put into operation at the end of April 2013 (earlier than
expected). Although traffic levels are currently low, the route is expected to become a
major artery in the city. The traffic flow is actually 8,159 PCU day, more than 3 times
less than expected, due to the very recent opening of the road. The Hoa Phuoc and Coco
bridges and the Southern link road were delayed, due to resettlement and changes in the
scope of construction, as explained above.
The number of people in urban areas provided with access to all season roads (within a
500 meter range under the Project) was higher than expected at 221,815. Even though
part of the construction was delayed, targets have been exceeded as the PIIP also built
roads under Components A and B that brought benefit to the people in the city.
Increasing the plots developed in the Southern development areas: cumulative
figures are much higher than expected and a total of 12,314 plots were developed
compared to 5,700 originally planned for in the PAD. Once people were aware of the
Project, they bought land plots in the areas benefiting from the Project. The number of
new plots was especially high in the second year of the Project (7,892).
Improve efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability of urban services through
institutional strengthening for management of urban services. Fully achieved.
Institutional capacity to sustain the outcomes: prior to the Project's implementation,
drainage as well as wastewater collection and treatment were managed by Da Nang
URENCO - a public entity responsible for all urban infrastructure. During the
implementation of PIIP, in order to enhance the efficiency of management of the city's
drainage and wastewater collection and treatment system, the city PC decided to establish
14


﻿DDWMC as a public entity under the DONRE with full responsibility for operation and
maintenance of drainage and wastewater services.
Wastewater management strategy: the first of its kind in Vietnam, the Wastewater
management strategy for Da Nang City to 2020 and orientation to 2040 was approved by
Da Nang City PC in Decision No. 8438/QD-UBND dated 03-11-2020. The strategy is
critical in the selection of waste water collecting networks and treatment technologies for
upgrading the existing WWTPs and constructing new facilities. The strategy led to the
WWTP design revision in order to integrate specific investments into a broader vision.
Although it was not originally proposed as a Project outcome, PIIP provided support for
the development of the strategy (in terms of preliminary research and ad hoc studies) that
has contributed to the sustainability of waste water management programs in the city.
Building capacities through specific training programs and study tours: following
demand from the city, training and capacity building activities were developed during the
latter part of the Project. The Project implemented training and study tours for a total of
972 participants (very close to the original target of 1000) from agencies including the
Office of the People's Committee of Da Nang city, many city departments, the PMU and
related units. The training and study tours covered Project management, procurement,
disbursement, English language, wastewater treatment technologies, environmental
safety, environmental management, basic electrical engineering, operation and
management of bus rapid transit and public transportation planning. In particular, the
study tour to Singapore was highlighted as an enlightening experience that increased not
only the knowledge and competencies of the participants, but positively changed their
approach to urban planning and management.
However, some shortcomings can be highlighted. The capacity building program was
designed in response to specific demands from the Municipality, without a detailed needs
assessment. This led to a general focus on many different thematic areas which
compromised the ability of the training to target the specific needs of the Project.
Additional capacity building activities, targeting the new areas of transport and
institutional capacity have been added to the SCDP. To better focus those training
activities, it is recommended to carry out a capacity building need assessment based on
surveys and interviews.
Enhancing sustainability, through increasing the number of Land Using Certificates
(LUC) issued per annum and increasing the level of annual revenue collection by
DOF: Experts agree that tenure security must be improved to enhance sustainability of
urban infrastructure and services. However, different ways of securing and formalizing
land rights exist. The city of Da Nang chose to grant LUCs to the people living in the
areas affected by the PIIP. According to statistics from the city authorities, 15,500 LUCs
were granted in 2013 versus the target of 8,000. The cumulative number is 144,205, far
exceeding the target of 73,000. The cumulative revenue from the beginning of the Project
is much higher than the target set at appraisal (59.355 million VND versus 52.011 million
VND).
15


﻿3.3 Efficiency
RATING: Moderately Satisfactory
Economic Analysis
An economic analysis was conducted in 2008 to justify the economic viability of the
Project components A, B and C. The analysis was repeated in late 2012 by employing the
same methodology and models but updating assumptions and inputs based on the actual
performance of the Project to date in order to confirm economic efficiency.
Compared to appraisal, Component A was basically implemented as designed; therefore,
the economic benefits of the Component were slightly increased (about 5%). As there
was a significant increase in civil works cost (24%), the IRR reduced from 49.1% in the
PAD to 44.10% at ICR. However, if the resettlement cost were included in the analysis,
the IRR would increase from 21.6% in the PAD to 30.9% at ICR, since the actual
resettlement cost was just one fourth of the estimate in PAD.
Unlike Component A, both actual costs and the number of beneficiaries of Component B
increased remarkably. The implemented costs increased by 45% for civil works (from
USD 49.5 million in the PAD to USD 72 million at ICR) and more than doubled for
resettlement (from USD 4.5 million in the PAD to USD 10.9 million at ICR). Even
though the number of beneficiaries increased sharply by 75% from 45,000 persons to
78,900 persons and the unit benefits increased by 5% on average, total net benefits could
not compensate for the increase in the costs. Consequently, the updated IRR was
approximately 5% smaller than expected in PAD. When the analysis considered civil
works only, the IRR reduced from 19.7% in the PAD to 13.7% at ICR. Inclusion of
resettlement in the total Component cost reduced the IRR from 17.7% in the PAD to
12.8% at the ICR. Despite the updated IRR of Component B being lower than calculated
in the PAD, it was above the threshold of 12%. Thus, investment in Component B was
still worthwhile.
For Component C, at the time of the ICR, Nguyen Tri Phuong extension road (recently
named under Former President Vo Chi Cong) has been completed, while only 60% of the
Southern road has been completed. Similarly to Components A and B, there was a huge
increase in the actual investment, from USD 82.2 million in the PAD to USD 122 million
at the ICR. The updated analysis3 showed that despite the increase in the investment costs
and delays in implementation of the Da Nang Southern Road, all roads under Component
C were still economically viable. The IRR was increased slightly from 31.6% in the PAD
to 32.7% at ICR.
' In early 2013, two comprehensive traffic modeling exercises for the whole city were carried out by TEDI'
and SKM-SUD'. Thus, this updated analysis took traffic assignments from the TEDI exercise, whose
network already included the two DPIIP roads.
16


﻿In addition to the benefits quantified above, land values along the two roads have
apparently increased significantly as the result of the change in land use. The benefits
from land value increase were conservatively estimated to be approximately USD 113
billion. This benefit was realized in the early years of the investment. If counted, the
investment in Component C could be economically returned within the first three years.
Annex 3 offers more detailed information on this analysis.
Financial Analysis
Financial analysis was conducted in order to: (i) to project the tariff increases and
subsides required to ensure the financial sustainability of the key Project implementing
companies and move towards greater cost recovery in the wastewater and sanitation
sector; (ii) to estimate the financial rate of return of the proposed Project investments;
(iii) to demonstrate that the required tariff increases are affordable for low-income
households; and (iv) to show that Da Nang Province/ Municipality has sufficient
resources to meet all counterpart funding requirements and to operate and maintain the
assets created under the Project. More details are included in Annex 3.
City Finance: the City had satisfactorily allocated US$ 62.57 million, equal to 95% of
committed counterpart funds for investment during 2008 - 2013. As indicated in the PAD,
the O&M costs are expected to be manageable as the City will need to pay less than 0.3%
of O&M costs for wastewater treatment for the whole City and would not need to cover
any subsidies until after the year 2015. The Bank loan was granted to Da Nang City and
will be paid back to the WB by the central government.
Tariff vs Affordability: In the PAD, the outline schedule assumed the elimination of
subsidies over the five years following 2008. Collection of wastewater fees has increased
remarkably from VND 17 billion in 2010, to VND 39 billion in 2011 and VND 50 billion
in 2012 and is estimated to be VND 65 billion in 2013. Cost recovery is on track to
achieve the target by 2015.
The updated assessment reconfirmed the affordability of the wastewater tariff (covering
monthly water and wastewater costs), including for low income families, which were
projected to be less than 1% of average household income and less than 2% of poor
household income. These levels are far below the accepted 'affordability benchmark' of
5% of household income.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
RATING: Moderately Satisfactory
Achievement with respect to original PDO:
The Project was highly relevant to current country priorities and the Bank assistance
strategy; it has largely met the PDO, and met the targets of most of the outcome and
17


﻿impact indicators (in some cases the Project has exceeded the targets substantially).
Overall, the Project was efficient, with a rate of return slight below appraisal expectations.
To date, the Project has benefited more than 400,000 citizens (of which 60% are women).
The Project had a positive impact on the city environment by: improving drainage/sewer
collection and treatment systems and through the rehabilitation of the river and canal; and
improving the living conditions for low-income people by providing better basic
infrastructure services and supporting economic growth through investments in strategic
roads. Long term impacts have also been realized through the institutional development
outcomes that the Project has achieved in the wastewater sector.
Despite these successes, the reduction in Project scope (the total number of beneficiaries
only accounted for 80% of the original target) and the postponement of some activities
under Component B and C make an MS rating appropriate.
Although not captured in the overall outcomes rating, the Project contributed to the
establishment of the new SCDP, which can be seen as a direct consequence of previous
Projects carried out in the city (namely, Three Cities Sanitation Project and PIIP). The re-
scoping of the PIIP and the transfer of activities to the SCDP have meant that activities
under SCDP need to start in a timely manner. In addition, the government was highly
appreciative of the comprehensive approach developed under PIIP through this Project
and took ownership of it as a means to adopt multi-sectoral approaches to urban
development. The experiences and lessons are already being scaled-up in SCDP.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
This Project included activities specifically focused on improving the lives of particular
targeted groups in the poorest areas of the city and the construction/upgrading of tertiary
infrastructures and services. In addition, three new resettlement areas have been built, as
well as several apartments in the area of Thanh Khe Tay Hoa Minh (Component A).
Primary and secondary drainage systems, together with expansion and upgrading of the
sewage system and several investments in waste water treatment will benefit the
inhabitants of those districts. Many low-income families live in these districts and will
benefit most from the Project, especially women who account for 60% of the Project
beneficiaries.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The institutional transformation of the wastewater and drainage sector in the city was
remarkable and was triggered by the infrastructure investments that PIIP started. The
sector underwent important institutional reforms and today it is in a better position to
provide high quality services to the habitants of Da Nang. The main changes were related
to the establishment of the DDWMC in February 2010, whose functions are to manage
the whole urban drainage system in Da Nang city and the DATRAMAC. PIIP provided
18


﻿support for the development of specific management strategies, such as the WWTM and
dedicated capacity building programs to assure sustainability as well as the effective
operation of these new organizations.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
RATING: Moderate
There are possible operational and financial risks to the sustainability of Project
outcomes. Although prospects for operational risks are moderate, and SCDP should
deliver continuity and finalization of all Components, the potential risks are: i)
Components B and C under section 5 of SCDP are not completed; ii) plants and
resettlement sites are not properly operated and maintained by the city; and iii) financial
risks in terms of reduced contribution of tariffs to the construction and operating costs of
the WWTPs. The third risk of reduced tariffs has been mitigated by the accurate
definition of a longer term tariff policy, set and approved under PIIP and by the definition
of appropriate longer term strategies that are guiding the overall waste water management
system in the city.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
RATING: Satisfactory
The Project was well justified and its objectives were closely aligned with the CAS and
the Borrower's policy instruments such as the WWM Strategy. The Project was prepared
on time, taking advantage of the progress made by the local government in previous years
on earlier projects. The Bank demonstrated vision and effectiveness in the definition of
the scope of the first urban multi-sectoral project in Vietnam. During preparation and
implementation, the Bank team was mostly based in Vietnam and was well staffed, with
senior expertise in all fields. Extensive consultations were effectively carried out with all
the relevant Project stakeholders, particularly with Project beneficiaries and Project
affected people.
Shortcomings include the PDO and PDO level indicators in the PAD which only reflect
the achievements of Component A without capturing the outcomes and benefits of
component B, C and D, as mentioned earlier. In addition, the underestimation of unit
costs, the limited number of detailed feasibility studies and revisions to infrastructure
designs have caused implementation delays and affected the timely completion of all
19


﻿activities, which might have been avoided through more careful Project preparation and
readiness scrutiny.
(b) Quality of Supervision
RATING: Satisfactory
Project supervision was planned and carried out effectively from the early stages of
implementation. Supervision teams were appropriately staffed to address and report on
implementation issues as they emerged. From the beginning of the Project the team
focused on solving the challenges relating to the various causes of delays, from
procurement, to bidding and contracting, to relocation policies. Official supervision
missions were planned twice a year and, on average, two additional follow-up missions
were carried out each year to provide technical inputs and implementation support.
The Bank recognized the necessity to modify design and implementation activities
promptly and proposed to postpone part of the investments in Components B and C and
incorporate these into the recently approved SCDP. This decision did not affect the
potential of the city to benefit from a high quality standard of infrastructure, and also
attracted timely additional investments in the transport sector. However, the issue could
have been addressed more proactively at an earlier stage of implementation rather than
waiting until shortly before the closing date.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
RATING: satisfactory
Consistent with the Bank's performance in quality at entry and during supervision, the
Overall Bank Performance is rated as Satisfactory.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
RATING: Satisfactory
National and local authorities showed a high level commitment to the Project, in all
phases. The local Government built consensus across the city's departments,
communities and the related agencies. This was reflected in relevant policies and
strategies, such as the WWMS, institutional reforms of the wastewater, drainage and
transport sectors, the development of specific regulations on WWT, the revision of the
scope of the DDWMC and the institution of DATRAMAC. Counterpart funding has been
adequate for this Project, covering key sections in each Component.
20


﻿(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
RATING: Moderately Satisfactory
The overall PMU performance in conducting design reviews and implementing
environmental and social safeguards measures is considered moderately satisfactory. The
agency commitment to achieving development objectives was solid. Monitoring and
reporting on the Project indicators were generally timely and the PMU maintained strong
commitment to solving the obstacles causing delays. Contract management and
procurement has improved consistently throughout the Project.
However, some moderate shortcomings should be pointed out, mostly related to weak
capacity in the earlier years of implementation in terms of procurement, negotiation of
agreements for relocation, land acquisition and resettlement. These shortcomings had a
negative impact on the timely and complete implementation of activities. However, it is
worth noting how effectively the PMU embraced new techniques for procurement and
how successfully they built staff capacity to become far more effective in the last years of
the Project.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
RATING: Moderately Satisfactory
Given the strong commitment of the city government and its departments, the important
role played by the city's Board of Management in building consensus and fostering
coordination among different stakeholders and considering the moderate shortcomings
experienced by the implementing agency, as well as the progress made by the PMU and
all departments involved in overcoming the initial challenges during implementation, the
overall Borrower performance is considered to be moderately satisfactory.
6. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from the PIIP have been listed below and Annex 6 of this ICR
provides further information. The full details of the lessons learned can be found in a
stand-alone report.
1. An integrated multi-sectoral approach is the way forward despite design and
implementation challenges.
2. Project preparation should have included better assessments of land acquisition
and management challenges.
3. Sustainability and efficiency of investments were ensured by close cooperation
with the Client and institutional development.
4. Integrated bidding, operation and contract management assured better results and
effectiveness.
5. Appropriate decentralization of procurement decision making is important.
21


﻿7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
Borrower/implementing agencies:
See Annexes 7 and 8
22


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest   Percentage of
(USD)        Estimate (USD)     Appraisal
Component A                     52,684,937       36,328,551       68.95%
Component B                     65,404,584       61,011,018       93.28%
Component C                     96,155,198      105,022,037       109.22%
Component D                      4,226,968        1,849,332       43.75%
Total Baseline Cost 218,471,687      204,210,938        93.47%
Physical Contingencies*               0.00             0.00
Price Contingencies                   0.00             0.00
Total Project Costs  218,471,687     204,210,938
Front-end fee PPF                     0.00            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                    0.00            0.00
Total Financing Required  218,471,687      204,210,938
(b) Financing
Appraisal Actual/Latest
Type of    Estimate    Estimate  Percentage of
Cofinancing    (USD       (USD      Appraisal
millions)   millions)
Borrower                                      66.03      57.97      87.79%
International Development                     152.44     146.24      95.93%
Association (IDA)
Total Financing                              218.47         204.21   93.47%
23


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
1. Component A:
Upgrading tertiary infrastructure of low-income areas
More than 30 km of asphaltic concrete road, cement concrete in alleys; 33.3 km of street
lighting and 565 luminaries; 41.4 km of water supply systems; 32.9 km of drainage
system and drainage connection; social infrastructure including community housing,
kindergartens and markets have been built in 13 LIAs.
These works haven't got high investment value but they brought high social effectiveness.
56,000 poor people in 13 LIAs in an area of about 22 ha benefit in term of transportation,
drainage, clean water, lighting, new schools, , access to market etc. The upgrade of the
LIAs has contributed to improving the living conditions of households: from 50% now
increased to 97% households have wastewater connection, and from 55% to 80%
households have water connection. Also land price increases from VND 0.7 million to
VND 6.5 million/m2.
Community Supervisory Boards in LIAs have been set up by the People's Committee in
each ward and have actively participated in Project preparation, design, construction,
using and putting into use.
Construction of resettlement areas
The Project has constructed three resettlement areas: Thanh Khe Tay resettlement area,
Hoa Minh resettlement area (consisting of complete infrastructure 02 apartment building),
Hoa Quy resettlement area with a total of resettlement areas of 18.3 ha.
The Project acquired around 189.1 ha of land, with 3,518 affected HHs, of which 936
were only partially affected, had to be resettled and 1,670 lost agriculture land. The
number of resettled HHs increased by 12% compared with the original 711 planned, this
increase was determined by several reasons, e.g. some HHs split their plot (two families
living at the same plot split their plot into two), some were voluntarily relocated to better
resettlement places, closer to the Southern Link Road route. Of the 1,098 lots and 110
apartments, 287 lots and 56 apartments were funded by the PIIP and 811 lots and 54
apartments were funded by the city.
Resettlement areas were built timely enabling households displaced by the Project to
quickly stabilize and adapt to their new lives. Especially, Thanh Khe Tay resettlement
area was developed in accordance with retroactive financing mechanism before the
Project credit agreement was signed.
Housing improvement fund
Housing improvement fund with value of USD 1 million is managed by Da Nang
Women's Union. This fund is operated under the loan mechanism with interest rate of
4% per year.
To June 2013, the fund has disbursed 1,989 types of loans with total amount of VND
28.320 billion, of which 1,792 loans for housing improvement with the amount of 26.845
billion dong from Da Nang Priority Infrastructure Investment Project and recovered
capital and 197 loans for economic development with the amount of 1.475 billion dong
24


﻿by collection of savings from customers. Rates of paying seed money, interest and
savings of wards achieved almost 100% according to the specified time (3 borrowers
short).
In addition, activities of housing improvement funds in combination with capacity
building programs through training courses on microfinance management, provision of
equipment and software and study tours, etc. helped Women's Union gradually to
become a professional microfinance organization.
2. Component B: This component has supported Da Nang city to better manage
environmental degradation due to population growth and urban expansion.
Environmental improvement of Phu Loc River: The surroundings of Phu Loc River
have been a hot spot of contamination of the city for years. The Project has constructed
1,905 m of canals, dredging approximately 57,000 m3 of sludge, 3,285 m of asphaltic
concrete road, 3,088 m of rainwater drains and 5,943 m of sewerage system in this area.
Apart from rehabilitation of the river polluted by waste and wastewater, the works also
construct two roads along the river to form a new, nicer urban area, improving also
people social conditions
Pilot household connection: This is a new task in Da Nang in particular and Vietnam in
general. A small pilot program was implemented and completed in March 2011. The
activity provided 1,601 wastewater connections to the upgraded tertiary wastewater
system. In the pilot areas, connection rate has increased from below 10% up to around
50-60%. Given the positive results of the pilot programs, Da Nang city will scale up and
increase sensibly household connection, as an important part of wastewater management
strategies. The pilot program on household connection can be seen as a replicable
experience for other cities in Vietnam.
Wastewater management strategy: the first Waste management strategy for 2020 with
a vision to 2040 was developed under PIIP. This strategy deals with wastewater treatment
collection, preparation of implementation plan in the short term (to 2015), medium term
(to 2020) and long term (up to 2040), implementation plan and detailed assignation of
roles and responsibilities to each agency and departments of the city. Da Nang has
become the first city preparing such strategy as a basis for planning and urban wastewater
drainage investment and also the first to approve related Regulations.
Hydraulic model for drainage system: the hydraulic model was added, because it can
provide a reliable database of information concerning the urban storm water and
wastewater entering the City's combined sewer system as well as the hydraulic loads and
capacities of the component pipes and culverts. Lacks of institutional capacities as well as
techniques to use the model as a tool to support city planning have been identified as
weaknesses. The model has been transferred to the city DOC, in which a unit has been
established and equipped with the necessary competences for updating and maintaining
the model. The hydraulic model is contributing to the sustainability of environmental
improvements; in fact it has also been used during the preparation of the SCDP where
Project design benefitted from model evaluation and recommendations. The model has
25


﻿been transferred to the city DOC, in which a unit has been established and equipped with
the necessary competences for updating and maintaining the model.
Drainage and wastewater system: The Project invested in the drainage and wastewater
system. One part of the activities dealt with connecting of drainage systems in Hai Chau,
Thanh Khe, Son Tra, Ngu Hanh Son districts, part of Lien Chieu, and Cam Le districts,
reducing flooding rate in Project area from 35% to 12.9%. The Project also invested in
the wastewater collection and its transfer to existing and new WWTPs, in particular:
-    Improvement of the drainage system in Lien Chieu, Son Tra districts and
central areas - Hai Chau/Thanh Khe districts: The Project has built more than
9,375 km of wastewater drains, ensuring sewerage and reducing flooding in the
districts.
-    Construction of sewerage system in Lien Chieu, Son Tra, Cam Le and Ngu
Hanh Son districts: The Project has built 35.16 km sewerage pipes, 16 pumping
stations, wastewater collection system to Hoa Xuan and Phu Loc wastewater
treatment plants to carry out wastewater treatment before discharging to the
environment. Construction of Hoa Xuan wastewater treatment plant: Hoa
Xuan wastewater treatment plant was constructed in Cam Le district. Treatment
capacity in Phase I was 20,000m3/day. Apart from the treatment process line in
Hoa Xuan wastewater treatment plant, construction of infrastructure such as
leveling, roads, drainage, electricity supply, trees and administrative building etc
are done. Hoa Xuan WWTP will be fully operational under the SCDP.
3. Component C: This component aims to promote the city's sustainable economic
development through investment in strategic roads linking the city center with peri-urban
areas of Da Nang city.
Construction of Nguyen Tri Phuong roads and bridges to Hoa Quy (now namely Vo
Chi Cong road): The Project has built over 6.4 km of road, pavement width of 33m,
with accompanying infrastructure such as 12.5 km of drainage system and connections,
6.85 m of street lighting systems, construction of two bridges with the length of Nguyen
Tri Phuong bridge to be 801m and Khue Dong bridge to be 430m. Works have been
completed ahead of schedule.
Construction of southern link road: the Project has built more than 6.4 km of road,
pavement width of 33m, with the accompanying infrastructure such as 12.4km of
drainage system, 6,450m of street lighting system, construction of 02 bridges crossing the
road with the length of Hoa Phuoc bridge to be 443m, Hoa Phuoc and Co Co bridge to be
102m.Although construction was slower than the original plan (mainly because of poor
design performed by consultants), thanks to the efforts of Da Nang PMU, Bank
supervision and new contractor's capacity, 60% of work has been completed .Remaining
quantity has been transferred to Da Nang Sustainable City Development Project.
26


﻿4. Component D
Training and study tours:
The Project has successfully organized 24 training courses including ad hoc training,
study tours abroad such as in Singapore, Hong Kong SAR, China, India, Philippines,
Korea, Malaysia, etc. with participation of more than 400 staff from more than 20
departments, agencies and districts of Da Nang, including the Office of Da Nang People's
Committee, Department of Transport, Department of Planning and Investment,
Department of Construction, Department of Natural Resources and Environment,
Department of Finance, Da Nang PIIPsPMU, Institution of Planning, Drainage and
Wastewater Treatment Company, Traffic Inspection, Road and Bridge Management
Company, etc. The capacity building activity covered the following thematic areas:
Project management, procurement, financial management, English language, wastewater
treatment technologies, environmental safety, management and operation of wastewater
treatment plants, management and operation of bus rapid transit systems, planning and
management of urban traffic, etc.
The capacity building activities run by the WB in cooperation with Singaporean
Development Cooperation Agency SCE on urban planning and modern urban transport
development management have been particularly appreciated. Lectures from international
experts, training courses, as well as the study tours received high appreciation from Da
Nang People's Committee and the relevant departments for their effectiveness and ability
to improve expertise and knowledge of city officials.
A number of activities have been implemented to enhance the capacity of city
departments and especially the newly established DDWMC, which was provided with the
necessary O&M equipment, including several training courses for management and
operational staff. Specific training courses have been designed to build capacities of
women operating the microcredit schemes. The latter certainly enabled the Women's
Union to become the reference organization for microcredit, but couldn't fully form
competent professionals.
27


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
In April 2008, as part of the appraisal procedure, an economic and financial analysis of
the VN-Priority Infrastructure Investment Project was conducted to justify the economic
and financial viability of the Project components. This analysis will update assumptions
based on actual performance of the Project by 2012 to reconfirm economic and financial
benefits of the Project.
I. Financial Analysis
Financial analysis was conducted (i) to project tariff increases and subsides required to
ensure financial sustainability of the key Project implementing company and move
toward greater cost recovery in the wastewater and sanitation sector; (ii) to estimate the
financial rate of return of the proposed Project investments; (iii) to demonstrate that the
required tariff increases are affordable for low-income households; and (iv) to show that
Da Nang Province/ Municipality has sufficient resources to meet all counterpart funding
requirements and operate and maintain the assets created under the Project.
Entity and Project Level Financial Analysis
Institutional Overview
It was assumed that the wastewater and drainage assets financed under the PIIP Project
would be managed by Da Nang's Transportation Works Repair, Management and
Drainage Company (now DDWMC). During Project preparation it was decided to
separate Da Nang's Drainage Management Enterprise from URENCO - who was in
charge of wastewater and sanitation management - and to combine it with Da Nang's
Transportation Works Repair & Management Company. The Drainage Company would
have also been responsible for managing the assets created under the earlier Bank Project
in Da Nang, DSSPI, which became fully operational by early 2008. The Drainage
Company would have therefore managed all of Da Nang's wastewater and drainage
services in an integrated manner, except the cesspit emptying service operated by private
contractors under URENCO. In total, assets managed would have been about US$ 95
million of which US $ 51 million would be from the PIIP Project.
Such organization was not only too weak to fulfill the task properly but also did not allow
the wastewater sector to be independently accounted from other activities of the Drainage
Company. As a result, in February 2010, the City People Committee has issued the
Decision No.1 172/QD-UBND to establish the Drainage and Wastewater Management
Company DDWMC to specialize in managing and operating the entire urban drainage
system in Da Nang city.
28


﻿Financial Sustainability and Cost Recovery
At Project appraisal phase, it was reported that wastewater and drainage services in Da
Nang were only beginning to be organized along more commercial lines; the tariff levels
were extremely low and therefore Da Nang municipality would need to provide
significant subsidies for the proper operation of the wastewater and drainage services. In
fact, data from the City showed that from 2008 to 2012, tariff collections were more than
sufficient to cover expenditures that the City has spent for waste water treatment and
drainage activities.
With additional assets at the completion of the PIIP Project, the financial requirements
for operating and maintaining assets have been increasing significantly. Therefore, during
Project preparation, analyses on financial Projection and indicative tariffs roadmap were
carried out to ensure the Project's financial sustainability.
To ensure the recovery target, Da Nang Council's Committee and Da Nang People's
Committee have approved the increasing wastewater tariffs roadmap to 2015that was in
line with the Government Decree 88/2007. As a result, collection from wastewater fees
has been increasing remarkably. It was VND          17 billion in 2010, VND 39 billion in 2011,
VND 50 billion in 2012, and estimated to be VND 65 billion in 2013. Given these
collections, expenditures for proper operation of drainage system in Da NangDa Nang
including additional operation costs for the DPIIP Project should be adequately covered.
Table 1 updated the status of wastewater tariffs, collections and and expenditures of the
City.
Table 1: Updated Wastewater Treatment Tariffs, Collections and Subsidies
2008       2009        2010         2011        2012         2013        2014         2015
PAD   ICR   PAD   ICR   PAD   ICR   PAD    ICR   PAD   ICR   PAD   ICR   PAD    ICR   PAD   ICR
Tariffs (VND/m3)
Residential 0-10rm3  450  330  600  386  1,000  438  1,300  736  1,700  814  1,900  892  2,100  930  2,300   969
Residential 11-30m3  450  330  600  386  1,001  438  1,301  876  1,700  968   1,900  1,060  2,100  1,106  2,300  1,152
Residential >30m3  450  330  600  386  1,002  438  1,302  1,075  1,700  1,188  1,900  1,301  2,100  1,358  2,300  1,414
Industrial  900  440  1,200  638  2,000  766  2,600  1,782  3,400  2,037  3,800  2,240  4,200  2,376  4,600  2,546
Institutional  675  330  900  449  1,500  513  1,950  1,150  2,550  1,278  2,850  1,385  3,150  1,534  3,450  1,598
Commercial  900   550  1,200  874  2,000  1,048  2,600  2,684  3,400  3,067  3,800  3,323  4,200  3,579  4,600  3,834
Collections (Bil VND)  5.0  8.6  6.0  11.8  8.0  17.1  12.0  39.0  18.0  50.1  25.0   65.0  25.0  65.0  25.0   65.0
Expenditures (Bil VND)  14.7  29.5  13.3  33.7  13.1  22.8  16.9  39.0  19.4  52.7  25.0  66.3  25.0  65.7  25.0  65.0
Subsidies (Bil VND)  9.7  21.0  7.3  21.9  5.1  5.7   4.9   0.0    1.4   2.6   0.0   1.3   0.0    0.7   0.0   0.0
Partial Recovery (%)  34  29  45    35    61    75     71   100    93    95    100    98   100    99    100   100
29


﻿Financial Rates ofReturn
Project level financial rate of returns (FIRRs) were prepared under the assumptions that:
(i) Project benefits include all incremental operating revenues (from tariff revenues only
and excluding subsidy payments); (ii) Project costs include all incremental capital and
cash operating & maintenance costs; and (iii) Project life is assumed to be 25 years.
Assumptions made in 2008 were updated with actual figures of investment and O&M
costs, revenues, inflations, water consumptions, etc. by 2012 to come up with FIRR at
ICR phase. Table 2 summarizes FIRRs for PAD and ICR phases, showing generally that
all ICR percentages have been higher that PAD. Note that at ICR phase, sensitivity tests
were adjusted i) reduction of revenue from 2014 onward by 10%, ii) increase in O&M
costs only from 2014 onward by 10%.
Table 2: Updated FIRRs
FIRR (%)              PAD         ICR
Base Case              10.3       13.5
Revenue - 10%          8.7        13.3
Cost + 10%             8.9        12.5
Combined case          7.2        12.2
Affordability
During appraisal phase, the assessment of affordability was based on the combined costs
of water supply and wastewater tariffs using the Projected wastewater tariffs increase
indicated above (and assuming a gradual increase in water supply tariffs at the same time).
At ICR, an updated assessment was done to reflect the actual tariff increase against actual
income of households. The updated assessment reconfirmed the affordability of
wastewater tariff as in both assessments, the monthly water and wastewater cost to
households, including for low income families, were Projected to remain within the
'affordability benchmark' of 5% of household income. Table 3below shows that for
average income households combined water supply and wastewater tariffs represent just
less than 1% of total household income (in the peak year). For low income household this
percentage increases to just under 2% (again in the peak year), far below the accepted
affordability benchmark. Therefore, despite the relatively steep increase in Projected
wastewater tariffs, they are Projected to be affordable.
Table 3: Updated Affordability Analysis
2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012    2013    2014     2015
Tariff for Residential
Customers
Water Supply (VND/m3)           2,460  2,460  2,460  2,460  2,460  4,920  4,920   4,920    4,920
Wastewater (VND/m3)              300    330    386    438    876    968    1,060   1,106    1,152
Household Income (000 VND/ household/month)
Average Income Household        4,250  4,462  4,920  5,695  6,923  9,089  12,180  12,789   13,429
Low Income Household            1,500  1,575  1,736  2,010  2,443  4,545   6,090   6,394   6,714
% of Utility Bill per Household
Average Income Household
30


﻿Water supply                     0.7%   0.6%   0.6%    0.6%   0.5%   0.7%     0.5%    0.5%     0.5%
Wastewater                       0.1%   0.1%   0.1%    0.1%   0.2%   0.1%     0.1%    0.1%     0.1%
Total                            0.8%   0.7%   0.7%    0.6%   0.6%    0.8%    0.6%    0.6%      0.6%
Low Income Household
Water supply                     1.4%   1.4%   1.2%    1.2%   1.0%   1.1%     0.8%    0.7%     0.7%
Wastewater                       0.2%   0.2%   0.2%    0.2%   0.3%   0.2%     0.2%    0.2%     0.2%
Total                            1.6%    1.5%   1.4%    1.4%   1.3%   1.3%    0.9%    0.9%      0.9%
Provincial Finance and Counterpart Funds
Provincial/ Municipal Finances
A municipal finance analysis was conducted using historical data in Statistical Year Book
in 2006 (PAD) and 2007- 2011 (ICR). As shown in Table 4, Da Nang's provincial
revenue increased from VND 1,680 billion in the year 2000 to VND 6,246 billion in the
year 2006, and VND 19,826 billion in the year 2011 in line with Da Nang's strong
economic growth performance. Note that land sales have significantly contributed to the
increase in revenue, and now constitute about 30% of total revenues. Expenditures have
also grown from US $ 62 million in year 2000 to US $ 298 million in year 2006. Total
development capital expenditures have increased from VND 848 billion in the year 2000
to VND 4,782 billion in the year 2006 and VND 15,662 billion in the year 2011,
constituting 70-80% of total expenditures. Overall, Da Nang finances are assessed to be
relatively strong. In 2006, budget surplus was VND 1,464 billion and has been being able
to maintain good growth during the last few years and increased by 4,164 billion in 2011,
when economy slowed down.
Table 4: Updated Da Nang Municipal Finance
PAD                                ICR
Description    2000      2004      2005      2006      2009      2010      2011
TOTAL REVENUE
VND Billion   1,680.3   5,121.6   5,515.5   6,246.1  13,430.7  16,580.8  19,826.2
In which, Land Use Rent     7.5   1,911.4   1,250.0   1,352.8   2,663.5   5,055.2   5,763.9
and Sales  (0.45%)   (37.3%)   (22.7%)   (21.7%)  (19.8%)   (30.5%)   (29.1%)
TOTAL EXPENSES
VND Billion    848.4    4,197.0   4,498.8   4,782.5  10,018.0  13,811.2  15,662.6
Of which,
Investment and
Development                                           3,858.8   5,933.2   7,324.4
Recurrent expenses                                        1,862.0   2,454.6   3,057.7
Of which,
infrastructures O&M                                          141.8     191.3     237.0
environment sanitation
O&M                                                44.6     74.9      90.7
SURPLUSES
VND Billion    831.9     924.6    1,016.7   1,463.6  3,412.7   2,769.6   4,163.6
31


﻿Counterpart Funds
The Bank loan was on-granted to Da Nang Province and did not need to be repaid to the
central government. As a result only Da Nang's ability to raise counterpart funds and to
operate and maintain the assets created under the Project need consideration. PAD has
Projected that total estimated counterpart fund requirements was about US$ 70 million
and the peak time of cash outflow was in the year 2010 when Phase one completion work
was expected to overlap with Phase two commencement, that made Da Nang provide a
total of US$ 23 million in counterpart funds.
By October 2013, the City has allocated a total of US$ 62.57 million, which equals to
95% of committed counterpart fund (see item 3.3. of the main text). On the other hand,
the above updated analysis on cost recovery shows that the City would need to pay a very
small percentage of less than 0.3% of O&M costs for wastewater treatment of the whole
City by now and would not need to cover any subsidies after the year 2015. Still O&M
costs appear to be manageable, as concluded in the PAD.
II.   Economic Analysis
A cost-benefit analysis was performed for the investments proposed under components A,
B and C. The analysis is based on the incremental benefits and costs of the Project to
society as a whole. Note that the analysis was complemented by a least-cost analysis (see
PAD section on alternatives considered and technical issues). A combination of these two
approaches is necessary because of uncertainties inherent in cost benefit analysis,
particularly with respect to the difficulties in quantifying accurately some of the
environmental and local economic development benefits (as it pertains to Components A
and B). During Project preparation, extensive documentation of the benefits was
attempted and tested for robustness through sensitivity analysis fully reflecting the
inherent uncertainties in estimating precisely all the benefits involved. In ICR, all capital
investments, O&M costs of the first years in operations and other assumptions on
beneficiaries, developments of the city were updated with the actual data, therefore, in the
updated economic analyses, tests on 10% increase in O&M costs and 10% decrease in
benefits from 2014 onwards were tested.
Component A and B: Urban Upgrading and Environmental Management
Compared to PAD, Component A has been implemented as designed. There are a few
items under the Component B, however, have not yet completed at the time of ICR but
will be extended to April 2014 (installation of equipments of Hoa Xuan WTP) and
November 2013 (construction of Son Tra WTP). Consequently, though the same
methodology was applied, results were slightly changed as a total effect of updates of
actual costs, benefits (esp. average household incomes and number of beneficiaries) and
implementation schedule.
Component Costs. The cost in PAD included construction costs, P&Gs, and price and
physical contingencies, whereas the cost in ICR was the actual costs reimbursed for the
32


﻿investment and resettlement. Changes in total costs of Component A and B during PAD
and ICR were presented in the Table 5:
Table 5: Total Costs of Component A and B
Total costs (USD)        PAD                ICR
Component A
Investment         27,000,000         33,500,000
Resettlement         22,000,000          5,500,000
O&M              867,000            963,000
Component B
Investment         49,500,000         72,000,000
Resettlement          4,500,000         10,900,000
O&M             1,690,000          1,796,000
Economic Benefits. The updated analysis qualified the same economic benefits to the
PAD, including:
(a)  Reduced expenditures on health and increased productive working time;
(b)  Savings from reduced cost due to regularly occurring flooding;
(c)  Appreciation in land and property values;
(d)  Income generation due to Project construction activities and growth;
(e) Savings from reduced time spent on water collection (not for component
B);
(f)  Savings by forgoing septic tank emptying cost and soak pit construction;
(g) Savings in drainage maintenance cost (not for component B);
(h)  Reduced travel times and vehicle operating cost.
Total economic benefits were summarized in the Table 6 below:
Table 6: Economic Benefits of Component A and B
Component A           Component B
PAD         ICR      PAD          ICR
Number of beneficiaries (person)  10438    10438    45000       78923
Unit benefit (USD/person/year)
Improved health   74.75       79.30     74.75       79.30
Reduced flooding   40.00       42.44     15.00       15.91
Increased land appreciation*  1,962.00  2,081.49  490.50    520.37
Increased income (economic)  123.00    130.49     62.00       65.78
Increased income (construction)**  13.55/464  14.38/492.26  10.96/296  11.63/314.03
Reduced water fetching distance  308.00  326.76         -           -
Reduced septic tank emptying     2.05        2.17      2.05        2.17
Reduced soak pits construction*  28.00    29.71     17.50       18.57
33


﻿Reduced drainage maintenance  1.12       1.19        -           -
Reduced VOC and Increased time  166.81    176.97    18.50       19.63
savings
Sources: SNC - Lavalin report, 2007 and CDM report, 2012.
* benefits that occur once at completion of investment.
** benefits include yearly and one time benefits
EIRRs. The updated economic analyses of Component A and B reconfirmed robustness
of these investments with EIRRs summarized in the Table 7 below:
Table 7: EIRRs of Component A and B
EIRR (%)       PAD          ICR
Component A
Base case     49.1         44.1
Increase in costs   42.1         37.1
Decrease in benefits   41.1         36.1
Combined case      34.7         29.7
Resettlement inclusion    21.6         30.9
Component B
Base case     19.7         13.7
Increase in costs   15.1         12.5
Decrease in benefits   14.4          12.3
Combined case      10.3         11.9
Resettlement inclusion    17.7         12.8
Component C: Urban Roads
For Component C, it is noted that at the time of the ICR, Nguyen Tri Phuong extension
road (now was named behind Former President Vo Chi Cong) has been completed while
only 60% of the Southern road has been implemented because of the poor performance of
the Design Consultant. However, the road is expected to be completed soon.
In comparison to assumption on the Project implementation plan in PAD, the actual
implementation of the roads was deferred almost 1 year. This brought in negative impacts
to the economic returns of the Project.
Costs. There was an increase in actual investments. Therefore, maintenance costs were
adjusted slightly in accordance to the change in the total investment. Other assumptions
on maintenance were the same to the PAD, that is, maintenance costs are broken down
into three categories as a percentage of pavement structure construction costs: (a)
frequent regular maintenance (0.55%), (b) periodic renovation (5.10%) once every 5 years),
and (c) major overhaul with new overlay (42%) once every 15 years.
34


﻿Table 8: Costs of Component C
Total costs (USD)      PAD                ICR
Component C
Investment        82,200,000       121,900,000
O&M
Routine (yearly)          27,000            34,000
Recurrent (every 5 years)        250,000           313,000
Overlay (every 15 years)       2,050,000         2,632,000
Benefits: The updated analysis mobilized the same model as it was used in PAD and
therefore also captured benefits from (a) time savings (VOT savings) and (b) vehicle
operating costs savings (VOC savings). Both saving categories were driven primarily by
the expected daily flow of traffics. For calculating both savings, unit VOCs and VOTs,
calculated in the DSCDP PAD were used for the updated analysis.
During preparation of the Project, the traffic on the new roads was forecasted including
the traffic generated from trips by the residents from the new urban areas surrounding the
two new roads and the normal traffic that would get diverted to them form the existing
roads based on the population density of area surrounding the proposed roads combined
with an estimate for the average number of trips per person observed in Da Nang city.
In early 2013, two comprehensive traffic modeling exercises for the whole city have been
carried out by TEDI 4 and SKM-SUD 5. Thus, this updated analysis took traffic
assignments from the TEDI exercise, whose network has already included the two DPIIP
roads.
Summary. The updated analysis showed that despite of the increase in the
investment costs and delays in implementation of the Da Nang Southern Road, all roads
under the Component C are still economically viable.
Table 9: EIRRs
EIRR (%)      PAD          ICR
Component C
Base case     31.6        32.7
Increase in costs  28.3         30.9
4 TEDI has carried out the traffic assignment exercise using Japanese STRADA model to update the City
Transport Master Planning by 2030, as part of the Component D of the DPIIP.
SKM-SUD has carried out the traffic assignment exercise using German VISUM model to planning the
BRT system as Component 2 of the DSCDP.
35


﻿Decrease in benefits  27.6       30.3
Combined case    24.6        27.3
In addition to the above quantified benefits, land values along the two roads have
apparently been increased significantly as the result of the change in land use. The
benefits from land value increase were conservatively estimated to be VND 2,368 billion.
Table 10: Land Value Benefits
Road   Area (m2)   Land price  Land price  Benefits
in 2008    in 2013    (Bil VND)
(VND/m2) (VND/m2)
Nguyen Tri Phuong Extension Road   370,000     150,000   4,500,000      1,610
Southern Road    197,000     150,000   4,000,000        758
567,000                              2,368
Total
36


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Names                  Title                       Unit     pcat
Lending
Richard M. Beardmore   Senior Urban Specialist      EASUR TTL
-HIS
Alan Coulthart         Lead Municipal Engineer      EASIN
EASUR
Thanh Cong Nguyen      Senior Water Engineer        - HIS
Supervision/ICR
[Cuong Duc Dang         Task Team Leader            EASVS
Dean A. Cira           Lead Urban Specialist        AFTU1
Iris David             Program Assistant            EASIN
Hoa Thi Hoang          Sr Urban Specialist          EASVS
Isabel Duarte A. Junior  Program Assistant          EASIN
Hoang Xuan Nguyen      Procurement Specialist       EASR2
Quang Vinh Nguyen      Sr Water & Sanitation Specialist TWIEA
Hoa Thi Mong Pham      Senior Social Development Spec EASVS
Sr    Financial  Management EASF
Cung Van Pham          Spcals                       EASFM    ________
Specialist
Huyen Thi Phuong Phan  Urban Specialist              EASVS
Tran Thi Thanh Phuong  Senior Environmental Specialist  EASVS
Kien Trung Tran        Sr Procurement Specialist     EASR2
Van Anh Thi Tran       Sr Transport. Specialist      EASVS
Hien Minh Vu           Program Assistant            EASWE
Federica Ranghieri     Senior Urban Specialist      WBIUR
Parameswaran Iyer       Lead Water and Sanitation    EASVS
Specialist
Lixin Gu                Sr Infrastructure Specialist  EASWE
Hung Duy Le             Sr Urban Specialist          EASVS
Khang Van Pham          Environmental Specialist     EASVS
Hisham A. Abdo Kahin    Lead Counsel                 LEGES
Huong Thi Mai Nong      Associate Counsel            EACVF
[Giang Thi Huong Nguyen  Program Assistant           EACVF
b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle           No fsafwes          USD Thousands (including
Stravel and consultant costs)
ILending
37


﻿FY05                                15.50                  62.80
FY06                                52.29                 213.89
FY07                                44.47                 135.31
FY08                                43.03                 177.46
Total:         155.29                589.46
Supervision/ICR
FY08                                 0.6                    0.3
FY09                                42.01                  68
FY10                                25.98                  67.5
FYl                      F          29.03                  67.9
FY12                                36.77                  75.7
FY13                                26.04                  76
FY14                                15.32                  54.4
Total:         175.75                409.8
38


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(ifany)
The survey was conducted in the entire area of the Project, and focused on the attitudes of
people benefiting from the Project. Additional in-depth research of 100 households
samples have been conducted, with the purpose of collecting information about the
quantitative and qualitative socio-economic situation in general and about the lives of
those affected in particular. Because of that objective, the scale of sample design included
230 affected households in resettlement areas and 260 individuals. Simultaneously, 170
in-depth interviews with beneficiary from the Project were conducted to collect residents'
comments on Project result.
According to these interviews and the socio-economic surveys performed in June 2013,
the majority of affected households are satisfied with the compensation program and
more in general with the results of the Project. They were glad to be consulted on the
content, information dissemination, compensation and assistance which have been made,
period of payment and receiving compensation, support as well satisfied with
resettlement in the new relocation.
The main conclusion of the report on the socio-economic survey and interviews, as
presented by the consultant follows:
(i)  Basic socio-economic conditions of the affected households have been assured,
rising incomes, households are using the national grid for lighting, power and
gas use is the main source of cooking; clean water (wells, water) is most used
household with sanitation is guaranteed.
(ii)  Education level of PAPs upWard trend, status illiterate or have not completed
primary trend down, the TC level / College / University and the University of
the increasing proportion.
(iii) Occupational structure of the affected households in the Project has shifted from
the Project is done. Group "unstable jobs and other jobs" tend to fall, followed
by a "business /trade" rate increases; professional group "workers" and "public
officials" have not changed the rate. Farming households affected increasingly
smaller proportion. The above change is most evident in items such as Thanh
Khe Tay resettlement, resettlement and Hoa Minh City Environmental
Improvement Phu Loc River. Total monthly income by household structure
tends to increase compared to the previous surveys.
(iv) The affected people are satisfied with the contents of consultation, information
dissemination, compensation and assistance have been made, payment period
and received compensation, support and satisfaction resettlement activities
settled in the new place.
39


﻿(v)  The majority of the affected households have been increasing over time before
clearance. The affected households were receiving compensation / assistance for
the affected assets should have extended their business activities, savings and
solve related problems.
(vi) Many PAPs has expanded and developed the business in its new location.
However, there are also a small number of affected households surveyed said
that they are having some difficulties in life, especially with a number of
professional households disturbed when moving to a new place.
(vii) Residents and staff are fully aware of the Project objectives, activities and
results of the Project and participated actively in the overall operation of the
Project. Beneficiaries and PAPs are expected to have more similar Projects
implemented in the area People participate in the activities of the Project,
information dissemination and consultation promptly received from all levels of
Project management, the household survey is to provide information, to be
consulted, to participate in the process of Project implementation and
community supervision during Project implementation.
(viii) Capacity building activities is considered a very useful activity, important and
meaningful long-term, this is to be active and maintain focus during Project
implementation and after the Project end.
(ix) Credit fund housing rehabilitation done in Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the Project
are people appreciate the usefulness, compliance with the provisions of the
World Bank and the laws of Vietnam.
40


﻿Annex 6. Lessons Learned
An integrated multi-sectoral approach is the way forward despite design and
implementation challenges. The integrated multisectoral approach developed links
between each player's actions and investments in several urban sectors, making PIIP
more consistent with the development path the city of Da Nang chose to pursue. Even if
the activities and investments included in PlIP have been initially designed component by
component, and not as part of overall coordinated strategy, PIP opened the way to more
integrated future Projects that will be able to gain cross cutting improvements to the city
and its environment.
Project preparation should have included better assessments of land acquisition and
management challenges. Shortcomings in terms of revisions of Project infrastructure
design after mid-term review, as well as lack of awareness of all constraints related to
construction, such as land acquisition, relocation and competing interests have been
encountered. Had Project preparation included upfront negotiation on land management,
many of the delays and impediments may have been mitigated.
Sustainability and efficiency of investments were ensured by close cooperation with
the Client and institutional development. Consensus and coordination among all
players were determinants in the success of the Project. Da Nang also invested in
institutional development, for example establishing the Drainage and Wastewater
Management Company, under the course of PIP implementation, to operate and manage
city drainage and wastewater systems. With support from PIP, the operational and
management capacity of DWMC has been significantly improved, thus contributing to
the sustainability of the activities under the Project.
Integrated bidding, operation and contract management assured better results and
effectiveness. The new form of "Design - Construction - Operation" with operation
period of 10 years allows bidders to offer alternative technical solutions to some major
system of the plant. This is the first model bidding and contract management to be
6
applied in order to associate construction responsibility with urban wastewater operation6
This system of "design-construction-operation" has been implemented quite extensively
by Da Nang for WWTPs, and it will be replicated for public transport sector in the SCDP.
Also, Da Nang recently presented the experience to HCMC and in the upcoming Bank
assisted Project in HCMC ($ 3-400m WWTP), which is expected to be replicated by
HCMC.
6Advantages of this method are (i) the contractor is responsible from design stage (in case of alternatives
proposed by contractors), to building and operation for 10 years, so it should be considered to propose
machines and equipment with high quality for the plant and enabling the contractor to propose their optimal
technology, thereby the contractor can propose the most competitive bid price and technological solutions
and; (ii) Facilitation of operating agencies of the city to access the best possible experience and technology
on management and operation of the contractor. The latter is particularly significant in the current situation
of limited capacity and experience on O&M of wastewater treatment plants of Da Nang city.
41


﻿Appropriate decentralization of procurement decision making is important.
Decentralization of procurement clearance and approval responsibilities to the Employer
(Department of Transport) can enhance effectiveness in the process. At the early stage of
PIIP, PMU's procurement decisions were subject to Department of Planning and
Investment's clearance and People's Committee's approval, whose process was proven to
be time consuming (some packages have been delayed). While recognizing the key role
that DPI played since the very beginning of the Project, it has to be noted that the process
toward decentralization of procurement that started in the second Phase of PIIP proved
successful and will be fully operational for SCDP.
42


﻿Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
The ICR was shared with Government authorities from the Department of Transport,
SCFC and the Project Management Unit. A specific workshop was organized and held in
Da Nang on October 11, 2013 and chaired by DOT.
The main observations made to the ICR are the following:
(i)  The PMU and all departments involved in the Project expressed appreciation for
the Bank coordination, management and supervision of the Project. The city
highly benefitted not only from the investments done, but also from the
exposure with bank professionals, consultants and Project's contractors. In
particular, the capacity building activities were viewed as an important learning
experience that brought about more effectiveness in Project coordination,
enhanced the decision making process and contributed to a positive change in
Project management that will be reflected in all future engagements.
(ii) The city's representatives highlighted the importance of strong commitment by
city's leaders as well as coordination and ability to build consensus among all
the stakeholders as a key component of the success of Project implementation.
In terms of governance, it has been added that the presence of a Board of
management highly benefitted this coordination process.
(iii) Important innovation in the bidding-contracting-operation process, as well as
the active role played by the Project owner in the implementation of bidding
and contracting procedure were key in the procurement process. Harmonization
of procedures and policies between the international community and the
local/national policies was also crucial to assure effectiveness.
(iv) Despite the high level of inflation that led to adjustments in the Project and
increased the cost of several components, and despite the need to re-designed
some activities under Component B and C to meet the city needs, the PMU and
the Departments involved believe that the PIIP is a successful Project and
welcome the continuity and consistency in operation and policies that the new
SCDP will bring about.
43


﻿Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
According to the Project Completion Report delivered by the PMU on July 05, 2013 the
PIIP faced several challenges and was able to overcome most of it, delivering with high
quality and satisfaction of the Client. In particular, the main challenges of the Project
were:
(i)  The Project was complex, big and multi-sectoral, implemented in a large area,
involving to several units and agencies both in designing and implementation.
(ii) Some procedures adopted by Government of Viet Nam were different from the
Bank's and needed harmonization.
(iii) Inflation was high during Project implementation period. In some years,
inflation was up to 20% -25% (e.g. 2008: 22.97%, 2009: 18.58%, and 2010:
25%) leading to significant additional cost for price increasing.
(iv) Capacity of some consultants and contractors was limited.
(v) Compensation policies, site clearance, resettlement and counterpart funding
allocation met difficulties.
(vi) Experience in wastewater management was limited.
(vii) Communication activities were limited.
Among the successes of the Project, the PMU listed:
(i)  Active engagement of the Government and Central Agencies such as
Government Office, Ministry of Planning and Investment, Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Construction, State Bank
of Viet Nam etc.
(ii) Solid engagement and support of the World Bank: during Project
implementation, the city received great attention and support from the World
Bank. Country Director of the World Bank in Viet Nam and other
specialistscarried out several meetings with leaders of Da Nang city focusing on
strategy in sustainable urban development, in particular focussing on traffic
management, flood risk reduction, wastewater treatment, efficient usage of
energy, poverty reduction etc. The Task Team Leader and experts of the World
Bank have contributed much to the achievements of the Project through sharing
experience, lessons learnt from countries in the world; support training and
capacity building; and closely supervising Project implementation to ensure that
the Project complies with regulations of the World Bank, achieving objectives,
quality, progress and efficiency of the Project.
44


﻿(iii) Close direction of the City Communist Party, People's Council, People's
Committee and Project Management Board.
(iv) Management of the Project Owner, PMU and close cooperation of relevant
Departments, agencies and locals.
(v)  Agreement of residential community
The PMU also provided an assessment of the Project outputs that have been reported as it
is.
The Project completes as per progress, ensuring required objectives and effectiveness.
After five years of implementation (2008-2013), Da Nang PIIP was completed in time in
accordance with the Project Financing Agreement. Implementation of Da Nang Priority
Infrastructure Investment Project ensures original objectives that is to improve the
efficiency and sustainability of urban infrastructure services in Da Nang city through (i)
urban upgrade through construction of low-income areas in Da Nang city, construction of
resettlement areas, apartment blocks for people relocated by the Project, and micro-credit
fund helps people affected by the Project to have a source of low-interest loans for
housing rehabilitation and economic purposes to stabilize lives, (ii) improving
environmental infrastructure through construction drainage, wastewater systems,
household connection and construction of Hoa Xuan, Son Tra wastewater treatment
plants, (iii) construction of 02 strategic urban roads to link the city center to suburban
areas, (iv) institutional strengthening in investment planning and management of urban
services and support in Project implementation.
Finally, the PMU report proposed a series of lessons learned, such as:
(i)  Enlist the concern, support, direction and guidance of the Government, the
Central Ministries, World Bank; attention and direction of Da Nang Communist
Party, People's Council, People's Committees
(ii)  Close  coordination  with  agencies and  locals involved  in the Project
implementation process
(iii) Harmonization of procedures between donors and regulations of Vietnam
(iv) Promote administrative reform, transparency and Project communication
(v)  Strengthen responsibility, close coordination, support consultants and contractors
(vi) Capacity building on Project management, promote the initiative, personal
responsibility associated with the assigned work.
45


﻿(vii) Limit, minimize the impact in the relocation and resettlement arrangement; early
deployment of resettlement sites, further allocation of resettlement land fund,
enhance coordination in construction planning management, quickly and timely
settlement of problems related to resettlement support and arrangement.
Few recommendation have been added, to the World Bank and the Central Ministries in
terms of: i) supporting information during selection process of design and supervision
consultants, and ii) applying sanctions for incompetent consultants.
Other recommendations have also been prepared for Da Nang People's Committee, city
departments, and the Employer:
(i) Continue implementation  of mechanism   of the Project's Board   of
Management;
(ii) To promote the reform of administrative procedures and promulgate process of
review, appraisal and approval of Project documents;
(iii) Addressing difficulties due to the differences on regulations between the
donor's and Vietnam Government during Project implementation (cost
estimate, unit rate approval, final accounting appraisal etc.,);
(iv) Continue improvement of training and capacity building;
(v) Stabilize personnel involved in Projects from Da Nang People's Committee
and the relevant departments;
(vi) Continue to develop institution and focus on capacity strengthening for units
who receive, operate and manage works of the Project;
(vii) Priority investment for related resettlement areas, reserve suitable land for
resettlement, early hand over of actual land to displaced households.
Annex 9. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
None
46


﻿Annex 10 Pictures and Photographs
PROJECT MAP
COMPONENTS UNDER PIIP
L. GWDOØI fA
Fig. 1: Map of the city of Da Nang, showing the location of investments under PIIP
Fig 2: Apartments built in RAs and Le Van Tam Primary school
Fig. 3: The Phu Loc River before PIIP
47


﻿Fig. 4: The Phu Loc River after the PIIP
Fig. 5: Construction of the Hoa Xuan WWTP before and after
Fig. 6: One of the channels opened by PIIP
48


﻿Fig 7: Participants to one of the capacity building activities undertaken under PIIP
Fig 8: Participants to one of the capacity building activities undertaken under PIIP
49


﻿DANANG PIlIP: MAP OF PROPOSED INVESTMENTS
AREA 3 HOA HEP BAC LIA
-                                                       1- A  1  b iO Hi iA  i   i iA
Iba 10N                                                                                       W   K H\R  .i1RiItiyj  u
7B.DRA4INAGE SY5TEMLIENCHEU3             1 GR\I141 I1RXAi- N I
8B                            7B.DRAINAGESY
PmULOCWWTPIM  OVE   T
s6                                                  UPG-RADED,-UM>N                                                 1
-~ 6RAINAGE SYSTEM SON TRA DIWfRCT
THLUANTHANNLA                                     8  - SON TRA WW
RNGLEPI4 ALA
ANDON, ANTAN ANCULA
-ý l TnEM TIAÄNH KHi
'2     \ mi
ARU   H                                      IUATH  H  TRUN DONG UA
H        WWTP IMPROVEMEX
8-ssLww
ANH SON WWTIMP EMN
CAM BA  ,2      &
INK 0(
9C  NGLYi Tl PHIONG H OAQUYLINK KSRO
LEGEND                                                                                                 PREPARED BY:
01-'M' H                    ANTRANN,ANTRUNGDONG LJA  :PHASE2[SCOLOREDBYBLACK  -THECONSULTANT:SNC-LAVALENINTERNATIONALING
-s~- THE SUB - CONSULTANT: TECCOS. OCI, A0COM
AIRPORT            BEACH


