Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15476
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
March 26, 1996
Country Department II
Infrastructure Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit       =     New Mexican Peso (N$)
US$1.00             =     Mex$2,759 (March 1990)
US$1.00             =     N$6.26 (June 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January I st - December 31 st
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS    Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
CCIR            International Consultative Committee for Radio
DGPNC           Direcci6n General de Politicas y Normas de Comunicaciones
GOM             Government of Mexico
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
LCB             Local Competitive Bidding
LMC             Instituto Mexicano de las Telecomunicaciones
SCT             Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transporte
SHCP            Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
TAL             Technical Assistance Loan
TELECOMM    Telecomunicaciones de M6xico
TELMEX          Telefonos de M6xico SA. de C.V.
TELENALES   Telegrafos Nacionales



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
CONTENTS
Paue No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION   SUMMARY  ...............................................i
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................1
A.    Introduction                                                            1
B. Project Objectives                              .2
C.  Achievement of Project Objectives                      .2
D.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project    . 4
E.  Project Sustainability .8
F. Bank Performance                                .9
G. Borrower Performance                              .9
H. Assessment of Outcome .10
I. Future Operation .10
J.  Key Lessons Learned .10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



Pame No.
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments  ......................................... 13
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans (preceding and following operations)   ......................... 14
Table 3:   Project Timetable .........................................                         15
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............................ 16
Table 5:   Studies included in Project ..........................................              17
Table 6A: Project Costs. Actual vs. Estimated .18
Table 6B: Project Financing                                                                     19
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants .20
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff inputs .21
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions .22
APPENDIXES
A.      Mission's Aide Memoire
B.      Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Map ILBRD No. 23547



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Telecommunications
Technical Assistance Project in Mexico, for which Loan 3208-ME in the amount of
US$22 million equivalent was approved on May 29, 1990 and made effective on August
21, 1990.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1995, one year after the original closing date. It
was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on August 29, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Manuel I. Dussan, a consultant, and reviewed by Clive
Harris, Task Manager and Martin Staab, Division Chief (LA2IN). Preparation of this ICR
was begun during September, 1995 with a mission of the consultant to Mexico. It is
based on material in the project file and on information provided by the borrower to the
consultant during its mission to Mexico. The borrower contributed to preparation of this
ICR by submitting a Final Progress Report on the project with a partial evaluation of the
project's execution (see Appendix B), in addition to providing comments on the draft of
the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    By the late 1980s, the poor performance of the telecommunications sector in
Mexico was hindering the economy's efforts to compete in an integrated world economy.
Therefore, in September 1989 the Government of Mexico (GOM) adopted a reform
strategy that aimed to promote efficiency, competition and private investment within the
sector. The main components of this strategy were the establishment of a new regulatory
framework; the rebalancing of tariffs to reduce cross-subsidies; the privatization of
Telefonos de Mexico (TELMEX), a state enterprise responsible for local and long distance
telephone services in the country; the franchise of competing cellular operators in 9
regions; and the transfer of all telecommunications services previously under the Ministry
of Communications and Transport (Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transporte, SCT) to
a new state-owned enterprise, Telecom unicaciones de Mexico (TELECOMM).
2.    The Bank supported the sector reform with two parallel operations approved in
1990: a US$380 million two-tranche Road Transport and Telecommunications Sector
Adjustment Loan (Loan 3207-ME) that focused on the privatization of TELMEX and the
initial stages for establishing a new regulatory framework, and a US$22 million
Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project (Loan  3208-ME).   After the
privatization of TELMEX and the implementation of the initial stages of sector reform,
this sector adjustment loan was fully disbursed in 1991.
Project Objectives
3.    The project had three specific objectives: to strengthen SCT's ability to regulate
telecommunications services and networks, to improve SCT's capabilities to plan, manage,
monitor and control the use of the radio spectrum, and to assist TELECOMM in
developing its business activities as a competitive entity in a restructured environment.
4.    The project consisted of three components, each one designed to support one of
the three main objectives: about 29% (US$6.3 million) for consultants' services,
equipment and training to design and implement the new regulatory scheme; 69%



ii
(US$15.2 million) for consultant services, training and equipment to prepare and execute a
plan for the modernization and improvement of SCT's facilities and capabilities to manage
and control the radio spectrum; and 2% (US$0.5 million) for consultant services to plan
the expansion and modernization of TELECOMM's satellite system.
5.    The first two project objectives addressed the problem of strengthening regulatory
institutions, a major concern regarding the implementation of a far-reaching sector reform,
especially considering that TELMEX was granted monopoly privileges on local and long-
distance wire-based telephone services until 1996. The project objectives were clear and
realistic, and were supported by a well-designed work program to improve, in stages,
SCT's regulatory capabilities. The third objective was important for developing
TELECOMM, the newly created state company, as a commercial enterprise.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The project substantially accomplished the objective of improving SCT's
management planning capabilities as far as the radio spectrum was concerned, but was
only partially successful with regard to strengthening SCT as a regulatory institution. To
fulfill its duties as a regulatory agency, SCT required a competent and qualified
professional staff. However, due mainly to budgetary constraints there was a continual
shortage of experienced senior professional staff. In addition there were frequent changes
in key officials at SCT. These deficiencies in the organization and staffing of SCT,
coupled with a lack of autonomy, contributed to delays in the implementation of a
program to rebalance TELMEX's tariffs, an essential element to open up long distance
services for competition in 1996, and meant that more broadly SCT could not completely
fulfill its regulatory mandate. Loan resources assigned to the third component of the
project (representing only 2% of project costs) were reallocated at the Borrower's
request.
7.    In spite of the aforementioned problems, the Government has proceeded
satisfactorily with the implementation of sector reform. It successfully privatized
TELMEX; it negotiated a concession contract with TELMEX, established initial sector
regulations ("Reglamento de Telecomunicaciones" of October, 1990) and in 1995 passed
through Congress a new Telecommunications Law facilitating the implementation of a
competitive market. It is now implementing this new phase of the reform centered on
market liberalization (see para. 10. of Part I).
8.    The first component was only partially completed. Difficulties were experienced in
the implementation of a comprehensive action plan to strengthen SCT's regulatory
capabilities as envisaged in the SAR (see paras. 17 and 18 of Part I). During 1991 and
1992, SCT focused on hiring individual consultants to cope with immediate needs to
regulate telecommunications services. By mid 1993, prompted by the Bank to undertake a
more comprehensive approach, SCT retained the services of a consulting firm to analyze



iii
the situation of the telecommunications sector in Mexico and recommend the main
elements of a strategic plan for SCT's development. By late 1995, SCT had partially
implemented the consultant's recommendations (see para. 9 of Part I). The second
component was completed with some delays. By late 1995, SCT had developed with the
assistance of consultants the procedures, models, and software required to plan, manage
and monitor the radio spectrum and had completed the installation of most of a national
monitoring network consisting of 53 fixed stations, 11 mobile units and a VSAT
communication network (see paras. 20 -23 of Part I). Loan resources assigned for the
third component were reallocated in early 1992, when TELECOMM decided to use its
own funds to finance the studies for business development.
9.    About 80% of loan resources, 36% over the original allocation, were used for the
procurement of equipment. About 20%, 30% under the original allocation, were used for
consultants' services. These differences are explained by the fact that SCT reduced the
original scope of the consultancy services. The loan was fully disbursed in August, 1995,
about one year later than the original estimate. Major disbursement lags during the initial
years were the result of delays in the procurement of equipment and major consultant
services.
10.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory. During preparation of the structural
adjustment loan and the project, the Bank supported GOM in the formulation of sector
policy and the reform program. In retrospect, the Bank overestimated the capabilities of
SCT, a line ministry, to implement the changes recommended by the consultants on
reorganization and staffing. The project was supervised by 13 Bank missions from 1990
to 1995 (about two per year), adequate for a project that did not experience major
execution problems. These missions were concentrated during the first two years of
project execution, when the Government was taking critical actions in the implementation
of sector reform and when the disbursement of the sector adjustment loan (3207-ME)
provided considerable leverage for compliance with loan conditions.
11.   The borrower's performance was satisfactory in implementing the component on
monitoring and managing the radio spectrum. Its performance was less than satisfactory
in implementing the component to strengthen SCT 's regulatory capabilities, because there
was a lack of counterpart personnel and strong support to implement necessary
reorganization and staffing of SCT.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
12.   The privatization of TELMEX was the key component of sector reform during its
initial phase, and exceeded GOM's expectations in terms of sales proceeds, the
contribution of private capital in financing the sector investment program, and the
expansion of service coverage. However, after 5 years of sector reform, SCT is still not



iv
well equipped as a regulator for the next phase, which will focus on market liberalization
and will test the competence and autonomy of the regulator.
13.   In spite of the difficulties in strengthening SCT's regulatory capabilities during the
initial phase, the project outcome has been satisfactory. It supported the implementation
of the first phase of reform that introduced profound changes in market structure and
ownership of the telecommunications sector in Mexico and improved service quality and
coverage. In addition, it assisted the Government in the preparation of the second phase of
the reform process, consisting of the enactment of a new Telecommunications Law, the
creation of a semi-autonomous regulatory commission, the opening up of basic services to
competition by late 1996, privatization of the satellite business, and the auction of part of
the radio spectrum.
14.   The Bank is supporting this new phase of reform  through the Infrastructure
Privatization Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 3937-NM), which is financing consultants
to assist in the deregulation of basic telephone service, the sale of satellite operations, the
auction of radio frequencies and the strengthening of regulatory institutions. In sum, it is
likely that the benefits achieved by the project can be maintained and improved.
15.   Lessons learned. The first lesson is that it is difficult to improve on a sustainable
basis the technical capabilities of a line ministry, frequently subject to budgetary
constraints, lack of continuity of senior management, non-competitive salaries, and
protracted procurement procedures, to the levels required of a regulatory agency in a
sector such as telecommunications. The second lesson is that a well designed legal
framework is essential to facilitate sector regulation during the transition to a more
competitive market with private sector participation, particularly in a country with a weak
regulatory tradition. The third lesson is that in order to implement a regulatory framework
that fosters the development of a competitive market, it is necessary to separate the policy
making and regulatory functions, and to create an independent regulatory agency.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.   In the 1980's the performance of the telecommunications sector in Mexico was
deficient: a high unmet demand for telephone lines, unreliable and congested service,
inadequate investment levels, a weak financial position, large tariff cross-subsidies and an
unsatisfactory institutional structure. Telefonos de Mexico S.A. de C. V (TELMEX), a
51% state-owned enterprise, provided local, long-distance and international telephone
services  throughout Mexico.  The Ministry of Telecommunications and Transport
(Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transporte, SCT) was responsible for policy and
regulatory functions and owned and operated a national microwave network, the domestic
satellite system, aeronautical and maritime stations, as well as other facilities. The postal
administration, Telegrafos Nacionales, operated telex and telegraph services.
2.    The poor performance of the telecommunications sector was viewed as a
hindrance to the nation's competitiveness. Therefore, in September 1989 GOM approved
a Telecommunications Sector Modernization Program to raise the quality of service to
international levels, expand coverage, diversify and modernize services, establish efficient
pricing practices, achieve financial self-sufficiency and promote both private participation
and competition. The main components of this program were: the establishment of a new
regulatory framework;  the rebalancing of tariffs to eliminate cross-subsidies; the
privatization of TELMEX; the franchising of competing cellular operators in 9 regions;
and the transfer of all telecommunications services previously under SCT and Telegrafos
Nacionales to a new state-owned enterprise, Telecomunicaciones de Mexico
(TELECOMM).
3.    The Bank supported the sector reform with two parallel operations approved in
1990: a US$380 million two-tranche Road Transport and Telecommunications Sector
Adjustment Loan (Loan 3207-ME) that focused on the privatization of TELMEX and the
initial stages for establishing a new regulatory framework, and a US$22 million
Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3208-ME).   After the
privatization of TELMEX and implementation of initial stages of sector reform, the Sector
Adjustment Loan was fully disbursed in 1991, and a Project Completion Report was
issued in December 1993 (Report No. 12623).



2
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    This project (Loan 3208-ME) had three specific objectives:
a) to assist SCT in strengthening its capacity to regulate telecommunications services
and networks;
b) to assist SCT in modernizing and improving its administrative and technical
capability to plan and control the use of the radio spectrum, and in establishing a
computer-assisted radio-frequency management and monitoring system; and
c) to assist TELECOMM in developing its business activities as a competitive
company in a restructured environment.
5.    The first two project objectives addressed the problem of strengthening regulatory
institutions, an essential element in the implementation of a far-reaching sector reform.
This issue was crucial, because the privatization of TELMEX granted this company
monopoly privileges on local and long-distance wire-based telephone services until 1996.
An authority was needed to regulate TELMEX's monopoly, create and maintain an
appropriate environment to allow competition to develop in the future and provide
incentives to improve sector efficiency. The third objective was important for developing
TELECOMM, the newly created state company, as a commercial enterprise. The
objectives were supported by dividing the project into three components: about 29% of
the loan for consultants' services, equipment and training to design and implement the new
regulatory scheme; 69% for consultant services, training and equipment to prepare and
execute a plan for the modernization and improvement of SCT's facilities and capabilities
to manage and control of the radium spectrum; and 2% for consultant services to plan the
expansion and modernization of TELECOMM's satellite system.
6.    The first two project objectives were clear and realistic, and were supported by a
phased work program to improve SCT's regulatory capabilities, by focusing first on the
preparation and enactment of satisfactory regulations governing the licensing of
telecommunications networks, an essential element to finalize TELMEX's concession
contract; second, on the design of the regulatory regime and the organization of the
regulatory office;  and, third, on the implementation of the new regime and the
modernization of facilities to monitor the radio spectrum. The third objective was to be
supported by a consultant study, and representing only 2% of loan resources, was of a
lower priority than the other two.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    The project substantially accomplished the objective of improving SCT's
management planning capabilities as far as the radio spectrum was concerned, but was
only partially successful with regard to strengthening SCT as a regulatory institution. Loan
resources assigned for the third component of the project (representing only 2% of project
costs) were reallocated to the other two components at the Borrower's request. The



3
Bank's initial evaluation of the advances in developing the regulatory framework after
privatization' recognized as major achievements the drafting of a concession contract for
TELMEX, and the preparation of initial sector regulations ("Reglamento de
Telecomunicaciones" of October, 1990), which established a framework for the sector.
However, these evaluations also called attention to the slow progress made during the first
two years of the reform in developing SCT as a regulatory agency with strong professional
staff capability, due mainly to budgetary constraints to fill management positions, shortage
of experienced senior professional staff, and frequent changes in key officials at SCT.
8.    An action plan for strengthening SCT's regulatory capabilities was approved in
1991 and the initial reorganization of the Department of Communications and
Technological Development, the division of SCT responsible for sector regulation, was
implemented in 1992.  Although the plan called for some 50 additional mid-level
management positions, SCT could not implement this recommendation due to established
policies for the retrenchment of public sector personnel.
9.    In 1993 a consultant's study to support the preparation of a strategic plan for the
Telecommunications Sector confirmed the deficiencies in the organization and staffing of
SCT, in particular its lack of resources to monitor the obligations of TELMEX under its
concession contract and to create conditions for competition. Furthermore, in 1995 a
Bank report (see para 28) called attention to the slow progress made by the regulator in
opening up long distance services for competition by late 1996, mainly due to delays in
rebalancing TELMEX's tariffs and establishing the technical and commercial rules for
network interconnection. Nevertheless, in 1995 SCT began to implement, with delays
caused by frequent changes in SCT's senior management, important recommendations
made by the consultant related to the creation of an autonomous regulatory agency (under
the new Telecommunications Law), the adoption of an internal operations manual, and
the reorganization of its main units.
10.   These delays and shortcomings in reorganizing and staffing SCT as a regulator
after five years of sector reform, combined with its lack of autonomy, meant that SCT
could not completely fulfill its regulatory mandate and that SCT is still not well equipped
as a regulator for the next stage which will focus on fostering competition. In spite of
these deficiencies, the Government has achieved substantial progress in the
implementation of sector reform.  It has moved from  the initial phase marked by
TELMEX's privatization to a new phase of market liberalization:
a) by mid-1995 the Mexican Congress had enacted a new Telecommunications Law
opening the use of the radio spectrum via competitive bidding and establishing
clear rules to foster competition in long-distance and value-added services. The
law also establishes that by mid-1996 the Government will have created an
autonomous agency responsible for sector regulation. This may be a solution to
/ The World Bank. Loan 3207-ME, Project Completion Report, December 23, 1993.
Wellenius B. and P. Stern, "Implementing Reforms in the Telecommunications Sector - Lessons from
experience", The World Bank. 1994



4
two major problems encountered during the initial phase: the constraints faced by
SCT to reorganize and staff a regulatory body within its own structure, and the
potential conflict of interest between the policy making and the regulatory
functions performed by SCT;
b) by late 1995 SCT had issued interconnection regulations and granted seven
concessions for long-distance operators;
c) by early 1996, SCT had issued rules to license cable TV and local wire-based
services and received 50 applications for the opportunity to operate, and had
established general rules to auction the use of radio spectrum; and
d) by early 1996. SCT was finalizing its strategy to privatize TELECOMM's satellite
business, most likely for later in 1996.
11.   Substantial progress was made in fulfilling the second objective of modernizing and
improving SCT's administrative and technical capabilities to plan and control the use of
the radio spectrum. By late 1995, SCT had substantially completed the installation of a
control center, 53 fixed stations and 11 mobile units to monitor the use of radio
frequencies (see para. 22), had developed the required computer software and norms and
procedures, and had created a separate department responsible for these functions and
staffed it with approximately 100 people.
12.   Regarding the third project objective, during the execution of the project
TELECOMM requested to substitute its own resources for the Bank's to finance the
required studies. The Bank agreed to this request.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
13.   The project consisted of three components, each one designed to support one of
the three main objectives:
a) regulation of services and networks.  This included consultants' services,
equipment and training to prepare initial regulations for TELMEX's license,
prepare an action plan to strengthen SCT's technical and operational capabilities,
and support the implementation of the plan during the first two years. About 29%
(US$6.3 million) of the TAL was allocated to this component;
b) regulation of the radio spectrum. This included consultants' services, training and
equipment to prepare and execute a plan for the modernization and improvement
of SCT's facilities and capabilities to manage and control of the radium spectrum.
About 69% (US$15.2 million) of the TAL was allocated to this component; and
c) TELECOMM-Business Development. This included consultants' services for
planning the expansion and modernization of TELECOMM's satellite system.
About 2% of the TAL (US$0.5 million) was allocated to this component.



5
14.   The first component consisted of three stages. In stage 1, short-term consultants
would assist SCT in finalizing TELMEX's license and the basic regulations for
competitive services.  This stage was completed satisfactorily in late 1990 with the
privatization  of  TELMEX   and  the  publication  of  the  "Reglamento  de
Telecomunicaciones".
15.   In stage 2, a consulting firm would assist SCT in designing the regulatory regime,
defining the regulatory tasks and main procedures and information requirements, revising
SCT's organization structure, and preparing a detailed implementation program. This
stage was completed in April, 1991 with the approval of an action plan to strengthen
SCT's regulatory capacity.
16.   In stage 3, SCT would have implemented, with technical assistance, the action plan
prepared during phase 2, and would have built up a minimum core of expertise in the areas
of regulatory policy; price, cost and financial analysis; quality of service and technical
standards; and administrative, legal, and information systems.
17.   By 1995, SCT had not been able to implement the comprehensive action plan
envisaged under stage 3. During 1991 and 1992 SCT used the loan resources to cope
with immediate needs to regulate telecommunications services rather than to strengthen its
regulatory capacity with a long-term vision. It retained the services of several individual
consultants for short-term studies on satellite frequency-spectrum planning, monitoring
and control of concessions for paging services, financial and economic evaluation of
concessions for paging services, legal aspects on concessions for paging services,
evaluation of procedures to monitor quality of service, tariffs for VSAT satellite networks,
action plans for the introduction of personal communications networks, and award and
control of concessions for mobile radio communication networks for transportation fleets.
The only technical assistance received from a consulting firm during this period was for
the development of models, procedures and criteria for the application of a price
regulation formula for TELMEX and produced a sophisticated and useful computer
model.
18.   In mid-1992, the Bank rejected a request by SCT to use TAL funds for financing
additional services by individual consultants, on the grounds that it was necessary to
implement more comprehensive studies. By mid 1993, SCT retained the services of a
consulting firm to analyze the situation of the telecommunications sector in Mexico,
identify options for the development of infrastructure and services under a competitive
environment and recommend the main elements of an strategic plan. This study was
completed in 1994 and made recommendations for strengthening the regulatory function
and introducing competition.   By  1995, SCT  had partially implemented these
recommendations, by preparing an operational manual for SCT, defining basic technical
plans for telecommunications, reorganizing its main units and, most importantly, by
introducing in the new Telecommunications Law a mandate to create an autonomous
regulatory agency.



6
19.   Funds assigned under this component for training of SCT personnel on economic
regulation were reallocated to the other components due to lack of continuity in SCT's
senior management and difficulties in selecting and assigning SCT staff as candidates for a
training program.
20.   The second component on regulation of the radio spectrum was planned to  be
implemented in two stages. In stage 1, an expert would assist SCT in drafting terms of
reference for a consulting firm and tentative cost estimates for the modernization of
facilities for planning, monitoring and control of the radio spectrum. In stage 2, a
consulting firm would prepare a detailed program, prepare technical specifications and
assist in the procurement of equipment, installation and training in the operation of the
monitoring facilities.
21.   This component was executed in several steps with the assistance of three
consulting firms and a main equipment contractor. In early 1992, SCT completed the
implementation of a computerized system for radio spectrum management and control. In
1992, SCT developed software for managing the radio spectrum for broadcast of public
radio and TV. In late 1992, SCT contracted for the installation of a national network for
monitoring the radio spectrum. Finally, in early 1994, SCT retained consultant services to
define policies for managing the radio spectrum, strengthen SCT technical capabilities to
plan, monitor and control its use, and to improve procedures and methodologies to use the
national monitoring network.
22.   Installation of the national monitoring network consisting of 53 fixed stations, 11
mobile units and a VSAT communication network was partially completed by late 1995,
with a four-year delay of the commissioned date originally planned in the SAR. This delay
was due to procurement problems (see para. 25), problems in obtaining land-use permits
and completing basic infrastructure for the installation of fixed stations, and difficulties in
adapting software programs. As of the end of 1995, 38 stations were fully operational, 10
stations were in the final stages of testing, and the remaining stations had problems in
finding sites and completing civil works. It is expected that the network will be completed
in 1996. Also under this contract, SCT implemented a training program for about 100
technicians who are responsible for the operation and maintenance of the monitoring
system.
23.   A report for strengthening SCT's capabilities to plan and manage the radio
spectrum based on the monitoring network, with its findings and recommendations on the
organization and staffing of SCT, planning and management of the radio spectrum,
monitoring procedures and training was finished in 1995. By late 1995, SCT had partially
implemented these recommendations, with the creation of a new department for managing
the radio spectrum.
24.   The third component. TELECOMM  business development, was expected to
provide consultant services for planning the expansion and modernization of
TELECOMM's satellite system and other transmission facilities and assessing market



7
potential. In early 1992, the Bank and SCT agreed that TELECOMM would not be using
the small amount of Bank funds (US$0.5 million) allocated for this purpose, and would
instead use its own resources.
25.   Several factors affected project execution:
a) SCT gave priority to hiring individual consultants to address short-term regulatory
problems. As a result, completion and implementation of comprehensive studies
were delayed;
b) problems during procurement of the radio spectrum monitoring network delayed
its implementation for about one year. After awarding a first ICB in December,
1991, SCT had second thoughts on this decision and requested the Bank's
agreement to revise the tender documents and call for new bids. After extensive
explanations and consultations, in September, 1992 the Bank approved the new
bid; and
c) frequent changes of senior management at SCT and budgetary constraints delayed
the implementation of consultant recommendations to reorganize and staff the
divisions responsible for sector regulation.
26.   Total project cost was US$32.5 million, about 34% over SAR cost estimates, due
mainly to a substantial increase in the cost of the radio spectrum monitoring network (see
table 8A). About 80% of loan resources, 36% over the original allocation, were used for
the procurement of equipment, which included partial financing of foreign costs for the
main contract for installation of the monitoring network (US$14.8 million), and about
US$2.1 million worth in microcomputers, computer work stations, and vehicles for SCT.
About 20% of resources, 30% under the original allocation, were used for consultant
services, a decrease explained by the reduction of the original scope of these services and
the use of other funds to finance TELECOMM's studies (see para. 24.). The loan was
fully disbursed in August, 1995, about one year later than the original estimate, with major
disbursement lags during the initial years (see table 4), as result of delays in the
procurement of equipment and major consultant services The final allocation of loan
resources is given in Table 1 below.
Table 1: Final Allocation of Loan Resources
(in US$ million)
Category                 Original allocation Disbursements
Consultants' services           6.5                4.6
Training                        0.7                 0
Equipment                       12.8              17.4
Unallocated                     2.0                 0
Total                           22.0              22.0



8
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.   The experience after 5 years of sector reform illustrates some of the difficulties in
using a line ministry to perform a function that requires independent judgment, leadership,
stability, strong technical capabilities, flexibility in contracting services, and technical and
operational autonomy. SCT has been subject to constraints typical of public institutions:
non-competitive salaries, high turn-over in management positions, shortage of specialized
professional skills, chronic budget reductions and protracted procurement procedures.
Furthermore, the combination of policy making, licensing and regulatory functions
performed by SCT have resulted in conflicts of interest.
28.   An issues paper on the telecommunications sector prepared by the Bank in 19952
concluded that while TELMEX's privatization took the center stage during the initial
phase of the reform (1990-1995) and exceeded expectations in terms of sales proceeds,
investments and improvements in basic telephone coverage, the results of sector regulation
during this phase were mixed. In particular, the timetable set in the concession contract
for rebalancing TELMEX's tariffs by 1996 had not been met, with international and
domestic long-distance rates still well above comparable US tariffs, connection fees too
high and local service tariffs relatively low. This situation may threaten the program to
open up basic services to competition because TELMEX may seek to cover any potential
revenue deficit through high interconnection charges, increasing the costs to new entrants
and restricting competition.
29.   During the initial phase of the reform, SCT was able to compensate its limitations
as a regulator with the assistance of consultants and the support of a sound concession
contract with TELMEX, which introduced elements of self-regulation and provided a
good framework for negotiations between the regulator and the dominant operator.
However, SCT is not well equipped for the next phase of sector reform, which will focus
on market liberalization and will test the competence and autonomy of the regulator.
30.   In 1995 Mexico initiated the second phase of sector reform with the enactment of
the Telecommunications Law, the preparation of a program to open up basic services to
competition by late 1996, privatize the satellite business, auction off the radio spectrum
and create a semi-autonomous regulatory commission (see para. 10) .
31.   The Bank is supporting this new  phase of the reform through the Infrastructure
Privatization Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 3937-ME) that will finance consultants and
technical assistance to support the deregulation of basic telephone service, the sale of
satellite operations, the process to auction radio frequencies and the strengthening of
regulatory institutions.
32.   In sum, it is likely that the benefits achieved by the project can be maintained and
improved, provided that the provisions under the new law are used to improve the
2 / "Telecommunications Reform in Mexico", February 24, 1995



9
technical capabilities of the new agency and overcome SCT's existing deficiencies. The
formulation of a second phase of sector reform focusing on market liberalization and the
support by the Bank of its implementation are evidence of the Government's commitment
to sector reform and are a positive step toward strengthening its regulatory function.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
33.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory. During preparation of the structural
adjustment loan and the project, from 1988 to 1989, the Bank supported GOM in the
formulation of sector policy and the reform program, by preparing and discussing with the
Government reports on policy options and on transitional arrangements for the
restructuring of the telecommunications sector. The design of the technical assistance was
conditioned by the timing of TELMEX's privatization, a cornerstone of the reform
program. The emphasis was to assist in the completion of basic regulatory instruments
(TELMEX's license and the "Reglamento de Telecomunicaciones") that were already
being prepared at the time that the TAL was approved, and in supporting the Government
in strengthening the existing institutional structure for sector regulation. In retrospect, the
Bank underestimated the difficulties of having SCT, a line ministry, responsible for the
regulation of an emerging competitive market.
34.   Project execution was supervised by 13 Bank missions from 1990 to 1995 (about
two per annum), adequate for a project that did not experience major implementation
problems. Supervision missions were more frequent during the two initial years of project
execution when the Government was taking critical actions to implement sector reform
and procure goods and services, and when the disbursement of the two tranches of the
sector adjustment loan provided considerable leverage for compliance with the objectives
of preparation and enactment of the "Reglamento de Telecomunicaciones" and the
preparation of the initial action plan to strengthen SCT regulatory capabilities. After 1992,
Bank supervision missions voiced their concerns about delays in implementing the
consultants' recommendations on improving SCT's structure and staffing, but were only
partially effective in prompting action by SCT.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   The borrower's performance was satisfactory in implementing the component on
monitoring and managing the radio spectrum, in spite of delays in the procurement process
and project implementation. SCT provided additional funds required for procuring the
monitoring network, maintained a qualified group responsible for supervising this
component, and provided progress reports with detailed information on procurement and
construction.
36.   The borrower's performance was less than satisfactory in implementing the
component to strengthen SCT's regulatory capabilities. There were frequent changes of



10
key officials responsible at SCT for sector regulation, and a lack of counterpart personnel
and support to implement the proposed reorganization and staffing of SCT. At the end of
the first phase of sector reform, SCT was not well equipped to handle issues related with
the development of a competitive market. In spite of these deficiencies, one should
acknowledge the fact that, at the end, SCT took actions and was successful in passing a
new telecommunications law through Congress, and in getting the Government's approval
for the implementation of a new phase of sector reform based on market liberalization.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.   In spite of the difficulties in strengthening SCT's regulatory capabilities, the
project outcome has been satisfactory. It supported a sector reform that has brought
US$6.3 billion of revenue to the Government through the sales of shares to the private
sector, has increased coverage from 6.3 lines per 100 inhabitants to over 9, has improved
service quality, has attracted private sector investments for expansion of basic
telecommunications services in excess of US$2 billion per year, and has established a good
base to proceed to a second phase of sector reform, which will complete the privatization
of most telecommunications services and will foster improvements in sector efficiency by
developing a competitive market.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
38.   The plan for the project's future operation and the measures to maximize the
project benefits are intimately associated with the separation of policy making and
regulatory functions at SCT and the creation, by mid 1996, of a new semi-autonomous
regulatory agency with strong technical capabilities as provided in the new law. Under this
law the Government has the powers to define by decree the functions, organization and
financial resources of the new agency, in other words, to determine its capabilities to
address, in a comprehensive way, new regulatory issues on abuses of dominant position,
market entry, licensing, and price regulation, all critical elements to develop a competitive
market. The new TAL (loan 3937-ME) will support the implementation of this new phase
of sector reform.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.   The first lesson relates to the difficulties in improving and strengthening, on a
sustainable basis, the technical capabilities of a line ministry. In the case of this project,
SCT's capabilities for implementing the recommended institutional changes were
overestimated.  A line ministry is usually subject to budgetary constraints, lack of
continuity of senior management, non-competitive salaries, and protracted procurement
procedures, all of which makes it difficult to introduce and maintain required changes in
the organization and to create a qualified technical group.



I1
40.   The second lesson is that a well designed legal framework is essential to facilitate
sector regulation during the transition to a more competitive market with private sector
participation, in a country with a weak regulatory tradition. In the case of Mexico, a well
crafted concession contract with the dominant operator and the initial sector regulations
introduced elements of self-regulation and facilitated the work of a new regulatory agency
that was not yet well equipped for its job.
41.   The third lesson   is that in order to implement a regulatory framework that
introduces  a competitive market in the sector, it is necessary to revise the sector
institutional arrangements, in particular, to ensure the separation of policy making and
regulatory functions, via the creation of an independent regulatory agency. In the case of
Mexico, after 5 years of sector reform, the conclusion is that the conflict of interest
between the two functions and the lack of autonomy of the regulator undermined the
transparency and the pace in developing a competitive market.






12
PART H - STATISTICAL TABLES






13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of objectives      Substantial    Partial     Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                              x
Sector policies                  x
Financial objectives                                                        x
Institutional development                      x
Physical objectives               x
Poverty reduction                                                           x
Gender issues                                                               x
Other social objectives                                                     x
Environmental objectives                                                    x
Public sector management                       x
Private sector management                  Unlikely      Uncertain          x
B. Project Sustainability            Likely      Unlikely     Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank performance               Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                x
Preparation                                   x
Appraisal                                     x
Supervision                                   x
Highly
D. Borrower performance            Satisfaqtory  Satisfactory    Denicient
Preparation ac
Implementation                                x
Covenant Compliance                           x
Highly
E. Assessment of outcome           Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory
x



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan No.            Loan Amount                                                 Year of
and Project Name        (USsmillion)                    Purpose                    Approval _   Status
Loan 3207-ME, Road                     380.0 Support a comprehensive structural reform         1990 Completed
Transport and                               programn in the road transport and
Telecommunication Sector                    telecommunications sectors
Adjustment Loan
Loan 3937-ME,                           30.0 Support Govermment's privatization program        1995 In execution
Infrastructure                              in electricity, transport and
Privatization Technical                     telecommunications
Assistance Project



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date planned    Date actual/
Event                                     latest estimate
Identification (EPS)                            4/1/89          7/1/89
Preparation                                     7/1/89         7/12/89
Appraisal                                       1/1/90          1/1/90
Negotiations                                    4/1/90          4/1/90
Board Approval                                   n.a.           5/29/90
Signing                                          n.a.           6/5/90
Effectiveness                                  6/30/90         8/21/90
Last Disbursement                              6/30/94         8/29/95
Project Completion (1)                         12/31/93        6/30/96
Loan Closing                                   6/30/94         6/30/95
(1) Taking into account the time required for the installation of the equipment for
monitoring the radio spectrum, purchased with funds from this loan.



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in US$ million)
Bank Fiscal          Appraisal          Actual         Actual as %       Date of final
Year                  estimate                          of estimate     disbursement
FY90                    3.1               0.0               0%
FY91                    17.8              3.0              17%
FY92                    20.2              3.1              15%
FY93                    21.5              11.1             52%
FY94                    22.0              18.5             84%
FY95                    22.0             21.9              100%
FY96                    22.0             22.0              100%            8/29/95



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
Table 5: Main Studies Included in Project
Study            Purpose as defined at appraisal        Status          Impact of study
1. Preparation of a Strategic  Diagnosis of Telecommunication sector,  Completed  Assisted the Government in
Plan for Telecommunications    options for developing required               revising sector policies
infrastructure under a competitive
environment, elements for preparing a
strategic plan to guide sector
policies.
2. Preparation of an Action  Analysis of SCT organization,        Completed  Assisted SCT in fulfilling its
Plan for strengthening SCT's   regulatory functions and requirements.        regulatory functions, specially
regulatory capabilities      Prepare action plan to improve technical        on supervising TELMEX's
and operational capacity for economic           concession contract. SCT
and quality of service regulation.              partially implemented action
plan due to budget
constraints and changes of
senior management.
3. Preparation of a study for  Modernize management of radio      Completed  Assisted SCT in strengthening
strengthening SCT's managing   spectrum by regulatory agency and             its capabilities to monitor
and monitoring radio spectrum   develop norms and procedures.                and manage radio spectrum.



18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
Table 6A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (USSM)        Actual estimate (US$M)
Component                                 Local    Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign     Total
Costs     Costs      Costs      Costs      Costs     Costs
1. Regulation of Networks and
Services-Consultant services and training  0.62       5.20       5.82      0.04       2.83       2.87
2. Regulation of radio spectrum
- Consultant services                    0.03       1.12      1.14       0.13       2.51       2.64
- Equipment and training                 1.24      11.53      12.77      5.34       21.61     26.95
3. Telecomm - Consultant services for                 0.50       0.50      0.00       0.00       0.00
business development
Total Base Cost                            1.89      18.35      20.23      5.51       26.94     32.45
Price and Physical Contingencies           0.35       3.70       4.05       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Cost                                 2.24      22.05      24.28      5.51      26.94      32.45
Source: SAR and list of contracts prepared by BANOBRAS on 9/20/95



19
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
Table 6B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (USSM)             Actual (USSM)
Local    Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs       Costs      Costs      Costs      Costs
Financing Requirements
Project Costs                     2.24      22.05      24.28       5.51      26.94       32.45
Total                            2.24       22.05      24.28       5.51      26.94      32.45
Sources of financing
IBRD loan                         0.00      22.00      22.00       0.00      22.00      22.00
Government                        2.24                  2.24       5.51       0.00       5.51
Other loans *                               0.05       0.05        0.00       4.94       4.94
Total                            2.24       22.05      24.29       5.51      26.94      32.45
* Mainly supplier's credit for adquisition of radio-spectnun monitoring equipment.



20
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present         Original         Description of Covenant                      Commnents
type     Status     Fulfillment
Date
Loan           2.01 (b)        3         C          9/13/90 Open and maintain in dollars
a special deposit account
Loan              3.02         3         C                 Procure goods and services
according to provisions of
________                  Schedule 4
Loan            4.02(i)        1         C                  Maintain adequate separate
records and accounts of resources
and expenditures for the project
Loan         4.02(a)(ii)       I        CP                  Submit for each fiscal year       Fulfilled for 1994
4.02(b)(iv)                                    audited fmnancial statements and
________  _audited reports.
Loan        Sched. 1(3)        3         C Prior to 2/28/90  No withdraws for expenditures
exceeding US$2 million
Loan        Sched 4(11)        5         C                 The Guarantor to employ
consultants under termns and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank
Guarantee       3.05(a)        9        CP                 Submit to the Bank a written      Progress reports did not provide adequate
report on the progress achieved in   information on advances in economic
implementing the Project          regulation
Guarantee      3.05(b)         9        CP                 Submit to the Bank a written      Progress reports did not provide adequate
evaluation of progress during the  information on advances in economic
preceding calendar year.         regulation



21
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                       Actual
Stage of Project
Cycle                Weeks        US$ (000)       Weeks        US$ (000)
Preparation to Appraisal          n.a.          n.a.           n.a.           n.a.
Appraisal                         n.a.          n.a.           7.1            16.8
Negotiations - Board              n.a.          n.a.           2.1            5.1
Supervision 1/                   22.0           55.8           67.8          180.2
Completion                        6.0            9.3           5.0            10.0
TOTAL                                                          82.0          212.1
NA not available
1/ Planned data is for FY94 and FY95 only. Actual data is from FY90 thru FY95.



22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3208-ME)
Table 9: Bank Missions
Number    Specialized                  Performance Rating 2/
Stage of Project                of        staff skills    Person-day  Implement   Development    Types of
Cycle          Date      persons   represented 1/   in field     Status      Objectives    problems 3/
Preparation         7/89-1/90
Appraisal            1/15/90       3        ECO,ENG          35
Supervision 1        6/30/90       1           ECO            5            1
Supervision I1       8/21/91       1           ECO            5           2            1      P
Supervision m        11/16/90      2        ENG,ECO           10          3            1      P, PM, PP
Superision IV        2/19/91       2           ENG            10          2            1      P, PP
Supervision V        4/29/91       2        ENG,ECO           10          2            1      P,PP
Supervision VI       11/20/91      2        ENG,ECO          20           2            1      P
Supervision VII      3/16/92       3        ENG,ECO          25           2            2      P
Supervision VII1     6/30/92       1          ENG             5           2            2      P
Supervision IX      10/23/92       2         ENG,FA           10          2            2      P
Supervision X        6/22/93       2         ENG,FA           10          1            1      PM
Supervision XI      10/15/93       2         ENG,FA           8           2            1      PM
Supervision XU       7/7/94        2         ENG,FA           10          2            1      PM
Supervision xm       4/4/95        1          ENG             5           2            1      PM
I                  ENG - Telecommunication s Engineer; FA - Financial Analyst; ECO - Economist
2                  1 - Problem Free; 2 - Moderate Problems; HS - Highly satisfactory; S - Satisfactory
3                  F - Financial; P - Procurement Progress; PM: Project Management; PP: Project Progress
NA - Not Available



APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE






Mexdco
PROYECTO DE ASISTENCIA TECN[CA EN TELECOMUNICACIONES
Prestamo 3208-ME
MISION DE SUPERVISION
27-31 de marzo de 1995
Aide-Memoire
I.     El Sr. David Delgado, Ingeniero de Telecomunicaciones del Banco Mundial, visit6 la ciudad de
Mexico del 27 al 31 de marzo de 1995 para supervisar el desarrollo del Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica en
Telecomunicaciones (Prdstamo 3208-ME). La misi6n se reuni6 con funcionarios de la Secretarfa de Hacienda
y CrediEo Pfiblico, de BANOBRAS y de la Subsecretaria de Comunicaciones y Desarrollo Tecnol6gico
(SCDT). Se adjunma una lista de las personas entrevistadas. La misi6n expresa su gratitud por la excelente
cooperaci6n de las auworidades mexicanas.
2.     Esta ayuda-memoria refleja las opiniones de la mision y los acuerdos con BANOBRAS y la SCDT
y esta sujeta a confirrnaci6n por parte de la gerencia superior del Banco.
Fortaledmiento de Ia Funciones Regulatorias de la SCT
Desarrollo de las Comunicaciones en el Perfodo 1993-2000
3.     La misi6n revis6 con la oficina de Coordinacion de Asesores la utilizaci6n de las recomendaciones
formuladas por los consultores en el estudio sobre Desarroflo Estrategico de las Comunicaciones en el
periodo 1993-2000, concluido en Diciembre de 1994. El estudio aport6 importantes consideraciones con
respecto a la organizaci6n que deberfa adoptarse para hacer frente a las nuevas demandas en materia de
regulaci6n del sector.  Sin embargo, estas recomendaciones, formuladas en 1993-94, no han sido
craducidas en la requerida reforma admninistrativa. En concepto de los consultores, los textos fundamentales
de regulaci6n del sector dan a la SCDT la autoridad legal suficiente para ejercer sus funciones de regulacion
y fomenwo, pero, durante el perfodo posterior a la privatizacidn de TELMEX, la SCDT no ha desempetlado
efectivamente su papel de regulador. Varios factores fueron analizados en relaci6n con este desempeflo, pero
todos pueden derivarse de la falta de una organizaci6n adecuada que permita, ademis, mejorar la calidad de
los recursos hunanos de la SCDT. Algunas de las recomendaciones de los consultores han sido de tipo
general y la SCDT no exugi6 que las mismas se precisaran para convertirlas en acciones concretas. Esto serla
consecuencia de la ausencia de un compromiso firne de cambio por parte de la SCDT, la insuficiencia de sus
recursos humanos y la presi6n de otras actividades consideradas mas urgentes. Por otra parte, tampoco
recurri6 la SCDT a uEiizar la asistencia del Banco para obtener comentarios sobre los informes (de hecho,
copias de estos fueron suministradas mardiamente al Banco).
4.     Las deficiencias institucionales de la SCDT y el extenso cat.ogo de acciones por tomar para satisfacer
las actuales necesidades de regulaci6n estln siendo objeto de un nuevo analisis interno que en breve plazo
conduciria a la reagrupaci6n de funciones entre las Direcciones Generales. Se ha indicado, por ejemplo, que
las funciones tzcnicas relativas a la administraci6n del espectro de radiofrecuencias se concentrarfan en una
Direcci6n, dejando la atenci6n de los usuarios a cargo de una Direcci6n diferente. El estudio de los
consultores podra servir de base no s6lo para reforzar las funciones regulatorias acmales sino tambien para
el anAlisis de opciones con respecto a la reglamentaci6n y posible privatizaci6n de ciertos servicios, en lo cual
se halla acmualmenEe empefiada la SCDT.



-2-
Capacitaci6n
5.     El Proyecto incluy6 originalmente un apreciable componente (US$700,000) de capacitaci6n, pero en
la ultima reasignaci6n de fondos del prestamo la suma correspondiente se redujo considerablemente
(a US$175,000). Aun asf, la SCDT no ha definido el programa respectivo. Las anteriores misiones de
supervisi6n sugirieron en varias oportunidades que se prograrnaran visimas de funcionarios a administraciones
o entidades extranjeras y cursos en universidades locales o institutos especializados en el exterior. En esta
oportunidad, la misi6n sugirio la realizacion de un seminario en Mexico al cual se inviten expertos que
expongan desde varios puntos de vista las experiencias mAs recientes y las tendencias actuales en cuanto a
privatizaci6n, liberalizaci6n y regulacion de redes y servicios. Esta informaci6n es de especial irnportancia
en este momento, dado que Mexico se encuenEra en el proceso de establecer una mayor apertura para
participacion del sector privado en la prestaci6n de los servicios existentes y de nuevos servicios. La Direcci6n
de Capacitaci6n y Desarrollo de Personal (DCDP) tom6 a su cargo la coordinaci6n de las acciones que se
requieran para concretar este seminario. La descripci6n, organizaci6n y costo del mismo se someterfan a
aprobaci6n del Banco a principios de abril de 1995.
6.     La capacitaci6n de personal (alrededor de 100 empleados) en funciones relativas a la administraci6n
del especuro radioelectrico ha tenido lugar mediante el contrato para suninistro de equipos. Seri necesario,
sin embargo que la SCDT manrenga programas de entrenamiento para la formacion y actualizaci6n de tecnicos
y operarios del sistema, e incluso a nivel de ingenieros.
Modernizacidn de la Gestidn v Control del Espectro RadioeMctrico
7.     El estudio sobre reorganizaci6n de la administraci6n del espectro radioelectrico, terminado en
Diciembre de 1994, hace recomendaciones sobre los planes de frecuencias nacionales e internacionales,
asignaci6n de frecuencias, otorgamiento de permisos y concesiones y servicios administrativos y de ingenierfa.
Sugiere ademas detalladamente los cambios organizacionales que se requieren dentro de la SCDT para un
manejo adecuado de las actividades relativas al espectro. Este estudio ha contado con una participaci6n activa
de los funcionarios asignados a esas funciones, pues en esma 5rea existe personal con capacimci6n especifica
y alguna experiencia. A la terminaci6n del Proyecto, la SCDT dispondrl de medios modernos y suficientes
para una efectiva administracion del espectro radioelectrico. No obstante, al momento de poner en servicio
la red nacional, hanra falta introducir cambios institucionales y actualizar los procedimientos internos, sobre
lo cual los consultores han presentado recomendaciones especfficas.
8.     La red nacional de monitoreo, incluidos el software y hardware para planificacion y administracion
de frecuencias y la red de comunicaciones para enlace con las estaciones monitoras, quedarfa completamente
instalada en junio de 1995 en concepto del coordinador del proyecto. Actualmente estAn instaladas 38 de las
53 estaciones monitoras y se estAn introduciendo y probando algunas modificaciones al software. La SCDT
estima que no habrl retrasos adicionales por parte del contratista ni en los ocho sitios que adn debe
acondicionar la SCDT. Se esta considerando la aplicaci6n de sanciones al contratista por incumplimiento del
plazo de entrega del sistema (originalmente acordado para septiembre de 1994).
DlesemboQsS
9.     Al 31 de marzo de 1995 los desembolsos del prestamo estAn distribuidos como sigue:
1A.-   .A   - %U-,9



-3-
(US$ '000)
Compromisos
Categorfa                           Asignaci6n (*)           Desembolsos             Pendientes
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-_-_   _-__ _ _ _-_-__ _ _-_
(1) Servicios de Consultoria                   4,425                4,562                    362
(2) Capacitaci6n                                 175                     5                  (**)
(3) Equipo                                   17,400                16,813                    138
(4) Sin asignar                                     0
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - _- - - - _- - __- - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
TOTAL                                    22,000                21,380                   500
Cuenta Especial  (saldo)                                          184
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-   -__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __-__ _ _-        - - -
(*)    Los fondos del prestamo fueron reasignados en diciembre de 1994.
(*~~*)   A la fecha de cierre del prestamo (30 de junio de 1995) no se cancelaria ninguna suma si se real iza
el programa de capacitaci6n mencionado anteriormente (parrafo 5).
El pago final de los servicios de consultoria para el estudio sobre desarroio de las comunicaciones
ha sido demorado desde diciembre de 1994 debido a problemas en el manejo del presupuesto de 1994. La
SCDT asegur6 a la misi6n que este pago se efectuara a miAs tardar el 30 de abril de 1995.
Cumplimiento de Convenios Legales del Pr6stanmo
10.    El ultimo informne de progreso recibido de BANOBRAS corresponde al perfodo marzo-mayo de 1994.
La presentacion de estos informes ha sido muy irregular y la SCDT podrIa requerir una revisi6n de su sistema
de informaci6n gerencial en forma tal que le permita seguir y documentar adecuadamente el desarrollo de sus
varios proyectos. A solicitud de BANOBRAS/SCDT, la misi6n convino en que la informaci6n de los perfodos
faltantes y la evaluaci6n del progreso durante el aflo 1994 se consoliden en un solo informe que debe ser
enviado al Banco a mais tardar el 31 de mayo de 1995. La Direcci6n General de Fomento de las
Telecomunicaciones e InformAtica (DGFTI) suministrr a la misi6n un informe de avance de los trabajos de
instalacion de equipos para la red de monitoreo. Otros convenios legales del prestamo han sido curnplidos.
Informe de Evaluacion del Proyecto
11.    La SCDT acordo adoptar el siguiente calendario para preparar la informaci6n relativa a la
terminaci6n del Proyecto (Implementation Completion Report):
(a)     Plan para la etapa operacional del proyecto (primeros dos aAios despu6s del 30 de junio
de 1995), incluyendo ejecuci6n de reformas administrativas (reagrupaci6n de funciones,
programas adicionales de capacitaci6n, mejoras en los procedirnientos de atenci6n a los
usuarios, mejoras en el sistema de informaci6n gerencial, etc.) e indicadores que permitan
supervisar el resultado de las operaciones y el impacto del Proyecto en el fortalecimiento de
la SCDT (por ejemplo, crecimiento de los ingresos por concepto del uso de frecuencias,
numnero de frecuencias y estaciones registradas en las bases de datos y reducci6n en el tiempo
necesario para otorgar nuevas 5icencias. El informe se enviara al Banco antes del 30 de junio
de 1994.
.A      Ad.4   - %fk 95



-4 -
(b)    Informe de evaluaci6n del Proyecto: este informe serl preparado por BANOBRAS/SCDT
como contribuci6n a la propia evaluaci6n que hace el Banco. Un resumnen del mismo (no
mrs de 10 piginas) se enviarl al Banco a mais tardar el 30 de septiembre de 1995. Al mismo
tiempo, BANOBRAS suministrarl informaci6n estadlstica sobre los costos anuales del
Proyecto (incluyendo los fmanciados con recursos diferentes del prestamo), descripci6n de
los estudios y contratos ejecutados y fechas de iniciaci6n/terminacion de cada contrato.
Mexico, 31 de marzo de 1995
M.r   q    s



MEXCO
PROYECTO DE ASISTENCIA TECNICA EN TELECOMUNICACIONES
Prestamno 3208-ME
Mision de Supervisi6n
27-31 de marzo de 1995
Personas Entrevistadas
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PTIBLICO
Lic. Miguel Angel Vivanco                  Jefe, Depto. de Polfuca Financiera Internacional
Lie. Jaimne Ascencio Aguirre               Direcci6n de Organismos Financieros Internacionales.
Especialista Financiero
SUBSECRETARIA DE CONI1MCACTONFUS Y TRANSPORTES (SCDT)
A - COORDINACION DE ASESORES
Ing. Bruno G. Ramos Maza                   Coordinador de Asesores
Ing. Salma Jalife Vilal6n                  Asesor
B - DFRECCION GENERAL DE POrLTTrIAS Y NORMAS DE COMUNICACIONES (DGPNC)
Lic. Jaime Inzunza Camacho                 Subdirector Adminiistrativo
Lic. Erasto Fuentes Morales                Jefe del Departamento de Recursos Financieros
C - DIRECCION GENERRAL DE FOMFNTO DF LAS TFLECOM. E INFORMATTCA (DGMEt)
Ing. Fernando Gama                         Director General
Ing. Sergio Cervantes Navarro              Director de Administracion y Control de RadiofrecueDcias
Ing. Hector Perez Castilo                  Director de Proyectos Especiales
Ing. Julio Vargas                          Director de Teleinformitica
Lic. Pedro Degollado Carrillo             Jefe, Depto. de Recursos Financieros
D - DIRECCTON GENERAL DE RECURSOS FINANCIEROS
Lic. Alberto Casdillo Adame                Director General
Lic. Jose Guadalupe SerdAn Delgado         Dir. Programaci6n Control Sectorial
Ing. Humberto JuArez Sanchez               Sub-Dir. Operaciones Crediticias
E - DTRECCTON DE CAPACrTACION Y DESARROLLO DF PERSONAL
Lic. Gloria Millan Campuzano               Directora
Lic. Julieta Ramirez                       Subdirectora de Planeaci6n



2
BANOBRAS
Lic. Gabriel Pefaloza Dfaz                 Subgerente de Organismos Financieros Internacionales
Lic. Georgina Chavero Sanchez              Especialista Financiero
C.P. Mario Torres Zetina                   lefe de la Div. de Desembolsos
CONSLqTORES
Ing. Reynaldo A. Fernandez Russo           Director de Proyecto, DETECON
DD-MEIUCO\199S\PRS1E7 MUarch 31. 1995



APPENDIX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR






SECRETARIA DE COMUNICACIONES Y TRANSPORTES
SUBSECRETARIA DE COMUNICACIONES Y DESARROLLO
TECNOLOGICO
DIRECCION GENERAL DE ADMINISTRACION DEL ESPECTRO
PRESTAMO 3208-ME
"ASISTENCIA TECNICA EN TELECOMUNICACIONES"
INFO RME   FINA L
PROYECTOS:
-    Adquisici6n de Bienes y Servicios para el Radiomonitoreo del Espectro
Radioel6ctrico
Servicios de Consultoria para la Reorganizaci6n de la Administraci6n
del Espectro Radioelectrico
Mexico, septiembre de 1995






I N D I C E
1.-  Identificaci6n del Proyecto
2.-   Antecedentes
3.-  Programa de entrega de bienes y servicios
4.-  Pagos al 29 de septiembre de 1995
5.-  Evaluaci6n de la participaci6n del Banco Mundial
6.-   Desarrollo del proyecto
7.-  Evaluaci6n de la participaci6n de la SCT






INFFINBM.DOC
INFORME FINAL SOBRE EL PROYECTO DE MODERNIZACION DE LA RED
NACIONAL DE RADIOMONITOREO
1.- ldentfficaci6n del Provecto
Nombre:           Asistencia Tecnica en Telecomunicaciones
Pr6stamo:         3208-ME
Pals:             Mexico
Sector:           Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes (SCT)
Proyecto especifico: Adquisici6n  de  Bienes  y  Servicios  para  el
Radiomonitoreo del Espectro Radioelectrico.
Objetivo:         Modernizar y expander la Red  Nacional de
Radiomonitoreo (RNR) de la SCT.
Contrato:         2-1-BF-A-016-W-0-2, Convenio Adicional: 4-I-BF-A-
016-W-A-4
Proveedor:        Tadiran Limited
Monto:            US$19'850,000.00  ($61,81 0'915,000.00   Viejos
Pesos M.N.)
Financiamiento:   US$14'800,000.00 del Prestamo 3208-ME
US$ 5'050.000.00 por el Proveedor
Erogaciones:      Recursos propios SCT:
Impuestos de importaci6n:  N$13'363,279.54
Comisiones Agente Financiero: N$  756,495.65
Impuesto al Valor Agregado:   N$  457,587.78
Viaticos personal:         N$ 1'637,913.86
Gastos aduanales:          N$  406,577.40
Alcance:          Suministro de bienes y servicios conexos de
instalaci6n, puesta en operaci6n, supervisi6n
operativa de 3 meses, mantenimiento por un aho
posterior a la garantia, 11 unidades m6viles y 15
lotes de equipo de inspecci6n y capacitaci6n del
personal de la SCT.



2
La RNR esta conformada por: 5 estaciones fijas tipo
A, 4 estaciones fijas tipo B. 1, 13 estaciones fijas tipo
B.2, 10 estaciones fijas remotas urbanas tipo C.1, 20
estaciones fijas tipo C.2, 11 unidades m6viles tipo D,
15 jgos. de equipo de inspecci6n, 1 Centro de
Control y 1 estaci6n fija remota urbana tipo C.3 (esta
ultima, adicional a Monterrey N.L., de acuerdo al
Convenio Adicional).
2.- Antecedentes:
A traves del prestamo 3208-ME, otorgado por el Banco Mundial, se financia el
"Proyecto Asistencia Tecnica en Telecomunicaciones" el cual contiene entre
otros, la Modernizaci6n de la Red Nacional de Radiomonitoreo (RNR), misma
que por su importancia y monto es objeto de la Licitaci6n Internacional NWm.
SCT DGFTI-01 1/92, en apego a la normatividad mexicana y a los lineamientos
acordados con Banco Mundial.
El Banco Mundial mediante comunicado del 23 del mismo mes realiza una
serie de comentarios para incluir en los Pliegos de Licitaci6n, destacando lo
siguiente:
- Para los factores de evaluaci6n, propone que el precio deberia tener por
/o menos un peso de 90%.
Los Pliegos de Licitaci6n, modificados con las observaciones y comentarios
realizados por Banco Mundial, se presentaron al Comite de Adquisiciones
Arrendamientos y Servicios relacionados con Bienes Muebles de esta
Secretaria, Organo Colegiado que los autoriza en su Sesi6n Num. 8
Extraordinaria, de fecha 29 de octubre de 1992.
El 5 de diciembre de 1992, se celebr6 el Acto de Apertura de Ofertas, a dicho
Acto acudieron 4 Empresas que presentaron sus ofertas econ6micas-t6cnicas.
El Dictamen, el Acta de revisi6n de procedimientos junto con los cuadros
comparativos de evaluaci6n, se presentaron a Banco Mundial, obteniendose la
"NO OBJECION" para adjudicar el contrato a la Empresa TADIRAN LIMITED,
segun consta en comunicado del 23 de diciembre de 1992, tomando del
pr6stamo 3208-ME la suma de US$14'800,000.00 y el resto
(US$5'050,000.00) a traves del financiamiento ofrecido por el Proveedor para
cubrir el valor total del Contrato.
En esta misma fecha se emite el Fallo correspondiente autorizado por el C.
Secretario de Comunicaciones y Transportes.



3
El 30 de diciembre de 1992 de formaliza el documento de las Condiciones
Generales del Contrato Num. 2-l-BF-A-016-W-0-2 con la empresa TADIRAN
LIMITED, asi como se procede conjuntamente a elaborar las Condiciones
Especiales del mismo y sus Apartados correspondientes.
Por conducto de la Direcci6n General de Recursos Financieros, se remiten a
Banco Mundial los documentos del Contrato (Condiciones Generales y
Especiales), obteni6ndose el dia 1 de marzo la "NO OBJECCION" de este
Organismo.
Con Oficio Num. 105.415.060 del 9 de marzo de 1993, se solicit6 a la
Direcci6n General de Recursos Financieros el tramite de la "Solicitud para
Apertura de Cr6dito" a BANOBRAS, por US$8'945,213.00 con recursos 1992
a favor de Tadiran, Ltd., cantidad destinada para cubrir el anticipo pactado por
US$4'844,610.00, equivalente al 30% de monto total de los bienes importados
y nacionales, y US$4'100,603.00 para el pago de bienes y servicios que
suministre la firma antes citada durante 1993.
3.- Proarama de entrepa de bienes v servicios
Con el fin de disponer de elementos para realizar el seguimiento y control
de las actividades a desarrollar dentro del Proyecto, asi como el prever los
pagos y realizar los tramites para la internaci6n oportuna de los bienes, se
le solicit6 a la empresa Tadiran Limited este programa detallado. La
empresa antes citada, hace notar e/ haber cobrado el ANTICIPO el 11 de
abril de 1993, en lugar del plazo fUado "dentro de los 30 dias siguientes a la
firma del Contrato", por lo que hasta esa fecha iniciaron negociaciones con
sus proveedores de equipos, notificando que a partir del 28 de junio de
1993 iniciaron la adquisici6n y fabricaci6n de los bienes que han de
suministrar a la SCT.
El programa contempla entregas parciales de los bienes hasta completarlos
en el mes de junio de 1994, y la entrega de la Red Nacional de
Radiomonitoreo en el mes de noviembre del mismo ano (Apartado H de las
Condiciones Especiales del Contrato).
A partir de la ultima semana de febrero y durante todo el mes de marzo de
1993, se realiz6 el reconocimiento de 18 Estaciones iniciales que formaban
la RNR y 30 sitios donde se ubicaran las nuevas, por personal de la
empresa y de esta Direcci6n General.



4
Como resultado de estas visitas, se definieron y precisaron los compromisos
de la SCT y Tadiran, en lo relacionado con la preparaci6n y
acondicionamiento de los sitios.
A partir del mes de julio de 1993, se realizan los tramites de pago, afectando
la Carta de Cr6dito IMP-0692, por los servicios prestados por concepto de
"Inspecci6n de los Sitios" y "Diseho detallado de las estaciones"; asi como,
en el mes de octubre de 1993, las primeras entregas de equipo efectuadas y
el "Inicio de obras civiles".
En el mes de octubre de 1993, se formaliza el Convenio Adicional Num. 4-1-
BF-A-016-W-A-4 al Contrato Principal, con el objeto de que Tadiran, Ltd.,
autorizado por la Secretaria, suministre e instale diversos equipos a cambio
de los contratados inicialmente, debido principalmente a mejoras en las
especificaciones t6cnicas, cambios de modelos y de procedencia,
correcciones a algunos datos contenidos en el Contrato Principal y sus
anexos, prorrogando su entrega en dos meses a la fecha inicialmente
pactada, sin modificar el plazo de la entrega de toda la Red, suministrar el
equipamiento necesario que por problemas tecnicos surgieron en
Monterrey, N.L. y sin que estos cambios representen algun gasto adicional a
la SCT.
De acuerdo a las entregas de bienes y servicios efectuados por Tadiran,
entre junio de 1993 y noviembre de 1994, se tramitan facturas cuyo monto
cubre los US$14'800,000.00 financiados por el prestamo 3208-ME otorgado
por el Banco Mundial. Para las facturas presentadas a partir del mes de
noviembre de 1994, se aplica el financiamiento del Proveedor.
4.- Paaos al 29 de se-otiembre de 1995:
Equipo.- El total entregado asciende a US$15'948,692.00 (98.76%). El
resto (US$200,008.00) corresponde a la entrega oficial del software, cuyo
pago se realizara a la aceptaci6n del mismo, lo cual se estima sucedera en
marzo de 1996.
Servicios.- Se ha cubierto la cantidad de US$2'250,407.00, quedando
pendiente US$1 '450,893.00, conforme a lo siguiente:



5
Pendiente  Fecha cump.
Concepto                           US$
Transportaci6n y entrega en su destino final:   25,000.00 Dic. 1995   ]
|Instalaci6n (incluye construcci6n):     440,000.00 Jun. 1996  |
Puesta en operaci6n y supervisi6n                  Abril, Mayo |
operativa por 3 meses:                  564,600.00 Jun. 1996
Manuales de Mantenimiento,
Operaci6n y Gufa de fallas:              50,000.00 Dic. 1995
P6Iiza de mantenimiento y servicio                 Dic. 1995 a
durante y un ato posterior a la garantia:  270,300.00 Dic. 1997
Capacitaci6n:                            52,376.00 Mar. 1996
Equipo y servs. est. C.3 Monterrey:    48,617.00 Ene. 1996
5.- Evaluaci6n de la participaci6n del Banco Mundial
5.1)  Los miembros de las misiones enviadas por el Banco Mundial, estuvo
formada por personal altamente calificado en sus respectivos campos
y coadyuvaron a detectar y corregir desviaciones en el cumplimiento
de las condiciones del Pr6stamo 3208-ME.
5.2)  Sin embargo, los documentos denominados "Ayuda Memoria", en su
mayoria fueron elaborados en Idioma Ingles y no se distribuyeron
oportunamente para su traducci6n y comprensi6n de las areas
involucradas.
Experiencia adquirida.- Se requiere una mayor interacci6n entre las
areas involucradas para una mayor comprensi6n de los documentos
que se generaron en las misiones, recomendandose al Banco Mundial
que sus expertos presenten sus documentos, ademas, en el idioma del
pais en el que se aplican los prestamos, como sucedi6 en las ultimas
visitas que realizaron.
6.- Desarrollo del Provecto.
6.1)  Condiciones en los Pliegos de Licitaci6n
El haber fijado el 90% para el factor "precio", dentro de la ponderaci6n,
origin6 que la oferta seleccionada fuera 40.8% mas econ6mica que la
propuesta que le sigui6, a pesar de que esta ultima ofreci6 condiciones
tecnicas superiores. En caso de que la segunda oferta hubiese sido la
seleccionada, la efectividad t6cnica de la RNR se veria incrementada.



6
Experiencia adquirida.- El aspecto tecnico es fundamental para este
tipo de proyectos, por lo que es recomendable aplicar una ponderaci6n
donde se contemple una mejor calificaci6n al cumplimiento de las
especificaciones tecnicas, de tal forma que este concepto sea el factor
principal dentro de la evaluaci6n.
6.2)  Programa de ejecuci6n
A la fecha, el proyecto se encuentra en su etapa de "pruebas de
aceptaci6n", sin embargo su terminaci6n estaba proyectada para el
mes de noviembre de 1994, excluyendo el tiempo para ejecutar el
servicio denominado "p6liza de mantenimiento posterior a la garantla".
Los factores principales que influyeron para retrasar las metas fijadas,
fueron:
(a)   Pago del anticipo a la empresa Tadiran, realizado con un poco mas de
dos meses a lo pactado; ocasionandose con ello, un defasamiento
para la construcci6n y adquisici6n de bienes destinados al proyecto.
Experiencia adquirida.- Se debe tener una mayor coordinaci6n y
apoyo de las areas financieras, para el tramite correspondiente.
(b)   Retraso en la subcontrataci6n de empresas mexicanas por parte de
Tadiran, para realizar algunas de las actividades previas a la
instalaci6n, tales como: obras civiles e infraestructura interior de las
estaciones de radiomonitoreo, construcci6n e instalaci6n de torres;
ademis, algunos trabajos no fueron satisfactorios por lo que, en
ciertos casos, se tuvieron que rehacer por medio de otro
subcontratista.
Experiencia adquirida.- El desconocimiento del personal de Tadiran
de empresas nacionales especializadas consumi6 mucho tiempo
dentro del desarrollo del proyecto, ademas ante la falta de un
Representante (Distribuidor, Agente, etc.) en M6xico que conozca las
condiciones imperantes en nuestro pais, contribuy6 a incrementar los
tiempos de realizaci6n de las obras.
(c)   Retraso en la disponibilidad por parte de la SCT de 6 sitios, para que
Tadiran y sus subcontratistas realizaran los trabajos encomendados.
Experiencia adquirida.- El proceso para adquirir predios, ya sea por
adquisici6n directa o por medio de expropiaci6n, requiere la
participacion de otras Dependencias del Gobierno Federal y los
tramites son lentos, el tiempo para realizar estas acciones excedi6 lo



7
considerado dentro de la programaci6n del proyecto de modernizaci6n
de la RNR
(d)   Desarrollo  del software  para  radiomonitoreo, integraci6n  del
correspondiente a radiodeterminaci6n y el de comunicaciones, por
parte de Tadiran, ha consumido mas tiempo de lo previsto.
Experiencia adquirida.- La empresa Tadiran desarroll6 este software
bajo las condiciones climaticas, ortograficas y de extensi6n territorial
de su pals (Israel), por lo que al iniciar su operaci6n en M6xico
present6 problemas. La empresa debi6 haber tomado medidas en el
sentido de conocer a mayor detalle las condiciones reales donde se va
aplicar el sistema suministrado.
(e)   Fallas imprevistas en equipo y accesorios, y retraso en la soluci6n de
problemas, ya que Tadiran tiene que recurrir en algunos casos al
fabricante, remitiendo a Israel o al pais de origen los bienes o partes
con fallas
Experiencia adquirida.- La empresa debe disponer en Mexico de un
stock de refacciones suficientemente amplio o bien recurrir a
laboratorios especializados en nuestro pais o cercanos a 6l, p.e
Estados Unidos de Am6rica, donde reparen lo mas rapido posible los
bienes con fallas.
(f)   Personal especializado traido desde su planta en Israel para el
desempeho de labores.
Experiencia adquirida.- Algunas de las labores no requerian de
traslado exprofeso de personal desde Israel y en aquellas donde si se
requeria especializaci6n, en el caso de que Tadiran dispusiera en
M6xico de un distribuidor, representante o agente, podria haber
capacitado a ese personal para efectuar estas tareas, contribuyendo
con esto ultimo a una transferencia tecnol6gica ben6fica para Mexico.
6.3)  Disponibilidad de recursos
(a)   Excepto por lo indicado en el parrafo 6.2.a) anterior, la aplicaci6n de
Cartas de Cr6dito oper6 satisfactoriamente para el pago a Tadiran, con
los recursos aportados a trav6s del Pr6stamo 3208-ME.
(b)   En lo que corresponde a los fondos de contrapartida aportados por la
SCT, fundamentalmente se aplicaron para el pago de impuestos de
importaci6n, al inicio del proyecto estos se vieron incrementados
debido principalmente a retrasos en el retiro de bienes de los recintos



8
aduanales y por otra parte, errores u omisiones en las facturas
presentadas por Tadiran, tambien repercutieron en la no liberaci6n
oportuna de la aduana, ya que la documentaci6n tenia que ser
reelaborada en Israel.
Experiencia adquirida.- Se aplicaron mecanismos mas agiles para los
tramites de pago de impuestos, estableciendo una coordinaci6n mas
estrecha entre las areas financieras y las que realizaron las gestiones
en las aduanas.
7.- Evaluaci6n de la narficipaci6n de la SCT
7.1)  Dada la importancia que representa para la SCT la modernizaci6n y
ampliaci6n de su RNR, se aplicaron los mejores esfuerzos para su
consecuci6n, sin embargo, circunstancias no previstas como las
seialadas en los parrafos 6.2.a), 6.2.c) y 6.3.b), ocasionaron un
defasamiento en el alcance de las metas.
7.2)  Los recursos humanos de la SCT (cerca de 100 tecnicos) que fueron
capacitados a trav6s de los cursos impartidos por Tadiran en las
fechas programadas, debido al cambio de tecnologia, la mayoria de los
operadores han tenido que adaptarse a ella, lo cual es un proceso
lento, aunado a esto su aprovechamiento no se ha aplicado en forma
total ya que los equipos y sistemas no estan disponibles al cien por
ciento.
Experiencia adquirida.- Debido a los avances tecnol6gicos se
requiere una capacitaci6n continua del personal que operara estos
equipos y sistemas, ademas el personal de direcci6n de estos grupos
requiere una actualizaci6n de las nuevas tecnologias empleadas en
telecomunicaciones.
7.3)  Con este proyecto, la SCT actualiz6 parte de la infraestructura de su
red de telecomunicaciones, asi como esta en vias de actualizar y
validar su base de datos de usuarios registrados del espectro
radioel6ctrico.
7.4)  Ademas, debido a que las labores de vigilancia y control de uso del
espectro radioelectrico que desarrolla la RNR, forman parte del
concepto Administraci6n del mismo, la SCT contrat6 los servicios de
consultoria, derivandose el siguiente:



9
Proyecto especifico: Servicios de Consultoria para la Reorganizacion de
la Administraci6n del Espectro Radioel6ctrico.
Objetivos:        a) Modernizar  la  gesti6n   del   Espectro
Radioel6ctrico por la SCT, asi como mejorar la
capacidad t6cnica para la administraci6n de este
recurso.
b) Fortalecer el control sobre el uso del Espectro
Radioelectrico y establecer una red de
radiomonitoreo en el Pais, asistido por
computadora, tomando en cuenta los trabajos
realizados y en proceso.
Contrato:         4-l-BF-A-001 -Y-0-4, Convenio Adicional: 4-l-BF-A-
003-Y-A-4
Monto:            1 '451,628.70 Marcos Alemanes
(N$2'738,922.08 Nuevos Pesos M.N.)
Financiamiento:   Recursos propios
Alcance:          Analisis de la situaci6n actual; Requerimientos
generales;  Requerimientos / recomendaciones /
procedimientos / manuales necesarios para realizar
la actividad particular; Realizaci6n de 3 cursos
particulares de capacitaci6n y Presentaci6n de los
informes respectivos.
Con fecha veintiuno de enero de 1994 se firma el contrato con la empresa
Deutsche Telepost Consulting GmbH (Detecon), para proporcionar los
servicios de consultoria con una duraci6n de 6 meses a partir de la fecha de
inicio.
Como resultado del analisis de la situaci6n actual, la SCT y Detecon acordaron
celebrar el 20 de julio de 1994, un Convenio Adicional al contrato principal,
para incluir un nuevo m6dulo dentro de los servicios de consultoria
denominado "Definici6n de Politicas para la Administraci6n del Espectro
Radioelectrico", intercambiando los 3 cursos (2 para Gesti6n de Frecuencias y
uno para Radiomonitoreo) y prorrogando la fecha de terminaci6n hasta el 03
de noviembre de 1994. Todo lo anterior, sin modificar el monto total del
Contrato.
Durante el desarrollo de los servicios contratados, los expertos de la firma de
consultoria y personal de la extinta Direcci6n General de Fomento de las



10
Telecomunicaciones e Informatica, participaron activamente intercambiando
ideas.
Con fecha 19 de diciembre de 1994, se firma el Acta de entrega-recepci6n de
los documentos elaborados por el personal de Detecon, los cuales contienen
recomendaciones generales y en algunos casos, especificas, en los siguientes
temas:
- Diagn6stico (situaci6n actual): "Analisis de la situaci6n existente"
-  Concepto de requerimientos generales: "Definici6n de Requerimientos
Basicos"
-  Polifticas- Definici6n de Politicas: "Polfticas para la Administraci6n de
Frecuencias"
-  Organizaci6n- Reorganizacion de la Administraci6n del Espectro:
"Recomendaciones para la Reestructuraci6n de la SCDT"
-  Aspectos Legales
-  Concepto ALCONF: "El Concepto General de la Administraci6n del
Espectro Radioelectrico"
-  Planeaci6n del Espectro Radioelectrico: "Manual de Planificaci6n del
Espectro Radioel6ctrico"
-  Gesti6n  de  Frecuencias:  "Manual  de  Automatizaci6n  para
Administraci6n y Monitoreo de Frecuencias en Mexico"
-  Monitoreo- Radiomonitoreo: "Manual de Radiomonitoreo"
-  Capacitaci6n
-  Recursos Humanos- Equipo Profesional
-  lmplantaci6n: "Concepto de lmplantaci6n"
Conforme a las recomendaciones emitidas por la firma consultora, en cada uno
de los temas antes descritos, algunas de ellas son factibles de aplicar en el
corto, mediano y largo plazo, otras por el momento no, debido a la situaci6n
econ6mica en Mexico, asi como restricciones imperantes en la Administraci6n
Publica y otras estan sujetas a decisiones politicas.
Sin embargo, dentro del concepto "Organizaci6n", a partir del 21 de junio de
1995, la Subsecretaria de Comunicaciones y Desarrollo Tecnol6gico, se ha
venido reestructurando para quedar integrada por las Direcciones Generales
de Administraci6n del Espectro, de Politica de Telecomunicaciones y
Negociaciones Internacionales, de Redes y Radiocomunicaci6n y de Sistemas
de Difusi6n.
Por su parte, la Direcci6n de Administraci6n del Espectro, para el desarrollo de
sus proyectos sustantivos, los realizara con el apoyo de 3 direcciones de area:
la de Administraci6n del Radioespectro, de Control del Radioespectro y de
Sistemas y Telecomunicaciones.



11
Dentro de los conceptos "Pol[ticas", "Administraci6n", "Planeaci6n" y "Gesti6n"
de frecuencias del Espectro Radioel6ctrico, con la publicaci6n de la Ley
Federal de Telecomunicaciones, de acuerdo a su Articulo 10, la SCT continua
promoviendo la participaci6n de la Industria Privada, mediante la utilizaci6n del
Espectro Radioel6ctrico en:
I   Espectro de uso libre: son aquellas bandas de frecuencias que
pueden ser utilizadas por el publico en general sin necesidad de
concesi6n, permiso o registro;
11 Espectro para usos determinados: son aquellas bandas de
frecuencias otorgadas mediante concesi6n y que pueden ser
utilizadas para los servicios que autorice la Secretaria en el titulo
correspondiente;
Ill  Espectro para uso oficia l: son aquellas bandas de frecuencias
destinadas para el uso exclusivo de la administraci6n publica federal,
gobiemos estatales y municipales, otorgadas mediante asignaci6n
directa;
IV  Espectro para usos experimentales: son aquellas bandas de
frecuencias que podra otorgar la Secretaria, mediante concesi6n
directa e intransferible, para comprobar la viabilidad t6cnica y
econ6mica de tecnologias en desarrollo tanto en el pais como en el
extranjero, para fines cientificos o para pruebas temporales de
equipo; y
V   Espectro reservado: son aquellas bandas de frecuencias no
asignadas ni concesionadas por la Secretaria.
En la recomendaciones especificas emitidas sobre "Monitoreo", las cuales
ser6n aplicadas en forma interna, se han iniciado en forma paulatina algunas
de ellas, con el prop6sito de realizar esta importante funci6n en la Gesti6n del
Espectro Radioel6ctrico, habiendose logrado la contratacion de cerca de 100
t6cnicos para fortalecer la operaci6n de las estaciones de la RNR.
Asimismo, en "Capacitaci6n", se continua este proceso a nivel local,
contemplando al personal operativo y de mandos medios que intervienen en la
operaci6n de la mencionada RNR.
Experiencias adquiridas.- Debido a la complejidad de los temas para los
cuales se contrat6 a la empresa de consultoria y el tiempo ocupado para su
realizaci6n: a) 6ste tipo de servicios requieren mas tiempo para una mayor
compenetraci6n, comprensi6n y conocimiento de los Consultores, y para el
analisis y aplicaci6n de las recomendaciones, si es el caso, por parte de la
SCT; b) Debido al cambio de administraci6n que experimenta nuestro Pals
cada 6 anios, quizas se podrian obtener mejores resultados en la aplicaci6n de
las recomendaciones, si esta consultoria no hubiese coincidido con estos
cambios; y c) Aunque si bien los expertos asignados por la firma de consultoria
son de reconocido prestigio, algunas de las recomendaciones planteadas



12
originalmente fueron rechazadas por no ser aplicables en Mexico, lo que
contribuy6, tambien, a un retraso en el alcance de metas y presentaci6n de
informes respectivos, durante el desarrollo de la prestaci6n de los servicios.
30 septiembre de 1995



IBRD 23547
0i. 14                                                                                                                                                               M  E X I CO
BAJA  1 
-AIIfORNIA                                                                                          \
30*-
)      8              lO  Iv   V  R   A   0   gh         <      f  11H  U A 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~c
National capitol
s Stat. coapital
BAJA      4         -                                                    Ue IwA                                                                                                                                 0    Prncipal cities or towns
S.l.cted main roads
4 sup                                                                                                                                                                                                       .Iod
N u        N                                                                               - Pr_ncipal airport
+t   Mozoalon%, 8  _   1i,   <   SAN tUIS     tACd    M           ar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ineratonl oudaie
Stt    P .  .i..
9,4   J;f/i                     >FA    S;                                                                                                                                                                                                       erida                bvvD     4  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.h I X- 6Y                                                                                                               M,,,                                      t               e                1 4
<  ,        ,>CRgl~~ponc-ngo                                                                 Conipechec 7g~ .iBLZ
6. S- L- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~orlc                        IYTb   
Acapulc                   ( OAIACA          __          I_             G    I-        -      -       1 
OILCMRtE5S 0       t00       ona      3O ,   40 ,    5, *\__ 4 Tutl r>;0 cc.. .  ._
IItI1ES 0           IO0            200             300                                                                                                         Fc r-.E h                                        <            i      GUATEMALA          ,> c
tiiii mop flow boon OPP.id oy Tb. Wu.id 5.MCk. .v.rr   t=< u,;l  hr.                                                                                            Pvyvr Efvd                                       '-                    GUTML                   /
Book Owun. Tb.{ 4.vvi.viiioiwv.hd vivA   d Hi. n G.iiA.,inny.ludv mni                                                                                                                                               Toicv                                  ,   ONDRA
oviii.i.wo ivto i     nto ri mh  ryo r o n vvp..vdo,..uvviui    or uuuPproocvuf                                                                                                                                                                     sr ,4i    >,        Ff       UiS ;
won do i,i.i iii.pir. vii ifl. pod vS tv,* Wofld Biik Ovouin. vim~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It UBY19
Sw.                                                                                      too.                                             '~~~~JAISO    cCop4h









IMAGTIJ(C;
Report No:       15476
Type: ICR



