CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 617 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Rural Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 30, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1976, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ADBN" means the Agricultural Development Bank, estab-
lished under the Agricultural Development Bank Act, 1967, as
amended, of the Borrower, and any successor or successors thereto;
(b)  "PCC" means the project coordinating committee established
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, as
the same mqy be amended from time to time;
(c) "Project Area" means Nuwakot and Rasuwa Districts of the
Bagmati Zone, excluding the area designated by the Borrower to be
developed as Langtang National Park;


﻿-3-
(d) "MFAI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Food, Agriculture
and Irrigation;
(e) "DDC" means the Dairy Development Corporation, established
under the Corporation Act, 1964, of the Borrower, and any succes-
sor or successors thereto;
(f) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
ADPN to a guided cooperative or to a farmer in the Project Area;
(g)  "Project Coordinator" means the person appointed by the
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agree-
ment; and
(h) "AIC" means the Agricultural Inputs Corporation, estab-
lished under the Corporation Act, 1964, of the Borrower, and any
successor or successors thereto.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1986, and ending December 15,
2025, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Project Coordinator shall be designated as
representative of the Borrower for purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article 5 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to
be carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, engi-
neering. financial, forestry and public health practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing paragraph (a), the
Borrower shall cause the DDC, ADBN and AIC to carry out Parts A(2)(a),
B(1) and B(3), respectively, of the Project and shall provide the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such Parts to DDC,
ADBN and AIC, respectively.
(c) The Borrower shall lend proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
in respect of Part B(1) of the Project to ADBN and shall ensure
that such proceeds are relent in accordance with Schedule 4 hereto,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
(d) Without limitation to the foregoing paragraph (a), the
Borrower shall employ promptly as required to implement the Project
additional staff in such capacities and numbers as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-7-
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall employ the following
consultants and technical experts whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association:
(i)       an assistant to the Project Coordinator to assist
District staff in the Project Area in planning,
budgeting and Project implementation and in
establishing systems for Project disbursement,
accounting and monitoring (estimated 3 years);
(ii)      an irrigation engineer to train District staff
in the Project Area in the identification, pre-
paration and implementation of the construction
of improved irrigation systems and in training
farmers in the operation and maintenance thereof
(estimated 3 years),
(iii)     consultants to assist the Borrower in the formu-
lation of procedures for evaluating the socio-
economic impact of the Project on farmers in the
Project Area and in analyzing the data collected
thereunder (estimated 30 man-months); and
(iv)      consultants to assist the Borrower's Planning
Commission in the identification and preparation
of other rural development projects (estimated 12
man-months).


﻿-8-
(b) Before employing the consultants referred to in paragraph
(a)(iv) of this Section, the Borrower shall consult with the Asso-
ciation on the terms of reference for any proposed study of other
rural development projeccs.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall employ a suitably qualified
and experienced person within its Ministry of Panchayats to serve
full-time as Project Coordinator under terms of reference mutually
agreed between the Borrower and the Association. Before any appoint-
ment is made to the position of Project Coordinator, the Borrower
shall inform the Association of the names, qualifications and ex-
perience of the persons being considered for appointment to such
position and afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on the qualifications and expe-
rience of such persons.
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, in order to coordinate the activities under the
Project, the Borrower shall maintain the project coordinating com-
mittee (PCC) with its headquarters at Kathmandu. The Borrower shall
establish terms of reference for PCC in consultation with the
Association. The PCC shall include the Secretary of the Ministry
of Panchayats as Chairman, the Project Coordinator as Secretary,
and representatives from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Works
and Transport, MFAI, Ministry of Forest, Ministry of Industries,
Ministry of Land Reform, Ministry of Health, the chief district
officers of Nuwakot and Rasuwa Districts, ADBN, AIC and, DDC.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be


﻿-9-
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, and cause ADBN, AIC
and DDC to maintain, records adequate to record the progress of
their respective parts of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit related thereto, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable, and cause ADBN, AIC and DDC
to permit, the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in their respective
parts of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit related thereto and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, and cause ADBN, AIC and
DDC to furnish, to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning their respective


﻿- 10 -
parts of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
related thereto and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to purchase or otherwise acquire
as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, when so requested, evidence satisfactory to
the Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that, under arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Association, agricultural inputs, credit
and extension services shall be provided to farmers in the Project
Area in a timely manner.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause to be prepared and
furnished to the Association each year the annual development plans
for Nuwakot and Rasuwa Districts and shall ensure that the annual
allocations in the development budget for these two Districts are
in conformity with the requirements of the Project.
Section 3.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the
studies described in Parts F(6) and F(7) of the Project not later
than one year after the Effective Date, or such other date as shall
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause the extension and
training centers included in Parts A(1)(a) and A(3)(b) of the
Project and the health posts included in Part D(1) of the Project
to be staffed by an adequate number of qualified persons and shall
provide such health posts with adequate quantities of medicines,
drugs and other supplies.
Section 3.12. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out a cadastral survey
of, and complete classification of land in, the Project Area not
later than three years after the Effective Date, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a
program for monitoring and evaluating the socio-economic impact
of the Project on farmers in those parts of the Project Area which
are agreed between the Borrower and the Association. The areas
to be covered, the agency or agencies to be involved and the pro-
cedures to be followed in carrying out such program shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association not later than six months
after the date of this Agreement, or such other date as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association. For this purpose,
the Borrower shall submit its proposals to the Association not
later than three months after the date of this Agreement, or such
other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall levy and collect water charges
for the Batar Plain Irrigation Scheme (Part A(4)(d) of the Project)
at levels to be determined in consultation with the Association.


﻿-12                                      0
The Borrower shall submit proposals as to the amount and method
of collection of such charges to the Association not later than
one year after the Effective Date, or such other date as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall, in consultation with the
Association and not later than six months after the Effective Date,
or such other date as agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, cause MFAI to develop (a) crop production practices and
priorities for agricultural research in the Project Area; and (b)
training programs for farmers in the Project Area.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall, in consultation with the
Association and not later than six months after the Effective
Date, or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, cause its Ministry of Industries to carry
out a study on the variety, design, production and quality of
cottage industries in the Project Area.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause ADBN,
AIC and DDC to maintain,records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices (i)
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Proj-
ect, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof and (ii) ADBN's,
AIC's and DDC's operations and financial condition with respect
to its activities under the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts relating to
the Project for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by the Auditor
General of the Kingdom of Nepal; (ii) except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than twelve months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its accounts for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditor,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning its accounts relating to the Project and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time rea-
sonably request.
(c) The Borrower shall cause ADBN, AIC and DDC to: (i) have
their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year


﻿- 14 -
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consis-
tently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of ADBN, AIC and DDC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause all roads, tracks,
trails and bridges in the Project Area and all works and buildings
constructed under the Project to be maintained or repaired in ac-
cordance with appropriate engineering standards and shall cause
to be provided, as and when required, the funds, facilities and
services for this purpose.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General
Conditions, namely that the Borrower has made arrangements satis-
factory to the Association for the employment of consultants and
technical experts in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date July 30, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.08, 3.11 and 3.13 and Article IV of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 16-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary or Joint
Secretary of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to His Majesty's Government
Ministry of Finance
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:
ARTHA
Kathmandu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ P. B. Khatri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AS SOCIATION
By Is/ R. Picciotto
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 18                                      0
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) Batar Plain             130,000          63%
irrigation
scheme
(b)  Construction          2,4409000         63%
and maintenance
of all buildings
(other than
Panchayat assembly
halls and regional
training centers),
minor irrigation
works, roads, trails,
suspension bridges,
village water
supplies and erosion
control (other than
reafforestation)
(c)  Construction of          60,000         63%
Panchayat assembly
halls and the
regional train-
ing centers


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(2) Equipment, piping,
medical supplies,
livestock and
vehicles
(a) Directly              2,100,000         100% of -foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) Other                    70,000         63%
(3) Planting, reaf-
forestation, re-
generation and pro-
tection of forests
(a) By Department           220,000         63%
of Forestry
(b) By Department            50,000         63%
for Soil and
Water Conser-
vation
(4) Studies and train-           180,000         63%
ing
(5) Project administra-         380,000          63%
tion and staffing
(6) ADBN Sub-loans and          570,000          63% of amounts
loans made by De-                            disbursed
partment of Cottage
and Village Indus-
tries
(7) Technical                    100,000         100%
assistance
(8) Unallocated                1,700,000
TOTAL      8,000,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   (a) No proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn under Cate-
gory (3)(a) until the study referred to in Section 3.10 and Part
F(6) of the Project has been completed.
(b) No proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn under
Category (1)(a) until (i) water users' associations have been
formed in the Batar Plain on the basis of the studies referred
to in Section 3.10 and Part F(7) ofi the Project; (ii) final designs
for such works satisfactory to the Association have been completed;
and (iii) the Borrower has established, to the satisfaction of
the Association, the amount of, and procedures for levying, water
charges.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then ap-
plicable to such item as required to be consistent with the afore-
mentioned policy of the Association.


﻿-21 -
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made under Cate-
gory (4) on account of expenditures incurred after December 1,
1975 for the study described in Part F(6) of the Project in an
aggregate amount not exceeding $20,000 equivalent.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,


﻿- 22 -
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program over a five-year
period to provide for intensive development of the Project Area by
improving infrastructure and social services and by increasing the
agricultural and livestock production of the approximately 29,000
families living therein. It consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Agriculture, livestock and irrigation
(1) Agricultural extension and animal health services
(a) Construction and equipping of about five ad-
ministrative sub-centers in Nuwakot District
and about three administrative sub-centers
in Rasuwa District.
(b) Purchase and utilization of equipment for
production of radio programs and of about
500 radios for distribution to farmers in
the Project Area.
(c) Construction of a livestock market at Trisuli
Bazaar.
(d) Introduction of improved varieties of crops
and stock by establishing a seed and live-
stock exchange program.


﻿- 24 -
(e) Establishment of an annual program for the
innoculation and dosing of buffaloes, cattle,
sheep and goats.
(2) Dairying and forestry
(a) Construction, equipping and operation by DDC
of a cheese and butter factory at Trisuli
Bazaar of about 1,000 liters' capacity per day.
(b) Planting of about 2,500 hectares of fodder and
fuel trees, regeneration of about 1,000 hec-
tares of fodder trees and increased protection
of about 5,000 hectares of forest by means of
fencing and controlled exploitation.
(c) Reafforestation and regeneration of over-
exploited forest areas primarily for purposes
of erosion control.
(3) Agricultural research and training
(a) Purchase and utilization of equipment and
materials for, and construction of stores and
sheds at, the research stations of MFAI's Crop
Research Division at Kakani, Dhunche and
Trisuli Bazaar.


﻿- 25 -
(b) Construction of training centers at the Kakani,
Dhunche and Trisuli Bazaar Research Stations,
construction of a regional training center at
Trisuli Bazaar and carrying out training pro-
grams for farmers and officials at such centers.
(4) Irrigation
(a) Development of about 600 hectares of small
gravity-fed irrigation schemes.
(b)  Improvement of hill terrace irrigatior on about
650 hectares suitable for maize-based crop
rotations and about 200 hectares suitable for
rice-based crop rotations.
(c) Development of a 110 hectare pilot low-lift
pump scheme in Nuwakot District.
(d) Development of a high-lift irrigation scheme to
serve about 240 hectares on the Batar Plain
in Nuwakot District.
(e) Establishment of a district irrigation office
with workshop and storage facilities in Nuwakot
District.
Part B:   Agricultural credit and marketing facilities
(1) Provision of credit by ADBN to farmers in the
Project Area, directly and through cooperative


﻿- 26 -
societies, for the purchase and utilization of such
inputs as seed, fertilizer, agricultural chemicals,
veterinary medicines and livestock and provision of
managerial staff to cooperative societies in con-
nection therewith.
(2) Establishment, supervision and auditing of about 25
cooperative societies in the Project Area by the
Cooperatives Department in the Borrower's Ministry
of Land Reform in order to ensure the speedy and
efficient implementation of Part B(1) of the Project.
(3) Construction and staffing by AIC of about 16 ware-
houses in the Project Area and supply of inputs to
farmers through them.
Part C:   Infrastructure
(1) Establishment, not later than two years after the
Effective Date, or such other date as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
of a Divisional Office of the Borrower's Department
for Soil and Water Conservation at Trisuli Bazaar
and carrying out of soil erosion control programs
in the Project Area including, inter alia:
(a) road, track and trail maintenance;
(b) check-dam and embankment construction; and
(c) stabilization of abut 500 hectares of
endangered slopes.


﻿-27 -
(2) Construction of about 50 kilometers of dry-weather
tracks.
(3)  Improvement of about 100 kilometers of major trails
and about 75 kilometers of minor trails.
(4) Construction of about 12 small suspension footbridges.
Part D:   Health services, village water supplies and
cottage industries
(1) Health services
(a) Construction of about 8 health posts in
Nuwakot District and about 7 health posts
in Rasuwa District.
(b) Provision of staff, drugs, medicine and supplies
for the health posts constructed under Part D(1)(a)
of the Project.
(2) Village water supplies
(a) Provision of about 70 village water supply
systems in Nuwakot District and about 30
village water supply systems in Rasuwa District.
(b) Training of village technical staff and
maintenance workers.


﻿- 29 -
Part F:   Studies and training
(1) Training District staff in the identification,
preparation and implementation of the construction
of improved irrigation system and training farmers
in the operation and maintenance thereof.
(2) Carrying out a study of the variety, design, pro-
duction and quality of cottage industries in the
Project Area.
(3) Carrying out a study to determine practices to
improve crop production and to determine priorities
for agricultural research in the Project Area.
(4) Developing agricultural training programs for
farmers in the Project Area.
(5) Evaluation of the socio-economic impact of the
Project on farmers in the Project Area.
(6) Carrying out a study to determine the boundaries of
forest areas in the Project Area and to set priori-
ties for the development of such areas, indicating
the specific areas to be covered in implementing
Parts A(2)(b) and A(2)(c) of the Project.


﻿- 30 -
(7) Carrying out a complete cadastral survey of the
Batar Plain and a comprehensive socio-economic
survey of the farmers living on the Batar Plain.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, equipment, piping and
vehicles shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in ac-
cordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   Contracts for equipment, piping and vehicles shall be bulked
to the extent possible so as to encourage international competition.
3.   (a) Contracts for equipment, piping or vehicles estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less may be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and pursuant to
the Borrower's usual procurement procedures.
(b) Contracts for the construction of the regional training
center and district assembly halls for the District Panchayats
shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and pursuant to the Borrower's usual procurement procedures.


﻿- 32-
B.   Procurement Without Contracting
The construction of roads, tracks, bridges, buildings and
irrigation works and the items to be used for erosion control
under the Project shall be carried out by the Borrower under
force account.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts for equipment, piping and
vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall fur-
nish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a


﻿- 33 -
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids re-
ceived, together with the recommendation for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Asso-
ciation shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fu:nished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 34 -
SCHEDULE 4
(Section 3.01(c))
Lending Terms in Respect
of Agricultural Credit
The following chart indicates the basic lending and relending
terms for proceeds of the Credit withdrawn to implement Part B(1)
of the Project.
Lender        Borrower     Type of Loan              Interest Rate
Borrower       ADBN      Funds for short-term             7%
loans (one planting
season)
Borrower       ADBN      Funds for medium-term            5%
loans (livestock, up
to 3 years)
ADBN           Coopera-  Funds for short-term            11%
tive      loans
society
ADBN           Coopera-  Funds for medium-term            8%
tive      loans
society
ADBN or        Farmer    Short-term                      15%
cooperative
society
ADBN or        Farmer    Medium-term                     12%
cooperative
society


