 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14809

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 09/28/2015

               Country: Niger
             Project ID: P123567                                                     Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Niger Second                   Project Costs (US$M):                      15.09                 14.87
                         Emergency Food
                         Security Support
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       15.00                 14.73
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural         Cofinancing (US$M):                        0.00                  0.00
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                    04/18/2011
                                                               Closing Date:           11/29/2013               11/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Irrigation and drainage (70%); Crops (20%); Animal production (10%)
          Theme(s):        Global food crisis response (100%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                   Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Hassan Wally               George T. K. Pitman     Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The project was part of an international program that was to be fully covered by independent and parallel financing
from the World Bank Trust Fund of the Food Price Crisis Response Program (GFRP), the International Fund for
Agricultural development, the OPEC Fund for International Development and the IFAD-managed Belgian Fund for
Food Security. The program's objective was to support improvement of food security in Niger in general and of poor
farmers and herders' households highly-exposed to the recurrent food and livestock crisis, in the Regions of Maradi,
Tahoua and Tillabery, in particular (Project Paper, p. 3).

The Project Paper (p. vii) and the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund Grant Agreement (p.5) stated that the
Project Development Objective was to:

    "increase rice production in targeted areas , and restore productive assets for targeted food insecure
    households in the Region of Tillabery ."

This review evaluates the project against objectives as stated in the Grant Agreement



b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 1. Restoration of productive assets for food -unsecured rural households (Appraisal Cost: US$2.00 million, Actual
Cost: US$2.20 million). This component was to support affected farmers and herders households in the Region of
Tillabery to recover from the food crisis and to be better prepared to cope with future threats. It included the following
set of activities:
     (i) Recapitalization of households’ husbandry of small ruminants , sheep fattening and livestock health and
     nutrition monitoring . This consisted of direct recapitalization of households' husbandry through distribution of
     about 17,000 small ruminants to 5,600 farmers and herders households affected by the current food crisis.
     Activities also included establishing five livestock feed banks to support sheep fattening, and monitoring of
     livestock health and nutrition; and
     (ii) Expansion of the village lean period food bank system . This aimed to establish and manage approximately
     forty five (45) cereal storage facilities. Each storage facility was to be provided with 10 tons of cereals sufficient
     for 3,400 targeted households during lean period, and replenished in-kind at the next harvesting period. The
     activity targeted exclusively women-headed households and women's groups in highly exposed food crisis areas.
2. Strengthening irrigated rice production system (Appraisal Cost: US$12.00 million, Actual Cost: US$11.76 million).
Building upon the achievements of the first GFRP-funded project, this component aimed to sustainably increase
domestic production of irrigated rice by farmers cooperatives in Tillabery Region through:
     (i) Rehabilitation of four irrigated schemes for a total of approximately 1,073 ha including, inter alia, the
     consolidation of their protection system, and the implementation of the environmental and social safeguards
     mitigation related measures (but excluding any acquisition of land and payment of compensation for land
     acquisition, and other cash compensation or assistance paid in cash for involuntary resettlement). The technical
     studies for these perimeters were completed recently, under the Water Resource Development and Sustainable
     Management of the Niger River Ecosystems (DREDGE), a Bank funded Project coordinated by the Niger Basin
     Authority (NBA).
     (ii) Strengthening of the Irrigation Development Agency capacity to monitor and evaluate rice production, and to
     prepare its restructuring plan;
     (iii) Strengthening of the cooperatives' seed multiplication and distribution system, consisting of the rehabilitation
     of the seed production stations, the provision of improved genetic material, and the provision of training and
     technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of key stakeholders along the seed supply chain ; and
     (iv) Strengthening of the technical and financial management capabilities of the cooperatives operating in the
     rehabilitated schemes through the provision of consultants' services.
3. Project Coordination (Appraisal Cost: US$1.00 million, Actual Cost: US$0.77 million). The project provided
additional resources to Agro-Silvo-Pastoral Exports and Markets Development Project/Technical and Fiduciary
Coordination Unit to cover incremental costs associated with the program of activities to coordinate monitor and
evaluate the Project. This entailed hiring of additional staff (an M&E specialist an accountant) and providing additional
funding for operating costs, procurement of equipment and upgrading of the M&E and accounting software.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost. Total project cost at appraisal was expected to be US$15.00 million (Project Paper, Annex 3). The ICR
(Annex 1) reported that total project cost was US$14.94 million even though the actual expenditure by component
totals US$14.82 million. The reason the cost was reportedly higher is because the ICR includes the project
preparation cost of US$1.40 million that was not included in the appraisal estimate of costs. In November 2013
undisbursed funds under Category 3 were reallocated to finance activities under Category 1.

Financing. The Project was financed through a Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund Grant worth US$15.0 million.
Actual amount disbursed was US$14.80 million and US$0.20 million were cancelled.

Borrower Contribution . The project was fully financed through a Grant and no borrower counterpart funding was
expected.

Dates. The project closed twelve months after its expected closing date. The project was restructured twice, both
were Level 2. The first was on July 18, 2013 to extend the closing date from November 29, 2013 until May 31, 2014 in
order to allow the finalization of the rehabilitation works of irrigated schemes and reallocation of funds. The second
was on May 5, 2014 to extend the closing date from 31 May, 2014 until 30 November, 2014 in order to finalize the
rehabilitation works of irrigated schemes. The Mid-Term Review was carried out on October 15, 2012 compared to an
original date of April 22, 2012.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
At appraisal, objectives were highly relevant to the country which was experiencing a severe food crisis. This followed
insufficient and erratic rainfall in 2009 which led to a 31% decrease in total production of cereals as compared to
2008. The deficit of cereals was estimated at 410,000 tons which were needed immediately for human consumption,
and there was a deficit of 16 million tons of forage for animal feed that posed a grave threat to the livelihood of
pastoralists. A survey on household food security carried out in May 2010 revealed that 7.1 million people or 47.7% of
the total population were severely or moderately affected by the food crisis, which translated into 86% of households
in rural areas, particularly in the Regions of Maradi, Tahoua and Tillabery. Objectives were consistent with the longer
-term resilience objectives outlined in the 2008-2011 Country Assistance Strategy, particularly Pillar 2, ‘Developing
productive sectors, especially in rural areas, to mitigate vulnerability and stimulate income generation’ and Pillar 4,
‘Strengthening institutional and individual capacity within and outside Government, at the central and local level.’
Objectives were also consistent with the Government’s Emergency Plan which highlighted the need for sustainable
food security and agricultural development,

At completion, objectives remain consistent with the Government of Niger’s 2012 ‘3N Initiative’ (Nigeriens feed
Nigeriens) which highlighted reducing vulnerability and ensuring food and nutrition security. Objectives were also
relevant to the Government priorities as reflected in the current poverty reduction strategy paper, ‘Plan for Economic
and Social Development 2012-2015’. Objectives were also consistent with the World Bank's recent regional
"Economic and Sector Work “Enhancing Resilience in African Drylands,' which emphasizes adaptations such as
livestock capital, lean period cereals banks, and sustainable irrigation infrastructure.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
Design included a clear statement of objectives that described what the project aimed to do and specified the
intervention area. Design aimed to promote recovery from the food crisis and resilience in the face of future crises. To
achieve these objectives, design featured two relevant and simple components. The first contributed to direct
recapitalization of households' husbandry and establishing cereal storage facilities to supplement affected areas
during lean periods. The second component contributed towards supporting the production of irrigated rice by
rehabilitating irrigation systems, and improving seed distribution by cooperatives. These activities were expected to
improve rice productivity and contributed to better food security. The project also supported climate-smart agriculture
through its water management activities that would lead to higher food production in the face of variable rainfall. The
Results Framework provides logical links between the project inputs, outputs/intermediate outcomes and the expected
outcomes.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  "To increase rice production in targeted areas , and restore productive assets for targeted food insecure
households in the Region of Tillabery ."

Achievement this objectives is assessed for each of the two sub objectives as follows:

Parallel projects supported by the International Fund for Agricultural development, the OPEC Fund for International
Development and the IFAD-managed Belgian Fund for Food Security are unlikely to have contributed to project
outcomes as they targeted different geographic areas.

(i) Increase rice production in targeted areas . Substantial.
Outputs
    By project completion, 887 ha were rehabilitated (83% of target) with improved irrigation and drainage services
     compared to a baseline of none and a target of 1,073 ha.
    By project completion 6,356 ha were cultivated with improved rice seeds (79.5% of target) compared to a
     baseline of 1,000 ha and a target of 8,000 ha. On the incremental area targeted, achievement was 90.8%.
    The project supported infrastructure improvements at three rice cooperatives including: construction of 4 new
     pumping stations on the Niger River, supply and installation of 10 pumps for these stations, replacement of
     deteriorated pipes and installing new irrigation terminals, road repair; and construction of twelve irrigation points
     for women vegetable farmers.
    40 technicians were trained in rice seed production, preservation, packaging, and certification.
    The project supported 4,788 women who reduced erosion and flood risk through sustainable land management
     interventions on 1,300 ha in vulnerable watersheds at Kourani Baria, Sona, Lossa, and Kokomani. The ICR does
     not provide details on these activities.
    To build relations between farming cooperatives and the seed farm, and to promote sale of the seeds, the
     Federation of Rice Producing Cooperatives conducted 2 guided tours of the farm for 34 rice cooperatives.
     Unfortunately, seed production at the Saadia farm was low in 2012 and 2013 due to construction and exceptional
     flooding. Also, farmers at the project sites (the 5 cooperatives at Kourani Baria and Sona Lossa Kokomani)
     preferred a different seed variety (Gambiaca), which was imported from Mali. Ultimately this activity built capacity
     and resulted in the production of 412 tons of foundation seeds that were sold to cooperatives and private
     companies.
    To strengthen the capacity of the rice cooperatives, the project supported training of elected representatives of
     the producers’ organizations in accounting, perimeter maintenance, and water management.
    In a further communication the project team reported the following outputs under the cash-for-work watershed
     management :
        i. In Kourani Baria site:
             o 100 ha of land improved with stone barriers (‘cordons en pierre’).
             o 50 ha of land improved with demi-lunes; and
             o approximately 22,000 plants established within these demi-lunes.
             o About 1,150 people from 191 households and representing 6 villages were employed in the cash-for
                work program.
             o A total of 18.25 million FCFA was paid out in cash to workers through the program.
       ii. In Sona / Lossa / Kokomani site:
             o 850 ha of land improved with stone barriers.
             o 300 ha of land improved with demi-lunes; and
             o 35,000 seedlings raised to plant out the demi-lunes, however, only a fraction of these were in fact
                planted, due to insufficient rainfall.
             o 1,880 people, of which 1316 were women, employed to build the stone barriers.
             o 1,027 people, of which 782 were women, who were employed to build the demi-lunes.
             o 77.55 million FCFA was paid out in cash to workers through the program.
Outcome
The project benefitted 146,178 people compared to a target of 126,000. The rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage
services and the use of high quality rice seeds had a positive effect on rice productivity in project areas. By project
completion average rice productivity for 2014 dry season harvest reached 7.8 ton per ha compared to a baseline of
4.8 ton per ha in 2010 and a target of 5.5 tons per ha. In addition, annual rice production in project areas reached
89,951 tons in 2014 compared to a baseline of 55,800 in 2010 and a target of 85,800. Watershed management
activities supported by the project are expected to reduce erosion, contribute to water conservation and improve the
sustainability of rehabilitated sites.

While there were significant shortcomings at the Sona / Lossa / Kokomani (SLK) site, the project achievements at the
Kourani Baria site were substantial. The impact of rehabilitation of 693 ha at Kourani Baria region on rice yield was
significant. Rice productivity increased from 4.3 tons/ha to 8 tons / ha in 2013 and 9 tons / ha in 2014. Productivity
numbers were in line with data recently reported by independent international research (Rice yield growth analysis for
24 African countries over 1960–2012, Global Food Security, Volume 5, June 2015, Pages 62–69). On the other hand,
rehabilitation works at three other project areas totaling 380 ha suffered from delays, poor planning and organization,
frequent shortages of materials on the construction sites, lack of manpower, lack of management staff, and the
company’s inability to work on multiple lots. In addition, the works suffered from technical problems including fragile
pipe connections and channels connecting the pumping stations to the Niger River that were insufficiently deep to
collect water during the dry season; and poorly designed to prevent sand intrusion. At project completion only half of
the farmers were able to receive reliable irrigation through the new system despite that all of the pumps had been
installed and connected to electricity. At completion only 50% of the schemes at the SLK site were operational.

Overall, achievements were substantial and aggregate rice production targets were met despite shortcomings at SLK
site.

(ii) Restore productive assets for targeted food insecure households in the Region of Tillabery . Substantial.

Outputs
   By project completion 17,000 small ruminants (goats) were distributed to 5,600 targeted households in 45
     villages (mainly women in areas highly exposed to food insecurity). Target achieved.
   By project completion 45 lean period food banks established for targeted beneficiaries and the .target was
     achieved. Each bank was initially stocked with 450 tons of millet which has supported 3,484 vulnerable
     households through lean periods during the past three years.
   The project established five animal fodder banks (one per commune) and each was supplied with 50 tons of
     wheat bran.
Outcome
The project succeeded in distributing small ruminants to targeted households in vulnerable areas. The distribution of
animals is expected to reduce the vulnerability of chronically food insecure households in the targeted villages by
providing a source of income, capital, and food. Also, access to cereal banks in the targeted villages was expected to
help prevent future food crises by providing an accessible source of food for vulnerable households in lean periods.
By project completion, direct project beneficiaries from productive assets restoration reached 54,000 (target
achieved).

5. Efficiency:

Economic and Financial Efficiency
ex ante
    The project paper (Annex 10) includes a detailed economic analysis of the project. The returns from irrigation and
     technology investments are assumed to come from increased yields and production increases at the farm level.
     The estimated unit cost of the rehabilitation is about US$ 9,100 per ha. The economic analysis is limited to the
     perimeters to be rehabilitated and only the return on related investments was computed.
    The parameters used in the analysis include the following assumptions: (i) the rehabilitation of the four perimeters
     for a total of 1,073 ha; (ii) an increase in cropped intensity to 1.9 from 1.6; (iii) the adoption of improved seeds by
     supported cooperatives which will maintain the perimeters on their own, as they did over the last three decades;
     (iii) a 28% increase in yield per hectare, i.e from 4,300 to 6,000 kg/ha for rehabilitated perimeters (5,500 kg/ha on
     average for all perimeters that will benefit from the initiative on improved seeds).
    The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 19.4% and a Net Present (NPV) of US$12.4 million with a 5% discount
     rate was estimated. These returns do not factor in returns from rice straw for fodder valued at US$120/ha (based
     on a yield of 3 tons/ha).
ex post
    Returns to owning livestock include nutritional benefits (meat, milk) and the benefits from manure fertilizer and
     growth of herd size. Assuming delivery costs at 10% of the value of the animals, then the livestock distribution
     component has an ERR of 45% over five years.
    For the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes to support rice production, the parameters used in the analysis
     assumed a project life cycle of 20 years which corresponds to the duration of two successive equipment lifetimes
     for motor pumps and assumes average marginal operating and maintenance costs of 20%, and assumes two
     crops per year and a constant farm-gate rice price in Tillabery of FCFA 396,000.
    The analysis estimated an ERR of 29% for component 2 over a period of ten years. The cost per hectare in the
     SLK area was higher than Kourani Baria area and smaller yield increases were achieved implying that woks at
     this site were less cost effective. A possible cause for this is that SLK relied on the more expensive buried pipe
     system compared to lined irrigation canal network at Kourani Baria. Smaller yield increases at SLK might also
     suggest that the rehabilitation work was of lower quality, that soils are poorer and/or that farmers were less
     skillful, and that drainage might have been a problem. In the future, if the rehabilitation works at the SLK site
     perform similarly to Kourani Baria, the ERR for this site have the potential to increase from 7% to 42% (ICR, p.
     26).
    A composite ERR for livestock and irrigation was not calculated primarily because the livestock returns were only
     projected for 5 years whilst those for irrigation were for 20 years.

Administrative and Institutional Efficiency
  Project closure was delayed by twelve months to allow more time to complete the irrigation works at the SLK site
      where there were notable organizational inefficiencies. Rehabilitation works at the three SLK sites totaling 380 ha
      suffered from delays, poor planning and organization, frequent shortages of materials on the construction sites,
      lack of manpower, lack of management staff, and the company’s inability to work on multiple lots.
Efficiency is rated substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       Yes                                      19.4%                                    100%

     ICR estimate                    Yes                                       29%                                     79%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives was rated high while relevance of design was rated substantial. Efficacy of the first
objective is rated substantial as aggregate rice production targets were met despite shortcomings at SLK site. Efficacy
of the second objective is rated substantial as the project contributed to reducing the vulnerability of chronically food
insecure households in the targeted villages and provided a source of income, capital, and food to vulnerable
households. Efficiency was rated substantial despite weaknesses at the SLK site.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Risk to development outcome relates to the sustainability of rehabilitated irrigation works especially in the SLK
region, financial sustainability of cereal banks and the seed farm, and availability of veterinary service for small
ruminants distributed by the project.

     There are concerns on the quality of the rehabilitation works performed at SLK region could negatively impact the
      sustainability of this irrigated system. For example, siltation in the intake canals that flow from the Niger River
      could threaten the longevity of the newly installed pumps, and leaks in the pipe connections could reduce overall
      irrigation efficiency and raise maintenance costs for the system.
     The financial sustainability of cereal banks and the seed farm could be undermined by the government distributed
      subsidies. For example, the decision by the Government to distribute rice imported from Mali caused difficulties
      for the seed farm supported by the project to sell its own seeds. Also, during the food crisis the State sold feed at
      one fifth the price for which women had bought feed to stock their fodder banks.
     There are concerns that small ruminants might not receive adequate veterinary care especially if there is a
      disease outbreak. This might lead to severe loses in animal headcount. In a further communication the project
      team explained that vétérinaires sans Frontières will continue providing veterinary services in project areas post
      completion.
     Overall, there are security concerns in northern Mali, and the flow of refugees to Tillabery region will overload the
      available resources and exacerbate the fragility of the environment in the region.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Following the severe food crisis in 2010, the Government of Niger called on the international community to
support its emergency plan to help its vulnerable population. The World Bank, the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD), the OPEC Fund for International Development (OFID) and the Belgian Fund for
Food Security (BFFS) agreed to support a common response to Niger's food crisis, through the financing of
coordinated, but separate projects under the Emergency Food Security and Rural Development Program.
   The World Bank prepared the project as an emergency operation that was processed under OP/BP 8.0. This
     enabled a fast track preparation and approval process which took only four months from preparation to
     approval. In a further communication, the project team explained that the project was designed in partnership
     with IFAD and its funding partners, in particular the Vienna-based OPEC fund for International Development
     (OFID) and the Belgian Fund for Food Security.
   Objectives not only responded to the immediate needs of the Government with respect to food crisis, but also
     aimed to tackle the more complex causes of recurring food crisis situation within the country.
   The appraisal team incorporated useful lessons from the First Emergency Food Security Support Project
     (P113222) including: the need to build capacity within the implementing agencies; and the benefits of a
     simple design. Design also incorporated gender aspect particularly into Component 1 where women were the
     primary beneficiaries. Design also benefitted from the technical studies for the irrigation perimeters which
     were previously prepared under the Water Resource Development and Sustainable Management of the Niger
     River Ecosystems, a Bank-funded Project coordinated by the Niger Basin Authority. The relevant and simple
     design that featured two straightforward components, correctly focused on one region out of three severely
     affected; focused on one crop (irrigated rice); and was inclusive of local stakeholders’ views, particularly for
     designing the project’s targeting approach under Component 1.
   Project implementation arrangements were appropriate for an emergency operation as they relied on
     pre-existing structures with proven effectiveness under other World Bank-funded projects including First
     Emergency Food Security Support Project and Second Private Irrigation Promotion Project.
   Several risks were identified at appraisal stage and appropriate mitigation measures were put in place
     including capacity-building measures to ensure adequate and acceptable functioning of the fiduciary systems.
     Arrangements for M&E were adequate.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Bank supervision was intensive and proactive. The project faced difficult implementation conditions because
that the county was emerging from a coup and confronting a security crisis in the North and along the Mali border
with frequent kidnapping and killing of foreigners at that time. The supervision team followed closely the works at
the SLK site including a high-level site visit from the Country Director (on February 27, 2014) and the Country
Manager. The main problem was that the contract at the SLK was awarded through International Competitive
Bidding which yielded only one bidder who turned out to be a fraudulent contractor. Despite intense supervision
efforts that focused on the SLK site, the project closed with only half of the irrigation schemes functional. It is
surprising that the supervision team did not include any livestock experts despite that the focus of the emergency
component included the distribution of 17,000 small ruminants.
   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     The Government demonstrated high ownership and commitment to achieving the project's objectives. It also
coordinated effectively with the Global Food Crisis Response Program and other donors involved with the program
including the Spanish International Development Cooperation Agency. Over the course of implementation, the
Government was engaged through representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Director of Rural
Development. The later visited the project site at Sona/ Lossa/ Kokomani when the works at this site were subject
to severe delays. The Government control office provided an effective channel for beneficiaries to voice any
concerns with regards to the project activities. Finally, the Government demonstrated its commitment to the
irrigation reforms championed by the Project by supporting the proposed restructuring plan for the National
Irrigation Development Agency through two DPLs that are supporting profound restructuring within the
organization.

   Government Performance Rating                              Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was implemented under the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock through the project
implementation unit (PIU) of the Agro-Pastoral Export and Market Development Project (P095210). For the
implementation of Component 1, the PIU collaborated with the Community Action Program in the Region of
Tillabery and the Committees set at the Communal Level for the selection of beneficiaries and distribution of small
ruminants and the establishment of lean period food banks. The distribution of small ruminants was under the
supervision of vétérinaires sans Frontières. For the implementation of Component 2, the General Directorate of
Rural Engineering supported by an independent private Engineering Firm for technical control, provided technical
assistance to the PIU for the supervision of the rehabilitation of irrigation perimeters. The National Institute for
Agricultural Research was responsible for the multiplication and dissemination of improved seed in collaboration
with relevant institutions, including Africa rice, National Irrigation Development Agency and the Department of
Agriculture in the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. The PIU demonstrated good cooperation with
implementing partners including NGOs (vétérinaires sans Frontières), National Institute for Agricultural Research
and the National Irrigation Development Agency. Despite intense supervision by the PIU, there were delays and
quality issues at the SLK site and by completion only 50% of the schemes were operational.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The Project Paper (Annex 2) includes a detailed Results Framework and Monitoring arrangements . The
Framework featured three main outcome indicators that were relevant to assess the achievement objectives. The
framework also included four intermediate outcome/output indicators to assess achievements of different activities
under the two project components. The PIU under the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock was to be responsible for
overseeing M&E activities. Baseline and target yield data were based on the conditions at the end of the first
Emergency Food Security Support Project. However, M&E design lacked relevant indicators to capture the project
activities under the cash-for-work watershed management.

 b. M&E Implementation:
    Yield data were collected through the National Irrigation Development Agency’s production surveys. The National
Irrigation Development Agency ability to monitor and evaluate rice production benefitted from training provided by
Niger Agricultural Research Institute on yield measurement techniques. To develop M&E systems and evaluation
capacity at the village level, 20 % of the villages targeted for restoration of productive assets were selected to develop
M&E systems and evaluation capacity at the village level. In these villages village registers were used to record data.
The dry season was used for rice yield measurements because it is the best season to reflect that changes in yield
were mainly due to water management, as opposed to other factors such as labor shortages and disease. Targeting
data were disaggregated by poverty level, gender and age (in the case of small-ruminants distribution).

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Rice yield data were collected and the ICR (p. 8) highlighted that "sufficient and appropriate data were also
collected for all other project indicators." However, it provided no further details on how the project data were utilized.
Overall, the M&E system generated enough data to assess the outcomes of the project.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as a category B under OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. It also triggered three other
safeguard policies: Pest Management (OP 4.09), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), and Projects on
International Waters (OP/BP 7.50).
   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01). According to the ICR (p. 8) "project environmental impacts were
     small-scale, site-specific and well-managed." The project addressed environmental concerns by communities in
     project areas, for example, in Kourani Baria concerns by villagers with regards to construction noise, trucks, dust,
     and degradation of their agricultural fields from gravel removal were registered by the state control office, which
     worked with farmers to successfully resolve complaints. The ICR (p. 9) points out that using electricity rather than
     petroleum based fuels for operating irrigation pumps may lead to local improvements in environmental quality;
     also, the cash-for-work activities funded by the project might positively contribute to land reclamation, flood
     control, and erosion reduction.
   Pest Management (OP 4.09). According to the ICR (p. 9) "pesticide training provided to rice producers
     associations is likely to lead to a sustained reduction in water, soil, and air pollution at the project sites."
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The ICR (p. 9) highlighted that screening project activities determined
     that there was no involuntary resettlement.
   Projects on International Waters (OP/BP 7.50). This safeguard was triggered by the irrigation activities on the
     Niger River. These activities received no-objection from The Niger Basin Authority on the basis that only
     rehabilitation works were undertaken.

In a further communication the project team highlighted that the project fully complied with the Bank's safeguard
policies.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial Management . Internal Financial Reports and the annual audit reports were submitted on time, and
     were not qualified. The ICR did not provide information on external audits. In a further communication, the project
     team pointed out that the external audits were unqualified.
    Procurement. There was one incident where an irrigation rehabilitation contractor proved unequipped financially
     to carry out the works due to a turnover in management at the company. This issue was resolved through an
     exception where the project pre-paid the contractor to complete the irrigation contract (ICR, p. 9). In a further
     communication, the project team explained that there were no cases of misprocurement.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
Negative. The distribution of small ruminants (goats) under the project could potentially have negative
environmental effects if the stocking rate exceeds the carrying capacity of the environment. If the goats are not
penned and if there is a shortage of feed, the animals might over-graze on local trees and vegetation.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                 IEG Review                      Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant       Concerns regarding sustainability and
                     Outcome:                                                 quality of works at SLK site, availability
                                                                              of veterinary care for small ruminants;
                                                                              financial sustainability of food banks
                                                                              and security concerns.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately        Quality-at-entry was satisfactory.
                                                            Satisfactory      However supervision only latterly
                                                                              resolved the delays and shortcomings
                                                                              at the SLK site, and there was a lack of
                                                                              livestock expertise.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately        Delays and shortcomings at the SLK
                                                            Satisfactory      site.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR included Seven lessons, the following are emphasized with some adaptation of language:
  Collaboration and coordination with other donors and working with strong , established NGO partners (such
    as veterinarians without borders) are key elements for success . Coordination and collaboration with other
    donors at the design phase helped the Project to narrow its focus geographically and to incorporate best
    practices (for example on targeting), leading to a simpler project with broad-reaching impacts. Government
    leadership was also critical to the success of this coordination.
  Emergency operations should focus on relief aspects as their first priority . The project’s experience shows
    that emergency operations are most effective when they prioritize actions oriented on the immediate
    restoration of productive assets for food-insecure rural households, instead of trying to tackle the deep causes
    of the recurrent food crisis (such as irrigation systems).
  In low capacity, fragile and conflict -affected countries , infrastructure projects require patience , and enough
    implementation time . While working with an established PIU and basing activities on pre-existing designs
    helped to move the project forward from day one, the project experience demonstrated that implementation
    time (2.5 years) was short given the significant infrastructure works undertaken by the Project.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides thorough coverage of project activities and reports candidly on shortcomings. It includes a logical
discussion of project outcomes. However, there were some weaknesses:
   Lessons could have been consolidated and some were recommendations.
   Discussion on safeguard compliance was brief and the ICR did not report the project's environmental category;
     and the ICR was not clear also whether the project fully complied with the Bank's safeguard policies or not.
   The ICR did not provide enough information on M&E utilization.
   No information was provided on external audits.
   Discussion on Bank supervision could have benefitted from providing some details on supervision missions; the
     candor of ISRs ratings and the quality of the project's Aide Memoires.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
