                                         103179




                             Republic of Niger

Niger Basin Water Resources Development and Sustainable
                   Ecosystems Management Project APL 1

   Niger Second Emergency Food Security Support Project

                                  Redacted Report


                                            Official Use Only
                                                                           Official Use Only


                            Statement of Use and Limitations

This Report was prepared by the World Bank Group (the WBG) Integrity Vice Presidency
(INT). It provides the findings of an INT administrative inquiry (the Investigation) into
allegations of corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, and/or coercive practices, as defined by the
WBG for purposes of its own policies, rules and procedures (the WBG’s Framework
regarding Anti-corruption), in relation to the WBG-supported activities. The purpose of
the Investigation was to allow the WBG to determine if the WBG’s Framework regarding
Anti-corruption has been violated.

This Report is being shared to ensure that its recipients are aware of the results of the INT
Investigation. However, in view of the specific and limited purpose of the Investigation
underlying this Report, this Report should not be used as the sole basis for initiating any
administrative, criminal, or civil proceedings. Moreover, this Report should not be cited
or otherwise referred to in the course of any investigation, in any investigation reports, or
in any administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings.

This Report is provided without prejudice to the privileges and immunities conferred on
the institutions comprising the WBG and their officers and employees by their respective
constituent documents and any other applicable sources of law. The WBG reserves the
right to invoke its privileges and immunities, including at any time during the course of an
investigation or a subsequent judicial, administrative or other proceeding pursued in
connection with this matter. The WBG’s privileges and immunities cannot be waived
without the prior express written authorization of the WBG.




                                             1
                                                                         Official Use Only



                                  Executive Summary

This report provides the findings of an administrative inquiry by the World Bank Group
Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) into allegations that Company A may have engaged in
misconduct in connection with the Niger Basin Water Resources Development and
Sustainable Ecosystems Management Project APL 1 and the Niger Second Emergency
Food Security Support Project (collectively, the Projects).

Company A submitted bids for several contracts under the Projects. Company A’s bids
included several bid securities, all purportedly issued by Bank A. Evidence indicates that
the bid securities submitted by Company A were not authentic. Evidence also indicates
that Company A made misrepresentations regarding its prior experience in its bids for
several contracts under the Projects.

The World Bank imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on Company
A, which extends to any legal entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by Company
A.




                                            2
                                                                                Official Use Only

Background

The Niger Basin Water Resources Development and Sustainable Ecosystems Management
Project APL 1 (the Niger Basin Water Resources project) aimed to enhance regional
coordination among the member countries of the Niger Basin, and to promote the
development and management of the water resources of the Niger River Basin. The Niger
Basin Water Resources project was financed with an International Development
Association (IDA)1 credit.

The Niger Second Emergency Food Security Support Project (the Food Security project)
aimed to increase rice production in targeted areas and to restore productive assets for food
in unsecured rural households. The Food Security project was financed with a multi-donor
trust fund.

Agency A was responsible for both the Niger Basin Water Resources project and the Food
Security project (collectively, the Projects).

Under the Niger Basin Water Resources project, the implementing agency at the regional
level and Agency A issued a tender for Contract 1 (Lots 1 and 2). Company A submitted
bids for Lots 1 and 2 of Contract 1.

Under the Food Security project, the implementing agency issued tenders for Contract 2
(Lots 1 and 2) and Contract 3 (Lots 1 and 2). Company A submitted bids for Lots 1 and 2
of Contract 2 and Contract 3.

Allegations

When conducting due diligence during the procurement process, Agency A found evidence
indicating that Company A had submitted false documents in its bids for the above-
mentioned three contracts comprising six lots. This matter was referred to the World Bank
Group Integrity Vice Presidency (INT).

Methodology

INT’s investigation consisted of, among other steps, a review of Project documents and
Agency A’s due diligence findings.

Findings

    1. Evidence indicates that Company A submitted five false bid securities under
       the Projects.

Evidence indicates that Company A submitted bid securities for Lot 2 of Contract 1, and
for the four lots on Contracts 2 and 3, all purportedly issued by Bank A.

1
  IDA is one of the five institutions comprising the World Bank Group. The International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and IDA constitute the World Bank. IDA and the World Bank are
used interchangeably throughout this Report.


                                                3
                                                                             Official Use Only


Specifically, evidence indicates that Agency A sent a verification letter to Bank A
regarding the bid security submitted by Company A for the Lot 2 of Contract 1. Evidence
further indicates that Bank A responded that the signatures on the document were not
authentic, and that Bank A had no record of the purported bid security submitted by
Company A.

Similarly, evidence suggests that Agency A sent two verification letters to Bank A
regarding the bid securities submitted by Company A for the four lots on Contracts 2 and
3. Evidence suggests that Bank A responded that the signatures on the purported bid
securities were not authentic, and that Bank A had no record of bid securities submitted by
Company A.

   2. Evidence indicates that Company A made misrepresentations regarding its
      prior experience in its bids for Contracts 1, 2, and 3.

The bidding documents for Contracts 1, 2, and 3 required bidders to have certain
experience, including certain years of experience in fields related to the respective contract.

Evidence indicates that, to satisfy this requirement, Company A claimed that: (i) it had
worked on Project 1 with Company B; (ii) it had worked on Project 2 with Company C,
launching the planning study of Project 2; and (iii) it had been hired by Company D on
Project 3.

However, regarding Project 1, evidence indicates that this project was awarded to
Company B alone, and that Company B did not work with any other company in executing
it. Evidence also indicates that Company A provided an incorrect reference number, date,
and specifications for Project 1.

Regarding Project 2, evidence suggests that Company C was the only entity that launched
the planning study of the work.

Regarding Project 3, evidence suggests that Company D was never involved in the claimed
work in the relevant region.

INT sent a letter to Company A, requesting its response to INT’s findings. Company A
did not respond to INT’s letter.

Follow Up Action by the World Bank

The World Bank imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on Company
A, which extends to any legal entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by Company
A.




                                              4
