Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB458 
Project Name 
HIV/AIDS PREVENTION & CONTROL PROJECT 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (100%) 
Project ID 
P076722 
Borrower(s) 
GUYANA 
Implementing Agency 
East Street – Georgetown Hospital Compound – Georgetown Guyana 
Contact:  Dr. Frank Anthony 
Project Coordinator – Health Sector Policy Programme.  
Phone: 592 226 6222 
E-mail: "Frank Anthony" <mohgog@networksgy.com> 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 9, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 21, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
March 30, 2004 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Country and Sector Background.
  Guyana's strong economic performance  in the period 1992-1997 has 
slowed down considerably in the past few years.  Annual GDP growth has ranged between -1.8% - 3% 
per annum since 1997.  The country’s per capita GDP at US$ 840 (2002) is the second lowest in South 
America. Approximately 35% of the population were living below the poverty line in 1999. The 
Government is implementing its poverty reduction strategy summarized in its Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Paper which was last discussed in September 2002 by the Boards of the IMF and the World Bank.  It is 
also  receiving debt relief under the enhanced Highly Indebted Poor Country Initiative (HIPC).  The 
PRSP goals are: sustained economic expansion within the context of a deepening participatory 
democracy; access to social services including education, health, water and housing; strengthening and 
where necessary expansion of social safety nets; and strengthening institutions and better governance. 
 
The project is consistent with the September, 2002, Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Guyana as 
well as its Poverty Reduction Strategy which has two pillars: (i) enhancing growth and (ii) refocusing 
public expenditures towards effective delivery of social services.  It emphasizes the need to urgently 
address  the HIV/AIDS epidemic that poses a major threat to Guyana's economic and social development.   
 
Guyana has the second highest HIV/AIDS prevalence in the Caribbean after Haiti. The predominant 
mode of transmission of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections in Guyana is sexual.  An estimated 
18,000 people were living with HIV/AIDS by the end of 2001 (UNAIDS). Overall, the highest number of 
cases occurs in the 20-49 years age group, peaking in the 30-34 years age group. There are currently an 
estimated 4,200 AIDS orphans. There is a wide range in prevalence among different social groups as well 
as among the geographical regions. The highest HIV/AIDS prevalence is found among high risk groups: 
female commercial sex workers (45% in 1997); followed by STD clinic attendees (15.1% among males 
and 12% among females in 2002).  The Government is implementing its National Strategic Plan for 
HIV/AIDS (2002-2006) which seeks to: (a) reduce the risk and vulnerability to infection through 
prevention and control of the transmission of STIs and promote sexual health; (b) save, prolong and 
improve the quality of life of persons living with STIs/HIV/AIDS. 
Page  2
 
 
 
Page  3
 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project objectives are to: (a) Prevent and control the transmission of HIV and Sexually Transmitted 
Infections (STIs);(b)  Prolong and improve the quality of life of people living with AIDS; and (c)  
Mitigate the negative impact of HIV/AIDS on persons infected and affected by the disease.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Guyana’s response to the epidemic has been limited due to resource constraints and a weak institutional  
base.  Bank support will contribute directly to immediate scaling up of ongoing initiatives for greater 
impact including involvement of a greater range of stakeholders.  It will also  strengthen coordination and 
implementation capacity of institutions in the public, NGO, community and private sector to build a 
sustainable base for the national response.  The Bank will share lessons from experience from 
implementation of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS in Africa, the Caribbean, Brazil and other parts of the 
world.  The Bank will also support technical guidance and share best practices obtained through its 
coordination with other UN agencies under the auspices of UNAIDS as well as with other multi-lateral 
and bilateral donor/funding agencies.  The Bank is also well-placed to raise key policy issues at national, 
regional and global levels with Governments and key partners to ensure that critical factors affecting the 
response to the epidemic are addressed. 
 
4. Description 
 
The project is part of the World Bank’s Caribbean Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control 
APL and will finance significant parts of Guyana’s National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2002-2006.  The 
total project cost is estimated at US$ 11 million equivalent and will be implemented over a period of  5 
years.  The project would be financed through an IDA grant of US$ 10 million equivalent and 
Government contribution of US$ 1million. The project will complement the support of other donors and 
agencies and the Government’s own investments.  Following are the project components: 
Component 1.  Institutional Capacity Strengthening, Monitoring, Evaluation and Research (~ US$ 
2.6 million).
  The project will support  institutional capacity building for scaling up the response through 
financing of technical advisory services, training, staffing, equipment, goods and general operating costs.  
It will support the institutional framework for coordination of the National HIV/AIDS program including: 
(i) The Presidential Commission on HIV/AIDS (PCHA established to support, oversee and coordinate the 
national response.  ii) The  Project Management Unit (PMU) which will provide operational support to 
the PCHA; oversee program implementation by the MOH, non-health ministries and by civil society 
implementing agencies.  It will establish appropriate accounting, procurement, financial, reporting and 
monitoring procedures.  (iii) The National AIDS Program (NAPS).  It w
ill also support training in using 
World Bank financial management and procurement procedures.  The project will also support 
monitoring and evaluation of the national program as well as the project.  Five ongoing surveys will 
provide the baseline against which project outcomes and impact will be measured.  The project will: 
finance two impact studies: a mid-term evaluation in the third year of the project and a final term 
evaluation in the fifth year of the project; supplement the UNAIDS support for development of the 
Country Response Information System; wide area network services; technical assistance for activities on 
surveillance, research, evaluation and information systems and training; strengthening of HIV/AIDS/STI 
case management and surveillance system to supplement the ongoing support from CIDA, CDC, 
UNAIDS and CAREC-PAHO; and, revision of several legislation documents and the preparation of new 
health legislation.   
 
Page  4
 
 
Component 2.  Scaling up HIV/AIDS response by line ministries, Civil Society Organizations  and 
the Private Sector  (~ US$ 3.5 million)
.  The Government recognizes that an effective response  to the 
epidemic should involve all the sectors.   
(a)  Scaling up the response by line ministries (US$ 2 million)
.  The project will support non-health Line 
Ministries to expand initiatives stipulated in the National Strategic Plan and annual work plans for their 
clients as well as their
 
own staff.  They will include activities focusing on prevention of HIV/AIDS and 
STIs through  training, education and behavior communication, condom distribution, information 
dissemination; treatment and care for the infected and affected families; work place policy formulation 
including reduction of stigma and discrimination and HIV/AIDS impact assessments
.  
The project will 
also focus on the external clients of the respective ministries which include youth (in and out of school 
including street children), orphans, cultural groups, professional groups such as teachers, various 
associations such as parents/teachers associations, trade union groups, farmers and women’s groups.  A 
number of Ministries ( Youth, Sports and Culture; Human Services, Labor, and Social Security; Home 
Affairs; Amerindian Affairs; and Education) have been identified to prepare work plans for the first year 
of the project. 
 
 (b)  Scaling up HIV/AIDS response by Civil Society Organizations  and the Private Sector  (~ US$ 1.5 
million)
. Civil society groups such as Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs), community based 
organizations (CBOs) and faith-based organizations (FBOs) have access to difficult-to-reach groups 
including some that are particularly high risk (commercial sex workers and men having sex with men, 
prisoners and truck drivers) and vulnerable groups (orphans and youth).  Grants will be provided to 
support HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care activities carried out by CBOs, NGOs, the private 
sector and various associations.  Potential subproject implementing entities will be mobilized and  invited 
to prepare subprojects in accordance with stipulated criteria. 
 
Component 3.  Expanding  Health Sector Prevention, Treatment and Care Services for HIV/AIDS 
(~ US$ 4.9 million).
  The project will support upgrading and expansion of prevention, treatment and care 
services through the health care system.  The National AIDS Program Secretariat in the MOH’s Center 
for Disease Control will coordinate the health sector response.  
 
 
a)  
Support to prevention interventions
.  This will include: technical assistance to develop a 
comprehensive IEC/BCC strategy; blood safety through provision of additional reagents, staff training, 
and strengthening of data management and logistical systems at the central and regional levels; scaling up 
of voluntary counseling and testing within the health system through the establishment of an additional 
fifteen VCT centers; strengthening of the syndromic approach to manage sexually transmitted infections, 
updating the treatment protocols, improving laboratory capacity through provision of equipment; 
strengthening of health care waste management through training of health workers on proper handling of 
infectious waste, equipment for disposal and sterilization of medical waste; and support to strengthening 
prevention of mother-to-child-transmission (PMTCT).   
 
b)  
Enhancing Care, Treatment And Support Through The Health Care System. 
 
The care continuum includes access to basic routine and unstigmatized care, psycho-social counseling, 
nutritional support, prophylaxis against opportunistic infections such as tuberculosis, and diagnosis and 
treatment of complex opportunistic infections.  The project will support: (ii) Management of 
Opportunistic Infections including development of standardized protocols and guidelines for HIV/AIDS 
care at all levels in the health system, training of health workers, provision of laboratory equipment and 
reagents, drugs and commodities necessary for treatment, and strengthen the logistical systems to ensure 
continuity of supplies; (ii)  increased screening for
 
tuberculosis; improved directly observed treatment 
short-course (DOTS) therapy coverage and completion rates and by strengthening the logistical support 
Page  5
 
 
for the TB program; (iii) strengthening of anti-retroviral therapy (ART)including the development of an 
expanded and rigorous protocol that takes into account international standards of care for HIV/AIDS; 
implementation of an adequate clinical and laboratory monitoring infrastructure; training of clinicians and 
nurses on the delivery and monitoring of ART; procurement of laboratory equipment for monitoring of 
ART;  and, strengthening of the materials management and logistics.
 
 
5. Financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 1 
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS 
10 
 Total 
11 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The GOG has assigned the responsibility for coordinating the national response directly to the Office of 
the President through the establishment of the Presidential Commission on HIV/AIDS (PCHA). It will 
received technical advice from the National AIDS Committee (NAC) and The Expanded UN HIV/AIDS 
Theme Group which represents the international donor community working on HIV/AIDS. This 
commission will provide strong visibility of and accountability for the country’s response. The Project 
Management  Unit  (PMU) in the Ministry of Health will provide operational support to the Presidential 
Commission on HIV/AIDS.  The PMU will support, coordinate and oversee program implementation by 
the MOH, non-health ministries and by civil society implementing agencies.  The Ministry of Health 
(MOH) will provide clinical and technical leadership in the fight against the spread of HIV/AIDS through 
the National AIDS Program Secretariat (NAPS) located in MOH’s Center for Disease Control (CDC).  
NAPS will continue to coordinate the response of the health sector, initiate and coordinate the annual 
MOH work plans, continue to collaborate with NAC, and assign a person to liaise with non-health 
ministries and civil society organizations.  A focal point  will be responsible for coordinating HIV/AIDS 
related activities in their respective institutions adapting the components of the national response to the 
specific needs and characteristics of their constituencies and target populations.    NGOs, CBOs, FBOs, 
and PLWHA groups will be invited to initiate new HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities or to 
extend and/or continue those that they are currently managing.  The necessary fiduciary and managerial 
structure of civil society organizations to enter into performance-based contracts with the PMU is weak. 
Efforts will be  made to mentor, coach and support them.  
 
Implementation arrangements
: A consolidated annual work plan will be prepared by the MOH and  
included in its annual budget for presentation to the Ministry of Finance and Parliament for approval.  The 
work plan will include the MOH’s own work plan, plans of Line Ministries and  a budget line for 
subprojects  of civil society groups and the private sector.  Memoranda of  Understanding will be signed  
between the MOH and the Line ministries.  Contracts will be signed between the civil society groups and 
the MOH for implementation of the subprojects. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The following factors will contribute to program sustainability after project completion: 
(a)  An enabling policy and legal environment with strong political support and leadership for dealing 
with HIV/AIDS including the newly formed National Presidential Commission on HIV/AIDS that aims to 
increase participation of all sectors and harmonize the coordination with an already active National AIDS 
Council largely representing the NGOs and Community Based Organizations; (b) Government’s 
willingness to revise the legal and regulatory framework to address issues of stigma and discrimination; 
(c) Supporting development of broad ownership and a strong institutional coordination mechanism for the 
Page  6
 
 
expanded response to the epidemic and the involvement of other key stakeholders in implementation; and 
(e)  the medium term financial sustainability due to external funding  commitments envisaged for  Guyana 
to support  HIV/AIDS directly as well as the strengthening  health services.   
  
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
This project has incorporated the lessons learned in the Caribbean Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention  
and Control Adaptable Program Lending Report and the lessons learned in the implementation of the first 
Phase of the Africa Region MAP APL  including: (a) Adoption of a new institutional coordination 
mechanism which to enhance the level of political commitment and leadership. To deal with stigma and 
discrimination which slow down an effective response. (b) a comprehensive approach of prevention, 
treatment and care with emphasis still placed on prevention; (c) a communications strategy  in recognition  
that messages have to be better designed otherwise the desired behavior change will continue to be 
elusive; (d)  capacity building including rapid training of health care workers and strengthening the 
diagnostic capacity  take advantage of the rapidly changing prices and technology that have made 
possible the faster introduction of antiretroviral treatment including Highly Active Anti-retroviral 
Treatment. (e) Strengthening of both surveillance to provide timely information for policymakers on the 
trends of the epidemic and management information for better program management of the response is an 
important feature of this project; (f). Development of the operations manuals and the first year 
implementation and procurement plans --lessons from MAP projects in the Africa region and the 
Caribbean prepared as fast track indicate that they have tended to slow down after project
 
launch; (g)  
Supporting initiatives of the civil society and non-health ministries to ensure that mechanisms are put in 
place for their participation (a number of line ministries and some experienced NGOs have been involved 
in developing implementation modalities and technical assistance will be provided during project 
implementation); and, (i) fiduciary mechanisms (financial management, accounting, procurement, review 
and approval procedures)  and contracting out of services where in-house capacity is inadequate.
 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[x] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) [ 
] 
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[x] 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 [ 
] 
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
A.  Background documents 
1. 
Guyana’s National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS 2002-2006. 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
 
 
2. 
Policy Document on HIV/AIDS in Guyana, National AIDS Program Secretariat, Department of 
Communicable Diseases.  Ministry of Health, Guyana and PAHO. 2001, Guyana. 
3. 
Performance Measurement of Essential public Health Functions at the National Level in Guyana.  
Ministry of Health, Guyana and PAHO. 2001. 
4. 
Health Sector Analysis Guyana.   
5. 
HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean.  Issues and Options.  World Bank. 2001. 
 
B.  Project Documents 
1. Project 
Operations 
Manual. 
2. 
Health Care Waste Management Plan. 
3. 
Indigenous People’s Development Plan. 
 
C.  Bank Assessments
 
1. 
Financial management capacity assessment. 
2. 
Procurement management capacity assessment. 
3. 
Health sector response: a rapid assessment. 
 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Mary T. Mulusa 
Title: Sr Public Health Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-1937 
Fax:  
Email: Mmulusa@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
