IPP72
February 2004
Social Assessment
GUYANA HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT
Indigenous People's Development Plan (IPDP)
1. Introduction
1.1. The HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project. With grant funding from the World Bank
to support the Nationm[ Strategic PPlan for HfVA/AiDS, 2002-2006, the Government of Guyana will
implement a 5 year multi-sector HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project whose objective is: to
slow the spread of HIV infection and mitigate the socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS. The
project will cover interventions across the whole country but special effort will be made to reach
specific population groups that are particularly vulnerable to Sexually Transmitted Infections
(STIs)/HIV/AIDS and their associated consequences. These include commercial sex workers,
women, youth, orphans, PLWHA, and remote populations including indigenous groups.
The lack of resources and weak institutional base has resulted in Guyana's limited response to the
epidemic. The coverage of most interventions, including IEC, VCT, management of STIs and
programs targeting youth, has been limited to Georgetown and a few other urban centers mainly
along the coast. Interior regions depend on laboratory services in Georgetown to process blood
samples. The infrastructure required to closely screen for and monitor HIV/AIDS is extremely
weak with an estimated 60% under-reporting of HIV/AIDS cases. The lack of epidemiological
data on the epidemic, and services (including staff, drugs and equipment) to address emerging
problems, is particularly acute for hinterland regions. A great deal of work will therefore be
required to lay the groundwork for an expanded response to the epidemic, particularly in
previously under-served areas.
1.2 Purpose of the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP). Although the HIV/AIDS
project will be implemented nationwide, one of the World Bank's social safeguard policies',
Operational Directive 4.20 (OD 4.20) on Indigenous Peoples (IP), applies because the majority
population in a number of the regions to be covered are IP. The objective of the directive "is to
ensure that indigenous peoples do not suffer adverse effects during the development process,
particularly from Bank-financed projects, and that they receive culturally compatible social and
economic benefits"2. Guyana's IP fit the following five distinguishing characteristics used to
identify minority nationality communities that may warrant special attention in project planning.
Although there may be regional variations in the degree to which these characteristics are present,
the indigenous peoples of Guyana can be said to: (a) have a close attachment to ancestral
territories and natural resources in their region; (b) identify themselves and are identified by
others as members of distinctive cultural groups; (c) have languages different from the national
language; (d) still have customary social and political institutions; and (e) rely primarily on
subsistence modes of production.
There are 10 safeguard policies covering Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Forestry, Pest
Management, Cultural Property, Indigenous Peoples, Involuntary Resettlement, Safety of Dams, Projects in
International Waters, and Projects in Disputed Areas
The World Bank Operational Manual - Operational Directive OD 4.20 September 1991
__     _ o_ 



The Government, through a participatory process with IP communities and various other
stakeholders, will support and or implement a number of activities to address specific HIV/AIDS
related issues in the indigenous population. The expected project benefits for IP include:
a) Enhanced knowledge about STIs and HIV/AIDS and methods of prevention, care and
treatment
b) Access to resources for community-based priority STI/HIV/AIDS activities
c) Empowerment through a participatory process particularly for the Village Councils and
local organizations to plan, implement and evaluate local initiatives.
d) Strengthened health care system capacity to conduct tests (laboratories services), refer
and treat persons infected with HIV or suffering from AIDS
e) Strengthened Primary Health Care services including the referral system
The three project components will address IP needs as follows:
1.3 Legal Framework. The 1976 Amerindian Act is the main law in Guyana that deals with
Amerindians. The 1976 Act is based on laws that date back to the early 20TH century British
colonial rule. It is widely recognized that the law is outdated. In 1993, a Parliamentary
Committee was set up to initiate the revision of the Act. This process has suffered several delays
but in 2002, the consultation process with communities was initiated. The process of consultation
is now complete and final recommendations being summarized for final review by communities
before presentation to Cabinet. The Government hopes to adopt the new Act in 2004. In addition,
Amerindians are supposed to enjoy the basic rights of all Guyanese guaranteed under the
Constitution3 including the right to health care.
1.4. Guyana's Indigenous Peoples. Guyana has an estimated indigenous population (IP) of 8%
of the total population of 800,000. The Amerindians, as the IP are known, belong to 9 distinct
groups4 or tribes who make up the majority population in the interior region of the country
bordering Surinam, Brazil and Venezuela. Most Amerindians live in about 131 highly scattered
communities in Regions 1, 7, 8 and 9, many of them sparsely populated. Region 1 has the highest
concentration of Amerindians in the country followed by Region 9. Over the years, as the
hinterland has been opened up for development, and with the establishment of logging/lumber
exploitation/industries and mining, there has been an increase in the number of indigenous
people, particularly men, migrating to other areas, especially urban centers, for work.
The indigenous people of Guyana are disproportionately disadvantaged socially, and
economically. Amerindians have some of the lowest health indicators in Guyana. Social
development indicators for health and education reveal significantly higher levels of disease, as
well as mortality, and higher illiteracy rates when compared to other non-indigenous groups in
the country. Few Amerindians have access to potable water and, since the early 1980s, traditional
sources of potable water (creeks and rivers) are under threat of pollution resulting from the rapid
growth of extractive industries in the interior.
Poverty is rife with close to 80% of the Amerindian population in the country falling below the
poverty line with Amerindian women especially affected by poverty5 . Women are paid lower
wages and salaries than men, and cannot easily access credit facilities6. The majority (over 70%)
3Guyana: Constitution, 1980 with 1996 reforms.
www.georgetown.edu/pdba/Constitutions/C,uyana/guyana96.html
4 Carib, Warao, Arawak. Akawaio, Patamona, Makushi, Arekuna, Wapishana and Wai Wai
5 Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII
Health Sector Analysis Guyana. PAHO & MOH



of Amerindians are engaged in subsistence activities such as agriculture, hunting and forestry.
The high incidence of poverty in the hinterland is largely the result of geographic isolation (the
economic reforms of the 1990s did not benefit many Amerindians7), and limited economic
8
activity
Health: The overall poor state of health is reflected in low life expectancy, with less than 5% of
Amerindians living to be 55 years or older compared to the average life expectancy for Guyana of
around 64.8 years (61.5 for males and 68.2 for females). Malaria is endemic and the leading
health problem in the interior. It is also noted that at one time, almost a third of the tuberculosis
cases were found in the Amerindian population. In the hinterland area, regions 1, 4, 7, 8 and 9
have the highest rates of tuberculosis. With the growing HIV/AIDS epidemic however, there has
been a growing shift of cases to the coastal population, particularly young men aged 25-34.
Worm infestation is also endemic in most interior regions. Other poverty related diseases
afflicting Amerindian communities include diarrheal diseases and acute respiratory infections9.
The Amerindian communities are also significantly affected by substance abuse, dental carries
and snake bites. Although the country's immunization program is considered successful, the
hinterland regions (I, 7, 8 and 9) have the lowest coverage as a result of inadequate management,
transport, communication and difficulties maintaining the cold chain. Amerindian women are at
higher risk of poor maternal health as fewer births (43%) in the hinterland are attended by trained
health care workers. Various health initiatives have been started mainly with UNICEF/DfID
support such as IMCI, training in immunization and pfimary health care issues, and a community
project in malaria management (Region 9).
Education: Until recently, there were no mechanisms to ensure a coordinated approach to
education programs for Amerindian communities. Hinterland schools lack trained teachers and
suffer from scarce supplies. Not surprisingly, school attendance rates tend to be low. Less than
13% of poor households in the interior regions have received secondary education and, only 1%
of Amerindians have received post-secondary education. With the creation of a Ministry for
Amerindian Affairs, a scholarship program has been established for the secondary and post-
secondary education of hinterland students.
2. Health Services in the Interior Regions
As in other regions of Guyana, populations in the hinterland are served by a network of primary
health care facilities, which provide free health services. Guyana's health care system has five
tiers: Level I is the health posts, Level 2 the health centers, Level 3 are District Hospitals
followed by Regional Hospitals at Level 4 and the national referral Hospital at Level 5. For many
dispersed settlements in the hinterland, the main service providers are CHW (Table I) who staff
the health posts located in the community. A higher cadre of staff, the Medex (physician's
assistant) is located at health centers which are the next link in the referral chain. Access to
private health care providers is limited as most private practitioners are located in the Georgetown
area and other urban locations along the coast.
7Poverty Reduction Support Credit 2002
8 Guyana Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2002
9Health in the Americas. 2002 Edition. Volume 11. pp.323-335



Table l: Government Health Facilities in the Interior
Type and number of Health facility
Region        Regional   District Hospital  Health       Health Post
(Population)  Hospital                     Center                         TOTAL
1                          3               4             31             38
(18,294)*
7                          1               3             15             19
(14,682)*
8                          1               4             16             21
(6,137)**       1_3_52_58
9           1              2               3             52             58
(14,947)*
Sources: PHC Services Model - Modeling PHC Services Development. Draft 1: 8 March 2002.. National Health Plan
2003-2007. MOH 2003; *Guyana Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2002; **Prepared by Institute for Health Sector
Development. London for MOH Guyana; -Report on Region 9's Poverty reduction Strategy Consultations (2001)
prepared by the Regional Democratic Council # 9 in collaboration with the Amerindian Touchaus' Council of Region
#9
All the health centers and health posts are expected to provide maternal and child health (MCH)
services. Outreach services and home visits are also conducted particularly where vaccination
targets have to be reached, and to deliver post natal care. However, services are not always
accessible or provided as planned due to a number of factors including:
Geographical and financial barriers: The interior region is an area difficult to access because of
the dense forest, mountains and vast savannah. The country is intersected by many rivers, creeks
and other water ways, and some communities can only be reached by boat transportation. For the
health sector, the terrain presents special challenges to delivering health care services to highly
dispersed communities, making service delivery not only more difficult but costly. The problems
of service delivery and access are further compounded by poor or limited road networks, and
limited boat and vehicular transportation. Many communities can only be reached on foot.
Despite health care being free of charge, financial factors may also influence access especially
with respect to transportation and cost of accommodation and food for patients and family
caregivers from communities farthest away from health facilities.
Shortage of staff: There is a lack of qualified health personnel at all levels of the system (doctors,
nurses, mid-wives, and community health workers), due to a number of reasons including out-
migration of health professionals, unwillingness on the part of staff to be posted in the hinterland
because of low wages and the difficult working conditions.
Inadequate means of communication: Due to the isolated location of many health centers and
health posts, communications with regional headquarters for support is critical especially when
emergencies arise (e.g. pregnancy related complications, vehicular accidents, snake bites). Many
facilities lack radio sets and telephones, or the equipment is in need of repair.
3. HIV/AIDS and Indigenous People
Current data on HIV/AIDS indicates that prevalence rates among the indigenous populations are
still low. However, the Government recog-nizes that under reporting of HIV/AlDS cases is a



severe problem (MOH estimates 60% underreporting of cases10), the result of which is that the
true magnitude and determinants of the epidemic are largely unknown" and it can be assumed to
be even worse where indigenous people are concerned. Surveillance will therefore be a primary
focus of the GOG HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan and this includes the collection of pertinent
information on all vulnerable groups including indigenous peoples. Already, the data collection
form used for requesting HIV tests and reporting HIV cases, AIDS cases and AIDS deaths, has
been revised to include information on race and ethnicity
3.1 Factors that increase vulnerability of Indigenous People to HIV/AIDS. Although
HIV/AIDS prevalence is still low in the interior regions, the potential exists for the problem to
escalate if actions are not taken now to prevent the spread of the disease in the indigenous
populations. Factors that increase the vulnerability of indigenous people in the hinterland to HIV
include: poverty (the underlying issue) and lack of employment opportunities leading to out-
migration for jobs in urban areas or mines - risky behaviors abound in such environments, and
returning workers may carry the HIV virus back to their home area; high rates of STIs in some
communities, inadequate or lack of information and knowledge about HIV/AIDS and how to
prevent it, prostitution among the women, alcoholism, lack of access to services, and high teenage
pregnancy rates. Furthermore, the proximity of IP communities to neighboring countries (Brazil,
Venezuela, Suriname) lures men and youth across borders in search of jobs, and yet others to
access health care services including HIV testing and treatment. As the National Strategic Plan
for HIV/AIDS 2002-2006 acknowledges "With the opening up of Guyana's hinterland for
development, the proposed Guyana/Brazil road, and the subsequent increase in the transient
population, a further increase in the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in the interior regions is
anticipated"' -.
3.2 Current HIV/AIDS activities in Indigenous Areas. There have been a number of
HIV/AIDS related activities, mainly focusing on IEC, in the hinterland regions initiated by
various donors, NGOs, local organizations and the Ministry of Health. These efforts however
have suffered from a lack of coordination and their impact in terms of coverage remains
unknown. The Ministry of Amerindian Affairs is in the process of establishing a national data-
base of activities affecting Amerindians and through the HIV/AIDS Project will ensure improved
coordination with all actors engaged in HIV/AIDS in hinterland regions.
4. Development of the Guyana Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan (IPDP)
4.1 Methodology. The preparation of the IPDP was led by the Ministry of Health and the
Ministry of Amerindian Affairs, and coordinated by the Consultant with support from the World
Bank Representative in Guyana. The IPDP was developed through a consultative process with a
number of stakeholders including IP communities that stand to benefit from the HIV/AIDS
Prevention and Control Project.
4.1.1  Literature review. A review of existing documents was conducted to obtain information
on Guyana's Indigenous peoples, their general welfare, the regions they inhabit, and the
In 1997 sensitivity of the reporting system was approximately 65%/c - Status Report on HlV/AIDS in
Guyana 1987-20() 1. prepared by Dr. Navindra Persaud, Mo}l
Status Report on HIV/AIDS in Guyana 1987-200 1. prepared by Dr. Navindra Persaud. MoH
MO!H. Guyana. Unified Form for Requesting HIV Tests and Reporting HIV Cases. AIDS Cases and
AIDS Deaths
National Strate-ic Plan for HIV/AIDS 2002-2006. p.2



current status of HIV/AIDS in Indigenous populations, health conditions in the interior,
and the type and number of health facilities and staff in regions 1, 7, 8 and 9. This study
also benefited greatly from the PRSP documents. A draft outline of the IPDP was
prepared by the Consultant based on the review and was used to structure discussions
with MoH and other stakeholders.
4.1.2 Discussions and Interviews.
(i) Ministry of Health. To prepare the ground for consultations with communities in the regions as
well as identify key informants in Georgetown and in the regions, discussions were held with
MOH officials focusing on the purpose of the IPDP, the process to be undertaken and, most
importantly, the need for Government commitment to and ownership of the process and outcome.
The MoH advised on the regions to visit and communities to consult Two MOH persons were
also identified to join the core team for the field visits.
(ii) Ministry of Amerindian Affairs. The Ministerfor Amerindian Affairs, the Honorable Carolyn
Rodrigues, was briefed about the mission and plans to visit the hinterland. The Minister briefly
outlined the challenges to delivering services in the interior regions, and highlighted the need to
address two critical issues: transport (especially cost) and incentives for health personnel. The
Minister also confirmed her support to the IPDP and as a commitment to the process agreed to
lead and facilitate consultations in region I.
(iii) Other Stakeholders. Meetings were also held with representatives of two of the agencies
whose cooperation and collaboration will be central to implementing the IPDP, the Amerindian
Research Unit, University of the Artistes in Direct Support, a group of Guyanese artists formed in
1992 who use the performing arts to educate communities about HIV/AIDS, particularly youth.
The group, through its Theatre Caravan, has worked with IP communities both in urban areas and
in the interior.
4.1.3 Consultations with Indigenous Peoples. The core element of the methodology involved
extensive consultations with IP communities and local organizations in the hinterland, IP residing
in Georgetown as well as representatives of IP organizations based in Georgetown. Visits were
also made to 4 health facilities: a regional hospital, a health center and 2 health posts.
4.1.3.1 Objectives of the community consultations were to:
(a) inform IP about the government's health development plan, the HIV/AIDS strategic plan,
and the World Bank supported project and its objectives
(b) inform IP about the government's plan to involve IP in developing interventions that
address issues of priority to IP, including HIV/AIDS
(c) discuss HIV/AIDS, determine the amount of information about the disease, and activities
available to IP communities. Question were prepared to guide the team in the discussions
with the various stakeholders is attached.
(d) engage IP community members in identifying HIV/AIDS risk factors in the communities,
as well as solutions to prevent and control the epidemic and
(e) discuss other issues they consider most pressing or priority (including how they could be
resolved).
4.1.3.2 Consultation Team Members
The core consultation team compri\ed 4 members who visited Regions I and 9. The team
members were as follows:



(i) Team for Region 1: Hon. Carolyn Rodrigues, Minister for Amerindian Affairs; Mr. Wilton
Benn, Senior Medex, MoH; Ms. Lucia Hanmer, Country Representative, World Bank14; Ms. Jean
Rutabanzibwa-Ngaiza, Consultant, World Bank.
(ii) Team for Region 9 : Dr. Bheri Ramsaran, Director, Regional Health Services, MoH; Mr.
Wilton Benn, Senior Medex, MOH; Ms. Lucia Hanmer, Country Representative, World Bank;
Ms. Jean Rutabanzibwa-Ngaiza, Consultant, World Bank.
In the regions the core team was met by regional officials who not only facilitated the visits
(informed the communities, arranged the meetings, welcomed the team) but actively participated
in the discussions with community members. The team observed a real desire on the part of
community leaders to be part of the HIV/AIDS prevention effort and indeed lead some of the
initiatives in their communities.
Four villages in Region I and, in Region 9, three villages were visited and meetings held with the
following stakeholders in the border town of Lethem: 4 members of Regional Leadership Team'5,
a separate meeting with Youth Leaders belonging to a local church; 3 members of a youth group
and around 15 members of two women's groups from St Ignatius township/village, and a
Member of Parliament actively involved with the youth and women's organizations.
4.1.3.3 Georgetown Consultations.
Amerindian Hostel. The team met with approximately 65 IP, representing 23 villages in Regions
1, 7, 8, 9, and 10 currently residing temporarily at the Amerindian Hostel 6. Only 15 people
(23%) had heard of HIV/AIDS mainly through word of mouth, schools (many years ago) and
pamphlets distributed by truckers passing through the villages. Some of the points raised by
participants included:
* AIDS information on pamphlets not easy to understand
* Use local trainers to sensitize community about the disease
* Use varied media including Videos/VCR. TV and work through existing village
structures, also bring in other actors in the community such as shopkeepers
* VCT nearer the communities would be supported - now many have to travel to
Georgetown for medical tests.
The Cyril Potter College of Education. The 40 final year students were from a number of regions
including hinterland regions 1, 7, 8 and 9. The group was better informed about HIV/AIDS than
the hostel dwellers, and had access to more sources of information. The students worked in small
groups to identify HIV/AIDS risk factors in their regions and suggest solutions. Their work has
been incorporated into Table 2. Some of the risk and vulnerability factors included:
* society's tolerance of men having multiple partners
* poverty and high rates of unemployment that spawned prostitution and substance abuse
*  lack of knowledge about HIV/AIDS in poor areas
14 Team composition for Region 1: Senior Medex (MOH): Minister for Amerindian Affairs: Consultant.
and Country Representative. Wor]ld Bank,
5 Regional Chairman. Regional Vice Chairman. School Welfare Officer. Regional Health Officer
16 Residents include patients who have been referred to Georcetowii for treatment (sometimes accompanied
by a relative), women at risk of complicated deliveries



Job creation and skills-training, training local persons as HIV/AIDS trainers; providing parents
with information so they could discuss the disease with their children, working with churches and
making condoms accessible were some of the solutions suggested by the group.
The Rural Women's Network, an umbrella organization for 60 local women's groups in the 10
regions. In existence for 4 years, the Network has been assisting groups to build capacity through
training in inter alia marketing and bookkeeping. Some of the affiliate members work on health
issues including AIDS. The Network appears to have enough capacity to take on the role of
facilitating agent for local groups that want to initiate HIV/AIDS related activities under the
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project. They agreed to assist the MOH prepare a
questionnaire to assess the capacity of local NGOs.
Finally, a meeting was held with representatives of two Amerindian NGOs: The Amerindian
Action Movement of Guyana (TAAMOG), and the Guyanese Organization of Indigenous Peoples
(GOIP) to inform them of the on-going work in health including preparation of the HIV/AIDS
project and the necessity of preparing an IPDP. Both organizations were involved in the
preparation of the GOG HIV/AIDS Strategy 2002-2006. They stressed the need to build training
institutions in the regions to avoid uprooting students from their environment, to consider what
role the church could play especially in working with youth and, to translate HIV/AIDS materials
into local languages.
4.2 Results of the community consultations. The following issues were identified at nearly all
the meetings:
Information on HIV/AIDS. In all the communities visited, the majority of community members
reported having heard of HIV/AIDS although few had a clear understanding of what the disease
was. The most common sources of information were health workers, the radio and for youth,
teachers in schools. Generally, exposure to information on HIV/AIDS through outreach activities
had often times been a 'one off' activity in which they participated, some as far back as two or
even three years ago. The lack of information was not only confined to community members. A
few health workers (CHW) appeared ill-informed and inadequately equipped to discuss
HIV/AIDS. Some community members even expressed their lack of confidence in health
workers' ability to transmit the necessary information on HIV/AIDS to the community. Two
other groups mentioned often as needing support in the way of training, and empowering with
HIV/AIDS information were teachers and parents.
Where information pamphlets and posters had been made available, it was felt that such materials
needed to be not just culturally appropriate, but in the languages of the local communities, and
also include other communication media such as drama/shows, community radio and videos. A
number of community members also indicated the importance of seeing 'the face of AIDS' if
HIV/AIDS information is to have some impact on behavior. The involvement of PLWHA in this
effort may therefore be critical to the success of IEC.
With respect to priority needs for prevention of HIV transmission, in all the communities there
was concern about the lack of information on how many had already been infected or were sick.
Although support for testing centers was expressed. it was evident that the exposure of those
infected could be used by sonie commllulitv memiibers to 'settle scores' and or stigmatize
individuals. Where such views were expr-essed, team members from MOH used the occasion to
emphasize the voluntary nature of HIV tests, the need to avoid blame, and the importance of
community support for those facing misfol-tule.



Knowledge about condoms as a means of preventing HIV appears to be universal but responses
regarding their use seem to indicate limited or non-use. One problem appears to be the limited
outlets, with most condoms supplied by health workers. Men especially were reported to be
reluctant to collect condoms from the health facilities.
Concem was also expressed about the unsatisfactory state of the health system which could not
respond adequately to the existing problems because of various problems including lack
transportation for health workers (fuel shortage), a district hospital had no doctor and inadequate
drugs, there was limited choice of family planning methods, village health posts lacked furniture,
and ill-equipped laboratories.
Gender issues were evident in the responses given by community members regarding risks and
vulnerability to HIV/AIDS. The risks were slightly different for women and young girls
especially. The lack of education or economic activities made girls fall prey to truckers and other
men passing through the villages. Also, the presence of mining and other camps in the region
induced young girls to begin consorting with miners, and soldiers. There were also gender issues
with regard to promotion of condoms, and PMTCT. Some women mentioned the absence of men
in all these efforts and wondered why the male role was hardly or never mentioned in the
transmission of the virus when discussing PMTCT. Emanating from the discussion was a
recommendation to utilize institutions that have all or majority male membership to integrate men
into the HIV/AIDS campaigns such as using Village Captains to introduce HIV/AIDS topic at
sub-district meetings and raising the topic at public meetings of the RDC and Chambers of
Commerce.
Young people in the communities are concerned about the lack of opportunities for gainful
employment, and recognize that staying idle encourages risky behaviors thus putting youth at risk
of HIV. This concern was also echoed by community members and leaders (Captains and
Touchous) who called for support for local initiatives and activities that involve particularly out-
of-school youth. Information on HIV/AIDS for both in and out-of-school youth was said to be
inadequate. Alcohol consumption and use of drugs (marijuana in particular) is reported to be on
the increase in the villages. The priority needs identified by youth include:
* AIDS awareness in communities
* Training of peer educators on an ongoing basis
* Training for counselors
* Information on healthy lifestyles, including posters and leaflets in local languages on the
negative impact of drugs and alcohol
* Information on STIs
* Outlets for condoms - apparently condoms were not easily accessible. The main source is
the health worker. Few shops in the rural areas sell condoms and none are found in
bars/places of entertainment
The Church as an institution in many of the communities appears to exert quite a lot of influence,
especially over behavior. In one community for example alcohol consumption was kept under
control through the efforts of a councilor (an active church member) to educate the community
about the dangers of consuming too much alcohol. The councilor also speaks with business
owners to limit the amount of alcohol sold, especially during holidays. A number of speakers
notecl during discussion that the teaching of values was critically needed as a means of curbing
negative behaviors. Generally, community members felt that Churches were the best placed
institutions to intluence behaviors, starting with youth. A number of oung people were members
of youth clubs run by local churches. A few of these clubs were engaged in disseminating
HIV/AIDS prevention messages, emphasizing mainly abstinence and fidelity. However, the



churches are willing to work with local authorities in sensitizing communities about HIV/AIDS
and are also in need of support including materials and training. In one village, the Village
Captain who is also the pastor at his church indicated his willingness to receive training in
HIV/AIDS counseling.
The women's groups were formed mainly as income generating ventures and they vary in size
and capacity. Activities include sewing, gardening, cashew nut processing and revolving fund.
Members acknowledged the lack of information and awareness of HIV/AIDS in the communities.
They were concerned about youth, especially those already out of school who may not have
access to information on AIDS, and are willing to initiate HIV/AIDS activities but require
support.
Factors that place individuals and communities at risk. Numerous factors were mentioned at
meetings suggesting a general awareness of risks. There was a tendency to perceive risks as
emanating from outside the community, for example, with some community members blaming
'the road' (Georgetown -Lethem road) for bringing bad influences into the community including
HIV/AIDS. Others suggested 'outsiders' be tested for HIV before being allowed into the
communities (e.g. non- local teachers, health workers, business owners). These perceptions are a
result of inadequate information, fear created by the knowledge that HIV/AIDS is deadly and
perhaps an inadequate understanding of the risk factors fueling the spread of HIV.
In Table 2 are some of the risk factors, internal and external, identified by Amerindian
communities as increasing their vulnerability to HIV/AIDS, along with proposed responses to
prevent or control the epidemic.



Table 2: Risk and Vulnerability Factors* Identified by IP and Proposed Interventions
Factors increasing risk and vulnerability of indigenous  Proposed Interventions
communities to HIV/AIDS
I. Poverty and associated factors (illiteracy, unemployment.  - Employment creation in the hinterland
inadequate knowledge about health, prevention)          - Establish skills training centers & institutions
2. - Exploitation of resources in indigenous areas (mining,  - Companies should establish HIV/AIDS and STI
lumber)                                                 programs/services that include community
- Roads and/or railroads                                sensitization regarding HIV/AIDS
- Tourists/ visitors                                    - Require that certain percentage of jobs set-aside for
- Development projects (power, water) & other businesses  local labor
bringing outside workers (increase potential for communicable  -
diseases)
- Social disruption caused by especially mining (women &
youth suffer disproportionately e.g. sexual exploitation, young
girls consorting with miners, violence, crime)
3. Migration of youth to regions with better opportunities or to  - Community development projects to include youth
neighboring countries (education cut short as youth gravitate  -HIV/AIDS VCT and STI testing and treatment
towards economic betterment)                            services for workers
- travel to and from work camps
4. Lack of or Inadequate access to health and other social  - Strengthen health services by ensuring that adequate
services                                                numbers of trained personnel are available and
accessible
-train indigenous health agents
-mobile and extension clinics to increase access
- Ensure adequate supplies of drugs and equipment at
health facilities
-For HIV'AIDS - establish testing centers close to the
communities
5. Substance abuse (alcohol, drugs)                     - Enforce age limit for sale of alcohol (i.e. no sale to
minors)
-IEC regarding link between alcohol & substance
abuse and risky behaviors
- Educate both young and old about the dangers of
alcohol abuse
Involve parent teacher association
6. Early sexual activity (50% of children have sex before by  - Education for girls
age 13)'7                                               - Health and Family Life Education in schools
Teenage pregnancies"                                    -Adolescent Reproductive Health Services
7. Cultural beliefs and practices:                      - Behavior change interventions (BCC) including
- men expected/allowed to have multiple sex partners    educationi for both males and females that eniphasizes
- parental reluctance to speak to children about sensitive issues  the importance
such as sex (they also lack information & knowledge about  - Educate and provide information for parents to
HIV/AIDS)                                               cnable them to comfortably speak with their children
-belief that evil spirits responsiblc for illnesses such as STls &  ahoult subjects considered taboo such as sex
AIDS                                                    -IEC regarding diseases and treatment
-inadequate concerm about personal health therefore resort to  -research on extent of influence of cultural beliefs &
self-treatment                                          practices on health seeking behavior
*Issues and proposed solutions identified during comnmunity consultations in Regions I & 9: and consultation sessions
with hinterland student teachers at Cyril Potter College of Education, and the Amerindian Hostel both in Georgetown.
**Table adapted from: Indigenouts Peoples Development Plant: Bro il AII)S I/I Project JIPP-37
17 1998 Adolescent Health Survey quoted in Health Sector Analysis Guyana
tS In 1999. 24% of births were to girls aged 15- 19 years. See Chapter on Guyana in Health in the Americas
2002



Although a number of HIV/AIDS initiatives have been undertaken by the MoH, donor agencies
and NGOs for a few years now, the findings of the consultations would suggest the following: (a)
there has been inadequate community sensitization in hinterland communities regarding
HIV/AIDS, (b) many of the health workers, and teachers who are expected to disseminate
HIV/AIDS information lack the capacity and knowledge to adequately do so, (c) parents and
other family members need to be well informed so they can reinforce the messages taught in
school, (d) there is a dearth of culturally and language appropriate communications materials,
resulting in low levels of understanding of the disease.
However, opportunities exist at local level that could be utilized to scale up the response to
HIV/AIDS: (i) local leaders and grass-roots organizations for women and youth for example,
have initiated activities that respond to community needs including dissemination of information,
albeit limited, on HIV/AIDS (ii) community institutions such as Churches are engaged in
educating communities about HIV/AIDS, and are willing to work with local authorities to expand
the efforts, (iii) local leaders appear willing to take the lead and are requesting support in a
number of areas including training, setting up of testing centers and information dissemination.
5.     Government of Guyana HIV/AIDS Plan for Indigenous Communities
There is a unique opportunity that will enable an effective response to some of the concerns
identified through the consultation. The Ministry of Amerindian Affairs is one of the Ministries
that is included among selected ministries to implement the Guyana HIV/AIDS Prevention and
Control Project. The Ministry will undertake specific activities for indigenous peoples; serve as a
catalyst for ensuring that civil society organizations are encouraged to undertake activities for
indigenous peoples through the demand driven component; and, liaise with other Ministries
especially the Ministry of Health and Education to ensure that the activities that they undertake
focus on the special needs of indigenous peoples. The Minister of Amerindian Affairs will also
be a member of the Government's Presidential Commission on HIV/AIDS which will ensure that
at policy level, the needs of the IP's are taken into account.
The IPDP will be implemented through the different components supported by the Project.
Ministry of Amerindian Affairs will work closely with the other ministries involved in the Project
to ensure that activities targeting IP are implemented. A number of actors including NGOs and
other civil society organizations will be key players in implementing the IPDP.
More specifically, the IPDP under the HlV/AlDS Prevention and Control Project will focus on
the following activities:
5.1 Information,  Education   and    Communication     (IEC)/Behavior      Change
Communication(BCC).
The key IEC/BCC activities in IP communities in the interior will involve NGOs, CBOs, FBOs
and the private sector. While the component is demand-driven with the civil society groups
obtaining funding through proposals. The Government will also solicit some of the organizations
to focus on priorities. Among the priority activities to be solicited will be:
a) Preparation and dissemination of IEC/BCC materials.
i) Translation of key messages and documents into local languages in collaboration with the
Arnerindian Research Unit, local leaders and others experienced in preparing culturally
appropriate visual aids and other materials.



ii) Preparation and dissemination of materials on HIV/AIDS and STIs in collaboration with
Amerindian Research Unit, University of Guyana. Socio-cultural research will be undertaken
(under Component I) on inter alia the contextual issues that determine or influence sexual
behaviors. Results will be utilized in designing IEC materials and community sub-projects.
iii) Preparation of age-appropriate materials for youth, in and out-of-school.
b) Promotion Campaigns. Intensive community sensitization will be undertaken on HIV/AIDS,
stigma reduction, and behavior change interventions/communication (BCC) to target those at
higher risk such as youth, and particularly young girls. Information will be disseminated on
voluntary testing, availability of VCT and STI services including GOG position on protecting the
rights of individuals (legal rights) and protection from harassment and harm. This process will
actively involve all relevant stakeholders including traditional and local leaders, and civil society
organizations.
c) Capacity building workshops. Persons and groups expected to disseminate HIV/AIDS
information to communities will receive training through workshops and other fora. Priority will
be given to training persons from within and or residing in the communities as trainers and peer
educators. Such persons include: Teachers, Community Health Workers, Village Captains and
Councilors, and community development workers. Local groups such as women's and youth
groups will also receive training and regular support to access relevant, up-to-date information on
HIV/AIDS.
d) Community mobilization, proposal preparation. The Ministry of Amerindian Affairs will
conduct training for community groups and NGOs on proposal preparation for funding from the
demand-driven part of the project.
e) Condom promotion and provision
Currently, the target group has been primarily women who are provided with male condoms by
health workers (and expected to 'use' them). This, however, has not empowered women to
protect themselves since they have not been provided with methods they can control such as
spermicides and female condoms. NGOs working on social marketing of condoms as well as free
distribution will be encouraged to work with indigenous communities. Support for this activity
would also come from MOH as part of its plan. An amount of US$ 600,000 has been provided in
the project for procurement and distribution of condoms. Some of the condoms will be
earmarked for distribution to IP communities.
5.2 Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) Supported under Component 3.
The expansion of VCT services under the Project will include IP areas both at region anid sub-
district levels. This will include training of trainers and counselors from within the community.
Conimunities intdicated the need for counselors to be persons of integrity, respected by
community members and able to keep all information they are given confidential. Such persons
include church leaders, teachers and community elders.
a) VCT centers will be constructed or refurbished and provided with the necessary furniture,
equipment, and test kits and training provided to health workers including comnmunity health
workers.
b) IEC materials will he designed in collaboration with the Amerindian Research Ulnit and other
partners such as CBOs and NGOs.
c) Training activities will be designed and implemented for teachers, church leaders and( other
leaders in the cornmminity in Guidance and Counseling skills (for teachers, impart HFLE



methodology and incorporate HIV/AIDS topics into school curriculum). The importance of and
need to assure confidentiality will be emphasized.



5.3 Treatment , Care and Support for PLWHA and their families (Support under
Components 1, 2 and 3)
Key activities:
a) Treatment of opportunistic infections - training health care workers including CHW in use of
protocols to diagnose and treat infections, ensuring adequate supplies of drugs including
antibiotics. Given that ARI is a major problem, particularly among young children, the
strengthening of drug supply systems will also benefit curative services under primary health
care.
b) Training health care workers in care of PLWHA, and home care providers - guidelines for
home care-givers will be developed (too include nutrition for PLWHA)
c) Provision of basic home care kits - a standard kit, and guidelines will be developed.
d) Support for CBO, FBO and NGOs to provide care and support for PLWHA
e) Provide ARVs - these would be made available through the MCH program as part of the
PMTCT program.
f) Increase TB screening'9 and improving DOTs coverage and completion rates by training and
involving local organizations and leaders in the distribution and monitoring of compliance.
g) Roving Medical Hinterland Teams: To adequately ensure that IP communities have enhanced
access to services mentioned above, outreach teams will be established in Regions 1, 7, 8 and 9 to
deliver services to the remote communities. This aligns with the PRSP20 policy action of
providing one medical outreach team in each region. Where these teams already exist, they will
be strengthened and their role expanded as necessary. The teams will conduct scheduled visits
(frequency as yet to be decided) covering entire sub-districts. The 'Roving Medical Hinterland
Teams' would undertake outreach activities with particular emphasis on the most isolated
communities in regions 1, 7, 8 and 9. The team would include activities focusing on HIV/AIDS
related issues. As yet to be elaborated are the team composition, their tasks and responsibilities.
5.4   Initiate Private Sector Activities and Enhance Collaboration (Support under
Component 2)
a) The Ministry of Amerindian Affairs will undertake a survey of private companies operating
in the interior regions to ascertain type of health care provided for employees
b) Work with each company prepare HIV/AIDS plan detailing priority activities.  Each
company,   by year two, provide VCT, STI testing and treatment and or referral for
employees
c) Cross-Border Issues (Support under Component 1). To address cross-border issues
related to health,
d) More health officers will be recruited in the hinterland
e) Inter-ministerial collaboration between MoH, Ministry of Amerindian Affairs, Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and border authorities will be strengthened to facilitate information sharing on the
number of persons crossing the border for health care, including those seeking HIV tests and
people undergoing treatment for AIDS. Already efforts are underway to provide Portuguese
language training for border (immigration) officials.
5.6 Ministry of Health. In addition, to activities highlighted above, there are specific activities
under the Health sector component which are cross-cutting but important for IP.
Regions lack facilities to clo this - see Report on Region 9's Poverty reduction Strategy Consultations
(20)0)1) prepared by the Regional Democratic Council #9 in collaboration with the Amerindian Touchaus'
Council of Region #9
2( see Guyana Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. Appendix 5.



a) A high priority activity under the project is the development of a comprehensive
IEC/BC communications strategy. It will help to identify appropriate ways of reaching different
target population groups including IP with appropriate IEC/BCC interventions. An amount of
US$ 50,000 has been programmed for a consultancy on developing the IEC/BCC strategy.
b) Surveillance and Research will be critical to implementing the IPDP. As recognized in
Guyana, data on the extent of the epidemic and coverage of services is inadequate. An amount of
US$ 30,000 has been included for Knowledge, attitudes, practices and behavior surveys. These
will include IP areas.
5.7 Ministry of Education
The activities highlighted below are key priority activities under the Ministry of Eduction's
response to HIV/AIDS. IP schools and teachers will be included in the programming of these
activities. The roll-out of the program will be undertaken in annual work plans that are currently
being developed.
a) Integrate HIV/AIDS into school curriculum - under HFLE
b) Skills training for teachers involved in HFLE
c) Integrate HIV/AIDS into teacher training curricula
d) Establish/revive school health clubs
6. Monitoring and Evaluation. There are six ongoing or planned date collection activities
supported by a number of agencies including USAID, Centers for Disease Control (CDC), CIDA
and Caribbean Epidemiology Center (CAREC). It is expected that they will provide baseline
information for monitoring the epidemic including among IP. Monitoring of activities under the
IPDP will be covered under the M & E framework for the project. Evaluation studies will be
designed to take into account the key focus areas of the IPDP, including prevalence in IP
communities, increased knowledge of HIV/AIDS, access to STI/HIV/AIDS services, behavior
change, and participation of civil society and the private sector. IP have been included in the
mid-term and final impact evaluations.
7. Time line and Costing. While some of the activities have been costed. especially those to be
managed by the Ministry of Health, a number of others for line ministries will be detailed on an
annual basis, while those of NGOs and other civil society organizations will be prepared through
a proposal based demand-driven process.



