E887
February 2004
Environmental Assessment
GUYANA: HIV/AIDS PREVENTION & CONTROL PROJECT
Bio-Medical Waste Management and Social Assessments
Bio-Medical Waste Management
Background
Methiod. To assess Health Care Waste Management (HCWM) in Guyana and recommend a
HCWM plan to help implement and enforce proper health and environmentally sound, technically
feasible, economically viable, and socially acceptable systems for management of health care
waste in Guyana, an assessment was conducted as part of the preparation of the proposed project.
Existing data and information on the general characteristics of health care waste management
system in Guyana, and the institutional, legal and regulatory health care system framework, were
reviewed and analyzed. Problem and alternative solutions were identified. The Sectoral Analysis
of Solid Waste in Guyana (MOH, PAHO/WHO, 2003) was used as an important source for this
study.
Interviews and field visits
In order to gather relevant information and assess health care waste management in different
locations of Guyana, interviews and field visits were carried out, as follows:
a)     Georgetown
i. Mayor and City Council. Municipality of Georgetown
Dr. Rufus Lewis. Solid Waste Management Department.
Dr. Vibart Shury. Medical Health Officer.
ii. Guyana Solid Waste Management Association, Mr. Maurice Walker. Vice-President.
iii. Prasad Medical Centre & Medical Arts (Private)
iv. Lodge Health Centre, Ms. Veronica Rodrigues Douglas. Public Health Nurse (PHN).
v. David Rose Health Centre, Ms. Farley Morite (PHN)
vi. Agricola Health Centre, Ms. Jasmin Jones. "Medex"
vii. CampbelIville Health Centre
viii. Georgetown Public Hospital Corporation, Mr. Palmanana Samaroo. Director. Facilities
Management.
ix. Mandela Landfill
x. Georgetown Incinerator
xi. St. Joseph's Mercy Hospital (private non profit hospital), Sister Sheila Walsh
xii. Woodlands Medical Centre (private)
Dr. Gobins. General Manager
Ms. Sharon Ramdin. Personnel Administrator
b) Region 2. Essequibo
i. Public Health Department, Ms. Shaleena Jaigabind. EHO.
ii. Suddie Regional Hospital, Mr. Haringe Narayan. Administrator and Mayor of the local
NDC.
iii. Charity District Hospital, - Ms. Desrii Sanpsom. SM. (Nurse).
c)     Linden Complex
i. Mckenzie Regional Hospital, Matron Ms. Liverpool,    Mr. Trevor Vangenderen.
Administrator
FILE COPY



ii. Wismar District Hospital, Sister Debra George (acting supervisor)
d)     Region 5
i. Fort Wellington District Hospital
ii. Rosignol Health Centre
iii. Ithaca Health Centre
e)     Region 6
i. New Amsterdam Regional Hospital
ii. Skeldon District Hospital, Dr. Jadinauth Raghunauth
f)     West Demerara Regional Hospital
- Dr. Holly Alexander. RHO
- Ms. Desiree Amsterdam. H.A. WDRH.
Data processing and reporting
Collected field work information was processed and a meeting with counterparts of MOH and
PAHO was carried out in Guyana to present the findings and to receive feedback.
Results
Hospital solid waste (HSW) varies in quantity and quality according to the size of a particular
health facility and the services it provides. HSW is normally classified according to its level of
potential contamination. A simple classification, that is nevertheless generally accepted in
developing countries, includes only three types: i) common or general; ii) infectious biomedical
and iii) special. WHO, on the other hand, suggests a more detailed HSW classification:
General medicaUhealth care waste: paper, plastic, glasses and other non-infectious
byproducts;
Infectious biomedical waste:  blood, secretions, needles, syringes, vaccines and materials
contaminated with infectious agents;
Chemical waste: disinfectants, formaldehyde, chemotherapy wastes, Mercury and other
chemicals;
Radioactive waste: wastes generated during nuclear medicine, clinical testing labs, etc.;
Anatomical waste: corpses and human remains;
Miscellaneous: special waste due to its volume, shape, etc. should need special storage and
treatment.
In Guyana, it was noted that the Georgetown National Public Hospital Corporation (GNPHC) has
the most advanced HSW   management system  in the country.  This health-care institution
considers the following classification system for its hospital wastes:
-   Domestic waste: Office waste, dry waste, etc.
-   Dietary: Kitchen waste, food.
-   Infectious waste: Soiled dressings, pampers.
-   Pathological and Special Wastes: Mortuary, main operating theatre,
laboratory waste. Sharps, syringes, X-ray films, etc.
At the GNPHC, each of these major HSW types tends to be managed separately, following a
color-coding system based on the separation of HSW in colored plastic bags. In the other health
facilities. HSW separation practices are limited.



Table l: Color-coding of HSW in Georgetown National Public Hospital Corp ration (GNPHC)
Type of waste                 Plastic Bag Colour
Domestic                      Black
Dietary                       White / clear
Pathological and special      Red
Infectious                    Yellow
The quantity of HSW generated in health facilities is proportional to the size of each of these.
There are no field studies regarding the quantity and quality of HSW produced in Guyana. This
is a major limitation that has to be solved while preparing specific HSW projects. It is estimated,
however, that the GNPHC generates on average a total of 1,350 kg of HSW each day (Solid
Waste Sectoral Analysis in Guyana, 2003). This hospital holds 601 beds, which means that waste
generation is approximately 2.24 kg/bed/day, a figure that falls within the estimated range for
developing countries (3 kg/bed/day). Considering the level of services provided in this hospital,
it has the highest HSW generation rate per unit. This data was used to estimate Guyana's total
HSW generation, implicitly introducing a margin of safety. Also, depending on the efficiency of
HSW segregation, it can be said that 25% to 40% are hazardous or infectious waste. The
estimated amount of HSW generated in health facilities of Region I to 10 is shown in the
following table:
Table 2: Estimated amount of HSW by Regions in Guyana
Total       Hazardous waste    General waste (kg/day)   Total
number or         (kg/day)             7%-6%Toa
hospita I      (25% - 40%)           (75% - 60%)         waste
hospitla(gdv
Region       beds        25%        40%        75%        60%       (kg/day)
l          85         47.6       76.2       142.8      114.2       190.4
2          107        59.9       95.9       179.8       179.8      239.7
3           183       102.5      163.9      307.4      307.4       409.9
4          951        532.5      853.1      1,597.7    1,278.1    2,130.2
5           37        20.7       33.2        62.2       49.7       82.9
6          554        310.2      496.4      930.7      744.5      1240.9
7           56        31.4       50.2        94.1       75.2       125.4
8           28        15.7       25.1        47.0       37.6       62.7
9           4()       22.4       35.8        67.2       53.8       89.6
10         146        81.7       130.8      245.2       196.2      327.0
Total           2,187     1,224.7     1,959.5    3,674.0    2.939.2    4,898.7
Source: Authors' calculations based on Sectoral Analysis of Solid Waste in Guyana. MOH, PAHO,
2003.



In Guyana, the total hazardous HSW generation ranges from about 1,23 to 1.96 T/day. The
maximum and minimum generation values vary according to the level of HSW segregation at
source. According to this information, Region 4 and Region 6 are the biggest hospital waste
generators, achieving together almost 70% of the total hospital solid waste in Guyana. In Region
4 is located GNPHC and in Region 6 is New Amsterdam Regional Hospital. No references of
other relevant medical non solid waste generation was found during field visits.
Legal and Institutional Aspects
Institutional aspects
Responsibility for solid waste management in Guyana lies with several Government ministries.
There are a number of institutions that have some functional responsibilities, but there is no a
national body which has comprehensive responsibility for policy-making, directing, advising,
controlling and monitoring the solid waste system.
The development of macro-strategies for national development is a responsibility of the Central
Government. Although waste management was not specifically addressed, pollution prevention
was highlighted, particularly stating that an Environmental Protection Commission will be
established. This includes the Environmental Protection Agency and other agencies responsible
for environmental protection.
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) was formed in 1996 under the Environment
Protection Act (1996) and currently reports to the Office of the President.
It has the responsibility for:
*  establishing regulatory frameworks and enforcement for the reduction of litter and the
discharge of waste generation
*  development of design criteria for the construction, operation, maintenance and
monitoring of facilities for the control of pollution and the disposal of waste
* governing the location and classes of disposal sites
* governing and regulating the management of waste and prescribing standards for waste
management systems.
* public awareness and education programs and the dissemination of information that can
enhance effective waste management practices.
* permitting permission for landfill sites, incinerators etc.
The MOH provides some technical advice regarding waste management. This is done through
the Environmental Health Units, which are each given responsibility for a number of public
health districts. The environmental health officers are responsible for approving sanitary facilities
(septic tanks and on-site disposal facilities).  The MOH has a signed Memorandum  of
Understanding (M.O.U.) with the EPA to handle matters pertaining to environmental health.
The Police Force of Guyana can charge any person who commit a criminal offence. These
offences include any thing that constitutes a common nuisance, affects the health of the public and



littering/dumping. However these offences are not deemed high priority and as a result few
charges are instituted.
The above mentioned institutions (EPA, the Guyana Police force), and others like the Public
Health Officers, the city constabulary and the cleansing unit of the M&CC have within the scope
of their powers, monitoring, collection and disposal of waste. However, lack of personnel and
appropriate training have severely restricted their effectiveness. In this context, the MOH has
direct responsibilities in HSW at least in those under their administration, which are the great
majority.
Legal Aspects
The legal and regulatory framework regarding solid waste management in Guyana is governed by
the Common law and several legislative instruments which operate at the national, municipal as
well as regional level. Cohesion and integration among these instruments are almost non existent,
which results in jurisdictional conflicts and difficulties concerning the scope of the duties and
responsibilities created under the various instruments. In addition, many of the instruments are
outdated, which raises the question of their relevance to the circumstances of today. There is little
information on specific legislative instruments about health care waste. Most of these instruments
are related to solid waste management in general.
The Sector Analysis of Solid Waste carried out by PAHO (October, 2003) emphasized the
following legislative instruments related to solid waste management:
(a) The Common Law
Two areas are relevant to Solid Waste Management; these are found in the civil wrongs of
nuisance and 'The Rule in Rylands v Fletcher (1868) LB I Ex 265; LR 3. H.L 330)'. Nuisance is
also prosecutable as a criminal wrong. These civil wrongs can apply mainly with respect to the
disposal of solid waste. A common law nuisance will arise when the disposal of solid' waste
causes an unlawful interference with a person's use or enjoyment of land, or some right over, or
in connection with that land. Smells, smoke and other results of improper disposal may create
causes of actions for the owners and occupiers of land close to disposal sites.
The Rule in 'Rylands v Fletcher', imposes strict liability for any damages caused, on any person
who for his own purposes brings onto his land and collects and keeps there anything likely to do
mischief if it escapes. He does so at his own peril, and is liable for all damage which results as a
natural consequence of the escape. This rule covers both personal injury and injury to property.
and has arisen regarding the improper storage, accumulation and disposal of noxious substances,
highly flammable substances, oil, and rusty wire. The critical elements under this rule is that there
must be an escape of the substance, and the accumulation must not be a natural use of the land.
Health Sector Specific Legislation
The legislative instruments highlighted in this section have a direct impact on, and relevance to
the solid waste sector. These instruments provide the framework for the setting of policy, the
establishments of the duties and responsibilities for the delivery of services within the sector,
including administrative duties, contractual powers, health requirements and also sanctions for
offences related to the sector. These instruments are a useful foundation but are in need of reform.



The Environmental Protection Act NO. 11 of 1996 - This Act seeks inter alia to establish a
comprehensive framework, for environmental management, including solid waste management,
at a national level. The framework includes setting of policy, the issuing of guidelines,
establishment of standards, monitoring as well as enforcement.
The Public Health Ordinance Act Cap 145 Laws of British Guiana 1953 Edition - Passed in
1934 this Ordinance represents the oldest laws in Guyana regulating solid waste management.
This Ordinance has provided a framework on which many of the municipal by-laws relating to
solid waste were built and it was responsible for establishing the initial scope of duties and
responsibilities regulating waste collection and disposal. It is still relevant and is used today to
enforce several offences including littering.
The Municipal and District Councils Act CAP 28:01 (As Amended) - Together with the
regulations and by-laws made there-under, this Act comprises the main body of written laws
governing solid waste management within the Municipalities. Municipal cleanliness is governed
by the City of Georgetown (Collection and Disposal) of Waste By-laws, a municipal by-law
which has been in effect for more than twenty years.
Some instruments enacted under and through powers conferred by primary Acts that take the
form of by-laws and regulations are listed below. In view of the lack of specific legal
instruments, they are, somehow, related to health care waste management.
The City of Georgetown (Collection and Disposal) of Waste By-laws. Passed in 1981 these
by-laws established a framework goveming the collection and disposal of waste, providing for
several definitions of waste including combustible waste, commercial waste and waste in general.
It also established a framework that is intended to regulate offences relating to waste disposal,
including dumping of waste. Provision is also made for the disposal of waste by incinerators,
however few criteria are set for the operation of these incinerators, save that they should not be a
nuisance.
The Offensive Matter Removal By-Laws - These by-laws were made under the Public Health
Ordinance for the City of Georgetown and confirmed on the 16th August, 1904. Though Offensive
matter is not defined, this By-law creates an offence of carrying 'offensive matter' within the
limits of the city between the hours of 6.am and 6 p.m. It also imposes standards for the vessels
used for the carrying of offensive matter. Further, it creates a duty to clean any spills which result
from the carriage of offensive matter. In any reform of the technical legal standards of the sector,
this by-laws must be considered.
The Scavenging and Cleansing of the City By-laws - Confirmed by Governor and Court of
Policy of the 26th July, 1917. and also applicable to NDCs, this by-law is intended to regulate the
disposal of certain types of refuse. It introduces a definition of refuse and provides for separate
classifications.
Regulation No. 7 of 2000 The Environmental Protection (Hazardous Wastes Management)
Regulations 2000 - These regulations provide a framework for the intended management of
Hazardous Wastes. Its consequences for the definition, classification and categorization of waste
within Guyana must be noted.
Inter-Sectoral Legislation



The Water and Sewerage Act (No.5 of 2002) CAP 30:01 - In addition to establishing the
jurisdiction of several entities including the Guyana Water Incorporated, this Act creates an
offence regarding the pollution of water ways with waste. This Act becomes relevant as three of
the municipalities (Georgetown, Linden and Bartica) are serviced by waterways, the pollution of
which will be outside the jurisdiction of the municipalities, primarily due to the provisions of this
Act.
The Pesticides and Toxic Chemical Act (No. of 2002) (CAP 68:09). - The mechanism
established under this Act have some relevance to the management of hazardous wastes. These
include incorporation of the representatives of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) into
the management structure suggested, together with requirements regarding handling,
transportation and disposal of pesticides and toxic chemicals.
The Occupational Safety and Health Act CAP 99:10 - This Act introduced a duty on
employers to conduct work in a manner which does not cause the discharge of any noxious,
hazardous, or polluting matter into the air, water, or sod. This Act can serve as a tool to hold
liable persons who may dump materials indiscriminately, as a product of the work process. The
added duty imposed regarding information on the handling and disposal of hazardous chemicals
should be noted. This Act is also relevant to the work of the employees of the private contractors
responsible for the collection and disposal of waste
The East Demerara Water Conservancy Act CAP 55:03 - The Board established under this
Act controls the surface water supplied to the Georgetown Municipality and many of the Coastal
districts. This Act establishes as an offence which is monitored by the Board, for any person who
throws any earth, dirt, stones, broken bottles, filth and any other substance likely to contaminate
conservancy water or water in a reservoir.
The Criminal Law (Offences) Act CAP 8:01 - The main source of serious criminal offences in
Guyana, this Act establishes as a criminal offence for everyone to commit any common nuisance
which endangers the lives, safety, or health of the public, or which injures the person of any
individual. The penalty for this offence is imprisonment for two years.
The Summary Jurisdiction (Offences) Act CAP 8:02 - Designed to cover less serious offences.
provisions affecting solid waste can be found in Section 153(1) under the title Minor Offences,
chiefly in 'Town'. The offences mainly surround acts of littering. The Offences find any person
who commits any of the following acts if found guilty, liable in each case, to a fine of not less
that seven thousand dollars. These acts include: (i) in any public way or public place, or in any
public canal, throws or lays any coals, stones, slates, shells, lime, bricks, timber, iron, firewood,
or other materials; (ii) throws or lays any dirt, litter, ashes, or night soil, or any carrion, fish,
offal, rubbish, or other matter or thing, or commits any nuisance, on any public way or public
place; (iii) or causes or permits any offensive matter to run from any slaughter-house, butcher's
shop, stall, kitchen, or dunghill into any public way or public place; or (iv) in any town deposits
in any place whatever any offensive matter or thing to the injury or annoyance of any inhabitant
or passenger in the town. And (v) Throws, or being the owner or occupier of any house or other
building in any town permits to be thrown, from any part of the house or other building any. slate.
brick, rubbish, water, or other thinc. These offences are liable to prosecution by the police.
Some standards regarding aspects of solid waste management have been set in various legislative
instruments, but they need to be improved. For example, there are standards regarding waste
receptacles, disposal machinery and equipment, as well as hours during which collections should



not be made, in several by-laws passed under the Municipal and District Councils Act CAP
28:01.
Wastes definitions, classification and categorizations were introduced by Regulation No. 7 of
2000 The Environmental Protection (Hazardous Wastes Management) Regulations 2000. This
regulation specifically defined hazardous waste and provided classifications based on chemical
and reactive characteristics, and introduced a categorization based inter alia on 'hazardous
industrial waste', hazardous chemical waste, flammable waste, clinical waste, and severely toxic
waste. These regulations also introduced into the legal framework definitions of medical waste as
well as incinerator waste, which appear to be excluded from the definition of hazardous wastes.
No standard procedures to measure and asses hazardous and medical waste were found.
Enforcement can be described as weak, due to several factors including personnel, resources and
adjudicative attitudes. Provisions exist under several laws prohibiting certain activities. This
provides a basis for enforcement, but its importance is diminished by potential conflicts in
enforcement powers, a lack of knowledge and inadequate fines.
Biomedical Waste NManagement Practices
The vast majority of health establishments in Guyana are public are under the MOH. Depending
on their size, they are classified as health post, health center, district hospital, regional hospital
and national hospital. There is a relatively small number of private clinics in Georgetown.
In order to better understand the organizational and technical aspects of HSW management in
Guyana, it is necessary to know the general context of the solid waste management system. In
Guyana, there are no fully developed sanitary landfills. The Mandela sanitary landfill in
Georgetown is actually an open-air dumping site. This is why the Mayor and City Council of
Georgetown have planned to build a sanitary landfill in the Eccles area with IDB's support.
Moreover, there are no incinerators or treatment plants properly equipped for special, industrial or
hazardous waste. The city of Georgetown's incinerator is nearly 50 years old and is a waste
bumer without any environmental control device. The environmental legal and institutional
framework for HSW is still in the process of consolidation.
The capacity for enforcement and environmental social awareness is still limited. Within this
context, cities dispose of waste in open-air dumping sites, which poses severe risks for the
population's health and the environment.  During field visits, it was noted that the MOH
supervisors or environmental health officers do not customarily provide specific guidelines for
proper HSW  management, that the medical and paramedic staff in general have not received
training in HSW management and that there are no protocols or written guides on this topic.
The GNPHC is the only national hospital and it is the most important one in the country. About
two years ago, a color-coding system for HSW management was been implemented. It is based
on a 4-color system. Pathological and special waste (red bags) and infectious waste (yellow bags)
are taken to the Georgetown incinerator, while domestic and dietary waste are disposed of in the
Mandela sanitary landfill.  Both activities are carried out through contracts with private
enterprises.
Except for the GNPHC, all health facilities, regardless of their size, face difficulties at different
levels. Although the levels of waste segregation are practically nonexistent, sharps and needles
are used in accordance with some minimum technical and sanitary criteria. The use of sharps and
needles does indeed deserve special mention. These wastes are actually separated in special



plastic or cardboard containers, either red or yellow. And when these are not available, the nurses
use their good judgment to build special containers for sharps and needles out of recycled
cardboard boxes. The other HSW types are practically not properly separated at source and end
up mixed with sharps and needles during the process of collection and storage inside the health
establishment.
In general, health posts, health centers, district and regional hospitals burn and bury the waste and
it is common practice for the Municipality or the local NDC to remove the ashes and other non-
combustible waste, such as glass and metals, to dispose of them in the community open-air
dumping sites.
The level of equipment for HSW burning varies according to the size of each health facility. In
health posts and health centres, HSW is burned in small concrete boxes. In district and regional
hospitals, one can find small furnaces equipped with a combustion chamber, an ash removal
system and a chimney. In these hospitals, the local Municipality or local NDC also usually
remove the ashes and non-combustible waste.
Table 3 shows the most common HSW disposal practices in Guyana:
Table 3 : HSW management and disposal practices in selected Gu ana health establishments
HealthT                Processing through         On-site    Ash and     Collection
Establishment            on-site burn ing          burial      non-     and disposal
Open-    Concrete     Burner               combustibl   outside the
air    container      with                 e waste     hospital
chimney                removal
Medical Center
Lodge             _          X                       X
David Rose                   X                       X
Agriculture                                                                  X
Campbellville                X                                  X
Rosignol           X                                            X
Ithaca             X                                X
District Hospital
Charity            X                                 X _               l
Wismar                                   X                      X
F. Wellington                            X                      X
Skeldon                                  X           X          X
Regional Hospital
Suddie            X         x X      °'         l         l    _      |      X
Mckenzie           X                     X                      X
New Amsterdam      X                     X                      X
West Demarara      X                     X                      X
National Hospital
GNPHC          J        ]  _     _      X'      [ i                   [      x
Private clinic
St. Joseph's                                                                 x
Mercy
Woodlands                                                                    X
The HSW burning site is located outside the hospital.



Table 3 shows that in nearly all health facilities, HSW is burned on site. Thirty percent (30%) of
health establishments bury the HSW, while 76% contract a third party to remove the ashes, non-
combustible waste and HSW in general. During the field visits, it was also noted that all health
establishments have a particular streams for human waste management. The bodies are handed
over to the families. And in regional and district hospitals, human remains are buried in local
cemeteries, following agreements with local funeral homes. In health posts and health centers,
human remains are buried on site and sharps and needles are, in many cases, handed over to the
regional and district hospitals, where they are finally burned.
The level of HSW recycling is limited. It is done mainly in Georgetown, where recycled materials
consist essentially of glass and plastic containers. In the areas outside Georgetown, HSW
recycling is practically non-existent, as it is limited to the sporadic recycling of containers such as
glass bottles.
Within this context, and as was mentioned before, all HSW (including sharps and needles) are
mixed during the collection and internal storage process.
In the Georgetown, as noted, neither the GNPHC nor the private health facilities visited carry out
on-site treatment. In all cases, the Mayor and City Council of Georgetown's private contractor
takes the waste to the incinerator. This is done through a private agreement between the health
establishment and the contractor.  The following graph illustrates the biomedical waste
management cycle:
Sarps &         nectious         DomesticHua
| Health Post  ll
Health P                                                                Buried On
Transport   |                                        Site
Medical Centre  I
-__________________h___                      Wur~rWurtediCTnlSite~~~~~~~ _________
District Hospital    Burn On Site
l   l             l                                       Buried On
Local
Regional Hospital    Burn On Site                                          Cemetery
Non Combustible Hospital Waste and Small Amounts ot
Ashes
O    Air Du     Sit



In the private health establishments visited, it was noted that there is some level of HSW
separation. In general, sharps and needles, as well as infectious and domestic waste, are
separated, although no standard color-coding system is used. Except for the GNPHC, no written
HSW management procedures have been found in any private hospital.
Knowledge, Practices and Behavior in the Health Facilities
Overall, staff are aware of the health risks associated with the handling of sharps and needles, and
of HIV contagion in particular. Sharps and needles are thus placed in special containers, whether
plastic or cardboard (see photos). Later, however, the problem remains since these materials are
generally mixed up with all other HSW.
All nurses are instructed not to re-cap the needles. However, during the field visits, it was noted
that needles are re-capped or not re-capped without distinction, according to the health staff
members' personal practices. This indicates a weakness in the dissemination and application of
the MOH general recommendation not to re-cap the needles due to the inherent health risks.
On the other hand, it has been found that the medical and paramedic staff at the Linden Complex
Hospital (Mckenzie and Wismar) were the only ones who had received some training in HSW
management. This was due to a one-time training initiative by PAHO, which developed a training
module in these health facilities.
Apart from sharps and needles, HSW management practices are limited, whether because of a
lack of equipment or of limited knowledge in the field. The EHOs sent to the regions by the
MOH can do little to provide technical assistance and to raise awareness among the staff of health
establishments, as they themselves have not received specific training in the field.
The medical and paramedic staff showed great interest in receiving continued training in
HSW management and stated that it will be utterly important to have standard procedures and
written protocols for HSW management.
Conclusions and Action Plan for Improving Biomedical Waste Management Practices
The assessment of the health facilities in Guyana shows that there is an adequate level of
segregation, in-house handling, treatment and ultimate disposal of most biomedical wastes,
although there are gaps in management, equipment, incineration and treatment that present risks
to the integrity of the overall system. This results in part from the system being derived from the
application of general infection control practices, and not seen as a specifically targeted or
regulated area of attention.
Improving the situation, and mitigating the risks will be addressed through a set of system-wide
interventions as follows:
(a)    Improving the legal and regulatory framework: consultants will review the legal and
regulatory framework that exists and propose improvements in definitions. management
arrangements, scope of coverage of regulation to include the transportation of wastes and residues
and site disposal.



(b)    Codification of practices: in consultation with facility management and with the support
of outside experts, practices and procedures will be codified, to ensure that all steps in the system
were specifically covered, and that "international standards" were applied.
(c)    Clarification of management responsibilities: from practice and regulations, facilities will
reinforce and/or establish biomedical waste management responsibilities in clear personnel
assignments.
(d)    Staff training and development: the MOH should organize and conduct a program to train
and familiarize employees in all of the 173 facilities with the new guidelines and protocols that
have been developed. It will then continue to monitor the application of these under the authority
of the revised regulatory framework.
(e)    Upgrading facilities and equipment: the application of new practices will be supported
with a complement of small equipment and specific site improvements and/or equipment repairs
as necessary for their application (protective gear, trolleys, bins and containers, monitoring and
recording equipment, fluid waste containers and piping. etc). In addition, consultants will review
the system demands for inter-site transportation of wastes, incineration and disposal, leading to a
recommendation for investments in new incineration and disposal technology. These investments
will also be financed.
The MOH will manage the implementation of the above action plan to be supported under the
project's Component III (a full description of the above action plan is in the project files).
Civil Works to be Financed Under Proposed Project
The objective of the interventions to improve the infrastructure as part of the proposed project
will be to enhance the response capacity of health facilities to provide quality services and scale
up the HIV/AIDS program. During project preparation, the project team conducted site visits and
met with the directors and staff of health facilities, and with the Project Administrative Unit of
the IDB (currently financing a Health Sector Reform Program through the MOH), in order to
identify and confirm a list of sites requiring space conditioning and rehabilitation, as well as small
works for the installation of the information system, with World Bank project financing.
As assessed during project preparation by the Project team, it is expected that the environmental
and social impacts resulting from the execution of the above-mentioned civil works during the
implementation of the project will be minimal, in view of the following considerations: the vast
majority of the interventions are refurbishing works within the interior of the facilities, thus they
will not affect the activities nor the traffic in the neighborhoods, and will take into the account the
environmental guidelines listed below for civil works.
In addition, the programming of works for the new project will include the adoption of
procedures currently followed under an IDB-financed project in the health sector for supervision
of works, and in detail in the bidding and contracting documents for the protection of the
environment and occupational safety.
Stakeholder Consultation
The preparation of the biomedical waste managenment audit involved ample consultation with
authorities and staff of health facilities, including private sector providers. In addition, different
sectoral stakeholders have provided feedback on project objectives, components, assessments
(including technical, environmental, and economic and financial assessments). and
implementation strategies. These groups also endorsed the proposed investments. including those
contemplated for the strengthening of the biomedical waste management systems in the



participating health facilities.  The Government of Guyana also approved the proposed
investments under this project, including the investments needed for improving the biomedical
waste management system in participating health facilities.
Management of Environmental Risks of Small Construction Works
The proposed HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project in Guyana, building upon the
environmental norms and guidelines used during the implementation of the IDB-financed health
project, envisages rehabilitating and/or conditioning available space of several health facilities. In
the preparation of the request for proposals, the project's PCU, along with the agencies involved,
will take into account the following guidelines that will be incorporated in the project's
Operations Manual and Standard Bidding Documents for Civil Works. Particularly, appropriate
specifications will be described in the bidding documents for civil works to mitigate
environmental risks that may be identified.
Environmental Screening
The PCU will assess the potential environmental risks of the project's civil works investments
which will depend on the type of construction, area available (congested vs. open area), the
location (urban vs. rural) of the proposed construction and whether it is new work or space
conditioning in existing facilities.
In addition, if required, prior to the undertaking of civil works, the identification of the following
risks may take place:
(a)    Interription or limitation of accesses to dwellings or businesses either permanently or
temporarily (during construction).
(b)    Encroachment/reduction of green areas, parks, and other recreational areas.
(c)    Demolition of buildings of high architectural or historical value.
(d)    Deterioration of urban quality and property value in the immediate vicinity of the works
or deterioration of unique architectural characteristics in the neighborhood.
(e)    Increased accidents in areas with high density of schools, hospitals, and commercial use;
(f)    Harming urban infrastructure (sidewalks, power and telephone lines, water and sewerage
mains, etc.).
(g)    Creating nuisances during construction (dust, wastes, and heavy construction traffic).
(h)    Raising natural hazards (floods, soil instability); and
(ij)   Protecting historically and culturally significant sites.
Bidding documents and contracts will specify terms and conditions governing the works activity
to minimize and mitigate these risks as required.
Environmental Management Tools
Environmental considerations for the engineering design
The engineering design of civil works, if required, will take into consideration: (i) connections of
the buildings to the potable water system and the capacity of the existing water distribution
network or the need to establish a water supply system for the building (well, storage tank,
pumping station, etc.); (ii) connection to the sewerage network and the need for capacity
expansion for receiving collectors or the need for a wastewater treatment system for the building
(septic tank, infiltration ditch); (iii) the treatment of wastewater before being discharged to the



sewerage networks or the wastewater treatment system; (iv) the management of runoff and the
facilities for its recollection and evacuation, having in mind the existing downstream systems; (iv)
the systems of recollection, storage and transportation of solid wastes generated in the building,
incorporating the structures for separation and recycling; (v) appropriate access systems for
pedestrians, municipal and inter-municipal buses, bicycles , children and handicapped people;
(vii) the need to integrate building design with architectonic characteristics of the surrounding
neighborhood; and (vii) avoiding the use of materials such as wood from tropical forests, lead-
based paints, asbestos, for example.
Environmental Enhancement
The architectural designs could bring opportunities to incorporate and reinforce the criteria of
environmentally friendly buildings. The feasibility of incorporating these aspects into the design
will be analyzed during the conceptualization phase of the architectural designs and during the
engineering designs. This analysis could include: (i) solar Commissions to satisfy totally or
partially the electricity needs; (ii) rain water storage for the irrigation of gardens and green zones;
(iii) maximizing natural light in order to minimize artificial light needs; (iv) planting of native
species in gardens and green areas; (v) natural ventilation systems, minimizing the necessities of
air conditioning; and (vi) the stabilization of slopes using vegetative measures.
Environmental Management of Construction Activities
Bidding documents will request contractors, as needed, to address the following issues when
deemed significant by the PCU and participating line ministries: (i) pedestrian safety and traffic
congestion during construction due to the increase of heavy traffic (of the construction itself and
from traffic detours) in high traffic avenues and exit ramps; (ii) dust and particulate materials,
causing nuisances to surrounding families and businesses, specially to vulnerable people (children,
elders); (iii) undesirable noise levels due to the machinery and equipment specially in areas with
hospitals, homes for the elderly, schools; (iv) degradation of lateral streets due to heavy equipment
machinery and traffic detours; (v) the interruption of services (water, electricity, teleph6ne, bus
routes) during construction; (vi) the adequate disposal of garbage, metals, used oils, and excess
material, generated during construction; (vii) the need of informing the population about
construction and work schedules, interruption of services, traffic detour routes, provisional bus
routes; and (viii) pedestrian security measures, specially for school children, during construction.
Bidding documents will also ask for the identification of suitable sites for waste disposal, the
environmental management necessary (compacting, re-soiling and re-vegetation, drainage control),
and the associated transportation costs should be included in project design and cost estimates.
Environmental Supervision during Construction
Supervision of construction will include the compliance with the environmental specifications of
contracts.
Environmental Measures during the Operational Phase
During the operational phase of the civil works, if required, adequate provisions will guarantee: (i)
the maintenance of the systems of collection and treatment of wastewater; (ii) the adequate
collection and disposal of solid waste, incorporating recycling systems and the separation of
materials; and (iii) the maintenance of complimentary systems (solar Commissions, etc.). The



engineering design should include the preparation of operations manuals and maintenance of all
systems.
Public Consultation Prior to the Construction Phase
The PCU may identify the need for community consultation in the area of influence of the
proposed civil works. To this end, a process will be undertaken with the assistance of recognized
professionals for disseminating information and generating feedback from stakeholders who may
be specifically targeted and the public at large. The consultation program may involve both
formal and informal presentations and meetings with the target groups, and information
dissemination campaigns.
Institutional Arrangements and Responsibilities for Implementation and Supervision of
Mitigation Activities
The MOH through the PCU will be in charge of managing the implementation and supervision of
the mitigation activities identified in this environmental assessment.



i
I
I
i
ii
i
I
i
t
i
i
I
i
i
i



