                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR00001668



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                       (IDA-H0790)

                                          ON A

                                         GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION


                                         TO THE

                       COOPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA

                                          FOR A

                  HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT

 (THIRD PHASE OF THE MULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL

                             APL FOR THE CARIBBEAN)



                                     December 20, 2010




Human Development Sector Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2010)

                         Currency Unit = Guyana Dollar
                              1.00 = US$ 0.00486
                              US$ 1.00 = 203.240

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 - December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AIDS    Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
ANC     Antenatal clinic
APL     Adaptable Program Lending
ART     Antiretroviral Therapy
ARV     Antiretroviral
BCC     Behavioral Change Communication
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CSW     Commercial Sex Workers
FBO     Faith Based Organization
GFATM   Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
HAART   Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy
HIV     Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HSDU    Health Services Development Unit
IADB    Inter American Development Bank
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
KABP    Knowledge, Attitude, Practices, and Behavior
DGA     Development Grant Agreement
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MARP    Most-at-risk population
MOH     Ministry of Health
MSM     Men Who Have Sex with Men
MTCT    Mother to Child Transmission
NAPS    National AIDS Program Secretariat
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
NPV     Net Present Value
NSP     National Strategic Plan
OI      Opportunistic Infection

                                        i
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCHA     Presidential Commission Against HIV/AIDS
PCU      Project Coordinator Unit
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PEP      Post-exposure Prophylaxis
PEPFAR   President’s Emergency Fund for AIDS Relief
PLWHA    People living with HIV/AIDS
PMTCT    Prevention of Mother to-Child Transmission
PMU      Project Management Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
QEA      Quality at Entry
STD      Sexually transmitted disease
STI      Sexually-transmitted infections
UN       United Nation
UNAIDS   United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS
UNGASS   United Nation General Assembly Special Session on HIV/AIDS
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
VCT      Voluntary Counseling and Testing




                            Vice President: Pamela Cox
                          Country Director: Yvonne Tsikata
                           Sector Manager: Joana Godinho
                      Project Team Leader: Shiyan Chao
                              ICR Author: Carmen Carpio


                                        ii
                                                                 GUYANA

                                       HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project


                                                               CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design..............................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................................6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .........................................................................................................12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................................18
5. Assessment of Bank and Grant Recipient Performance ..........................................................19
6. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................................22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners..........................23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................................24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component....................................................................................................25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ...................................................................................34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes...............................38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results .............................................................................................40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .....................................................................41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .......................................42
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .........................................54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.........................................................................................55
Annex 10. Results Framework as per PAD and Supplemental Letter dated May 3, 2004 .............56
MAP ................................................................................................................................................61




                                                                        iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                           HIV/AIDS
Country:                Guyana                   Project Name:             PREVENTION &
                                                                           CONTROL PROJECT
Project ID:             P076722                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H0790
ICR Date:               12/01/2010               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                      Borrower:                 GUYANA
Original Total
                        XDR 6.7M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 6.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 6.7M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:         10/02/2003   Effectiveness:              12/29/2004           12/29/2004
Appraisal:              02/24/2004   Restructuring(s):                                05/27/2009
Approval:               03/30/2004   Mid-term Review:            05/14/2007           05/15/2007
                                     Closing:                    06/30/2009           06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                            Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                 Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                             No                                                 Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                          Quality of Supervision
                             No                                              None
(Yes/No):                                             (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                         39                      39
Health                                                                    47                      47
Other social services                                                     14                      14


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
HIV/AIDS                                                                   50                     50
Population and reproductive health                                         25                     25
Tuberculosis                                                               25                     25

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                           At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:              Pamela Cox                             David De Ferranti
Country Director:            Yvonne Tsikata                         Caroline D. Anstey
Sector Manager:              Joana Godinho                          Evangeline Javier
Project Team Leader:         Shiyan Chao                            Mary Mulusa
ICR Team Leader:             Shiyan Chao
ICR Primary Author:          Carmen Carpio


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
This project intended to slow the increase of HIV infections and mortality due to HIV/AIDS by:
(a) Preventing and controlling the transmission of HIV and Sexually Transmitted Infections
(STIs); (b) Prolonging and improving the quality of life of people living with AIDS; and (c)
Mitigating the negative impact of HIVIAIDS on persons infected and affected by the disease.



                                                      v
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                    Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator              Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                      approval                        Completion or
                                                                     Target Values
                                                    documents)                        Target Years
                  Percent of men and women with Sexually Transmitted Infections at health care
Indicator 1 :
                  facilities, who are appropriately diagnosed, counseled and treated.
Value
quantitative or   0                                                 90%              100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                                            06/30/2009      12/31/2009
Comments          Achieved. Indicator refers to all STI patients diagnosed at the country’s public health
(incl. %          facilities who are then provided with counseling & treatment. The country surpassed
achievement)      the target as health care facilities are closely linked to HIV treatment sites.
Indicator 2 :     Percentage of HIV-infected pregnant women who receive a complete course of ART.
Value
quantitative or   63%                                               85%              84.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                                       06/30/2009         12/31/2009
Comments          The indicator can be considered achieved since the gap is statistically insignificant.
(incl. %          Guyana is one of only 15 countries providing HIV-infected pregnant women with a
achievement)      complete course of ART and 95.5% of them were reached by testing and counseling.
                  Percentage of people aged 15-24 who correctly identify ways of preventing sexual
Indicator 3 :
                  transmission of HIV and who reject major misconceptions about HIV Transmission.
Value
quantitative or   35% (BSS 2004)                                    63%              45.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                                        06/30/2009       12/31/2009
Comments
                  Not Achieved. Target was not reached emphasizing the need for further information
(incl. %
                  and participation of the 15-24 age group to improve their KAPB. (BBSS 2009)
achievement)
                  Ratio of current school attendance among orphans to that among non-orphans aged 10-
Indicator 4 :
                  14 years.
Value
quantitative or   0                                                 1:1              1:1
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                                       06/30/2009        12/31/2007
Comments          Achieved. The indicator measures the percentage of adolescent orphans who regularly
(incl. %          attend school and the percentage of non-orphans that regularly attend school. The 1:1
achievement)      ratio indicates 100% of orphans are attending school.




                                                    vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                         Formally
                                                   Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                               Revised Target
                                                     approval                        Completion or
                                                                           Values
                                                    documents)                       Target Years
                  Percentage of women, men and children with HIV infection who are eligible according
Indicator 1 :
                  to national guidelines receiving anti-retroviral therapy
Value
(quantitative                1,569                                        85%               83.5%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved              12/31/2005                                   06/30/2009           12/31/2009
Comments          Although the country fell slightly short of reaching the target, the indicator can be
(incl. %          considered as having been achieved since a significant percentage of those eligible for
achievement)      ART were reached.
                  Number of condoms (male and female) distributed by the public and private sectors in
Indicator 2 :
                  the past 12 months.
Value
(quantitative              2,313,568                                   3,300,000          >3,300,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved              12/31/2006                                   06/30/2009           12/31/2009
Comments          Achieved. The NAPS distributed 2.5 million condoms and it is estimated that the 10
(incl. %          regional health services together with the private sector distributed at least the
achievement)      difference, and most likely more.
                  Percentage of service outlets with record keeping systems to monitor HIV and AIDS
Indicator 3 :
                  care and treatment
Value
(quantitative                 15%                                         50%                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             12/31/2006                                  06/30/2009         12/31/2009
Comments          Exceeded. This indicator was surpassed due to the early development and
(incl. %          implementation of a national patient monitoring system with ongoing monitoring
achievement)      support at the national level.
                  Number of civil-society organizations (CSOs) receiving project funds to implement
Indicator 4 :
                  HIV-related activities
Value
(quantitative                  28                                          74                 80
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             12/31/2006                               06/30/2009           12/31/2009
Comments          Exceeded. The CSOs had a total of 159 expressions of interest and received 106
(incl. %          proposals of which 80 were approved and implemented from 49 different organizations
achievement)      accounting for a total of US$1.8 million.
                  Number of ministries, National Commission/Agencies with HIV work plans and
Indicator 5 :
                  budgets
Value                                                             10 LMs and 6
                                                                                       10 LMs and 6
(quantitative                  7                                     national
                                                                                     national agencies
or Qualitative)                                                      agencies
Date achieved             12/31/2006                               06/30/2009           12/31/2009


                                                    vii
Comments
                  Achieved. Eight non-health LMs implemented HIV programs and with the 12-month
(incl. %
                  extension, 10 LMs and 6 para-statal agencies implemented work plans and budgets.
achievement)
                  Number of a) line ministries and b) implementing organizations (e.g., NGOs/CSOs) that
Indicator 6 :     submitted program monitoring forms to the Presidential Commission on HIV/AIDS in
                  the last 12 months.
Value
(quantitative           LM: 7, CSOs: 0                                    NA           LM: 11, CSOs: 0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             11/30/2007                                  06/30/2009          06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          No target was set.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Number of service outlets that offer PMTCT services
Value
(quantitative                  94                                         130                 157
or Qualitative)
Date achieved              12/31/2006                                 06/30/2009           12/31/2009
Comments          Exceeded. The target was successfully achieved due to the country’s commitment to
(incl. %          Universal Access and the expansion of health facilities in the country’s geographic
achievement)      regions offering PMTCT services.
                  Number and percent of regions with at least one service outlet providing antiretroviral
Indicator 8 :
                  services following national standards.
Value
(quantitative               2 (20%)                                    10 (100%)          10 (100%)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved              03/01/2004                                06/30/2009         12/31/2009
Comments          Achieved. The target was successfully achieved due to the country’s commitment to
(incl. %          ensuring each geographic region provided access to HIV prevention and treatment
achievement)      services.
                  Percent of orphans and vulnerable children whose households receive free, external
Indicator 9 :
                  basic support in caring for the child support.
Value
(quantitative                 24%                                         60%            Not available
or Qualitative)
Date achieved              12/31/2005                                 06/30/2009        12/31/2009
                  Unable to determine. UNGASS recommends indicator be monitored by countries with
Comments
                  national HIV prevalence > than 5%. (Guyana 2.5% national adult prevalence).
(incl. %
                  Indicator remained due to guideline being issued after Guyana’s M&E plan was
achievement)
                  developed.
                  Number of the general population aged 15-49 receiving HIV test results in last 12
Indicator 10 :
                  months
Value
                        11.3% females
(quantitative                                                            13.8%               24.8%
                         10.3% males
or Qualitative)
Date achieved              12/31/2005                                   06/30/2009       12/31/2009
Comments          Exceeded. Target was surpassed due to rapid expansion of the program, rapid testing
(incl. %          being introduced, growth of special initiatives such as National Week of Testing, and

                                                   viii
achievement)      VCT and community outreach. (DHS 2009)
                  Percent of HIV positive registered Tuberculosis patients given anti-retroviral therapy
Indicator 11 :
                  during tuberculosis treatment.
Value
(quantitative                26.3%                                           43%              93%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved              12/31/2004                                 06/30/2009       12/31/2009
Comments          Exceeded. Success due to the national program embarking on earlier treatment of TB
(incl. %          patients. TB patients used to start on ART once the CD4 count was below200. Today,
achievement)      care is provided at a CD4 count of 350.
Indicator 12 :    Number of persons who receive Home Palliative Care following national standards
Value
(quantitative                 280                                        1,150                826
or Qualitative)
Date achieved              12/31/2005                                 06/30/2009          12/31/2009
Comments          Although the target value was 1,150, the project was able to identify 826 persons in
(incl. %          need of home palliative care. Of these 826 identified, 100% of them were provided
achievement)      with the needed care.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                                 Actual Disbursements
 No.                                 DO                           IP
          Archived                                                                    (USD millions)
   1     05/28/2004              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.00
   2     12/17/2004              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.00
   3     04/15/2005              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.40
   4     07/29/2005              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.40
   5     02/23/2006              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.85
   6     10/17/2006              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      1.32
   7     12/22/2006              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      1.50
   8     06/28/2007              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      2.16
   9     12/20/2007              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      2.96
  10     06/25/2008              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      4.72
  11     12/16/2008              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      6.06
  12     06/23/2009              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      8.56
  13     12/29/2009              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      9.70
  14     06/28/2010              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     10.33




                                                    ix
H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at   Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                Restructuring           Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP in USD millions
                                                         (a) adding the
                                                         construction of a medical
                                                         warehouse in the Development
                                                         Grant Agreement for above
                                                         referenced Project; (b)
  05/27/2009        N         S       S          7.78
                                                         reallocating Grant proceeds among
                                                         disbursement categories and
                                                         (c) extending the Closing Date for
                                                         one year from June 30, 2009 to
                                                         June 30, 2010.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                            x
1.        Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1       Context at Appraisal

Country Background. Guyana is the third poorest country in the Americas, after Haiti and
Nicaragua. The country’s strong economic performance of the 1992-1997 period had slowed
down considerably in the 1998-2002 period to an annual GDP growth averaging 0.7 percent and
per capita income of US$840, among the lowest in Latin America and the Caribbean. Guyana,
situated in the Northern part of South America, borders the Atlantic Ocean, Suriname,
Venezuela, and Brazil. Cultural similarities make Guyana part of the Anglophone Caribbean
region and a member of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) hosting its secretariat in its
capital city, Georgetown. After independence from Britain in 1966 and officially becoming a
Republic in 1970, the country experienced 25 years of autocratic rule with democratic elections
first being held in 1992. At the time the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus/Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS) Prevention and Control Project was under preparation, the
Government was implementing its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), endorsed by the
World Bank and IMF Boards in September 2002 and was also receiving debt relief under the
enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Country Initiative (HIPC).

Sector Background. At the time of project preparation, Guyana’s health profile was that of a
country going through an early epidemiological transition with morbidity still largely due to
infectious diseases, including malaria, respiratory infections and sexually transmitted infections
(STIs), but with growing mortality rates due to HIV/AIDS and non-communicable diseases, such
as stroke, heart disease, and accidents and injuries. Guyana had the second highest HIV
prevalence rate in the LAC region and by 2003, 11,000 people were living with HIV, an
estimated 1,100 adults and children had died of AIDS, and there were an estimated 4,200
orphans1. The highest number of AIDS cases was occurring in the 20-49 year age group, with a
growing feminization of the epidemic. Prevalence was highest among female commercial sex
workers (45 percent in 1997), and followed by Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) clinic
attendees (15.1 percent among males and 12 percent among females in 2002). Data on regional
prevalence rates collected in 2000 indicated that approximately 80 percent of HIV/AIDS cases
came from Region 4, home to the capital city of Georgetown and the most urban of all regions,
and 6 percent from regions 6 and 10, home to large numbers of immigrants from Suriname and
Brazil. The predominant transmission mode of HIV was heterosexual driven by commercial sex
work, poverty, and high population mobility. At the time of project preparation, the opening up
of Guyana’s hinterland for development, the proposed Guyana/Brazil road, and the resulting
increase in mobility of the population were concerns for a potential rapid increase in HIV.

Government Priorities, Country Assistance Strategy, and Rationale for Bank Assistance. This
potential threat of a rapid increase of HIV infections led to the recognition by the Government of
HIV/AIDS as a serious problem. The Bank published a study on HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean:
Issues and Options in June 2000 that laid the foundation for the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS
Program (MAP) for the Caribbean Region. In 2001, the Board of Directors of the World Bank
pledged US$155 million over several years in support of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS
Prevention and Control Adaptable Program Lending (APL) for the Caribbean region. The 2002
1
    UNAIDS’ Guyana 2004 Epidemiological Fact Sheet.

                                                      1
Guyana Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
prioritized (i) enhancing growth; and (ii) refocusing public expenditures towards effective
delivery of social services. HIV was highlighted in the PRSP stressing the need to urgently
address the HIV/AIDS epidemic that threatened Guyana’s economic and social development.

Guyana had a 2002-2006 National Strategic Plan (NSP) for HIV/AIDS in place which sought to:
(a) reduce the risk and vulnerability to infection through prevention and control of the
transmission of STIs; (b) promote sexual health; and (c) save, prolong, and improve the quality
of life of persons living with STI/HIV/AIDS. The NSP also envisioned a coordinated, multi-
sectoral response which would involve not only the Government, but People Living with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) as well as non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to reach the
marginalized, high-risk groups. Resource constraints and a weak institutional base limited the
implementation of the NSP. The World Bank support, in the form of an IDA Grant, was
expected to provide additional resources to supplement the national budget and limited donor
funding to finance high priority, cost-effective interventions for HIV/AIDS. The Government of
Guyana was the main source of financial support for HIV/AIDS, while USAID was the only
bilateral donor with a Guyana-specific HIV/AIDS program and the UN system provided modest
assistance for HIV/AIDS activities. IDA funds were thus critical to implement the national
response involving the public sector, the Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), and the private
sector.

1.2      Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objective of the Project was to assist the Recipient in reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS
related deaths in the Recipient's territory by: (a) preventing and controlling the transmission of
HIV and STIs; (b) prolonging and improving the quality of life of people living with AIDS; and
(c) mitigating the negative impact of HIV/AIDS on persons infected with and affected by the
disease.

The project was part of the Government’s national program and key performance indicators
included Government program indicators, which tracked trends in outcomes, impact, and outputs
in the country, and project specific indicators which tracked outputs for selected interventions
supported by the project. The Project had a total of 31 indicators reflected in the supplemental
letter dated May 3, 2004 summarized below:

•     Sector-Related CAS Goals –fifteen indicators to measure the risks of growing poverty,
      especially among vulnerable groups (women, children, indigenous people, and dependent
      persons); economic growth and income protection; preventing and controlling the
      transmission of HIV; prolonging and improving the quality of life of people living with
      AIDS; and mitigating the negative impact of HIV/AIDS on persons infected and affected.
•     Key Project Outcomes – ten indicators to assess progress in improving sexual attitudes and
      practices among vulnerable/high risk populations, creating an environment that supports the
      infected and the affected and reducing stigma and discrimination against PLWHA.
•     Key Project Outputs – six indicators to measure access to Voluntary Counseling and Testing
      (VCT), effective management of STIs, treatment and care for PLWHAs and capacity to
      research epidemiological, behavioral, and treatment aspects of HIV/AIDS.

                                                 2
1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
       and reasons/justification

The PDOs were not revised during implementation. Key performance indicators were changed at
midterm to align project indicators with the national HIV/AIDS Monitoring & Evaluation
(M&E) framework in the country’s new 2007-2011 National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. The
Bank, along with UNAIDS and donors, was learning more about the Caribbean epidemic and
about the appropriate selection of relevant and measurable project indicators. Accordingly,
numerous changes were made during 2007-2008. The team sought advice from management on
whether a formal restructuring was required to change the indicators. The advice from the
region’s Operational Services Unit (LCSOS) at that time was that a first-order restructuring was
not required if the PDOs were not changed, but rather more relevant and appropriate measures
were chosen to monitor the progress of the project in meeting its PDOs. Most of the indicators in
the Bank’s revised Results Framework mirrored those of Guyana’s new M&E plan. There were a
total of sixteen indicators with four PDO and twelve intermediate outcome indicators. The four
PDO indicators captured data on the percentages of men and women with Sexually Transmitted
Infections (STIs) appropriately diagnosed counseled and treated, HIV-infected pregnant women
receiving ART, 15-24 year olds correctly identifying ways of preventing sexual transmission of
HIV and who reject major misconceptions about HIV Transmission, and ratio of current school
attendance among orphans to that among non-orphans aged 10-14 years. Of the twelve
intermediate outcome indicators, four indicators assessed progress towards M&E system
development and reporting on counterpart funding; three indicators measured access and
provision of treatment, specifically ART; three indicators assessed prevention efforts (condom
distribution, PMTCT, testing); and two indicators related to providing Care to Orphans and
Vulnerable Children (OVC) and PLWHA.

The revised project M&E framework was first reported against during the May 2008 supervision
mission; however, during this mission three key indicators were inadvertently omitted from the
M&E framework resulting in a revised, incorrect M&E framework being attached to the mission
Aide Memoire and reflected in ISR#10. The Bank team discussed the relevance of these
indicators with the Government during the next mission in November 2008, when it was
confirmed that these indicators were included in the NSP and the National M&E Plan and data
was being regularly collected on them. The three indicators were reinstated and included in a
corrected M&E framework attached to the November 2008 mission Aide Memoire and ISR #11.
These are the indicators presented in the data sheet.

 The three indicators inadvertently omitted from ISR#10 were:
• PDO Indicator #1: Percent of men and women with STIs at health care facilities who are
   appropriately diagnosed, counseled, and treated
• Intermediate outcome indicator #3: Percentage of service outlets with record keeping systems
   to monitor HIV and AIDS care and treatment
• Intermediate outcome indicator #11: Percent of HIV positive registered tuberculosis patients
   given anti-retroviral therapy during tuberculosis treatment

1.4    Main Beneficiaries


                                               3
The project benefitted the entire population. However, the emphasis was on PLWHA, HIV
positive pregnant women, children infected and affected by HIV, in and out-of-school youth,
Commercial Sex Workers (CSW), Men who have Sex with Men (MSM), population with signs
and symptoms of STIs, uniformed personnel, and hotel and tourism workers. Throughout the
life of the project, US$1.875 million was provided to CSOs who worked in large part with these
groups. The coordinated, multi-sectoral, participative approach also intended to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH), the Health Services Development Unit
(HSDU), other related government agencies such as non-Health Line Ministries, and Civil
Society Organizations (CSOs).

1.5    Original Components

The project financed the following three components:

Component 1: Institutional Capacity Strengthening, Monitoring, Evaluation, and Research
(US$2.68 million): This component supported institutional capacity building for scaling up the
response through financing of technical advisory services, training, staffing, equipment, goods
and general operating costs. Specifically, the project was expected to provide support to the
newly established Presidential Commission Against HIV/AIDS (PCHA) and the Project
Management Unit (PMU), including training on financial management and procurement
procedures. This component also provided support to ongoing data collection efforts such as the
Behavioral and Risk Surveys and for enhancing information technology capabilities through
hardware and software to strengthen M&E capacity, case management and surveillance, and a
health management information system.

Component 2: Scaling up HIV/AIDS response by Line Ministries, Civil Society
Organizations, and the Private Sector (US$3.13 million): This component supported a
coordinated, multi-sectoral response by strengthening the involvement of non-health line
ministries to expand initiatives in accordance with NSP priorities, based on annual work plans,
and in their role of reaching their own staff with work-place interventions and the populations
they serve through their official mandates. This component also engaged CSOs who could
provide access to PLWHA, CSWs, MSM, prisoners, truck drivers, youth, orphans, and others.
The project provided support for training, information education communication/behavior
change communication (IEC/BCC), condom distribution, treatment and care for the infected and
affected, work place policy formulation, including reduction of stigma and discrimination and
HIV/AIDS impact assessments.

Component 3: Expanding Health Sector Prevention, Treatment, and Care Services for
HIV/AIDS (US$5.19 million): The project provided support to strengthening, upgrading, and
expanding health care systems for delivering services for prevention, treatment, care and
mitigation of HIV/AIDS. This included upgrading laboratory facilities; training health care
workers and counselors; and the provision of key inputs such as equipment, drugs, supplies,
testing kits, condoms, and development of treatment protocols. Support to prevention
interventions included: developing a comprehensive IEC/BCC strategy; ensuring the high-level
of blood safety through the provision of reagents and strengthening the logistical systems at a
central and regional level; scaling up VCT by adding and refurbishing VCT facilities and

                                              4
supplying them with test kits and reagents; strengthening the syndromic management of STIs by
improving laboratory capacity through equipment, training, and condom promotion; integrating
the prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) program with the wider MOH maternal
and child health services; and training health care workers on proper handling of infectious
waste. Support to treatment and care included the management of opportunistic infections by
developing standardized protocols and guidelines for HIV/AIDS care at all levels including drug
provision and training; strengthening the national tuberculosis (TB) program through increased
screening and DOTS coverage; and the provision of Anti-retroviral therapy (ART) and training
at all levels on its delivery.

1.6    Revised Components

Component 3 was revised during the third amendment to the Development Grant Agreement
(DGA), approved on May 27, 2009, to allow for “… the construction of a medical warehouse to
improve the storage conditions for ARV and other drugs and medical supplies, as part of
strengthening the medical supply chain”. Legal and Safeguards provided clearance. Financing
of the warehouse construction was made possible because the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis, and Malaria (GFATM) provided funding for ARVs thus freeing up these project
funds for other activities in line with the PDOs. The Government requested that funds allocated
for ARVs under the project be reallocated towards the construction of a medical warehouse. The
cost of the warehouse was US$1.3 million, of which the Bank provided US$500,000 and the
Inter American Development Bank (IADB) and GFATM financed the balance. This cost-
sharing reflected good collaboration among the donors and was also an example of health system
strengthening in the logistics system for the delivery of drugs and supplies.

1.7    Other significant changes

The DGA was amended three times, in January and September 2008 and in May 2009.

First Amendment (approved by the Country Director on January 10, 2008): The authorized
allocation of the Special Account was increased from US$800,000 to US$1,200,000 to ensure
increased liquidity of the project in line with the increased pace of project implementation. The
implementation pace had picked up considerably three years into the project and left a balance of
only US$210,519 balance in the special account.

Second Amendment (approved by the Country Director on September 24, 2008): Given the
Government leveraged funding from other donors, the allocation for ARVs and operating
expenses was reduced by US$590,000 and US$200,000 respectively and the allocations for the
Line Ministry (LM) and Civil Society categories were increased by US$450,000 and
US$340,000, respectively. The second amendment also changed the disbursement percentage to
100 percent for all categories except operating expenses which remained at 50 percent as the
Government was able to mobilize additional donor funds to finance this gap.

Third Amendment (approved by the Country Director on May 27, 2009): In line with the
revision to Component 3 to allow for the construction of a medical warehouse, two related
changes were also introduced as part of the third amendment which included: (i) allowing for the

                                               5
construction of the medical warehouse, (ii) reallocating project funds from Category 3 Anti-
Retroviral Drugs (ARVs) to Category 1 Works, the category under which the warehouse
construction was to be financed, and (iii) extending the project’s closing date from June 30, 2009
to June 30, 2010 to allow for the completion of the warehouse construction. The project’s
environmental assessment did not require updating as it already provided guidance on
environmental screening and environmental management tools, and appropriate specifications
were described in the bidding documents for civil works to mitigate environmental risks that may
be identified.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Preparation. The Government’s 2002-2006 HIV/AIDS National Strategic Plan (NSP)
and the new Health Sector Strategic Plan guided the preparation of the HIV/AIDS project.
Given concerns about the pace at which the disease would spread, and the fact that Guyana had
little external funding for HIV/AIDS, the project was prepared as an emergency operation.
Project identification took place in July 2003, with appraisal and technical discussions held in
Washington from February 25-27, 2004. The project was approved on March 30, 2004 and was
funded through grant financing provided for HIV/AIDS projects in IDA countries (under IDA
13). It benefitted from streamlined procedures for being part of the third phase of the Caribbean
MAP/APL.

The Japan Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) Grant of US$477,792 was
approved on November 23, 2001 to support project preparation. However, only US$65,000 was
used as the process of identifying consultants took too long. The Bank task team opted to use the
Health Services Development Unit (HSDU) team from the Ministry of Health which would later
become the Project Management Unit (PMU). A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in the
amount of US$465,000 with a government contribution of US$60,000 was also approved on
February 27, 2004. These funds were cancelled as it took much longer than expected to hire
project staff and put in place the work-plan development process.

Project Design. The overall project objectives and the design of the project were consistent with
the goals of the National HIV/AIDS Program and were consistent with the overall Bank strategy
for HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean region. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) presented a
comprehensive approach to scale up the HIV/AIDS response. The multi-sectoral response
involved all strategic partners recognizing that reversing the HIV/AIDS epidemic is ultimately an
issue of behavior change and providing services on many levels and beyond strictly the health
sector. Project design emphasized (i) developing linkages with all relevant sectors and involving
all partners at the national, regional and local levels, including CSOs and LMs; and (ii)
strengthening the financial management and procurement capacity of the Project PMU to
standardize and harmonize donor procedures to reduce demands on Government staff.
Consultations with indigenous peoples and other key stakeholders were wide ranging and
extensive and included a focus on engaging Indigenous Peoples communities in identifying
HIV/AIDS risk factors in their communities, as well solutions to prevent and control the disease.
An Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) was developed as part of the project.

                                                6
Quality at Entry. The Quality at Entry Assessment rated the overall quality of the project
Moderately Satisfactory (MS). The QAG Panel initially rated the quality as Moderately
Unsatisfactory given that: (i) the development objectives were unrealistic in the country context;
(ii) the role and financial contribution of other donors had not been sufficiently
recognized/integrated in project design; and (iii) the first year’s program was not ready for
implementation, posing a risk which could have been avoided/mitigated. The task team provided
additional information in response to the QAG Panel’s comments and the final Quality at Entry
rating was adjusted to MS. The project was ready for implementation, however, it would have
benefitted had the PPF been implemented effectively. The lack of staff in the PMU stopped the
PPF from moving forward. The team’s response also emphasized how the project’s three
development objectives (preventing, treating, and caring) were linked to and aligned with a set of
quantified project impact and output indicators measuring prevention, treatment, and care and it
was unrealistic to expect that a five year grant supporting the national program would not
contribute to preventing and controlling the transmission of HIV and STIs. With regard to the
panel’s point on donors, funding from donors at the time of preparation was limited and thus the
Bank was the main provider of resources for HIV/AIDS.

Lessons taken into Account. The project incorporated lessons outlined in the Caribbean MAP
and lessons learned in the implementation of the first Phase of the Africa Region MAP APL.
These included: (i) ensuring the highest level of political commitment to provide guidance to the
national response which was accomplished by creating the Presidential Commission Against
HIV/AIDS (PCHA) chaired by the President; (ii) embarking on a comprehensive approach to
prevention, treatment, and care but with a major emphasis on prevention as the most cost-
effective means of managing the epidemic; (iii) recognizing behavior change as a key prevention
intervention; (iv) strengthening surveillance and M&E to be able to scale up the national
response; (v) ensuring the agreement on an operational manual and implementation and
procurement plans for the first year of project operation; (vi) earmarking funding to support the
participation of LMs and CSOs as critical partners in a multi-sectoral response, and (vii) giving
priority to fiduciary mechanisms and contracting when in-house capacity was inadequate. The
Bank also took into account the principle of the “Three Ones” (one national program, one joint
coordination mechanism, and one M&E system) by using the national strategic plan to guide
project preparation, building upon and putting coordination mechanisms in place to support the
capacity of the coordinating authority, and providing technical assistance and working with
partners in support of the harmonization efforts towards one M&E framework.

Risks identification and mitigation measures. The PAD identified a number of risks, with an
overall risk rating of substantial. This rating was considered more prudent as the PMU and the
MOH would face the challenge of absorbing a substantial increase of external funds from the
IDA grant, the GFATM, and the Inter- American Development Bank (although the latter was not
directly funding HIV/AIDS but rather health sector development and nutrition).

2.2    Implementation

Project implementation suffered from the delay in fulfilling two of the six conditions of
effectiveness, including the proper staffing of the PMU and the appointment of the external

                                                7
auditors. This required two extensions to the date of effectiveness, the first to September 30,
2004 and the second to December 31, 2004. With respect to the recruitment of the external
auditors, the Auditor-General’s office offered to undertake the audit itself despite the use of
external auditors having been discussed earlier. However, an existing agreement for Inter-
American Development Bank projects in which the Government had allowed the use of external
auditors was revised to include the World Bank project audit. The project was declared effective
on December 29, 2004. Immediately after, the country experienced major floods in December
2004/ January 2005 and all attention turned to dealing with its effects. The project launch
workshop finally took place in March 2005 in Georgetown, Guyana.

The roll-out of the project was also affected by other events occurring before grant effectiveness.
Guyana’s application to the GFATM was approved in the second round providing significant
funding for the purchase of ARVs. The country also received funding from the President’s
Emergency Program for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) to support prevention and behavior change
activities. The receipt of these two large grants shifted the attention of the project team from the
Bank grant to these new funds and led to further delays, specifically in the implementation of
Component 3 - Expanding Health Sector Prevention, Treatment and Care Services for
HIV/AIDS. The Government decided to disburse the Global Fund grant first (which had a tight
deadline) before the Bank grant. The positive side to this was that it encouraged donor
coordination as the health component was reviewed alongside the Global Fund and PEPFAR
activities and when possible, joint missions took place.

Once these initial delays were overcome, implementation took off quickly.              Project
implementation was consistently rated “satisfactory” in the 14 Implementation Status Reports
(ISRs) filed during the life of the project. This was the result of having put in place the
appropriate organizational structure and project management team. The PCHA had been
established, its membership and functions defined, and had already met three times, chaired by
the President. The PMU, with programmatic and fiduciary responsibilities, had also been
established within the Health Sector Development Unit (HSDU) of the MOH and the PMU was
nearly fully staffed at the start of project implementation.

Implementation of Component 2 (CSO and LMs) performed strongly throughout the life of the
project in part because explicit procedures had been put in place from the very beginning for
CSOs to access funds, focal points had been recruited for eight LMs by April 2005, sample
formats for preparing annual work programs and for first year implementation schedules had
been shared and discussed with LM focal points during the project launch, and training programs
were made available early on to CSOs and LM focal points. At mid-term review, the CSO and
LM component accounted for 54 percent of disbursements.

The project showed satisfactory results after 2.5 years of implementation. At mid-term review,
disbursements and commitments (including counterpart funds) represented 27 percent of the total
grant. One year after the mid-term review, disbursements increased to 44 percent. This placed
additional pressure on the finance unit. HSDU amended the Work Plan to facilitate the
recruitment of additional personnel to meet the evolving financial management needs. In
addition, the scope of responsibility of the CSO and LM Coordinators was enhanced as a result
of the expanding number of organizations benefitting from the project funds.

                                                 8
Project implementation was successfully completed and the grant fully disbursed by January 15,
2010, prior to the June 30, 2010 project closing date.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design: The original project indicators were listed in the Supplemental Letter, dated May 3,
2004 (Annex 10). At the project launch workshop, it was agreed that the project M&E indicators
would be revised and harmonized with the national HIV/AIDS M&E Framework 2007-2011
being developed. The scope of work to be carried out by HSDU in support of the harmonization,
with technical assistance from USAID/Measure, was implemented within a six-month period.
These activities included the development of an M&E conceptual framework, an M&E
operational plan, baseline measures for key indicators, forms for use in the information systems
at national and decentralized levels of the health system, a logic model and results framework of
the national HIV/AIDS strategy, and facilitation of a process to harmonize indicators with
Government units. Additional technical assistance came from PAHO/WHO who provided
technical assistance to compile the sections prepared by the technical experts and produce a first
draft NSP, which integrated the work programs of all donors, removing duplications, and filling
current gaps. By October 2006, the PCHA endorsed the National Monitoring & Evaluation Plan
(2007-2011) and the revised NSP. All stakeholders and partners fully adopted the M&E plan
and worked towards ensuring that all donor funded programs and sub-national monitoring would
adhere to the plan. The M&E Technical Working Group was key to promoting ownership and
coordinating activities.

Implementation. At the time of project launch, the position of Director for M&E in MOH was
vacant and no appropriate candidates had been identified after advertising for the position on two
occasions. As an interim measure, the US/Center for Disease Control (CDC) and the GFATM
provided M&E technical staff to support the project on several occasions, but not on a
continuous basis. By the end of the project, the Director of the National AIDS Program
Secretariat (NAPS) continued to play a strong leadership and hands-on role in monitoring the
AIDS epidemic and program implementation, but there was still no dedicated M&E staff to
support the program.

In May 2008, a GAMET M&E Specialist reviewed the PDOs to ensure their alignment with the
harmonized M&E framework and NSP. This effort was undertaken to improve the quality of
data being collected; capture data and assess the activities of actors outside the health sector who
were contributing to the multi-sectoral response; reduce the reporting demand placed by
international donors by having all national and international actors working in the harmonized
system; and address the issue of possible double reporting (CSOs specifically) to funding
agencies. In addition, an M&E action plan was developed and endorsed by the MOH and
stakeholders. The objective of the action plan was to provide an outline of key actions to
strengthen Guyana’s M&E efforts in the area of HIV/AIDS in the long-term. The action plan
included developing guidelines, frontline tools, reporting forms, and training. An M&E system
for CSOs with data collection tools and monthly reporting formats was implemented in
collaboration with the NAPS and HSDU with a harmonized list of indicators for implementers of
HIV sub-projects with 51 persons from 30 organizations being trained. With regard to the

                                                 9
Indigenous People’s Development Plan (IPDP), the MOH increased monitoring of its activities
in regions 1, 7, 8, and 9.

Utilization. The National Health M&E Framework approved by the Health Policy Committee
guided the establishment of the M&E Unit in NAPS. The Project was able to use the internal
data to monitor implementation performance by LMs and CSOs. The M&E Unit also conducted
monitoring visits to 13 CSOs and 6 Line Ministries and provided training and technical
assistance. Based on the data received, M&E Quarterly Service Reports were prepared. The
Health Policy Committee established a protocol which made it mandatory for regional health
officers and regional health professionals to submit data on HIV and other diseases in a timely
manner. A central HIV database is being established at NAPS to empower the NAPS M&E Unit
to be a hub for all HIV data with support from MEASURE Evaluation through USAID/PEPFAR.
Several databases are already in place to serve various Programs, e.g., PMTCT, condom
distribution, and voluntary counseling and testing (VCT). All Program Coordinators routinely
send quarterly reports to the NAPS M&E Unit.

A number of surveys were completed under the project providing baseline data on MSM, CSWs,
and prisoners, in an out of school youth, bus drivers/conductors, and uniformed forces. The
Project co-financed around US$130,000 for a Health Management Information System (HMIS)
on which the Government had spent a total of US$650,000, by May 2010. The HMIS is key to
M&E efforts nationwide as it allows for electronic data collection and harmonized reporting. The
HMIS is being implemented in three service-delivery locations: Georgetown Public Hospital
Corporation, the New Amsterdam Hospital, and Regional Health Authority 6. The NAPS is
providing input to modify the system in order to capture the necessary information on
Antiretroviral Treatment (ART).

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP). The Grant Agreement required that an IPDP be
carried out acceptable to the Association. The IPDP aimed to provide culturally appropriate
HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, care, and IEC/BCC activities to reach the Amerindian
communities who live in about 131 highly scattered communities in Regions 1, 7, 8, 9 and parts
of Region 10, many of them sparsely populated. An IPDP was completed by March 2005;
however, up until the October 2006 supervision mission little had been done to implement the
project’s IPDP. As of the mid-term review (May 2007), progress was made in the
implementation of the IPDP in Regions 1, 7, 8, and 9. Various prevention efforts were
undertaken by the MOH, the Ministry of Amerindian Affairs (MOAA) and NGOs which
included community sensitization, peer education, and distribution of condoms and HIV/AIDS
materials which had been adapted and translated into two local languages. The CSO and Line
Ministry component contributed to the implementation of the IPDP. Highlights include: 42
Amerindian community villages visited as part of the sensitization and awareness training; 52
primary and secondary teachers in Mabaruma Region 1, Upper Mazaruni Region 7, and
Aishalton sub district Region 9 were trained to integrate Sexual and Reproductive Health
(SRH)/HIV/AIDS into the Health and Family Life Curriculum; 45 community leaders
representing 8 villages of Annai sub-district and 8 villages of Aishalton sub-district were trained
in sensitizing their communities on the threats of human trafficking and mitigating those threats;

                                                10
and 40 youths trained as peer educators and a staff empowerment space was created at the
Amerindian Affairs Ministry.

Environmental.      The environmental category was B. An assessment of Health Care Waste
Management (HCWM) was prepared in January 2004 and recommended a HCWM plan to help
implement and enforce proper health and environmentally sound, technically feasible,
economically viable, and socially acceptable systems for management of health care waste. As
part of the third amendment, an Environmental Assessment on the warehouse construction was
conducted, resulting in the introduction of provisions in the legal agreement that contractors
should follow environmental rules and certain rules (including specific prohibitions and
construction management measures) should be incorporated into all relevant bidding documents,
contracts, and work orders.

Financial Management. Financial management was one area that had initially presented
challenges due to the project’s lack of a financial management specialist and challenges with
preparing appropriate financial and disbursement applications. Once the financial management
specialist was hired, by the October 2006 mission, the first set of Financial Management Reports
(FMRs) prepared under the project were submitted to the Bank and overall financial
management improved with the World Bank Financial Management Specialist providing close
follow-up and support. Counterpart funding was also a challenge as Government counterpart
funding had not been included in the budget estimates at the time, which led the HSDU to pre-
finance the Government’s share of some project expenditures from the Special Account. The
Government later reimbursed the Special Account in the amount of US$13,971, but this raised
issues about how the Government would be able to fulfill its US$1.0 million counterpart funding
obligation. This is what led to the second amendment of the DGA which increased the
disbursement percentages for Category 1 (Works), Category 2 (Goods), and Category 4
(Laboratory reagents) from 80 percent to 100 percent. Moreover, this simplified payment
mechanisms by eliminating the need to issue two checks for contracts in these categories.

Procurement. Procurement under the project experienced problems in the early phases resulting
in a slow pace of project implementation due to inadequate communication on technical
specifications by the technical units to the procurement team, lack of information on available
funds among the technical units, and lack of clarity in hiring of consultants. By the mid-term
review, these problems had been addressed as HSDU developed a mechanism to monitor
progress and met weekly to review procurement progress and monthly to address project
implementation issues. A monitoring system for all donor-funded contracts was developed with
FOXPRO software. One critical issue that had been raised by the Bank’s procurement specialist
was the need for HSDU fiduciary staff to have regular, unlimited access to consultant contracts
which had remained in the HSDU Executive Director’s office. All documents related to
selection and bidding processes should normally be maintained by the procurement unit for
reasons of transparency and to facilitate fiduciary oversight, e.g., annual procurement post
reviews. This issue was brought to the attention of the HSDU Director during supervision
missions, documented in aide-memoires and procurement post review reports for follow-up.
This action had not been fully complied with at the time the ICR interviews were conducted.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

                                              11
As Guyana receives funding from USAID/PEPFAR (proposal to be submitted October 2010) and
GFATM (US$18.3 million Years 1-3 and a total grant amount of US$34 million) there is no
need for a follow-up HIV/AIDS project. The Government is interested in a continued Bank
engagement in the health sector to support health systems strengthening and the control of non-
communicable diseases, and such engagement could potentially include some HIV/AIDS
activities or components.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives, design, and implementation of the project remain highly relevant and consistent
with Guyana’s priority to fight the spread of HIV/AIDS. The project is consistent with the
global commitment to control the spread of the virus, with the Bank country and sector
assistance strategies, and with the National STI/HIV/AIDS Program adopted by Government.
The project assisted the implementation of the 2002-2006 NSP and the 2007-2011 NSP.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The objective of the Project was to assist the Recipient in reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS
related deaths in the Recipient's territory by: (a) preventing and controlling the transmission of
HIV and STIs; (b) prolonging and improving the quality of life of people living with AIDS; and
(c) mitigating the negative impact of HIV/AIDS on persons infected with and affected by the
disease.

The overall project objective was largely achieved with a drop in HIV prevalence among key
groups and a drop in mortality among the general population due to HIV/AIDS. Mortality from
HIV/AIDS dropped from 9.5 percent in 2002 to 4.7 percent in 2008 with the expansion of ART
programs. The HIV prevalence rate dropped in key groups, e.g., pregnant mothers from 5.6
percent in 2000 to 1.1 percent in 2009, MSM from 21.25 percent in 2004 to 19.4 percent in 2009,
and CSW from 25 percent in 1992 to 16.6 percent in 2009. However, the HIV prevalence among
15-19 year olds, which is often used as a proxy for the HIV incidence rate of new infections,
increased. Reported HIV cases fluctuate between 900-1,400 (951 in 2005, 1,430 in 2006, to 983
in 2008 and 1,219 in 2009). The HIV prevalence rate among the general population dropped
from 2.5% in 2007 to 1.9% in 2009 according to UNAIDS 2008-2009 Country Progress Report
and the country reported an adult prevalence rate of 1.2%. Persons living with HIV/AIDS are
estimated to be at around 13,000 according to 2007 UNAIDS figures.

Outcomes in the three specific PDOs are indicated below. These were assessed against the
indicators in the project’s harmonized M&E framework (the project reported progress against the
harmonized framework since November 2007) because it had measurable indicators and is
aligned with the National Program.




                                               12
(a) Preventing and controlling the transmission of HIV and STIs. The project development
outcome (PDO) indicators and intermediate outcome (IO) indicators, which measure the
achievement of this PDO are as follows:

 Indicator       Description                                                    Result
 PDO Indicator   Percent of men and women with Sexually Transmitted             Achieved: 100%
 #1              Infections at health care facilities who are appropriately     Target: 90%
                 diagnosed counseled and treated.
 IO Indicator #2 Number of condoms (male and female) distributed by the         Achieved:
                 public and private sectors in the past 12 months.              >3,300,000
                                                                                Target:
                                                                                3,300,000
 IO Indicator #7 Number of service outlets that offer PMTCT services            Exceeded: 157
                                                                                Target: 130
 IO Indicator      Number of the general population aged 15-49 receiving        Exceeded: 24.8%
 #10               HIV test results in last 12 months                           Target: 13.8%

The project was the major source of support for PMTCT and VCT services in terms of minor
civil works, training, and supply of furniture and material. Testing rates increased significantly
under the project with 15,702 pregnant women tested and counseled in 2008, an increase of 31
percent from 2007 reaching 95.5 percent of pregnant women. VCT was intensified under the
project with a total number of tests for the four-year project of 153,577 persons, 50,442 pregnant
women, and 27,000 blood screens or a total of about 231,000 tests, corresponding to a quarter of
the sexually active population assuming a minimal duplication between the number of people
tested and the number of tests. PMTCT services were expanded to 135 sites, 17 health centers
were refurbished to include VCT services and furniture and other equipment was procured for all
the VCT sites. Five tester/ counselors for VCT services were hired as well as a VCT supervisor
which improved quality through properly and technically trained testers and increased access as
additional testers were available.

There was a 16 percent increase in condoms distributed from 2007 to 2008, and overall demand
and distribution for condoms increased from 1.7 million in 2004 to 2.3 million in 2007. The
project was also the main source of condoms for the public sector and for distribution by CSOs
and Line Ministries (LMs). Distribution was mainly through CSOs and the public health
delivery system. CSOs were also active in IEC/BCC activities reaching 16,760 people with
messages that promoted behavior change beyond abstinence and faithfulness (fewer partners,
condom use, etc.), 9,047 people with messages promoting abstinence, 1,502 people with
messages promoting faithfulness, and 8,590 people reached with messages promoting both
abstinence and faithfulness.

(b) Prolonging and improving the quality of life of people living with AIDS. The project
development outcome (PDO) indicators and intermediate outcome (IO) indicators which
measure the achievement of this PDO are as follows:
 Indicator        Description                                            Result
 PDO Indicator Percentage of HIV-infected pregnant women who receive Achieved:
 #2               a complete course of ART.                              84.4%

                                               13
                  (Although the country fell slightly short of reaching the target, the   Target: 85%
                  indicator can be considered achieved. Guyana is one of only 15
                  countries providing HIV-infected pregnant women with a complete
                  course of ART and 95.5% of pregnant women were reached by testing
                  and counseling.)
 IO Indicator #1 Percentage of women, men and children with HIV                           Achieved:
                 infection who are eligible according to national guidelines              83.5%
                 receiving anti- retroviral therapy                                       Target: 85%
                  (Although the country fell slightly short of reaching the target, the
                  indicator can be considered achieved since a significant percentage
                  of those eligible for ART were reached.)
 IO Indicator #3 Percentage of service outlets with record keeping systems                Exceeded:
                 to monitor HIV and AIDS care and treatment                               100%
                                                                                          Target: 50%
 IO Indicator #8 Number and percent of regions with at least one service                  Achieved: 10
                 outlet providing antiretroviral services following national              (100%)
                 standards.                                                               Target: 10
                                                                                          (100%)
 IO Indicator     Percent of HIV positive registered Tuberculosis patients                Exceeded: 93%
 #11              given anti-retroviral therapy during tuberculosis                       Target: 43%
                  treatment.
 IO Indicator     Number of persons who receive Home Palliative Care                      Achieved: 826
 #12              following national standards                                            (100%)
                  (The indicator can be considered achieved since 100% of those           Target: 1,150
                  identified as in need were provided with the care.)

Although the percentage of HIV-infected pregnant women receiving ARVs fell slightly short of
the target, 15,702 pregnant women were tested and counseled in 2008 (around 95.5 percent of all
pregnant women), an increase of 31 percent over 2007. In addition, Guyana is one of only 15
countries - out of a total of 144 - providing HIV-infected pregnant women with a complete
course of ART, according to a WHO/UNICEF report on universal access. At the end of 2008,
2,473 patients were in treatment, 1,222 patients were in care, totaling 3,695 persons receiving
services for HIV treatment and care. In 2009, the project made further progress in this area with
a 16 percent increase in the number of persons receiving ARVs and an increase in the persons on
second line drugs from 6.8 percent to 9.8 percent requiring closer monitoring of treatment
adherence and potential drug resistance. Of all the children on ART, 3.6 percent were on a
second line regimen provided by the project.

The project also strengthened the services provided to tuberculosis patients by procuring second
line tuberculosis medications, refurbishing and equipping the physical facilities of the National
Tuberculosis Control Program and providing human resources support in the form of a
laboratory coordinator and pharmacist. The CD4 threshold for referring TB patients to be treated
with ARVs was increased from 200 to 350.

The project also supported initial development of a HMIS which was put in place in the
Georgetown Public Hospital, the New Amsterdam Hospital, the Linden Hospital, and the
Regional Health Authority 6. The NAPS provided technical input on the HMIS development to
allow the system to monitor ART services being provided.

                                                    14
With regard to the provision of Home Palliative Care, the project was able to identify 826
individuals who required home palliative care. All of those identified (826), were enrolled to
receive these services meaning that 100 percent of those identified as in need were provided with
care.

(c) Mitigating the negative impact of HIV/AIDS on persons infected and affected by the
disease. The project development outcome (PDO) indicators and intermediate outcome (IO)
indicators which measure the achievement of this PDO are as follows:

 Indicator       Description                                                     Result
 PDO Indicator   Percentage of people aged 15-24 who correctly identify          Not Achieved:
 #3              ways of preventing sexual transmission of HIV and who           45.5%
                 reject major misconceptions about HIV Transmission.             Target: 63%
 PDO Indicator Ratio of current school attendance among orphans to that          Achieved: 1:1
 #4              among non-orphans aged 10-14 years.                             Target: 1:1
 IO Indicator #9 Percent of orphans and vulnerable children whose                Not Available
                 households receive free, external basic support in caring       Target: 60%
                 for the child support.
                  (Unable to determine since indicator can only be measured in
                  countries with an HIV prevalence rate >%5)

The target for PDO Indicator #3 was not reached emphasizing the need for further awareness
raising and educational outreach to the 15-24 age group on the major misconceptions around
HIV and ways to prevent it. The project provided technical assistance on the legislative and
policy front to address HIV/AIDS stigma and discrimination. The legal text of the bill of the
Guyana HIV Prevention and Control Act was finalized and placed on the legislative calendar for
the October-July 2011 session.

Although CSOs were active in this area, it is important for Guyana to continue to strengthen the
collaboration of the Ministry of Education and CSOs who collectively can improve outreach
efforts to in and out-of-school youth. CSOs were a key player in the progress made against this
project objective. From 2005, when CSO activity began to the end of the project, CSOs reached
4,229 people with messages promoting reduction of HIV/AIDS stigma and discrimination;
reached 2,141 orphans and vulnerable children with nutritional support, shelter and care,
psychosocial support, school assistance packages, and educational/ vocational training; and
provided 672 PLHIV with community, home, and palliative care which included nutritional and
psychosocial support and skills/capacity building.

(d) Strengthening the involvement of CSOs and LMs to support a coordinated, multi-sectoral
response. Although this was not a specific PDO, the role of CSOs and LMs was critical to the
success of the multi-sectoral response and three intermediate outcome indicators (IOs) were
included in the project’s harmonized results framework to measure their achievement as follows:


 Indicator       Description                                                     Result
 IO Indicator #4 Number of civil-society organizations (CSOs) receiving          Exceeded: 80
                                                   15
                 project funds to implement HIV-related activities.            Target: 74
 IO Indicator #5 Number of ministries, National Commission/Agencies            Achieved: 10
                 with HIV work plans and budgets.                              LMs, 6 national
                                                                               agencies
                                                                               Target: 10 LMs,
                                                                               6 national
                                                                               agencies
 IO Indicator #6 Number of a) line ministries and b) implementing              NA, no target
                 organizations (e.g., NGOs/CSOs) that submitted program        was set
                 monitoring forms to the Presidential Commission on
                 HIV/AIDS in the last 12 months.
                  (Unable to determine achievement as no target was set)

Guyana has been recognized as a model in its multi-sectoral approach to HIV/AIDS Control
through the engagement of LMs and CSOs, which both provided broad geographical reach to all
10 regions in the country in support of prevention efforts.

The CSOs had a total of 159 expressions of interest and received 106 proposals, of which 80
were approved and implemented by 49 different organizations accounting for a total of
US$1.875 million. The CSOs placed special focus on the following groups: MSM, CSW,
miners/truckers/ loggers, indigenous population, in & out of school youth/ OVC, PLWHA, and
the poverty-affected population. This focus allowed the project to expand its outreach activities
to specific and at-risk population groups through the CSOs. OVCs were provided with
nutritional, school, and psychosocial support; health monitoring; family improvement plans; and
institutional care. CSOs also worked directly with PLWHAs in providing them with nutrition
support, buddy support, groups, educational sessions, psychosocial counseling, vocational skills
training, home based care, hospital visits/care, and day care services. What made this program
successful was the recognition of the need to build capacity in order for a successful CSO
program to get underway. In this line, flexible processes and arrangements were put in place,
training and capacity building opportunities for implementation and reporting were provided, and
expressions of interest were invited before the call for proposals so the project team could work
with the interested CSOs to develop proposals. Other good practices include multiple funding
cycles to allow successful activities to continue, and more CSO to become involved, and
developing a database to track the progress of activities and disbursements.

With regard to LMs, 8 non-health LMs were initially identified to implement HIV programs.
However, with the 12-month extension granted to the project, the Guyana project team
proactively broadened its reach and engaged a total of 10 LMs and 6 para-statal agencies who
implemented work plans and budgets. These agencies were the Ministries of Agriculture;
Amerindian Affairs; Culture, Youth, and Sport; Education; Home Affairs; Labor; Housing and
Water; Public Service; Human Services and Social Security; Local Government and Regional
Development; Guyana National Newspapers Limited; Guyana Sugar Corporation; Guyana Lands
and Surveys Commission; Guyana Rice Development Board; Region #6 Health Authority;
Georgetown Mayor and City Council. Line Ministries worked on two-fronts, in reaching out to
their Ministry staff and to the Ministry’s catchment population and contributed to sensitization



                                                   16
and awareness activities, condom distribution through education and support activities, and the
development and promotion of a National HIV/AIDS Work Place Policy.

Summary of Outcomes: The overall rating is Satisfactory, given that three of the four PDO
indicators were achieved and nine of the twelve intermediate outcome indicators were achieved
(it was impossible to measure two and one was not achieved). With respect to the PDIs, one
surpassed the target and one fell short by a statistically insignificant 0.6 percentage point, i.e.,
84.4 percent of pregnant women received ARV versus 85 percent. Overall 95.5 percent of
pregnant women were reached through testing and counseling and Guyana is one of the few
countries who actually provide this service to pregnant women. With respect to the PDI that was
not achieved (raising awareness among young people in the 15-24 age group on misconceptions
of HIV/AIDS), CSOs and LMs conducted a considerable amount of outreach and IEC/BCC
campaigns targeting youth – in and out of school – on HIV prevention. In going forward, the
National Program needs to assess how to focus CSO activities to most at-risk populations
(MARPs) where they can be instrumental in reaching these groups and in providing targeted
programs and activities. Overall, the project was instrumental in jump-starting a multi-sectoral,
nationally coordinated response.

3.3    Efficiency

An economic analysis was conducted to assess the efficiency of the project (see Annex 3 for
details). Two scenarios were analyzed to determine the net benefit associated with the project:
without-project scenario which calculates key HIV indicators if the project had not been
implemented and with-project scenario which estimates the impact of the project. Based on the
assumptions, the prevalence rate for the general population would have reached 3.11 percent if
project was not implemented versus the 1.9 percent prevalence of today. The stream of cost and
benefit yielded an internal rate of return (IRR) of 43.8 percent, and net present value of $15.31
million assuming a 10 percent discount rate. The measure of cost effectiveness in this analysis is
the ratio of project costs to a health-related outcome that can be attributed to the project: HIV
infections averted, and years of life saved. The calculation yields $6,162 for each HIV infection
averted. On the basis of these achievements, efficiency is rated as Satisfactory.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating of the project is Satisfactory based on the high relevance, satisfactory
achievements of the PDO, and satisfactory efficiency.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project was not a poverty-targeted operation; however, meeting its objectives would directly
and indirectly affect poverty through reducing effects of HIV infection and illness that would
impact productivity and earnings of individuals as well as losses to families of household heads.
It was prepared when Government was implementing its PRSP and was receiving debt relief

                                                17
under the enhanced HIPC Initiative. In this regard, the project did provide targeted interventions
through CSOs to specific gender groups as part of its targeted prevention programs, including
CSWs and MSM. The project also had a substantial impact in reaching out to the indigenous
communities and implemented an IPDP in Regions 1, 7, 8, and 9, regions made up mostly of
Amerindians comprising 9.4 percent of Guyana’s population. CSO interventions targeting
indigenous populations were conducted through twelve organizations who produced IEC
materials, provided counseling and testing, built capacity and developed leadership, conducted
community sensitization, and distributed condoms and HIV/AIDS materials, etc. On a national
level, broad social development was conducted through outreach programs to communities
which included awareness campaigns, setting up out-reach HIV testing and counseling sites,
parenting workshops, youth leader training, peer education, condom provision, etc.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project helped create the institutional arrangements for coordinating the National Program,
for managing the project, and for ensuring continued smooth functioning upon project closure.
The need for strong leadership, support and coordination of this multi-sectoral response led to
Guyana’s President establishing the PCHA in June 2004. The Commission is chaired by His
Excellency, the President and includes nine sector Ministers and representatives from the private
sector and the international community. Its secretariat is housed at the HSDU. The PCHA
continues to provide overall policy guidance for the national response; however, their meetings
are not as regular as when the PCHA was first established. The PMU in the HSDU coordinated
the implementation of the project and will continue to coordinate the implementation of the
GFATM funded activities with its fiduciary team. Fourteen positions under HSDU will be
financed by GFATM and MOH is currently examining the possibility of funding most, if not all,
focal points within LMs from the GFATM budget. The MOH has secured $2 million from
GFATM, which will allow the Ministry to continue most initiatives developed and implemented
under this project including support for CSOs and LMs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome is considered to be moderate. Two key activities that enhance
the program’s multi-sectoral character - CSO and LM activities – would be supported by
GFATM which raises the issue of whether the Government would be able to sustain these multi-
sector activities without donor funding.




                                               18
On the positive side, the National HIV/AIDS Program enjoys support at the highest levels of
Government. The project was developed and implemented under the 2002-2006 NSP and
continued to be implemented and in line with the 2007-2011 NSP. The continued participation
in the national response of the eleven non-health LMs and the six national agencies that have
participated in project activities with approved and funded action will continue with support
from GFATM and the sustainability of CSOs is certain.

The project also helped to firmly establish the institutional arrangements for a continued,
coordinated multi-sectoral response. The project established the PCHA ensuring prioritization of
HIV/AIDS issues at the national level. The PCHA continues to have a role in providing
guidance for the national response. The project also supported the creation of a PMU with
programmatic and fiduciary responsibilities for implementing the HIV/AIDS program within the
HSDU of the MOH. With the closing of the project, HSDU will continue to coordinate the
implementation of the GFATM funded activities with its fiduciary team.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Grant Recipient Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank’s support at the time of preparation provided needed resources and strengthened
Guyana’s institutional base to allow the country to implement its NSP. The project was included
in the CAS, took into account lessons learned from other MAP projects in the Caribbean and in
Africa, and was designed within the Guyana NSP framework. The task team is to be credited for
preparing the project as a fast-track, emergency-style project which involved reducing processing
time as much as possible and undertaking the project preparation mission in November 2003,
four months after project identification, and requesting to change the pre-appraisal mission into
an appraisal mission resulting in a Board approval nine months after the identification mission.
This fast-track approach reflected the task team’s responsiveness to client concern, need, and
demand to curb the potential spread of HIV, especially as Guyana had the region’s second
highest prevalence rate and was facing high population mobility within and outside of Guyana.

Although the task team is to be credited for this responsiveness to client need and demand, the
project was not ready to be implemented as evidenced by the low rate of disbursements over the
first two years of the project. This issue was also raised by the QAG review committee resulting
in a Moderately Satisfactory quality at entry rating. The Bank team did ensure implementation
arrangements were in place, however, the fast-track approach limited having fiduciary and M&E
staff in place from the onset. More time was needed than originally discussed by the Bank and
Government to recruit individuals with these specialized skills and recruitment probably should
have been done regionally or internationally due to the limited, specialized human resources pool
in Guyana. This lack of key staff contributed to the initial challenges on fiduciary matters and on
project monitoring.




                                                19
It should be noted that the Bank team was open to the Government’s request to designate the
PMU of the IDB-financed Health Sector Policy and Institutional Development Program
(HSDIP), which would eventually become HSDU, as the entity to undertake the financial
management of the Bank-financed project. This was an important step as it demonstrated the
Bank’s commitment to Guyana’s development in contributing to the long-term capacity
strengthening of the PMU to coordinate the implementation of all donor funded projects
managed by the Ministry of Health.          Lastly, the Bank provided critical support to the
Government for the HIV/AIDS Program and acted as a catalyst for the other international
financing to support Guyana in the fight against HIV/AIDS, e.g., USAID/PEPFAR, GFATM.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was managed by two Task Team Leaders (TTLs) with vast experience implementing
HIV/AIDS projects. Handover from one TTL to the other was smooth and the core task team
stayed on through the TTL transition. The team conducted regular supervision missions every
six months and when possible, joint project implementation reviews with the Global Fund, and
regularly filed ISRs in follow-up to supervision missions. Financial management and
procurement specialists were part of the supervision team and in addition to lending their
technical expertise, were also key actors in strengthening the project’s fiduciary capacity by
offering training to project staff who in turn provided training to CSOs and LMs. Technical
M&E specialists from the Global AIDS Monitoring and Evaluation Team (GAMET) were also
part of the supervision team as early on as the third mission and provided technical assistance to
the Government resulting in the successful harmonization of the project M&E framework with
that of the National Program.

The task team was also proactive in addressing project challenges through the three amendments.
The first addressed disbursement challenges by increasing the authorized allocation of the
Special Account from US$800,000 to US$1,200,000 to ensure enough funding was made
available to the project team to continue with the increased pace of project implementation. The
second amendment reallocated funding from ARVs to the CSO and non-Health Line Ministry
components, with Global Fund financing ARVs, and increased the disbursement percentage to
100 percent for all categories, except operating expenses for which the Government was able to
mobilize other funds, which made it easier for the project to make and track payments since
activities could be financed entirely by Bank funds instead of having to use two checks to pay for
one activity. The third amendment also reflects positively on the task team’s responsiveness to
client demand as the team allocated the savings resulting from ARVs to finance part of the costs
for the construction of a medical warehouse and extended the project closing date to allow for
the completion of the warehouse construction. The financing of the warehouse is also a good
example of donor collaboration as the Bank contributed US$500,000 of the warehouse cost of
US$1.3 million and the balance was financed by the IDB and GFATM.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory



                                               20
Bank performance in supporting the Government in its expansion of the HIV/AIDS program is
rated Moderately Satisfactory given the Moderately Satisfactory rating for quality at entry and
Satisfactory rating for the quality of supervision, candor and realism of reporting and consistency
in reporting between ISRs and aide memoires.

5.2    Grant Recipient Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government demonstrated its commitment by establishing the PCHA which would meet
twice a year chaired by the country’s President and would give guidance to the National
Response. The PCHA structure continues to exist, however, meetings are not as regularly held
as in the past. The Government also established the PMU with programmatic and fiduciary
responsibilities for implementing the HIV/AIDS program within HSDU of the MOH. The
Government was also committed to the development and implementation of a NSP for 2002-
2006 and its updated 2007-2011 version and in ensuring that the accompanying M&E
Framework was discussed at a national level with key stakeholders. The Government did
experience challenges in providing its counterpart funding due to not having included
counterpart funding in the budget estimates of the time, however, the amendments to the project
addressed this challenge by increasing expenditures to be financed from the project to 100
percent, except for operating expenses.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Floods and the inability to recruit staff on time caused a delay in starting the project but, overall
implementation was satisfactory with project funds completely disbursed by January 15, 2010,
six months prior to the project closing date of June 30, 2010. The control of the spread of
HIV/AIDS was a truly multi-sectoral response. The implementing agencies for the project
activities were the NAPS, the non-health LMs and CSOs, and HSDU. The NAPS was able to
successfully attract multiple development partners to continue to financially support the national
HIV/AIDS program putting the health sector response on solid financial footing. The CSOs and
non-Health Line Ministries were critical in reaching at-risk and vulnerable populations, and in
recognition of their innovative work, the Global Fund has committed to continue to support these
activities. The HSDU provided the project with the management and fiduciary team to allow for
successful implementation of project activities. All implementing agencies contributed to the
M&E of the national HIV/AIDS response and although the CSO M&E system and progress on
the country’s HMIS are positive signs, Guyana still needs to continue to strengthen the country’s
M&E culture. The implementing agencies were also committed in reaching out to the
indigenous populations and implemented the IPDP. The HSDU did encounter staffing
challenges early on in the project, particularly in filling key positions such as M&E and Financial
Management, and proactively sought Bank input.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Grant Recipient Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

                                                 21
The overall Grant Recipient’s performance is rated as Satisfactory given the same rating for both
Government Performance and Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance.

6.       Lessons Learned

The following general lessons were learnt from the project:

     •   Getting around the “dis-economies” of small scale. Donor projects vary in design but all
         require the same skills and similar inputs for the oversight of fiduciary matters and of
         project implementation progress. Guyana needs to cope with the same project
         complexities with less human capacity than a larger country. A regional Caribbean
         approach to training fiduciary and management staff is recommended when qualified
         human resources are in short supply and when training fiduciary staff for each donor
         supported project would be expensive as this issue was faced by most of the Caribbean
         HIV/AIDS projects.
     •   Understanding the Costs and Financing of your Program. Small countries such as
         Guyana and its Caribbean neighbors are often highly vulnerable to macroeconomic
         shocks from downturns in their national economy, putting at risk counterpart funding and
         limiting fiscal space. It is important for small states to have costed National AIDS
         Strategic Plans that allocate funds appropriately and that flexibly can reallocate resources
         if faced with unforeseen economic and financial challenges.
     •   Sustaining Political Commitment. Bank assistance helped raise political commitment,
         create or strengthen AIDS institutions, enlist nongovernmental organizations, and
         prioritize activities. Political commitment and capacity, however, need to be nurtured as
         priorities change in countries that attract many donors. This was a shared experience
         faced across the Caribbean as HIV/AIDS began with high-level political commitment,
         but sustaining that commitment so it translated into needed policy reforms was another
         challenge.
     •   Health Systems Strengthening. Creating new services and support systems under a
         vertical disease project should and can benefit the efficiency of the organizational unit in
         which the project is located such as the technical and fiduciary capacity developed in the
         MOH through the HSDU as the project implementing agency. Examples are information
         technology, M&E methodology, managerial functions, financial management,
         procurement processes. Furthermore, disease-specific projects, such as the Guyana
         HIV/AIDS Project, can and should support broader health sector activities such as the
         development and implementation of a HMIS which not only supports HIV/AIDS
         monitoring, but contributes to the overall strengthening of the country’s health system
         and makes a long-lasting contribution for evidence-based policy and decision-making in
         the health sector. The Bank’s approach in the Caribbean was to use the HIV/AIDS
         project to contribute to greater health systems strengthening activities such as in the case
         of HMIS as the HIV projects financed initial HIV modules which could be later built
         upon.

The following project-specific lessons were learnt from the project:


                                                 22
     •   Carefully Weigh the Need to Fast-Track Operations. Fast-tracking the operation in
         Guyana is to be commended, especially for the task team’s responsiveness to client
         demand and need. However, considering the limited human resource pool and absorptive
         capacity of the country, task teams should carefully weigh the pros and cons of fast-
         tracking operations that could delay implementation.
     •   Focus on Most-at-risk populations (MARPs). Project efforts and expenditures should be
         concentrated on high-risk groups that are the main drivers of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in
         countries such as Guyana, to yield maximum results. This is a lesson that can be applied
         Caribbean-wide as we now know more about the epidemic and understand the
         importance of targeting activities to MARP groups as opposed to efforts serving the
         entire population such as the broad VCT campaigns taking place in the Caribbean during
         World AIDS Day.
     •   Project Staffing. Putting in place a strong counterpart team for implementation of the
         project. A full time dedicated coordinator for the LMs and for the CSOs contributed to
         the successful implementation of that component and made the project truly multi-sector.
     •   Proactive Financial Monitoring. Financial arrangements and the flow of funds
         mechanisms should be actively monitored, particularly in a project where there are other
         donors contributing to shared activities, e.g., procuring anti-retroviral drugs and civil
         works to ensure proper procurement processes and documentation.
     •   Transparency in Engaging CSOs. It is important to have clear, structured procedures
         and processes and to be able to offer training on M&E and project implementation to
         contracted CSOs.
     •   Donor Coordination. Sustainability of project activities require an ongoing dialogue
         with the other in-country develop partners to ensure alignment of activities such as the
         use of one national, harmonized M&E plan and ensuring that follow-on activities build
         on each donor’s achievements.

7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

The project assessment by the Borrower and comments on the Bank ICR is found in Annex 7.




                                                23
                             Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                             Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
           Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                                millions)
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
STRENGTHENING,                                                                       86.19%
                                              2.68                 2.31
MONITORING, EVALUATION
AND RESEARCH
SCALING UP HIV/AIDS
RESPONSE BY LINE
MINISTRIES, CIVIL SOCIETY                     3.13                 5.15              164.5%
ORGANIZATIONS AND THE
PRIVATE SECTOR
EXPANDING HEALTH SECTOR
                                                                   3.22
PREVENTION, TREATMENT                         5.19                                   62.0%
AND CARE FOR HIV/AIDS

                Total Baseline Cost          11.00                10.74               98%
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00                  0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                  0.00              0.00
                Total Project Costs           0.00                  0.00
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                  0.00               .00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                  0.00               .00
        Total Financing Required              0.00                  0.00




(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of                                   Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                Estimate       Estimate
                                          Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                        (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower/Recipient                                                1.00           1.00         100%
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS                                          10.00          10.00          100%




                                                 24
                                Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The following section highlights the key outputs of the project by components.

  Components                                           Outputs
Institutional  (a) Strengthening institutional capacity for coordinating and managing the
Capacity       Government’s National HIV/AIDS Program.
Strengthening,
Monitoring,        • Establishment of the Presidential Commission on the HIV/AIDS (PCHA) in
Evaluation and         2005 to coordinate the national response and ensure an appropriate policy and
Research               legal environment. The PCHA was set up under the aegis of the Office of the
                       President. This Commission is chaired by the President of Guyana and
                       coordinates all HIV activities nationally.

                     •   Project Management Unit (National AIDS Programme Secretariat) was
                         strengthened and provided support to the PCHA. The National AIDS
                         Programme was strengthened over the last six years; with the renting??? of a
                         modern and spacious building, recruitment of key technical and administrative
                         staff and the delivery of key prevention, and care and support services. There
                         was also improvement in surveillance, health information systems, laboratory
                         capacity, safe blood systems, supply chain and bio-safety.

                     •   Milestones in Guyana’s commitment to the HIV response:
                         - Establishment of a National HIV and AIDS Policy
                         - Development of a multi-sectoral response
                         - Development of a multi-sectoral strategy for HIV and AIDS
                         - Development of a Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
                         - Development of an Education Sector School Health, Nutrition, and HIV
                            and AIDS Policy
                         - Development of line ministries work plans in support of the National
                            Strategic Plan for HIV and AIDS
                         - Development National Blood Policy
                         - Development of a National HIV and AIDS Workplace Policy
                         - Development and implementation of Workers Occupational Safety Policy
                            and Guidelines
                         - Passed legislation in Parliament empowering the Ministry of Health to
                            establish an Institutional Review Board (IRB) “for all medical research
                            involving human subjects”.

                     •   A draft of the Guyana HIV Prevention and Control Act has been completed and
                         is being reviewed by the Attorney general.

                 (b) Strengthening program monitoring and evaluation including information
                 technology capabilities.

                 (i) Measuring the trend of the epidemic
                      • Reported Cases of HIV and AIDS by Gender- At the inception of the epidemic,
                         more males were being diagnosed with HIV and AIDS compared to females.
                         This scenario changed in 2003 with the male to female ratio shifting from 1.12
                         in 2002 to 0.92 in 2003. That trend was maintained until 2009 when once more

                                                  25
    for the first time after six years, more males were notified as HIV Positive with
    male to female ratio of 1.05. This may be attributable to more males accessing
    VCT services and knowing their status as a result of advocacy and more
    strategies implemented to encourage men to access services.
•   At the end of 2009 a total of 1176 cases of HIV were diagnosed with males
    accounting for 51.02 percent (600/1176) and female accounting for 48.2
    percent (567/1176). A total of 43 AIDS cases were notified for the reporting
    period.
•   Age Distribution of HIV- For the reporting period of Jan- December 2009 there
    was a total of 1 HIV case among children aged 0-4 years. The vast majority of
    the remaining HIV cases occurred in the age group of 20-49 accounting for
    80.5 percent of all cases, retaining the trend of the previous three years. The age
    group of 15-19 years has shown a steep increase in the proportion of cases
    moving from 3.66 percent in 2006 to 2.5 percent in 2007 and more than
    doubling for 2009 accounting for 6.04 percent. The highest number of reported
    cases of HIV continues to occur in the 30-34 age-group accounting for 17.35
    percent of all cases, however, this represents a decrease from the 19.6 percent
    in 2006. Additionally, the age- group of 20-49 continue to account for the
    majority of cases (2009-80.5 percent) and the ages of 50 and above, for almost
    one tenth of all cases (2009-8.75 percent)
•   Spatial Distribution of HIV and AIDS- Since the inception of the Guyana
    Epidemic, Region 4 accounting for 41.3 percent of the population (Guyana
    Census 2002) has been disproportionately affected. At the end of 2009, Region
    Four accounted for 56.3 percent (662/1176) of all cases; however this
    represents a continuing decline over the years from 65.1 percent in 2006 to 56.3
    percent at the end 2009. In contrast, most of the other regions had a lower
    proportion of reported HIV cases relative to their population distribution during
    this period. The proportion of HIV cases remains stable in region 6 and
    continues to decline in region 10, whilst an increase is noted in Region 3. This
    picture is still unclear as more testing have taken place in all of the regions
    including region 3.
•   HIV and AIDS Prevalence- For some time, now the HIV/AIDS epidemic has
    become generalized in Guyana with a prevalence of over one percent. In 2008,
    UNAIDS estimated that the prevalence of HIV infection among adults in
    Guyana was 1.9 percent (range: 1.5 – 2.3). UNAIDS also estimated that at the
    end of 2008 there are approximately 9,700 adults and children living with HIV
    in Guyana. Further, UNAIDS estimates that in 2008 there will be less than 500
    new infections and less than 500 deaths as a result of AIDS in Guyana. Its
    prevalence for 2009 is estimated at 1.8 percent, however there is ongoing
    verification of this with UNAIDS Global M& E team.
•   The 2007-2011 NSP notes that there appears to be a stabilization of the
    epidemic. In PMTCT the prevalence among antennal attendees continue to be
    just over one percent and still reducing moving from 1.3 percent in 2007 to 1.1
    percent in 2009. Among blood donors, the prevalence has remained
    consistently less the lowest prevalence reported at the end of 2009 of 0.16
    percent. Although regular data has not been available for STI, the data at the
    end of 2009 reflects a reduction of HIV prevalence among this population from
    17.3 percent in 2005 t0 13.3percent in 2009 for males and correspondingly
    from 16.9 percent in 2005 to 10.9 percent in 2009 for females. Special studies
    conducted among female commercial sex workers and men who have sex with

                              26
       men indicated that progress, whilst limited has been made. The HIV prevalence
       among the FCSW has decreased from 26.6 percent in 2004 to 16.6 percent in
       2009. For the population of men who have sex with men, the reduction has
       been to a lesser extent moving from 21.25 percent in 2004 to 19.4 percent in
       2009.
   •   Persons screened at the National Tuberculosis Control Programme whilst still
       very high, have also shown a reduction in prevalence from the mid 2000s of
       over 30 percent to a somewhat stabilization of less than 25 percent in 2008 and
       2009.
   •   AIDS Related Mortality- The proportion of all deaths attributable to AIDS has
       been declining from 2002 when it was 9.5 percent to 8 percent in 2003 while in
       2004 it was 7.1 percent. This proportion further declined from 6.86 percent in
       2005 to 4.7 percent at the end of 2008.
   •   Several studies were conducted that include the Biological and Behavioral
       Surveillance Surveys (2009) among Sex Workers, MSM, In-school Youth, Out-
       of-School Youth, police and military, Demographic Health Survey (2009).
   •   A new BSS among security guards in private security firms was conducted and
       the findings disseminated in October 2009.
   •   The second round of the BSS for In school youth, Out school youth, MSM,
       CSW, Military and Police started in 2008 and concluded in 2009. Final report
       and dissemination anticipated in 2010.
   •   BBSS was done for the prisoners in all prisons in Guyana and the report was
       disseminated.
   •   Guyana conducted its first every Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) in
       2008. This survey is collaboration between the MoH, PEPFAR/USAID and
       Bureau of Statistics. MACRO International was the agency contracted as the
       technical lead. This survey was concluded in 2009 and it is anticipated that a
       report would be made available in 2010.

(ii) Strengthening program monitoring and evaluation capacity
     • The national monitoring and evaluation (M&E) plan was endorsed by key
         M&E partners. This plan was developed in consultation with civil society,
         including PLHIV. The plan includes: a data collection and analysis strategy,
         behavioral surveillance, HIV surveillance, Routine Program Monitoring.
     • A national M&E working group has been established and meets on a regular
         basis
         • M&E activities other than trainings were conducted. These included
             ongoing capacity building on data analysis and an informal session on EPI
             Info.
         • Staff of the M&E Unit benefitted from capacity building.
         • The M&E Operational Plan was finalized, printed and disseminated
         • The Mid-Term Review (MTR) 2007-11 was conducted in 2009
         • Module One of an M&E Curriculum was developed
         • The Presidential Commission on HIV and AIDS Report 2008 was
             completed
         • Dissemination workshop for the Biological Behavior Surveillance Survey
             (BBSS) for Security Officers was conducted
         • A National Indicator Target Setting Workshop was conducted at the end of
             2009


                                 27
                           •    The Country Harmonization and Alignment Tool (CHAT) is being
                                administered

                  (iii) Development and strengthening the HIV/AIDS/STI case management and
                  surveillance system
                        • M&E report on HIV, including HIV surveillance data is published at least once
                           a year.
                        • The Universal Access Report was completed in 2008
                        • The Early Warning Indicators Report was also completed in 2008
                        • Consensus for national HIV estimates for 2008 was reached
                        • Data gathering for an HIV/TB Care and Treatment Client Satisfaction Survey
                           was completed during the latter part of 2009.

                  (iv) Communication Network
                       • Initial development of a Health Management Information System (HMIS)
                          implemented in the Georgetown Public Hospital, the New Amsterdam Hospital,
                          the Linden Hospital, and the Regional Health Authority 6.
                       • A central national database with HIV related data was set up. The database
                          consists of an EXCEL spreadsheet and is managed by the M&E Unit of the
                          National TB Programme through the use of a Working Health Information
                          System.
                       • The Coordinating AIDS Technical Support (COATS), a database used to
                          monitor technical support is being developed.

Scaling up        (a) Scaling up the response by line ministries
HIV/AIDS              • A total ten line ministries and six parastatal agencies implementing work
response by line          plans2.
ministries, Civil     • Monthly coordinating and status reporting meetings instituted which enhanced
Society                   coordination among ministries.
Organizations         • Establishment of Technical Review Committee chaired by the Permanent
and                       Secretary, Ministry of Health and comprised of the permanent secretaries of the
the Private               participating ministries; technical officers of the National AIDS Program who
Sector                    approved LM annual work plans and budgets.
                      • In 2005 and 2006 the HSDU signed MoUs with seven line ministries including
                          the Ministries of Agriculture; Amerindian Affairs; Culture, Youth and Sport;
                          Education; Home Affairs; and Labor, Human Services and Social Security with
                          approved work plans and budgets amounting to two hundred and eleven
                          thousand United States dollars (US$211,060), and three hundred and fifty-six
                          thousand dollars (US$356,167) respectively.
                      • During 2007 MoH signed MoUs with thirteen implementers which now
                          included the ministries of Foreign Trade and International Cooperation (which
                          later ceased interventions); Housing and Water; Public Service; and Labor
                          (which was delinked from Human Services and Social Security) for workplans

2
 Ministry of Agriculture; Ministry of Amerindian Affairs; Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sport; Ministry of
Education; Ministry of Home Affairs; Ministry of Labor; Ministry of Housing and Water; Public Service Ministry;
Ministry of Human Services and Social Security; Ministry of Local Government and Regional Development;
Guyana National Newspapers Limited; Guyana Sugar Corporation; Guyana Lands and Surveys Commission;
Guyana Rice Development Board; Region #6 Health Authority; Georgetown Mayor and City Council.


                                                       28
    budgeted at one million, one hundred and twenty-four thousand dollars
    (US$1,124,181). However these workplans were extended into 2008 when the
    three non-ministries participated for the first time with workplans and budgets
    approved for three hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars (US$375,000)
    bringing the total budget for the two years combined to one million, four
    hundred and ninety-nine thousand dollars (US$1,499,181).
•   In 2009 with the introduction of the Mayor and City Councilors of Georgetown
    workplans were approved for a total budget of approximately four hundred and
    seventeen thousand dollars (US$416,870) bringing the number of participating
    ministries and public sector agencies to seventeen.
•   Fifty prisoners housed in the High Dependency Unit of the Lusignan (minimum
    security) Prison received home-based care services and vegetarian dishes where
    necessary.
•   Ten employees were sponsored to pursue training at the American University of
    Peace Studies in the following areas Diploma in HIV/AIDS Life Cycle
    Management, Home Based Care, and Healthy Eating Vegan Cooking.
•   One hundred and thirty staff from the main office, Kuru Kuru Training Centre,
    New Opportunity Corps (NOC) and Regional Youth Officers received formal
    training in HIV/AIDS. The NOC inmates numbering some one hundred and
    fifteen (115) delinquent youths received training in HIV/AIDS and the basics of
    on using the performing arts (drama, singing, poetry, etc.) to express
    themselves in a positive way.
•   National Strategic Plan and Policy information packages on HIV/AIDS
    developed and disseminated to senior staff
•   Forty-one Probation and Social Services Officers trained to provide guidance,
    counseling and support to staff, their families and clients affected and infected
    by HIV/AIDS.
•   Twenty-eight volunteer social workers benefited from awareness group
    sessions.
•   One hundred and eight persons including patient care assistants, cooks, ward
    attendants, and porters were sensitized on issues to address stigma and
    discrimination of people living and/or affected by the disease.
•   Two hundred and ten members of Regional Women’s Affairs Committees in
    regions 2,3,4,5,6,7,9, and 10 successfully participated in gender and HIV/AIDS
    awareness sessions.
•   Staff, their relatives, and friends numbering 500 attended the first Family
    Awareness Day which featured educational activities focused on responsible
    behaviors, and healthy family life practices.
•   Two hundred and thirty-five staffers were reached in a partnership with
    GHARP, and 16 persons trained as trainers.
•   Two outreach programs to the Akawini Creek area were conducted jointly by
    the Ministry of Housing and Water and the Ministry of Local Government and
    Regional Development. 130 Adults and 135 children were sensitized about
    HIV/ AIDS.
•   Through a joint initiative between the Ministry of Local Government and
    Ministry of Housing and Water, 3054 employees within the regions as well as
    275 persons were reached directly through awareness sessions and community
    outreach.
•   Ten house lots were awarded to ten families affected by HIV (construction and
    furnishings were done collaboratively by Habitat for Humanity, Food for the

                              29
        Poor, GHARP and NAPS) and 5 houses were built.
    •   Ministerial Committee members were trained in HIV/AIDS counseling testing,
        and psychology to promote sustainability of the project within the Ministry.
    •   In the Amerindian community 42 villages were visited as part of the
        sensitization and awareness intervention; while 52 teachers of primary and
        secondary schools in Mabaruma, Region 1, Upper Mazaruni district, Region 7
        and Aishalton sub district, Region 9, were trained to integrate SRH / HIV/AIDS
        into the Health and Family Life curriculum.
    •   Community leaders amounting to 45 representing 8 villages of Annai sub –
        district and 8 villages of Aishalton sub-district were trained in the sensitizing
        their communities about the threats of trafficking in persons and how the threats
        could be mitigated in their communities.
    •   Thirty-two (32) employees and thirty-one (31) members of Community
        Policing Groups were trained as Peer Educators in order to sustain the ongoing
        interventions.

(b) Scaling up the response by Civil Society Organizations and the Private Sector
    • There were 159 expressions of interest, 106 proposals received, 80 grants from
        49 different organizations were approved and executed for a total budget of
        US$1.8M.
    • The following population groups were reached: In and Out of School Youth;
        Miners; Commercial Sex Workers, Orphans and Vulnerable Children (OVC);
        Persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLHIV); Indigenous Populations; Men,
        Women, Elderly Persons; Sportsmen & women; Armed Forces; Poverty-
        affected communities; Workplaces, Managers, Supervisors & Rank & File
        Workers; Persons in Faith Based Settings; General Population.
    • Support provided to more than two thousand Orphans and Vulnerable Children
        (OVC). The support includes material support (school supplies, uniforms,
        personal supplies) financial support (contingency fees, school transportation)
        and nutritional support ( vitamins, hot meals and food hampers)
    • Social assistance provided to persons & families affected by HIV/ AIDS
        through provision of food, material support, care & counseling. Training in
        various vocational skills was provided to empower income generating
        capacities and ease the burden on families.
    • Development of Family Improvement Plans (training of 48 grandmothers as
        caregivers, skills training to single parents/OVC, providing access to small
        loans/ business development, day care services)
    • Home Based Care and support services were provided to more than 90 PLHIV
        which included nutrition support (food hampers, vitamins, hot meals,
        counseling); education sessions on nutrition, adherence, STI management, re-
        infection; psychosocial counseling and support; vocational skills training and
        access to small loans; home based care; and hospital day visits/care.
    • 9,047 persons reached with messages that promote abstinence, 1502 persons
        reached with messages that promote faithfulness, 8590 persons reached with
        messages that promote both abstinence and faithfulness.
    • 16,760 persons reached with messages that promote behavior change beyond
        abstinence and faithfulness (partner reduction, condom usage, etc)
    • 4,229 persons reached with messages that promote reduction of HIV/AIDS
        stigma and discrimination.
    • 23,552 BCC materials distributed

                                  30
                     •   80,781 condoms distributed
                     •   266 persons trained to promote HIV/AIDS education through other behavior
                         change beyond abstinence and faithfulness
                     •   531 persons from vulnerable groups provided with skills and capacity building
                         training
                     •   Support to OVCs: nutritional support to 2,141, shelter and care to 459,
                         psychosocial support to 543, school assistance package to 791, 627 with
                         education/vocational training
                     •   Support to persons needing Community, Home, and Palliative Care (CHPC):
                         672 nutritional support, 338 psychological support, 161 receiving
                         skills/capacity building training

Expanding         (a) Support to Prevention Interventions
Health Sector
Prevention,       (i) Development of a Comprehensive Information, Education, and
Treatment and Communication/Behavior Change Communications (IEC/BCC) Strategy
Care Services for      • Several special initiatives were held among amongst groups of persons and
HIV/AIDS                  included the in-school youth through a live drama programme “Shattered
                          Hopes and Dreams. A movie was made of the drama.
                       • The calypso competition was supported and CDs of the music was produced.
                       • The Production of 200 Calendars and HIV Messages in Makushi, translation of
                          the story Lolita & Maria: What is AIDS? in Makushi. These were distributed in
                          the Amerindian communities.
                       • An HIV/AIDS outreach program that involved 40 episode Radio Serial
                          targeting youths entitled “Don’t Take Chances”.
                       • Developing of 3750 STI Handbook & posters targeting the Guyana Defense
                          Force
                       • A FBO producing 1200 Culturally sensitive posters, & pamphlets to be
                          distributed within the Hindu communities
                       • Summer camp programs that reached over 1012 youths, it involved HIV/AIDS
                          songs, dance, documentaries and lecture/ discussion sessions.
                       • 154 inmates were trained with the prison on HIV/AIDS Prevention and
                          Behavior Change Communication
                       • Production of 26 video tapes on the AIDS Alphabet (A-Z) which were aired on
                          the television
                       • Creation of a Website/Forum for MSM : www.sasod.org.gy
                       • Local artistes performing in school delivering messages on healthy lifestyle
                          through performances and dialogue reached 3631 in-school youths in 19 high
                          schools around the country.
                       • Over three thousand five hundred (3,500) athletes and youths from across the
                          country were sensitized about HIV/AIDS-related issues through seven (7)
                          Regional Interactive Days.
                       • Approximately four thousand two hundred (4,200) youths participated in Day
                          Camps countrywide where they were sensitized about HIV/AIDS.
                       • Two hundred and ten members of Regional Women’s Affairs Committees in
                          regions 2,3,4,5,6,7,9, and 10 successfully participated in gender and HIV/AIDS
                          awareness sessions.
                       • HIV/AIDS messages stickers (4000) were produced and placed on ministries
                          and employees’ vehicles.

                                                   31
(ii) Blood safety
     • Blood donation received a boost through the Good Samaritan program when 60
         units of blood were donated.
     • Safe Blood was ensured through the procurement and provision of reagents and
         consumables
     • Refurbishment of the building housing the National Blood Transfusion Services
         was completed.

(iii) Voluntary counseling and testing – Early Diagnosis
      • Persons were trained and certified as testor /counselors
      • Testors/Counselors were hired and provided services to a varied population
      • Programme management was supported through the employment of a regional
         VCT supervisor.
      • VCT sites were refurbished and improved to facilitate enhanced services and
         importantly confidentiality
      • Equipment and supplies for the VCT sites were procured.
      • M&E materials were printed to support the VCT programme
      • Support to special initiatives such as the National Week of Testing,
         Valentines/Couples Testing.

(iv) Prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted infections
     • Three (3) condom vending machines were placed strategically at the Brickdam
        Police Station Canteen, the Police All Ranks Club and Police Training College
        for members of the Guyana Police Force and the general public.
     • A total of two hundred and thirty-four (234) pairs of disposable gloves and
        forty eight (48) disposable masks were distributed.
     • Two thousand (2000) female condoms and one thousand (1000) HIV Lapel
        Pins distributed to employees
     • Programme contributed to the employment of an STI coordinator which
        reinitiated STI prevention and Control.
     • Health care workers were trained in the delivery of appropriate management of
        patients with STIs.
     • Drugs for the appropriate management of Sexually Transmitted Infections were
        procured and used.
     • Clinical forms supporting the STI Programme were printed and distributed.
     • Supporting clinical tools were printed and distributed ( Brochures, posters)

(v) Prevention of mother-to-child transmission
     • Support provided for the effective functioning and supervision of 157 PMTCT
        across the country.
     • DBS training took place among health care workers ensuring early infant
        diagnosis for HIV exposed babies.
     • Health Care Workers were trained in PMTCT in counseling and testing
     • Supplies, consumables and equipment were procured in support for PMTCT
        sites
     •
(vi) Health Care Waste Management
     • A hydroclave system was procured, installed and is fully functional at the

                                32
        Georgetown Hospital Corporation for the appropriate of Biomedical waste for
        Central Georgetown and its environs with the possibility of the expansion of the
        services to Regions 3, 5 and 10. A supporting transportation system was also
        procured and is in place.

(b) Enhancing Care, Treatment, and Support through the Health Care System

(i) Management of Opportunistic Infections
     • Training was conducted on depression, home based care, syndromic
       management for HIV/AIDS, and post exposure prophylaxis,
     • 75 persons including doctors, nurses, and coordinators received training in
       integrated management of childhood and adult illnesses.
     • Health care workers were trained in the management of opportunistic
       infections.
     • Laboratory support was provided to the National Public Health Reference
       Laboratory through the provision of equipment for the diagnosis of
       opportunistic infections, monitoring of patients in care and on antiretroviral
       therapy inclusive of Blood Hematology, Blood Chemistry, Liver Function
       testing, Renal Function Testing, Viral load testing and early infant diagnosis
       through DNAPCR testing. Further support was given in the provision of
       reagents and test kits for these laboratory diagnoses and monitoring.

(ii) Tuberculosis and HIV
     • The National TB Programme was strengthened with the refurbishment of its
         facility to accommodate and expanded management team and to accommodate
         the better clinical management of patients of the Georgetown Chest Clinic.
     • The Georgetown Chest Clinic benefitted from Human resources with the
         employment of the pharmacist allow for improved adherence among all patients
         and particularly among patients coinfected with TB/HIV.
     • Support was provided to the DOTS programme through the provision of motor
         cycles for DOTS workers, and other field amenities such as rain coats, helmets,
         weather boots and others.
     • Training was provided to clinical staff on the management of TB/HIV co-
         infection.
     • Second line Anti-tubercolous treatment were procured and used to manage
         patients

(iii) Anti-retroviral therapy (ART)
      • Treatment sites were refurbished to ensure that sites were positioned to cater for
         a multidisciplinary, holistic approach to treatment and care.
      • Health Care workers were trained in the management of patients using
         Antiretrovirals.
      • Monitoring and Evaluation was supported and specifically in the area of
         feedback meetings with the Care and Treatment teams.
      • Required materials for the patient monitoring system was printed and used in
         all treatment sites.
      • Drugs for the management of Opportunistic infections were procured and
         utilized for the management of patients.



                                  33
                         Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Guyana had and continues to have the second highest HIV epidemic in the Latin America and
Caribbean region with 1.9 percent national HIV prevalence rate among adults population (age
15-49) according to 2009 Country Progress Report. The Guyana HIV/AIDS Prevention &
Control Project allocated total of US$11 million (including Government contributions) to
institutional capacity strengthening, HIV/AIDS scaling up, and prevention and treatment, and
roughly half of the loan went to prevention and intervention efforts. The economic and financial
analysis in this annex aims to evaluate cost-effectiveness of the HIV/AIDS prevention and
treatment activities of the project.

The cost estimate in original Project Appraisal Document (PAD) is US$11 million, which was
financed through an IDA grant of US$10 million and a Government contribution of US$1
million during the period of 2004-2010. Of the total US$11 million budget, 22 percent
contributed to institutional capacity strengthening, monitoring, evaluation and research, 48
percent to scaling up HIV/AIDS response, and a share of 30 percent to expanding health sector
prevention, treatment, and care services for HIV/AIDS.

The intervention prevention activities included developing a comprehensive Information,
Education, and Communication/Behavior Change Communications (IEC/BCC) strategy;
ensuring the high-level of blood safety through the provision of reagents and strengthening the
logistical systems at a central and regional level; scaling up Voluntary Counseling and Testing
(VCT) by adding and refurbishing VCT facilities and supplying them with test kits and reagents;
strengthening the syndromic management of STIs by improving laboratory capacity through
equipment, training, and condom promotion; integrating the Prevention of mother-to-child
transmission (PMTCT) program with the wider MOH maternal and child health services;
training health care workers on proper handling of infectious waste. Support to Treatment and
Care included the management of opportunistic infections by developing standardized protocols
and guidelines for HIV/AIDS care at all levels including drug provision and training;
strengthening the national Tuberculosis (TB) program through increased screening and DOTS
coverage; and the provision of Anti-retroviral therapy (ART) and training at all levels on its
delivery. The project was later restructured with the funding for ARVs replaced by a
construction of a medical warehouse.

Two scenarios were analyzed to determine the net benefit associated with the project: without-
project scenario which calculates key HIV indicators if project was not implemented and with-
project scenario which estimates the actual impact of the project. As in many areas of project
evaluation, assessing the without-project scenario in estimating the magnitude of project benefits
and costs is not easy because it is impossible to measure the number of persons who are not
infected with HIV as a result of a prevention program. Difficulties also come from the fact that
even under with-project scenario HIV incidence/death data is difficult to collect and rarely exist
especially among high-risk population. Therefore, cost-effectiveness calculation in this annex
uses assumption and simulation when appropriate. The assumptions are described as follows:




                                               34
     •     The initial HIV prevalence rate in Guyana in with-project and without-project scenario is
           both assumed 2.7 percent in general population in project starting year 2004. This is also
           the assumption in original PAD.
     •     Under without-project scenario, the annual incidence rate of AIDS is assumed to be 0.15
           percent as the upper bound estimate in UNAIDS Guyana country progress report.
     •     Under with-project scenario, the newly infected with HIV in year t is equal to the
           population living with HIV in year t – population living with HIV in year t-1 + AIDS
           deaths in year t.
     •     AIDS deaths are assumed to be decreased by 25 percent between 2004 and 2010 under
           with-project scenario, and AIDS deaths are assumed to be unchanged between 2004 and
           2010 under with-out project scenario. This is a reasonable assumption because one of the
           goals of our projects is to reduce death rate of HIV/AIDs population.
     •     Under without-project scenario, the prevalence rate for general population would have
           increased by 15 percent between 2010 and 2004, and such trend is linearly interpolated.
     •     An averted infection provides an individual with thirty-three more years of productive
           life which is simply the pension age (60) minus average HIV infectious age 27.
     •     Average working individual productively is $697 per year, which is World Development
           Indicator household final consumption per capita in 2002.
     •     An infected patient will live for 10 years after infection with adequate care.
     •     The average annual cost of treatment per patient after infection is assumed $1,000.
     •     Benefits accrue five years after the infection has been averted for the disease to progress
           and translate into productivity losses and health care costs for the individual.

Table 1 shows the estimated number of newly infected adults with HIV and number of adults
living with HIV during each project year in with-project scenario. Based on the assumption
described above, the prevalence rate for general population would have reached 3.11 percent if
project was not implemented, and AIDs deaths would have been unchanged between 2004 and
2010.

                                   Table 1. Without-Project Scenario

                                                  Number
                                                                           Population    Prevalence
                                Share of           newly
                                                                  AIDS      age 15-49     Rate for
    Year      Population1      population         infected
                                                                  Death2   living with    general
                               age 15-491           with
                                                                               HIV       population
                                                    HIV
    2004        762,654           53.3%             1,144         1100       10,967         2.70%
    2005        763,834           52.6%             1,146         1100       11,535         2.77%
    2006        764,273           52.1%             1,146         1100       12,108         2.84%
    2007        764,100           51.8%             1,146         1100       12,684         2.90%
    2008        763,437           51.7%             1,145         1100       13,261         2.97%
    2009        762,750           51.4%             1,144         1100       13,840         3.04%
    2010        761,442           51.3%             1,142         1100       14,418         3.11%
1
 World Development Indicator
2
 World Bank Health Nutrition and Population Statistics for 2004



                                                       35
With-project scenario indicators are listed in Table 2. Under this scenario, the AIDs death would
be reduced by 25% between 2004 and 2010 due to the introduction of HIV/AIDs treatment and
care programs.

                                   Table 2. With-Project Scenario

                                             Number
                                                                       Population     Prevalence
                                Share of      newly
                                                                        age 15-49      Rate for
    Year    Population         population    infected   AIDS Death
                                                                       living with      general
                                age 15-49      with
                                                                           HIV        population1
                                               HIV
    2004      762,654            53.3%         1,144        1100          10,967         2.70%
    2005      763,834            52.6%          929         1054          10,842         2.70%
    2006      764,273            52.1%          916         1008          10,749         2.70%
    2007      764,100            51.8%          900          963          10,687         2.70%
    2008      763,437            51.7%          879          917          10,649         2.70%
    2009      762,750            51.4%          808          871          10,585         2.70%
    2010      761,442            51.3%          786          825          10,547         2.70%
1
 World Development Indicator

The averted HIV infections and years of life saved are summarized in Table 3. Infections averted
attributable to the project is the difference between adult population living with HIV under
without-project scenario and with-project scenario. Years of life saved is number of infections
averted multiplied by increased productive life caused by the project, which is assumed to be 33
years. From these infections averted, the project benefits can be calculated for the cost benefit
analysis. The total benefit of the project includes averted productivity loss by remaining labor in
the labor force, and medical savings on in-patient care and treatment of opportunistic illnesses.

                                  Table 3. Project Cost and Benefits

                                                        Productivity
            Infections     Years of life                                Averted          Total
    Year                                      Year         losses
             averted         saved                                     cost of care     benefits
                                                          averted
    2004         0                 0          2009           0             0               0
    2005        217              7,158        2010       4,989,330     2,169,180       7,158,510
    2006        231              7,620        2011       5,310,812     2,308,948       7,619,760
    2007        246              8,115        2012       5,656,225     2,459,122       8,115,347
    2008        267              8,798        2013       6,132,514     2,666,195       8,798,709
    2009        336             11,102        2014       7,738,003     3,364,203      11,102,206
    2010        356             11,744        2015       8,185,436     3,558,731      11,744,167
    Total      1,653            54,537                   96,312,424    17,501,434     113,813,858

The project annual cost data was obtained from Project monthly disbursement record. Although
we focus on the analysis of intervention prevention and treatment component in the project, the

                                                 36
total project disbursement was used in calculating cost-effectiveness indicators due to the fact
that project cost flow is hard to be discomposed. This would result in an overestimate of the
prevention and treatment cost, and in turn an underestimate of the project internal rate of return
(IRR) and net present value (NPV).

                             Table 4. Project Stream of Cost and Benefit

            Year                         Costs1            Benefits            Net Benefits
            2004                           0                  0                     0
            2005                        528,401               0                 (528,401)
            2006                       1,008,476              0                (1,008,476)
            2007                       1,455,803              0                (1,455,803)
            2008                       2,977,055              0                (2,977,055)
            2009                       3,602,307              0                (3,602,307)
            2010                        611,956          7,158,510              6,546,554
            2011                           0              7,619,760             7,619,760
            2012                           0              8,115,347             8,115,347
            2013                           0              8,798,709             8,798,709
            2014                           0             11,102,206            11,102,206
            2015                           0             11,744,167            11,744,167
1
 Project monthly disbursement record

Three key project cost and effectiveness indicators are calculated based on the previous project
benefit estimate. The stream of cost and benefit yielded an internal rate of return (IRR) of 43.8
percent, and net present value of $15.31 million assuming 10 percent discount rate. The measure
of cost effectiveness in this analysis is the ratio of project costs to a health-related outcome that
can be attributed to the project: HIV infections averted. The numerator equals the total cost of
delivering the project and the denominator equals the accumulated health outcomes during
project period. The calculation yields $6,162 for each HIV infection averted.

                       Table 5. Key Project Cost and Effectiveness Indicator

Indicator                 Value              Description
IRR                             43.8% Internal rate of return
NPV (million)                   $15.31 Net present value in US 2004 million dollars
CE ratio 1                    $6162.27 Dollar cost of each infection averted




                                                    37
      Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                               Title               Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Mary T. Mulusa               Senior Public Health Specialist     LCSHH            TTL
Pilar Gonzales               Legal Counsel                       LEGLA           Legal
William Experton             Sector Leader                       LCSHD        Management
                                                                              Institutional
Willy L. De Geyndt           Consultant                          LCSHH
                                                                              Development
Lucia C. Hanmer              Senior Country Officer              LCCGY      Country Relations
Marta G. Ospina              Consultant                          LCSPT        Procurement
Mary Dowling                 Program Assistant                   LCSHD          Assistant
Evangeline Javier            Sector Director                     LCSHH        Management
Patricio V. Marquez          Lead Health Specialist              LCSHD           Health
Supervision/ICR
Mary Mulusa                  Senior Public Health Specialist     LCSHH            TTL
Shiyan Chao                  Senior Health Economist             LCSHH            TTL
Francisca Ayodeji Akala      Sr. Health Spec.                    AFTHE           Health
Carmen Carpio                Health Specialist                   LCSDE           Health
Marcelo H. Castrillo         Consultant                          HDNGA           M&E
                                                                              Institutional
Willy L. De Geyndt           Consultant                          LCSHH
                                                                              Development
Miguel-Santiago da Silva
                             Finance Officer                     CTRFC       Finance Officer
Oliveira
Gustavo Castro F. Raposo     Finance Analyst                        CTRDM Disbursement Officer
Edith R. Mwenda              Senior Counsel                         LEGAF        Legal
Jody Zall Kusek              Adviser                                HDNOP        M&E
Judith C. Morroy             Consultant                             LCSPT     Procurement
                                                                               Financial
Emmanuel N. Njomo            Consultant                             LCSFM
                                                                              Management
John Stephen Osika           Consultant                             LCSHH        Health
Maria Elena Paz Gutzalenko   Program Assistant                      LCSHE      Assistant
Jean Rutabanzibwa-Ngaiza     Consultant                             AFTHV        Social
Judith Marcano Williams      ET Temporary                           LCSHH      Assistant
Rosalia Rodriguez-Garcia     Sr. Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist HDNGA ICR Peer Reviewer
Elizabeth Mziray             Strategy Officer                       HDNGA ICR Peer Reviewer




                                                38
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                    6                             23.76
  FY04                                   30                            187.14
  FY05                                                                  24.16
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00
                          Total:         36                            235.06
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                   23                            109.64
  FY06                                   27                            110.41
  FY07                                   20                             80.42
  FY08                                   21                             88.05
  FY09                                   17                              0.00
                          Total:        108                            388.52




                                       39
                 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                 40
                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                       41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




               GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA

         HIV/AIDS Prevention & Control Project

         Implementation Completion Results Report
                     November 2010




                              42
Epidemiological Profile:


The Guyana National HIV Response started in 1987 with the first HIV case was diagnosed. The
response which at that time was primarily a medical one, subsequently overtime evolved into a
multisectoral one, with National Leadership and oversight through the Presidential Commission
on HIV and AIDS. Twenty two years later after the first AIDS case at the end of 2009, Guyana
reports progress in many areas of the response.

Guyana’s adult prevalence rate at the end of 2009 is reported at 1.2% by UNAIDS. HIV and
AIDS Prevalence- For some time, now the HIV/AIDS epidemic has become generalized in
Guyana with a prevalence of over one percent.

The 2007-2011 NSP notes that there appears to be a stabilization of the epidemic. In PMTCT
the prevalence among antennal attendees continue to be just over one percent and still reducing
moving from 1.3% in 2007 to 1.1% in 2009. Among blood donors, the prevalence has remained
consistently less the lowest prevalence reported at the end of 2009 of 0.16%. Although regular
data has not been available for STI, the data at the end of 2009 reflects a reduction of HIV
prevalence among this population from 17.3% in 2005 t0 13.3% in 2009 for males and
correspondingly from 16.9% in 2005 to 10.9% in 2009 for females. Special studies conducted
among female commercial sex workers and men who have sex with men indicated that
progress, whilst limited has been made. The HIV prevalence among the FCSW has decreased
from 26.6% in 2004 to 16.6% in 2009. For the population of men who have sex with men, the
reduction has been to a lesser extent moving from 21.25% in 2004 to 19.4% in 2009.

The further details in graphs below.


                                                                       HIV/AIDS in Guyana
                                                                            1987-2009



                              1400

                              1200

                              1000

                              800
                      Cases




                              600

                              400

                              200

                                0      1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
                                HIV     0    0    0    0    0     0     0     0     0    0      0    412   624   648   409   608   762   837   694 1258 704     959 1176
                                AIDS    10   34   18   47   76   181   194   306   327   275   254   263   341   307   435   415   417   348   149   172   96    24   43




                                                                                                                                                                HIV        AIDS




                                                                                         43
           S                                                         A                                P

  3.5
                      3.1
      3

  2.5                                          2.5
                                                         2.2
      2
                                                                              1.6
  1.5
                                                                                                1.3
                                                                                                             1.15                    1.1
      1

  0.5

      0
               2003                  2004             2005          2006                     2007         2008              2009




                                                B       D

      1%

      1%

      1%

      1%

      0%

      0%

      0%
                     2001                      2004          2006               2007                  2008            2009




FCSW MSM M
               45%




45%

40%

35%
                            26.60%




30%
                                                                     21.15%

                                                                                    19.40%




25%
                                      16.60%




20%

15%
                                                                                                                    6.50%




10%
                                                                                                                             3.90%




5%                                                                                                                2000

0%
                        FCSW                                        MSM                                          Miners




                                                                44
Reported Cases of HIV and AIDS by Gender. At the inception of the epidemic, more males
were being diagnosed with HIV and AIDS compared to females. This scenario changed in 2003
with the male to female ratio shifting from 1.12 in 2002 to 0.92 in 2003. That trend was
maintained until 2009 when once more for the first time after six years, more males were notified
as HIV Positive with male to female ratio of 1.05. This may be attributable to more males
accessing VCT services and knowing their status as a result of advocacy and more strategies
implemented to encourage men to access services.

At the end of 2009 a total of 1176 cases of HIV were diagnosed with males accounting for
51.02% (600/1176) and female accounting for 48.2% (567/1176). A total of 43 AIDS cases
were notified for the reporting period.

Age Distribution of HIV- For the reporting period of Jan- December 2009 there was a total of 1
HIV case among children aged 0-4 years. The vast majority of the remaining HIV cases
occurred in the age group of 20-49 accounting for 80.5% of all cases, retaining the trend of the
previous three years. The age group of 15-19 years has shown a steep increase in the proportion
of cases moving from 3.66% in 2006 to 2.5% in 2007 and more than doubling for 2009
accounting for 6.04%. The highest number of reported cases of HIV continues to occur in the
30-34 age-group accounting for 17.35% of all cases, however, this represents a decrease from
the 19.6% in 2006. Additionally, the age- group of 20-49 continue to account for the majority of
cases (2009-80.5%) and the ages of 50 and above, for almost one tenth of all cases (2009-8.75%

Persons screened at the National Tuberculosis Control Programme whilst still very high, have
also shown a reduction in prevalence from the mid 2000s of over 30% to a somewhat
stabilization of less than 25% in 2008 and 2009.

AIDS Related Mortality- The proportion of all deaths attributable to AIDS has been declining
from 2002 when it was 9.5% to 8% in 2003 while in 2004 it was 7.1 %. This proportion further
declined from 6.86 % in 2005 to 4.7% at the end of 2008

Overview

This World Bank Project commenced in 2004 and intended to prevent and control the
transmission of HIV and Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs), prolong and improve the
quality of life of people living with AIDS; and to mitigate the negative impact of HIVIAIDS on
persons infected and affected by the disease.

This project constituted an integral component of the overall Government’s response aimed at
reducing the impact of HIV and AIDS on the individual, their communities and the country.

This project supported specific areas of the Governments overall response and tracked the
following (i)H IV positive cases identified, counseled and treated; (ii)STI cases reported and
treated; (iii)condoms distributed; (iv) pregnant women testing positive and receiving
antiretroviral therapy; (v) blood units transfused and screened; (vi) infected people receiving


                                               45
antiretroviral treatment, 01s treatment, and supportive counseling; (vii) professional staff, peers
and volunteers trained; and, (viii) NGOs engaged in the project.
The project supported and delivered in three main components namely:

   1. Institutional capacity strengthening, monitoring, evaluation and research. With support
      through this component the Government of Guyana defined it multisectoral response and
      established the Presidential Commission on HIV and AIDS. This provided the
      opportunity for the country to continue to demonstrate ownership and leadership and
      importantly to coordinate the response. Significant support was provided to the Health
      Sector Development Unit as the project implementation unit and to the National AIDS
      Programme Secretariat as the Governments technical agency for their operations and
      included the availability for key staff to the optimal operations of both units. The HIV
      epidemic in Guyana is dynamic and therefore its understanding has to be current in order
      for the response to be relevant and impactful. In this regard, research such as the BBSS
      among prisoners and private security officers and monitoring and evaluation was
      supported.

   2. Scaling up of the HIV response through Line Ministries, Civil Society Organizations and
      the Private Sector- This component was unique to the World Bank Project as it provided
      the opportunity to truly embark on a multisectoral response to the epidemic with the
      innovative approaches used in engaging Non Health Line Ministries and Civil Society
      Organizations. Projects under the various groups were designed to ensure universal
      access to prevention is realized. All major and strategic places to affect impact, non
      Health Ministries and para-statal agencies were actively engaged. Many CSOs that
      included a mixture of large and mature ones to small grass root community based groups
      contributed to the HIV response as a result of this project. Significant ownership to the
      response has emerged from these groups and the community they served.

   3. Expanding the Health Sector response to prevention, treatment and care services for HIV
      and AIDS- The Ministry of Health expanded its medical response in key areas that were
      important for clinical care. The management of opportunistic infections, particularly
      tuberculosis was enhanced through the availability of appropriate medicines, laboratory
      technologies and a skilled work force through trainings. There was excellent
      collaboration with PEPFAR in the establishment of the National Public Health Reference
      Laboratory which has now resulted in a state of the art facility not only for Guyana but
      for the wider Caribbean Region. This facility through this project support, now has the
      capacity to provide laboratory monitoring for patients in care and on treatment, for
      opportunistic infections and now provides viral load testing and DNA PCR for early
      infant diagnosis. The Georgetown Public Hospital and by extension hospital and other
      health facilities in neighboring regions has benefitted for a modern hydroclave system for
      the sterilization of biomedical waste.

      For more details of the achievements under each area, please see table below.




                                                46
Success Stories and Best Practices

   I. Collaboration and Partnerships:

With the Ownership of the National response and with strong political commitment and
leadership, the Government advocated for gap funding and complementarities of the funding
sources. Partners all rallied around one programme as strategically outlined by the National
Strategy on HIV and AIDS of 2007-2011.

As the Government reviewed its progress annually and working with all partners and
stakeholders, it was clear that one area for support was the enhancement of laboratory diagnosis
for patients in care and on treatment. The discussions resulted in PEPFAR’s commitment to the
construction of the building for the National Public Health Laboratory and the World Bank to the
procurement of all modern equipment to be placed in the laboratory.

The project was a collaborative one from its onset with a technical oversight committee
comprising of representatives of the PEPFAR programme, the implementers of the World Bank
Project (HSDU) and the Ministry of Health with all partners agreeing on key decisions. The
constructed by PEPFAR was opened on July 1st 2008 and the equipment procured by the World
Bank was shortly inserted.

This facility currently has the capacity to provide services in the areas of hematology,
biochemistry, immunology, bacteriology, virology among others. Patients are accessing the
routine laboratory monitoring for those in care and treatment and includes CD4 testing, viral load
testing and DNA PCR testing for early infant diagnosis.

   II. Civil Society – PEOPLES STORY

Persons who benefitted from the sub-project implemented by Lifeline organization quoted the
following:

    • Juliet (grandmother) - Well I must say that I am very grateful for all the help that the
       project has given to me. I always refer to the work of the project as the Good Samaritan.
       I remember when I found out about my grandchild’s status, she was sick on a hospital
       bed dying and all I had was G$10 in my hand. I needed help and someone sent me to
       Lifeline and even though she was in that state they enrolled her on the program and
       started to counsel me. It gave me hope and together we gave her strength, and today she
       is alive because of that help. She is attending school now and is able to wash her own
       uniforms all by herself. I must say thanks for me and my grandchild.
    • Marlyn - The program did a great lot for me because right now I am loosing down my
       chair set myself to cover it over; and I do get orders to make embroidery pillow cases ,
       cushions and floral arrangements. All of this is because I get the Skill training from the
       project. It does help me earn money to pay for my loan and feed my children. If it wasn’t
       the project I couldn’t stand up in front of my children today.




                                               47
COMPONENT 1: Institutional                                                                   OUTPUTS
Capacity Strengthening,
Monitoring, Evaluation and
Research
Sub-component 1: Strengthening       • Establishment of the Presidential Commission Against HIV/AIDS (PCHA) in 2005 to coordinate the national response
institutional capacity for             and ensure an appropriate policy and legal environment. The PCHA was set up under the aegis of the Office of the President.
coordinating and managing the          This Commission is chaired by the President of Guyana and coordinates all HIV activities nationally.
Government’s National              • Project Management Unit (National AIDS Programme Secretariat) was strengthened and provided support to the PCHA. The
HIV/AIDS Programs                      National AIDS Programme was strengthened over the last six years; with the construction of a modern and spacious building,
                                       recruitment of key technical and administrative staff and the delivery of key prevention, and care and support services. There
                                       was also improvement in surveillance, health information systems, laboratory capacity, safe blood systems, supply chain and
                                       bio-safety.
                                   • The Government of Guyana has built a strong political commitment in the leadership of the national response. The following
                                       are milestones in Guyana’s commitment to the HIV response:
                                            o Establishment of a National HIV and AIDS Policy
                                            o Development of a multi-sectoral response
                                            o Development of a multi-sectoral strategy for HIV and AIDS
                                            o Development of a Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
                                            o Development of an Education Sector School Health, Nutrition, and HIV and AIDS Policy
                                            o Development of line ministries work plans in support of the National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS
                                            o Development National Blood Policy
                                            o Development of a National HIV and AIDS Workplace Policy
                                            o Development and implementation of Workers Occupational Safety Policy and Guidelines
                                            o Passed legislation in Parliament empowering the Ministry of Health to establish an Institutional Review Board (IRB)
                                                “for all medical research involving human subjects”.
Sub-component 2: Strengthening     • The national monitoring and evaluation (M&E) plan was endorsed by key M&E partners. This plan was developed in
program monitoring and                 consultation with civil society, including PLHIV.
evaluation capacity including      • A national M&E reference group has been established and meets on a regular basis
information technology           M&E report on HIV, including HIV surveillance data is published at least once a year.
capabilities.                      • M&E activities other than trainings were conducted. These included ongoing capacity building on data analysis and an informal
                                       session on EPI Info.
                                   • Guyana has made significant progress on monitoring and evaluation through collaboration with its partners. Key M&E
                                       achievements during 2008-2009 include:
                                                   o Staff of the M&E Unit benefitted from capacity building.
                                                   o The M&E Operational Plan was finalized, printed and disseminated
                                                   o The Mid-Term Review (MTR) 2007-11 was conducted in 2009
                                                   o The Universal Access Report was completed in 2008
                                                   o The Early Warning Indicators Report was also completed in 2008
                                                   o Consensus for national HIV estimates for 2008 was reached
                                                   o Data gathering for an HIV/TB Care and Treatment Client Satisfaction Survey was completed during the latter part

                                                                               48
                                                            of 2009
                                                          o Module One of an M&E Curriculum was developed
                                                          o The Presidential Commission on HIV and AIDS Report 2008 was completed
                                                          o Several studies were conducted that include the Biological and Behavioral Surveillance Surveys (2009) among
                                                            Sex Workers, MSM, In-school Youth, Out-of-School Youth, police and military, Demographic Health Survey
                                                            (2009.
                                                          o Dissemination workshop for the Biological Behavior Surveillance Survey (BBSS) for Security Officers was
                                                            conducted
                                                          o A National Indicator Target Setting Workshop was conducted at the end of 2009
                                                          o The Country Harmonization and Alignment Tool (CHAT) is being administered
                                                          o The Coordinating AIDS Technical Support (COATS), a database used to monitor technical support is being
                                                            developed.

Sub-component 3: Research and         • A new BSS among security guards in private security firms was conducted and the findings disseminated in October 2009.
studies including behavior            • The second round of the BSS for In school youth, Out school youth, MSM, CSW, Military and Police started in 2008 and concluded
surveys among key groups.               in 2009. Final report and dissemination anticipated in 2010. BBSS was done for the prisoners in all prisons in Guyana and the report
                                        was disseminated. Special programmes were put in place to address the issues coming from the Study including the continued support
                                        to the Ministry of Home Affairs for prevention programmes such as voluntary counseling and testing, education and in the area of
                                        treatment, care and support.
                                      • Guyana conducted its first every Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) in 2008. This survey is collaboration between the MoH,
                                         PEPFAR/USAID and Bureau of Statistics. MACRO International was the agency contracted as the technical lead. This survey was
                                         concluded in 2009 and it is anticipated that a report would be made available in 2010.
Sub-component 4: Revision of          • A draft of the Guyana HIV Prevention and Control Act has been completed and is being reviewed by the Attorney general.
Laws. The project will support
the revision of several legislative
documents and support the
preparation o f new health
legislation.

COMPONENT 2:                          Grant-financing was provided to Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and Quasi-Government Agencies to implement sub-projects to
Scaling up of the HIV response        prevent the spread of HIV/ AIDS, provide care and support to the infected and affected and to mitigate the effects of the disease. During
through the Line Ministries, Civil    the implementation the CSOs and NGOs received capacity building and program management support. Grants were monitored and
Society Organizations and the         audited for the activities of the implementing partners and a mechanism for networking among CSOs was established to promote sharing
private sector                        and learning. There were 159 expression of interest and of these 106 proposals were received. CSOs were engaged in 6 batches, totaling
    - CSOs                            80 grants.
                                      -he grants were implemented by a total of 49 different organizations. A total of US$1.8M was disbursed to support these activities.
                                      There has been some positive recognition of the approach used by the HSDU in engaging and working with Civil Society through this
                                      program. The significant response by civil society and the rapid scale up of the program has been noted by some policy-makers as a
                                      model which may be worth emulating on the national level for engagement of civil society organizations.
                                      The approach taken by the project was adjusted as implementation commenced taking into consideration the local context including the

                                                                                      49
                  demographic, geographic, cultural, migratory and socio-economic patterns. Special focus was placed on the vulnerable populations: Men
                  Who Have Sex with Men (MSM), Sex Workers, Miners/ Truckers/ Loggers, Indigenous Population, In & Out of School Youth/ OVC,
                  PLWHA, Poverty-affected population and Workplaces.

                  A highlight of what some of the CSOs accomplished include the following:
                       • Support to more than two thousand Orphans and Vulnerable Children (OVC). The support includes material support (school
                            supplies, uniforms, personal supplies) financial support (contingency fees, school transportation) and nutritional support
                            (vitamins, hot meals and food hampers). Social assistance is provided to persons & families affected by HIV/ AIDS through
                            provision of food, material support, care & counseling. Training in various vocational skills was provided to empower income
                            generating capacities and ease the burden on families.
                       • Development of Family Improvement Plans (training of 48 grandmothers as caregivers, skills training to single parents/OVC,
                            providing access to small loans/ business development, day care services)
                       • Home Based Care and support services were provided to more than 90 PLHIV
                       • 3750 STI Handbook & posters were developed by the Guyana Defense Force and 1200 Culturally sensitive posters, &
                            pamphlets to be distributed within the Hindu communities, 354 employees of labor unions were trained on HIV/AIDS in stigma
                            and discriminations and workplace policy
                       • Summer camp programs that reached over 1012 youths, 154 inmates were trained with the prison. An HIV/AIDS outreach
                            program that involved 40 episode Radio Serial targeting youths entitled “Don’t Take Chances”.
                       • Production of 26 video tapes on the AIDS Alphabet (A-Z) which were aired on the television and 200 Calendars and HIV
                            Messages in Makushi, translation of the story Lolita & Maria:
                       • Creation of a Website/Forum for MSM : www.sasod.org.gy
                       • Local artistes performing in school delivering messages on healthy lifestyle through performances and dialogue reached 3631
                            in-school youths in 19 high schools around the country.
                  Other Interventions includes:
                                 • Blood Safety (Safe Blood Clubs encouraging blood donation, and thus testing)
                                 • Youth Clubs (using recreation as an attraction to engage young people)
                                 • Poster, Poetry & Essay Competitions (creating awareness at the school level)
                                 • Literacy (reducing vulnerability in poverty-affected communities).
LINE MINISTRIES   At the inception of the program eight key non-health line ministries were to implement HIV/AIDS programs for employees (internal
                  clients) and their relatives, and their external clients who utilize public services and goods. Later key parastatal agencies were included.

                  During the five year period of the project life the line ministries prepared their annual work plans and budgets which were submitted to a
                  Technical Review Committee for approval. This committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health and comprised of
                  the permanent secretaries of the participating ministries; technical officers of the National AIDS Program; Coordinators of Line
                  Ministries, and Civil Society was established to coordinate actions for addressing general risk factors across ministries, evaluate progress
                  made on a bi-annual basis, and provide guidelines for the preparation of annual work plans and recommend approval by the PCHA of the
                  consolidated work plan.MOU were signed with the agencies. Several key achievements are noted and include the following:
                      • Ten (10) employees were sponsored to pursue training at the American University of Peace Studies in the areas of HIV/AIDS
                           Life Cycle Management (diploma programme), HBC and Healthy Eating Vegan Cooking


                                                                   50
    •    IEC/BCC 8,329 public sector employees reached; 4,232 workers in the rice industry; and 7,300 employees in the sugar industry.
    •    Several trainings were held and included training on M&E- 11 persons, guidance counseling-41 probation and social services
         officers, depression, HBC and PEP- 75 clinical staff
     • Sensitization on HIV and AIDS was conducted among many groups-Youth in the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sport- 130,
         Athletes and Youths -3500, through camps- (4,200) youths, social workers-28, hospitality industry-108, women -210, adult and
         children-165 through the Ministry of Local Government, employees of the Ministry of Local Government-3054 and the
         Ministry of Housing and Water- 275, teachers, among many others across the various sectors and administrative regions in
         Guyana.
     • Condoms were made available and distributed in many of the agencies making them readily accessible for their employees.
     • Ten house lots were awarded to ten families affected by HIV; construction and furnishings were done collaboratively by Habitat
         for Humanity, Food for the Poor, GHARP and NAPS five houses were built.
     • Thirty-two (32) employees and thirty-one (31) members of Community Policing Groups were trained as Peer Educators in order
         to sustain the ongoing interventions.
Unintended Outcomes
     • A fully furnished fitness gym was set-up with instructors to help employees who are interested in enhancing/maintaining their
         fitness levels.
     • A virtual library to provide digital training modules, access to the internet, books and other health associated materials and is
         available to the general public.
     • A 24-hour VCT site was established at the New Amsterdam Hospital
     • Several trainings took place in other areas such as alcohol use, dealing with accidents as first responders
     • The voluntary blood donation drive was supported
Institutional Development and Management.
     • A Situation and Response Analysis of Select Non-Health Line Ministries was commissioned by HSDU and conducted among
         select line ministries. The report recommended inter alia the development of a strategic plan to sustain initiatives across the
         public sector.
Research Support
The Ministry of Education in partnership with the World Bank; UNESCO; and The Partnership for Child Development commissioned
and produced:
     • A Rapid Situation Analysis of the Education Sector’s Response to HIV and AIDS in the context of School Health and Nutrition
         in Guyana.
     • School Health Nutrition and HIV and AIDS Policy
     • Celebrating 30 Years of Nursery Education in Guyana 1976-2006
     • Education Sector School Health, Nutrition, and HIV and AIDS Strategic Plan 2008-2012
     • Report on the Evaluation of the Implementation of Health and Family Life Education in Schools in which Teachers were trained
         to deliver the Curriculum.
     • Education Sector Simplified Policy on School Health, Nutrition and HIV/AIDS
     • The Ministry of Labor in consultation with ILO produced a National Workplace Policy on HIV/AIDS
     • The Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sport produced two booklets namely (1) The Formation of Youth Clubs and (2) Civic
         Education

                                                51
                                     • The Ministry of Amerindian Affairs drafted A workplace Sexual and reproductive health policy
    Component 3: Expanding the Ministry of Health’s response to HIV Prevention, Treatment and Care
31010: Changing attitudes and        • Several special initiatives were held among groups of persons and included the in school youth through a live drama programme
Behaviors among priority groups          “Shattered Hopes and Dreams”. A movie was made of the drama.
                                     • The calypso competition was supported and CDs of the music was produced

31020: Strengthening of Blood           • Safe Blood was ensured through the procurement and provision of reagents and consumables
Transfusion Services                    • Refurbishment of the building housing the National Blood Transfusion Services was completed.
31030 Early Diagnosis, Access to        • Support provided for the effective functioning and supervision of 157 PMTCT across the country.
VCT/PMTCT increased.                    • DBS training took place among health care workers ensuring early infant diagnosis for HIV exposed babies.
                                        • Health Care Workers were trained in PMTCT in counseling and testing
                                        • Supplies, consumables and equipment were procured in support for PMTCT sites
                                        • Persons were trained and certified as testor/counselors
                                        • Testors/Counselors were hired and provided services to a varied population
                                        • Programme management was supported through the employment of a regional VCT supervisor.
                                        • VCT sites were refurbished and improved to facilitate enhanced services and importantly confidentiality
                                        • Equipment and supplies for the VCT sites were procured.
                                        • M&E materials were printed to support the VCT programme
                                        • Support to special initiatives such as the National Week of Testing, Valentines/Couples Testing.
31040- Strengthening the                • Programme contributed to the employment of an STI coordinator which reinitiated STI prevention and Control
Management of Sexually                  • Health care workers were trained in the delivery of appropriate management of patients with STIs.
Transmitted Infections              •   Drugs for the appropriate management of Sexually Transmitted Infections were procured and used.
                                    •   Clinical forms supporting the STI Programme were printed and distributed.
                                    •   Supporting clinical tools were printed and distributed ( Brochures, posters)
31050 –Health Waste Management          • A hydroclave system was procured, installed and is fully functional at the Georgetown Hospital Corporation for the appropriate
                                            of Biomedical waste for Central Georgetown and its environs with the possibility of the expansion of the services to Regions 3,
                                            5 and 10. A supporting transportation system was also procured and is in place.
32010- Management of
Opportunistic Infections                •   Health care workers were trained in the management of opportunistic infections
                                        •   Laboratory support was provided to the National Public Health Reference Laboratory through the provision of equipment for the
                                            diagnosis of opportunistic infections, monitoring of patients in care and on antiretroviral therapy inclusive of Blood
                                            Hematology, Blood Chemistry, Liver Function testing, Renal Function Testing, Viral load testing and early infant diagnosis
                                            through DNAPCR testing. Further support was given in the provision of reagents and test kits for these laboratory diagnoses and
                                            monitoring.



32020- Management of                    •   The National TB Programme was strengthened with the refurbishment of its facility to accommodate and expanded management

                                                                                    52
Tuberculosis and HIV             team and to accommodate the better clinical management of patients of the Georgetown Chest Clinic.
                             •   The Georgetown Chest Clinic benefitted from Human resources with the employment of the pharmacist allow for improved
                                 adherence among all patients and particularly among patients coinfected with TB/HIV.
                             •   Support was provided to the DOTS programme through the provision of motor cycles for DOTS workers, and other field
                                 amenities such as rain coats, helmets, weather boots and others
                             •   Training was provided to clinical staff on the management of TB/HIV co-infection.
                             •   Second line Anti-tubercolous treatment were procured and used to manage patients
32030- Management of Anti-   •   Treatment sites were refurbished to ensure that sites were positioned to cater for a multidisciplinary, holistic approach to
Retroviral therapy               treatment and care.
                             •   Health Care workers were trained in the management of patients using Antiretrovirals.
                             •   Monitoring and Evaluation was supported and specifically in the area of feedback meetings with the Care and Treatment teams.
                             •   Required materials for the patient monitoring system was printed and used in all treatment sites
                             •   Drugs for the management of Opportunistic infections were procured and utilized for the management of patients.




                                                                       53
         Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                        54
                     Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.  World Bank Aide-memoires (2003-2010).
2.  Implementation Status Reports (2004-2010).
3.  Project Grant Agreement, May 3, 2004.
4.  First, Second, and Third Amendments to the Grant Agreement.
5.  Supplemental Letter to the Guyana HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project Grant
    Agreement, May 3, 2004
6. Project Appraisal Document for the Guyana HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project,
    March 1, 2004.
7. Project Appraisal Document for the First Phase of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS
    Prevention and Control Adaptable Program Lending for the Caribbean Region
    (Dominican Republic and Barbados).
8. Guyana Country Assistance Strategy (CAS): IDA/R2002-0156, IDA/R2009-
    0097
9. Guyana 2001 Poverty Reduction and Strategy Paper (PRSP), endorsed by the Boards
    of the IMF and IDA in September 2002.
10. PRSP progress report, May 2004
11. Guyana Enhanced HIPC Initiative, October 2000.
12. Guyana Enhanced HIPC Initiative Completion Report, November 2003.
13. National HIV Strategic Plan 2002-2006 and 2007-2012.
14. HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean Region: A Multi-Organization Review: Final Report.
    November 2005.
15. Project Operations Manual: October 2004
16. Financial Monitoring Reports: 2003-2010
17. Procurement Post Review Reports: 2005-2010
18. UNGASS Country Progress Report, Guyana: Jan. 2003-Dec. 2005, Jan. 2006-Dec. 2007,
    Jan. 2008-Dec. 2009




                                        55
   Annex 10. Results Framework as per PAD and Supplemental Letter dated May 3, 2004

Hierarchy of              Indicators             Baseline and   Means of           Critical assumptions
objectives                                       Targets        verification
CAS Goal
Sector-Related CAS        Sector Indicators:                    Sector/Country     (From goal to Bank
Goal                                                            Reports: Country   mission)
                                                                Economic
Reduce risks of growing   Secular trends in
                                                                Reports and        Other macroeconomic
poverty, especially       income growth and
                                                                International      and social variables
among vulnerable          income distribution
                                                                Agencies Studies   within and beyond the
groups (women,            maintained by income
                                                                                   control of the
children, indigenous      deciles, age and
                                                                                   government are neutral
people, dependent         gender
                                                                                   or favorable
persons)

Economic growth and
income protection
Project Development Objectives
Key Project Impact




                                                    56
Hierarchy of                Indicators              Baseline and     Means of         Critical assumptions
objectives                                          Targets          verification
CAS Goal
Prevent and control         Reduced prevalence
transmission of HIV         of HIV/AIDS in
                            general population
                            and in high risk
                            groups

                                                    Baseln: 2.7%
                            Estimated General
                                                    Target: reduce
                            Pop. Prevalence rate
                                                    by 25%

                                                    B: 6/10,000
                            Annual Incidence
                                                    T: 3/10,000
                            Rate of AIDS
                                                    Baseln: 3.8%
                            Antenatal women
                                                    Target: 2.5%
                            prevalence. rate
                                                    Baseline: 1%
                            Blood Donors
                                                    Target: 0.5%
                            Prevalence Rate
                                                    Baseln: 15%
                            Prevalence Rate in
                                                    Target: 10%
                            Males with STD
                                                    Baseln: 12%
                            Prevalence Rate in
                                                    Target: 8%
                            Females with STD
                                                    Base: 45%
                            Commercial Sex
                                                    Target: 30%
                            Workers Prev. Rate
                                                    Base: 6.3%
                            Miners Prevalence
                                                    Target: 4%
                            Rate


Prolong and improve         Mean survival time of   Baseline: 5      National vital
quality of life of people   persons with AIDS       months           statistics
living with AIDS            from date of AIDS       Target: 48
                            diagnosis               months

                            # of PLWHA              Baseline: 300
                            receiving ARV           Target: 6,400
                            treatment

                            # of PLWHA              Baseline: TBC
                            receiving prophylaxis   Target: 5,000
                            for Ois




                                                       57
Hierarchy of                Indicators                Baseline and       Means of            Critical assumptions
objectives                                            Targets            verification
CAS Goal
Mitigate the negative       Reduction in % of         Baseline: TBC      Population based
impact of HIV/AIDS on       children under 15         Target: 70% of     behavioral survey
persons infected and        years of age that have    baseline
affected                    lost either father,
                            mother or both
                            parents
                            # of persons receiving    Baseline: 0
                            HIV/AIDS home             Target: 750
                            based care

Key Project Outcomes
Advance safe and            Percent of people aged    Baseline: TBC                          (From objectives and
healthy sexual attitudes    15 to 24 reporting the                                           outcomes to goals)
                                                      Target:
and practices among         use of a condom at
vulnerable/high risk        last intercourse with                                            Determinants of health
populations                 non-regular partner                                              outside the control of
                            during last 12 months.                                           the project remain
                            Median age by which       Baseline: TBC                          neutral or favorable
                            50% of young men          Target: increase Population
                            and women aged 15-        by 2 years from based behavioral
                            24 have had first         baseline         survey
                            penetrative sex                            Frequency:
                            % males 15+ years old     Baseline: TBC beginning, mid
                            with more than one        Target:          and end of 5-
                            sex partner last year                      year plan
                            % females 15+ years       Baseline:
                            old with more than        Target:
                            one sex partner last
                            year
                            % of MSM using            Baseline:
                            condoms                   Target:
                            Percentage of CSW         Baseline: 70%
                            reporting the use of a    Target: 95%
                            condom during the
                            last intercourse with a
                            client of those who
                            had sex with clients
                            within the last 12
                            months
Create an environment       Percentage of             Baseline: TBC      Household
that supports the           households with an        Target: increase   survey
infected and the affected   adult aged 15-49 who      by 20% from        Frequency:
                            is HIV infected that      baseline           beginning, mid
                            received external                            and end of 5-
                            unpaid help in caring                        year plan
                            for the patient or
                            replacing lost income

                                                         58
Hierarchy of              Indicators                 Baseline and       Means of          Critical assumptions
objectives                                           Targets            verification
CAS Goal
                          % of infected and          Baseline: TBC
                          affected individuals       Target:
                          who received
                          supportive counseling
                          over the last 12
                          months

Reduce stigma and         % of companies             Baseline: TBC      Workplace
discrimination against    (sampled) with non-        Target: 90%        survey
PLWHA                     discriminatory                                Frequency:
                          policies and practices                        beginning, mid
                          in recruitment,                               and end of 5-
                          advancements and                              year plan
                          benefits for employees
                          infected with HIV
                          % of people                Baseline: TBC      Household
                          expressing an              Target: increase   survey
                          accepting attitude         of 60% over        beginning, mid
                          towards people with        baseline           and end of
                          HIV, of all people                            project
                          surveyed aged 15-49
Key Project Outputs
Access to VTC             Number of public           Baseline: 7        Facility survey   (From outputs to
improved                  facilities that are        Target: 22         Frequency:        outcomes and
                          staffed by trained                            beginning, mid    objectives)
                          counselors providing                          and end of 5-
                          specialized HIV                               year plan         Currently prevailing
                          counseling and testing                                          distrust and
Access to effective       Number of public           Baseline: 2        Facility survey   dissatisfaction of
management of STIs        facilities that provide    Target: 12         Frequency:        PLWHA with
improved                  diagnosis, counseling                         beginning, mid    diagnostic and
                          and treatment of STIs                         and end of 5-     treatment services will
                          according to national                         year plan         be overcome
                          guidelines
Access to treatment and   Number of health care      Baseline: 5        Facility survey   The national plan
care for HIV/AIDS         facilities that have the   Target: 10         Frequency:        receives full and
improved                  capacity to deliver                           beginning, mid    sustained support of all
                          appropriate palliative                        and end of 5-     stakeholders
                          care, treatment for                           year plan
                          opportunistic                                                   Religious communities
                          infections and referral                                         will not challenge key
                          for HIV-infected                                                strategies of the
                          patients according to                                           national plan
                          national guidelines




                                                        59
Hierarchy of               Indicators               Baseline and   Means of        Critical assumptions
objectives                                          Targets        verification
CAS Goal
                           Number of health care    Baseline: 5                    Current human
                           facilities providing     Target: 10                     resource shortages will
                           HAART according to                                      be overcome and
                           national guidelines                                     retention of staff is
                                                                                   ensured
                           # of physicians that     Baseline: 18
                           received training in     Target: 200                    Condom marketing
                           the care and treatment                                  program fully
                           of HIV/AIDS                                             implemented Financial
Capacity to research       Amount of financial      Target:        Institutional   resources earmarked
epidemiological,           resources available to                  survey          for the plan are
behavioral and treatment   national institutions                                   adequate
aspects of HIV/AIDS        that undertake
strengthened               research on
                           HIV/AIDS




                                                       60
MAP SECTION




    61
62
63
