Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2818 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Capacity Building for Economic Management Project)
between the
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 16, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2818 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 1996, between the REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS (B) the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)  
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.".
Section 1.02.  Unless the  context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(b)
"MOP" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for Planning;
(c)
"Interministerial Committee" means the Haut Comité Interministeriel pour 
le suivi du Programme d'Ajustement, established by the Borrower under Decree No. 
133/PR, dated June 3, 1994, for the purpose of providing policy guidance in the 
carrying out of the Project;
(d)
"Technical Committee" means the Comité technique pour le suivi  du 
programme d'Ajustement, a committee established by the Borrower under the 
aforementioned Decree;
(e)
 "Project Coordination Unit" means the Cellule d'appui à la gestion des 
Projects et à l'Ajustement, established by the Borrower under Decree No. 
134/PR/PMT/94, dated June 3, 1994, as modified by Decree No. 018/PR/PMT/MAC/95, dated 
January 31, 1995, to ensure the coordination of the Project;
(f)
“Secretariat for State Divestiture” means the Secrétariat Permanent au 
Désengagement de l’Etat des Entreprises Publiques, established by the Borrower under 
Decree No. 460/PR/MCDI/92, dated September 4, 1992, as modified by Decree No. 
391/PR/MCPI/95, dated May 31, 1995;
(g)
"FCFA" means the currency of the Borrower;
(h)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to letter-agreements dated May 10, 
1995 and October 12, 1995 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6, 400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, described in 
Page  3
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August 1, commencing August 1, 2006 and ending February 1, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2016 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 Dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, financial and management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain 
the Interministerial Committee, the Secretariat  for  State Divestiture and the 
Technical Committee, to oversee policy related issues and technical coordination of 
the  Borrower’s economic reform program.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than  December 31 of each year, 
carry out in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, an annual 
Project implementation review aimed at: (i) documenting progress toward objectives; 
(ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project implementation; (iii) adjusting, 
in agreement with the Association, targets and corresponding programs to reflect 
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project in the prior years and ensuring 
responsiveness to changes to effectively achieve the objectives of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review 
referred to in (a) above, furnish to the Association, a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved  
in Project implementation.
(c)
Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall carry out 
recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance  with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account audited for 
each fiscal year in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
Page  5
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts be included in the annual 
audit referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contain 
a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 
(b) (i) of this agreement have been employed under terms and conditions acceptable to 
the Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Planning is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
Boite Postale Box 286
N’Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
MINPLAN
5329 KD
N’Djamena
Page  6
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Mahamat Saleh Ahmat 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
     Amount of the
   Credit Allocated 
   % of
                                      (Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category                       SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
Works
400,000
95%
(2)
Goods including 
     1,200,000
100% of foreign
equipment expenditures 
and
materials, 
95% of local
vehicles and books
expenditures
(3)  
Consultants'
     2,000,000
100%
services not included
in Category (4)
(4)
Training 
     1,350,000
100%
(5)
Operating Costs
150,000
95%
(6)
Refunding of
     1,000,000
Amount due
Page  7
Project Preparation
pursuant to Section
Advance
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
       300,000            
      ________
TOTAL
     6,400,000
     =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means incremental Project-related costs on 
account of travel allowances, office supplies, and office rental for the preparation 
and the organization of Project-related meetings and workshops.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase the Borrower’s capacity for economic 
management through improved management of public resources, reformed civil service and 
divestiture or liquidation of selected public enterprises.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institution Strengthening
Strengthening of institutions charged with carrying out core public financial 
functions, including: 
(1)
acquisition of office equipment and materials and carrying out of training for 
the Directorate of Customs, the Directorate of Taxes, the Directorates of the Budget 
and of Lands of the MOF, the Project Coordinating Unit, the Directorate of Programming 
and External Aid, the Directorate of Statistics, the Directorate of Economic Planning 
of the MOF, and the Directorate of Civil Service of the Ministry of Civil Service;
(2)
carrying out of training programs for the benefit of the Directorate of Debt of 
the MOF;
(3)
carrying out of training programs for journalists on economic matters, including 
the publication of economic data and  the establishment of an economic information 
system; and
(4)
carrying out of small rehabilitation works at the offices of the MOF and of the 
Page  8
Project Coordination Unit;
(5)
carrying out studies related to civil service reform; establishment of a data 
base of public employees.
Part B:
Privatization and Divestiture
(1)
Strengthening the administrative and management capacity of the Secretariat for 
State Divestiture through training, the utilization of technical advisory services and 
the acquisition of equipment;
(2)
carrying out of audits and diagnostic studies of small and medium sized public 
enterprises which are candidates for privatization or liquidation; and 
(3)
conducting reviews of the legal framework, including procedures and legislation, 
applicable to the sale and liquidation of public enterprises in order to facilitate or 
accelerate such sale and liquidation, and revising or supplementing such procedures 
and legislation as required.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per contract up to an 
aggregate of $650,000 equivalent, and all office equipment estimated to cost $150,000 
equivalent or less per contract up to an aggregate of $400,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International or National Shopping
Page  9
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract and 
$100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; and
(b)
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less for contract and 
$210,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior review or approval by the Association of 
budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) the employment of consulting 
firms under contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) the 
employment of individual consultants under contracts estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior review shall not apply to 
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  10
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $750,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,300,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit  into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence  showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
Page  11
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories  shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
