Document of
The World Bank
FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
Repowt N. 12456
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE & REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2945-BEL)
NOVEMBER 4, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12456
Type: PCR
Department III
Infrastructure and Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Ths document has a resticted ditibution and may be used by recipients only in te pformaunce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be didosed widtut World Bank authorization.



ESCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = BZ$2.00
BZ$1.00 = US$0.50
WEGHTS AND SMURES
Metric System
BRitish/US 'T'A                Metric Eguivalent
1 foot (ft)       =            0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)       =             1.609 klometers (km)
1 square mile     =            20,589 square kims
1 pound (lb)      =            0.454 kiogram (kg)
.ABBRLVIATIONS
AADT        Average Annual Daily Traffic
CAD         Civil Aviation Department
DOF         Department of Forestry
ERR         Economic Rate of Retunm
GOB         Government of Belize
IBRD        Intenatonal Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         Internatonal Competitive Bidding
MOA         Ministry of Agricultre
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
MEC         Ministry of Energy & Communicatons
M           Ministry of Economic Development
MOW         Ministry of Works
NPV         Net Present Value
USAID       U.S. Agency for Inaton  Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Director-Genera1
Operations Evaluation
November 4, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Belize
Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
fLoan 2945-BEL)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Belize - Second Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2945-BEL)t, prepared by the Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office. The report consists of Parta I and
III which include borrower views on the project history.
The project sought to strengthen road maintenance capacities and
define a frame-work for improved transport sector policies. Road rehabilitation,
periodic and routine maintenance, training and technical assistance for
institution building were its main components. The project 'was substantially
implemented on the original schedule and with an overall cost increase of 25%.
Maintenance capacities for force account and contract works went up, and
consultants sketched out an institutional setting for better transport policies.
The economic rate of return on project investments, calculated ex-post, is 45%.
The overall project outcome is satisfactory, institutional
development is substantial, and sustainability is likely. The PCR is analyti-
cally sound and covers project events adequately. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution ard may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
|thefr officiat duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorfzation.l



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
BELZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE ANDREHABILTATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2945-BEL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OXFCOQNEN
Ze No.
PREFACE  ................................................  i
EVALUATION SUEMARY  ......... .... ........................ ii
PART I:       PROECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECIIVE  .....1....... 
A.    ProjetIdentity ...         .     ........................           ....   1
B.  Background ........................                                  .. ...  1
C.    ProjectObjectives andDescription .        ........          ............. *..  2
D.    Poject Desig  and Organization  ..........................  3
B.    Project .n.pl nt         ..  *................... .  .....  4
F.     PIrojectResults .......           .....* *  *................. 9
G.    PIrojectSusianability  ..     ..     ........... .......... .. 11
H.    Bank Performance and Lessons Learned  .           .................... 11
L.     BorzowerPerformanceandLessons Leamed .....              ....                12
J.     Bank-Borrower Retonship .............. .............. * * * *  *  .. 13
C.,  ConsudtingServies .................................. 13
L.    Prject Doementation and Data ... ..              .      .     . ......4 * 4 * * * * . 13
PART II- PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                          ..........   14
A.    Commens on PartIof the rectCompieion Report ..                  .    4..... ..... 14
PART M        STATrsTCAL.   FORMATION ................................... . 15
1.    RelatedBank i s   ....................................                       15
2.    Proect Iimeetabe ...................................4444444.   15
3.    Loan Disbursment ....................................... . 16
4.    Project I.plenen              .......... . . ....            ...  . ..... . 16
5.    PrIject Costs and Finacing .....           .................... . 18
6.    Project Results .............................4 4...... 4                     19
7.     StatusofLoanCovents  ............,......44 20
8.    USE OF BANK RESOURCES  .......................... . 21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EBQ1E.  OMELC IIPE        M2RIT
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAENTENANCE AND REHABSEATfON PROJE:CT
(Loan 2245*BEL1
PREFACE3
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Second Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project in Belize financed under Loan 2945-BEL
for US$5.6 million. The Loan was approved on July 12, 1988, and the project
was caried out from 1988 through 1992. The original Closing Date was
December 31, 1992. The loan was fully disbursed at its closing.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division Country Department
I, of Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. It is based on the Staff
Appaisal Report, the Loan Agreement, information gleaned from the project
files, and mateials obtained during project completion mission and discussions
with the Bank and the Ministry of Works staff who were aociated with the
project.
Tbis report contains Parts I and IH prepared by the Bank and Part II
prepard by the Borrower. Part II reflects the Borrower's perspective of the
project's implementation achievements and difficulties.



- ii -
BELIZE
l!RO.=T COMPLETIN    REPORT
SECON ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REBIfTATION PRO3JCT
(Loan 2945-BEL)
EVALUATIONSt
Oblectives and Decrption
1.         The Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Projcct was closely linked with
macro policy objectives to foster economic development through reduction of transportion
costs. The project was designed as a highway maintenance and reabilitation opration with
insttutional and policy objectives to consolidate improvements in MOW's maintenance
management and technicat procedures to provide effcient and safe levels of service to highway
users and to help coordinate the Government's role in transport. In particular, the project was
to assist in: (i) developing capacity for highway management, especially maintenance
management; (ii) upgrading, rehabilitating, completing irainago stures and seal-coatng on
key sections of the highway system, (iii) crjrying out a pilot program of mainteance by
contrct; (iv) training staff and implementing revised procedures for integadng maintenance
planning, programming, budgeting and performance evaluation at MOW; and (v) improving the
coordination of functions and responsibilities of the different tansport agencies.
hulm91=2=ion Eggped=nc
2.          The Loan Agreement was signed on June 8, 1988, and the project beca
effective on September 6, 1988; the Project Completon Date was June 30, 1992, and the
Closing Date was December 31, 1992. The Ministry of Works, the Project's Execudng Agency,
nominated its Chief Engineer as the Project's Coordinator responsible for the implementai
of the project. mplementation of the roads works program proceeded in accordance with the
appraisal schedule. There were no major varances of the scope of the project other than the
construction of some additional road sections (paras. 18, 30); and the erecution of maintenance
on the Southern Highway and on the San Ignacio- Belmopan section of the Westem Highway
by MOW force account rather ta under contract (para.22).
3.          Ihe actual total project cost was US$19.57 milion, including US$18.22 midion
for rehabilitaion and maintenance works; US$0.1 million for equipment, and US$1.25 million
for technical assistance services provided by consultant The project was fully disbursed.
4.          Overall, the implementaton of the project was consistt with the impemn
plan agreed at appraisal. Maintnance and Rehabilitaton Works were completed (pan 33),
including some additonal works.



- ii -
5.          Long-term contracting of routine maintenance works represented new experience
for MOW. Two sites were selected for the pilot projects, a 130 km section of the Northern
Highway, which was paved and in good condition; and a 104 km section of the unpaved
Southern Highway. A two-year contract for routine maintenance o l the Northen Road was
awarded to a contractor and completed to MOW's satisfaction (para 21).
6.          Contracting maintenance works on the Southern Highway program presented
unexpected problems. The first invitation for bids remained unanswered; the only bid received
in answer to the second invitation was considered by MOW as not responsive. Contractors'
interest in this procct was apparently limited due to their lack of experience with long-term road
maintenance contracts and the resulting concems about technical and logistical aspects of the
project. (para.22).
7.          The road maintenance prqject was substantially completed in a timely manner and
generally within the engineer's cost estimates. The road works comprised road recomsuction
and rehabilitation (19.8 kin); resealing (56.0 1km); routine maintenance (244 km) and
construction of drainage structures along 18 km of the Southern Highway. Overall, the quality
of the road works carried out under the project was good with the sole exception of a 2.6 km
road section from Bella Vista to Haulover Bridge where loclized settlement caused pavemeat
distress after the vworks had been completed. The problem is beig corrected under MOW's
ongoing maintenance program. The progam to contract routine maintenance on two major
highways was pardy successful.; it was carried out by a contracor on the Northern Highway and
by force account on the Southen Highways, for lack of bidders.
8.         The tranig program for MOW's staff was caried out successfully benefitting
road captains, sub-foremen, seal patching crews, grader opertors, and district offices All
participating MOW's supervisors and workers have acqured sufficit know-how to akiiy
carry out various road maintenance activities. As a result of annual audits of the project
accounts improvements in MOW accounting department have been introduced although with
some delays.
9.          The Institutional Coordination Study to reiew the funcdons and organizato of
different Ministries and agencies with involvement in the trsport sector was caried out by
Brish consultants and accepted by the Bank. The study entiled *Report on Transport Sector
Planning Study, 1990 , revealed an institutional weakmess which affected long-term planning due
to a lack of inter agencies coordination that was badly needed to avoid potential uneconomic
allocation of investments in the tansporation sector. The report recommended that a long-term
panning unit be established in each of the four agencies responsible for the sector, (MOW,
MOA, DOF, MEC), whose work should be coordinatd by a committee composed of the
representatives of each agency, chaired by the Mnstry of Economic Development (pa  25)



- iv -
Suinabuilt
10.         The sustainability of the results obtained under the Second Bank project is feasible
given the Government's interest in building upon the gains achieved to date, including (i)
successfil development of competitive local construction firms capable of producing quality work
(ii) the taining received by MOW  administatve and field personnel during the first and the
second Bank projects to strengthen the Ministry's performance and (iii) MOW's renewed effort
to improve its accountability which is contingent upon the ability cf the Ministry to retain
qualified personnel.
FIndings and Lons Learned
11.     Several factors contributed to the successful implementation of the project, namely,
the support given by MOW's project coordinating unit, the quality of final engineering; reliable
cost estimates; professional competence of technical assistance consultants who possessed hands-
on construction management experience, and accompanied the execution of the works, in their
supervisory capacity, on a full-time basis, stressing the need for efficiency in executing the
works. The consultants' efforts were well received by contractors. The project demonstated
that institutional development of local construction capabilites is a viable undertaking in the
context of Bank financed projects (paras. 18, 21).



BELMZE
PROJEC COMPLE1-ION REPORT
SECOND ROAD MAINTlNANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2945-BEL)
PART Ik    PR1CT REVIEW FRO    BNKS PMPEC"nVE
A.   Project Idea&t
Project Name:     Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Project.
Loan Number.      2945 -BEL
RVP Unit:         Latin Ameica and Caribbean Region
Country Department IH
Country:          Belize
Sector:           Transportadon
Subsector:        Roads
B.   ladmkztud
1.          Adequate transport infrastructure is of pammount importance to the Bdizean
economy. With a population of about 200,000 living in an area of close to 23,000 sq.km, Belize
has one of the lowest popuation densities in the world. rnis situadon, further complicated by
scred production areas and low production volumes, makes provison of adequate
transportation crucial to the development of Belize. ilowever, even the most important roads
have light densities making unit transport cost per ton and passenger very high. nTe relaively
high contibution of transport to G1DP at factor cost, and the ratio of capital expenditr  in
roads to Gross Domestic investment, show the importance of the sector to the economy.
2.          The first Bank loan (Loan 2273-BEL. US$5.3 million, May 1983) provided for
road rehabilitaton works, including engineenng tudies and related supevson; acquisition of
equipment and spare parts; and for technical assstance and training of MOW's personnel. The
Project also helped MOW improve its plant which manufa     reinforced concrete culvert
pipes to satsfy grwng demand for road drainage and to reduce dependence on expensive
imported metal pipes. All the objectives of the first Bank loan were substantally achieved
except the development of the capacity to program and monitor mantenance activities which was
only partly achieved.
3.          Recognizing the need for continued support for its progrm of road m ainteac,
rehbiitation and institutional strengthening that was initiated under the first road proect, and
to reduce the backdog of periodic maintenance and rehabiLitation, the Govemment's requested



-2-
the Bank for continued assistance in the secwL, and the Bank approved financing for the
implementation of the Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, Loan 2945-BEL.
C.   Pro3ect Objectives and Description
4.         Pocgt Objeives- The Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project was
closely linked with macro policy objectives to foster economic development through reduction
of tansportation costs. The project was designed as a highway maintenance and rehabiliton
operation with institutionial and policy objectives to consolidate improvements in MOW's
management and technical procedures to provide efficient and safe levels of service to highrway
users and to help coordinate the Government's role in transport. In particular, the project was
to assist in: (i) developing capacity of MOW staff for highs * :anagement and, in particular,
maintenance management; (ii) improving coordination among, the different transport agencies,
(iii) training staff and implementng revised procedures for integrating maintenace planning,
programming, budgeting and performance evaluation at MOW; 'iv) upgrading, rehabilitaing,
completing drainage structures and seal-oating on key sections of the highway system, and (v)
carrying out a pilot program of maintenance by contract;
5.         Pect D=pftig'  The Road Upgrading and Rehabilition Program included
(i) upgrading, and paving, of about 13 kilometers of the Western Highway between San Ignacio
and Benque Viejo; (ii) rehabilitaton of about 3 kms of the Northern Highway from the Haulover
Bridge to Belize City; (iii) rehabilitation of the Central American Boulevad, including access
to fte port of Belize City, comprising about 1 kn with a four-lane section from the Western
Hfighway Intrsection with Faber's road, and about 800 meters with two lanes from that
intersection to the port; (iv) resealing of the following highway sections: 5 kms from the
Haulover Bridge to Ladyville; about 14 kms from Corozal to Santa Elena; and about 37 khs
from Belmopan to San Ignacio; and (v) completon of drainage structures form Big Creek to
Crique Negra.
6.         nTe Road Maintenance Program consisted of: (i) about 152 kms of routine
maintenance on the Northern Highway between Belize City and Santa Elena; (ii) about 67 kms
of routine maintenance on the Southern Highway between the inter on with the Hummingbird
Highway and Big Creek-, (iii) upon completion of drainage of the Southern Highway about 104
kms of routine and periodic maintenance in such highway from Big Creek to Deep River; (iv)
about 37 kms of routine maintenance and resealing of the Belmopan -San Ignacio road section
of the Westn Highway; and (v) maintenance on other sections of the Botrower's road networc
for which the Borrower agreed to provide in its annual budgets (FY 1988 through 1991),
spedfied agreed minimum amounts for such works.
7.         Technical Assistance and Training. This component compised: (i) Enginering
design and prearation of the contract documents for works under the Proct; and supervision
of civil works and maintenmance under the Project and tmining of MOW's staff and privte
contractors' personnel on mainteance and rehabilttion activities; 6a) Review the need for
pohcy coodination among agei-cies of the transport sectr; (mi) overeas training of MOW'



- 3 -
staff on road maintenance management, (iv) training for MOW's staff or staff of other agencies,
in transport planning; and (iv) upgrading MOW's accounting procedures.
D.   Project Design and Oranization
8.          COMMal Foundatio. The project was designed to carry out a road works
program that would generate economic benefits to the national economy and support MOW's
efforts to continue with the developmnt of a cost-effective road management system. The main
effort was focused on: (i) MOW's institutional strengthening which was initiated under the
previous project (Ln.2273-BEL), and encompassed prepration of annual routine and periodic
maintenance works progr2ms for the national road network based on adequate planning,
budgeting, and programming implementation of required works; (ii) continued training to
improve productivity and the quality of MOW's force account works; (iii) creating an
opportunity for local contactors to develop skills in prepaing competitive bids for road works,
and in carrying out contracted works to completion in a competenit and timely manner; and (iv)
contcting out routine maintenance works to private contractors, under two pilot projects, to
compare cost efficiency of contrcting maintenance with the cost of similar works executed by
force account.
9.          An institutional strengthening program to improve MOW's management of its
human, financial and equipment resources was one of the key elements of the project. The
program was designed to increase MOW's operating capacity and productivity tough
rationiization of the use of MOW's resources dedicated to maintenance and improvement of the
road network. The project provided for services of specialized consultants to assist MOW's staff
in the preparation of final engineering for annual mantnance works programs and to help with
the supervson of the works carried out under MOW's responsibflity. An important institutional
strengthening aspect was the enhancement of MOW's accountabiity thrugh improved collection
and analysis of data on the productivity and cost of MOW's field crews, the upgrading of
MOW's accounting personnel and procedures, and through the intoduction of annual audits of
the project accounts to help MOW control roads related expenditures and to have adequate
financial information for the planning of future road maintenance activities. The concept was
well understood and shared by a}l relevant parties.
10.        Ihe traing program for MOW field and admtrative personnel was essental
for the success of the institutional strengthening program. The program included, among others,
correct identification of the required road works; planning and programming the execution of
such works in terms of manpower and eqwpment needs taking into account the productivity of
MOW's maintenance crews. Training was also programmed for MOW's technicians in the
superision of the project's works. On-the-job taining was to be given in Belize; higher level
staff in charge of the planning, programming and execution of MOW's maintenance works, were
also scheduled to receive additional overseas traing, mostly in New Zealand.
11.        Innovative Ap. The project provided for a new approach to help strengthen
the local construction industry by motivating local contractors to improve their compedtiveness.



-4 -
MOW organized seminars which were open to all contractors interested in the preparation and
submission of responsive bids, and to help them in being acquainted with: (i) the objectives of
the road maintenance program financed under the project, (ii) adwinistrative and technical
contractual requirements of the bids, (iii) Bank procurement procedures and bidding
requirements regarding submission of bid and performance securities; and (iv) the methods used
by MOW for the evaluation of bids. The seminars emphasized the need for quality performance
at internationally compedtive prices, and the need for contractors to upgrade their technical skills
and administradve capabilities. MOW ensured that the consultants who were contracted for the
supervision of the works had the necessary expertise in technical and administrative aspects of
construction management to give on-site advice to both the MOW's force account crews and
contractors, as appropriate, to resolve technical and logistic problems that might need to be
addressed in the course of the works. This approach has been well received by contrat,rs and
achieved its intended goal of building up contractors' confidence and their technical sldlls and
administrative capacity.
12.         Pxtect f&amfion. The project was prepared by MOW, assisted by foreign
consultants, which had previously assisted MOW in the preparation and implementation of the
first Bank road maintenance project, and Bank staff. Preparation included:
(i)   Engineering for the road rehabilitation and maintenance works; and
(ii) On-the-job training program for MOW's field personnel to hone their skills in
planning, programming and carrying out annual maintenance programs by force
account in a cost effective manner; a program for supervisory personnel to
improve the quality of the monitoring of tde project works; and orientation
seminars for local contractors who were interested in presenting bids for ICB and
LCB procurement for the works financed under the project.
13.        Terms of reference for the Institutional Coordination Study to review the functions
and organization of different Ministries and agencies with involvement in the transport sector
were agreed with the Bank.
14.        In retrospect, both the scope and quality of the preparation of the project were
adequate to address the country's most pressing needs in the road transportation sub-sector and
were accepted by the Bank for the project appraisal.
15.        Roles and Responsibilities. The roles and responsibilities were clearly defined
during project preparation, stted in the SAR, and agreed by all parties concerned.
E.   Project hiplementation
16.        The Loan Agreement was signed on June 8, 1988, and the project became
effective on September 6, 1988. The Project Completion Date was June 30, 1992, and the
Closing Date was December 31, 1992. The Ministry of Works, the Project's Executing Agency,



nominated its Chief Engineer as the Project's Coordinator responsible for the implementation
of the project. The project was substantially completed with generally satisfactory results.
17.        The actual total project cost was US$20.9 million, including US$19.6 million for
civil works and maintenance, US$0.1 million for office equipment, and US$1.2 million for
technical assistance services provided by consultants. The loan was fully disbursed.
18.        The road maintenance and rehabilitation works scheduled under the Project have
been completed. Procurement of the works was carried out in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement. The project's works went out to bids under eleven
contracts. Two contracts with an estimated cost was over US$450,000 each, were bid under ICB
as required by the loan agreement; the other nine contracts were bid under LCB procedures.
MOW's bidding documents were based on "Bank's Sample Bidding Documents for Works",
facilitating their review and avoiding delays. In some cases the contractors were able to
complete the contracted works for less than the contract pnce, permitting to carry out under the
contract additional works at r:o additional cost; the San Ignacio-Benque Viejo contract was
completed for 87 percent of bid price and the remaining balance was used for the completion
of a detour around Benque to a point from which the Government financed, with its own funds,
the construction of the remaining section to the Guatemalan border. The works on the Central
American Boulevard were completed for 84 percent of the contract pnce and the remaining
balance was used to rehabilitate the section connecting the Boulevard with the Belize City Port
entrance.
19.        Maintenance by Contract Progr. One of the purposes of the program was to
help MOW increase its capacity for maintenance works and to alleviate logistic support problems
associated with MOW's force account works. MOW is responsible for the maintenance of more
than 1500 km of roads including four main highways with a combined length of over 500 km
which connect the capitals of the six districts, and secondary roads which provide access from
the main hignways to other parts of the country; MOW also maintains city streets. MOW's
main problem has been insufficient availability of eqtupment, for lack of resources to keep its
equipment in good repair. Past efforts by USAID and the Bank were helpful in resolving this
problem in the short term, while MOW's workshops had the support of technical assistance
services. A successful long-term solution was not achieved. Contractng road maintenance
works with private contractors would reduce MOW's equipment needs, giving MOW more
flexibility in planning, scheduling and executing annual road  anance programs and
emergency works in a timely manner.
20.        This was the first experience in Belize with maintenance to be carned out under
major long-term contracts. Two sites were selected for the pilot projecU: a 130km section of
the Ilorthern Highway, both paved and in good condition; and a 104-kilometer section of the
Southemr Highway between its intersection with the Hummingbird Highway and Deep River.
This highway is unpaved and surficed with clay, sand and uncrushed low quality gravel
material. Its condition is known to alter rpidly with changes in climatic conditions, from very



dusty when dry to slushy when wet. The highway is located on a coastal plain not far from the
ocean shore, and it is crossed by many streams which flood and damage the road frequently.
21.         A two-year contract for routine maintenance on the Northern Road was awarded
to a contractor and completed to MOW's satisfaction. MOW considered the cost of this
maintenance higher than it would have been had the maintenance been carried out by force
account. However, this assessment needs to be reviewed when MOW compiles reliable unit cost
data for MOW's force account works on paved roads, in a format including MOW's
administrative overhead costs and equipment depreciation costs, to make such costs comparable
with contractors' costs.
22.         Contracting maintenance on the Southern Highway program presented uutexpected
problems. The first invitation for bids remained unanswered; and the only bid received in
answer to the second invitation, was not considered responsive. Contractors' limited interest
was, reportedly, due to (i) their lack of familiarity with contracting maintenance works of this
scope; (ii) concerns about having to maintain the road whose condition was known to deteriorate
rapidly as a result of the weather and vaxying traffic usage; and (iii) opeational concerns
regarding the delivery of logistic support to the work site, given that the project area is relatively
distant from population and commercial centers (a contractor located in the Belize City area
would take about ten hours to get to the project area and back); As a result of the limited
response to MOW's invitation for bids, MOW requested and the Bank agreed that routine
maintenance on the Southern Road be carried out by force account with a participation of locally
hired sub-contractors, labor and equipment.
23.        The purpose of the program to contract maintenance was to test the pracica
of MOW training in its focus on MOW's role as a planner, progammer and contrller of the
quality of the works under its responsibility. Most of the works could be carred out by private
contractors with MOW limiting its force account works to minor emergency works. The
program for the execution of maintenance under contract was expected to produce preliminary
data permitting an assessment of the relative advantages and shorcomings of road maintenance
executed under contract and by force account; to identify specific operational problems with
logistic support that each approach might entail; and to start collecting cost and productivity data
to determine cost effectiveness of each approach based on comparative costs comprising, among
others, equipment depreciation and the cost of MOW's administtive overhead. Based on such
an analysis it would be possible to determine whether the contracting of road maintenance had
merit.
24.        Training for MOW staff was successful and benefitted road captains, sub-foremen,
seal patching crews, grader operators, and area officers. Training topics included: premix
manufacture; safety; p.ovision of road drainage; pothole patching; sealing pavement srfaces,
repars of pavement edge breaks; correcting road surface depressions and failed gravel courses;
trench openings; sealed roads' shoulder maintenance and the use of emulsions.



- 7 -
25.         Study on Coordination of Transport Agencies functions: The study entitled
"Report on Transport Sector Planning Study" was prepared with British Government financing,
by British consultants working for the Ministry of Economic Development, under the terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank. In their study the consultants reviewed, among others, the
inter-sectoral links between transport and other key sectors of the economy. The consultant's
finding was that, with the exception of the Ministry of Economic Development, there was no
agency within the Belize government system charged with the responsibility of planning for the
future development of the transport system. Instead, individual ministries or other agencies
generated their own proposals for projects and then secured financing from the Ministry of
Finance or elsewhere to implement the projects themselves.
26.         The consultants underscored the need to address two main institutional problems
to avoid potential uneconomic allocation of financial resources to be invested in the transport
sector, namely, the lack of long-tern planning and inter-agencies coordination. Such
coordination was essential given the number of agei1cies involved in the road subsector (i) the
Ministry of Works responsible for the construction and maintenance of public roads; (ii) the
Ministry of Agriculture responsible for the construction and maintenance of feeder roads in
agricultural areas; (iii) the Department of Fomstry involved in the construct  and maintenance
of roads for its own purposes; and (iv) the Ministry of Energy and Communications, (MEC),
responsible for air transport, with the Belize Airport Authority placed in charge of operations
of the international airport and the Civil Aviation Department, a regulatory body, charged with
the operton the government owned airstips and staffing the control tower at the intemaonal
airport; MEC is also responsible for the sea tansport, with Belize Port Authority operatng the
Belize port, and local authonties responsible for municipal jetties in other ports.
27.         Consultants recommended that: (i) the Ministry of Works and the Ministry of
Energy and Communications be charged with some responsibility for planning within their areas
of activity in order that their expertise can be brought into the planning process; (ii) the
development of planning capabilities within individual ministries be combined with effective
coordination of planning activities among agencies involved in the tansport sector and that (iii)
individual ministries liaise closely with other ministries from the earliest stages of project
formulation to ensure that the planning exercise be thorough and potential conflict between
objectives be resolved.
28.         This coordination would be made through a high level inter-minist    committee
composed of representatives of all pertnent ministr and agencies, chaired by a representative
of the Ministry of Finance or Economic Development The committee would explore all inter
sectoral and nter ministry linkages associatd with a project under considetio ensuring that,
to fae implementation,the design of the project would be devoid of conflicting objectives.
The committee would also ensure that common standards and procedures reflecting natonal
sociomeconomic objectives wemr applied across all projects when evaluating thr inclusion in the
Public Sector Investment Program.



- 8 -
29.         Consultants also noted that given the volume of project related work tha would
be generated by the recommended planning exercise, the Ministry of Economic Development
would require more staff with appropriate breadth of expertise with the objective to develop,
within the planning division of the ministry, a corps of sectoral specialists who could take charge
of the planning and appraisal of projects in the respective transport sub-sectors. The specialists
would work ciosely with the planning units within the ministries to ensure that proposed projects
technically and economically sound.
30.         Variances in the Implementation:   Variances made during the project
implementation included: (i) construction of the Benque Viejo by-pass under the San Ignacio-
Benque Viejo contract and the rehabilitation of the section connecting the by-pass road to the
Guatemalan border; and (ii) rehabilitation of a short section connecting the American Boulevard
with the Port of Belize entrance constructed i-nder contract for the American Boulevard works;
in both cases the additional works were made at no additional cost to the project (iii) the
execution of both the maintenance works on the Southern Highway and the resealing of the San
Ignacio to Belmopan Highways by MOW's force account crews in the context of the project's
raining program for MOW's personnel rather than under contract; and carrying out additional
Goverment-financed works, namely: shoulder seal on the San Ignacio to the Border road
section; curbing and channel along the Benque deviation, providing extra width along the
Haulover to Bella Vista section, and the extension worls from Bella Vista towards Belize City.
31.         Actions Affecting Implementation: MOW  appeared to have preference for
carrying out road maintenance works mostly by force account. MOW's attitude to maitennce
by contract on a large scale was one of caution due to a number of factors, chief among which
appeaed the lack of previous experience with long-term contracting and the lack of apppriate
nfrastructure within MOW to administer such contracts. MOW also seemed concerned about
the long-term effect which contracting out maintenance might have on the reduction of the
volume of the work normally carried out by its own crews.
32.         Possible avoidance of variances: In retrospect, the lack of response to MOW's
first invitation for bids for the execution under contract of routine maintenance on the Southern
Highway could have prompted MOW to organize special orientation seminars for intested
contractors to discuss specific issues related to such contracts. Planning routine maintenance
worlcs calls for specific experience; logistic support required for standard road works differs
from that required for maintenance since the type of maintenance and its volume may vary
substantially from one location to another, calling for different type and size of equipment and
composition of the maintenance crews. Contractors not fli with routine mainuenance under
large long-term contracts could be expected to be reticent to bid for such works. TIe seminars
might have allayed contractors' concerns and led to discussion on the implications that the
proposed contrat maintenance program might have in the future for the private sector, in
general, and the strengthening of the local construction industry, in parcular.



-9 -
F.   Proeet Results
33.        The completion status of the works was as follows:
(i)   Paving - the San Ignacio to Benque Viejo section of the Western Road (12.5kn);
Completed.
(ii)   Rehabilitation - section from Haulover Bridge to Bella Vista (2.6 kIn); This
road, originally constructed over a peat swamp up to 9-meters deep, was pre-
loaded for over two years pnor to iniating the rehabilitation works which began
after differential settlements had ceased. Upon completion of the works, road
settlement reappeared causing localized pavement distress. The affected pavement
areas are undergoing repairs by MOW as part of its normal maintenance works
program, with good results.
- Central American Blvd to the entrance to the Belize City Port. Completed.
(iii)  Resealing: the Northern Highway from Haulover Bridge to Ladyville (5.2hn);
Completed
- Corozal-Santa Elena (13.7km); Completed.
(iv)  Western Highway from Belmopan-San Ignacio (36.8 kIn). Reseling works on
this road were not contacted as was originaly planned; instead, the scheduled
works were carried out by force account as part of the training program, with
Bank agreement; In addition to the extension of the Western Highway to the
Guatemalan border the remaining additional works financed by the Belize
Government included:
(a) Western Highway - Shoulder seal San Ignacio to the Border.
(b) Western Highway - Curb and channel Benque Deviation.
(c)   Noern Highway - Haulover to Bella Vista - additional width.
(d)   Northern Highway - Extension Bella Vista towards Belize City.
(e)   Hattieville to Boom Road - survey and design.
(v)   Drainagp works along an 18-kn section of the Southern Highway; Completed.
(vi)  Contract Mainnance under a pilot project for works under contract on the
Northern Highway (130kin) was completed. On theScuthern Highway (104km),
between the intersection between Hummingbird Highway and Deep River
maintenance has been carried out by MOWs force account crews composed of
locally hired labor and eqwupment.



- 10-
(vii) Controlled routine maintenance under force account from Belmopan to San
Ignacio (36.4km) over a two year period; and a program for monitoring force
account works over a three-year period over the remainder of the network were
both completed.
(viii) Under the Road Maintenance Program, MOW camed out routine and penodic
maintenance works, in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement,
Schedule 2, Part B(e), on the remainder of the Borrower's network (para.6,v).
The Government also augmented its allocation in the interest of the Project,
increasing the total cost of the Project from US$15.55 million to US$19.57.
34.        Institution building. A comprehensive training program given for MOW field and
office personnel, was successfully completed in Belize and overseas. The trainees learned to
make on-site diagnostics of the type of pavement surface failures and to cafry out appropriate
repairs. Follow-up visits to all the six MOW districts to monitor on-site performance of the
maintenance cws revealed that the methods recommended dunng the training program were
used with good results. The tainees also became acquainted with the stabilization techniques
of locally available road construction materials which improved the quality of the works at
reduced cost. The taining emphasized the importance of repairing small potholes as soon as
they developed. Subsequent experience demonstrated to MOW the cost effectiveness of this
method which prevented development of major maintenance problems and preserved the
Southern Road's unpaved surface in good condition. As a result of the training program, all
MIOW's supervisors and workers have acquired sufficient lnow-how to skillfully carry out
various road maintenance activities. Project accounts were audited annually and improvements
in MOW accounting department, although introduced with some delays, are ongoing.
35.        Other positive results obtained from the implementation of the project included,
among others, the following:
(a)   contractors' seminars, which were also attended by insurance brokers,
provided a useful forum  for greater understnding of the project
components and realistic rates for insurance premiums;
(b)  improvement of the contractors managerial skills and thnical knowledge
as a result of good working relationship with the technical assistance
consultant who introduced the use of Critical Path planning for the
execution of the project works;
(c)  the growth of local construction companies as they acquired more
equipment to carry out the work activities;
(d) an increased awareness on the part of MOW and contractors of the benefit
of cationic emulsions as maintenance materal for paved roads.



- 11 -
(i)  the training of operators, especially motor grader operators, whose
increased productivity and work quality is now producing good results.
(f)  increased awareness among MOW's worldng crews of safety measures to
be taken during the execution of road maintenance works.
The downside of the project's achievements was MOW's inability to contract
routine maintenance on unpaved roads, making impracticable an acceptable comparison of
maintenance unit costs charged by contractors with MOW's unit costs for similar works, and to
determine economic viability of works carried out under contract and by force account.
G.   Eoect Susnabiliy
36.         Project benefits will be sustainable due to the MOW's continued interest in
improving its operations. The strengthening of the local construction industry is sustainable as
Belize has now local contractors who are competitive and capable of producing good quality
works. Contactng of some road maintenance works should be sustainable provided that the
cost advantage of maintenance by contract over the cost of such works by MOW force account
is determined.
H.   Bank Performance and Lessons Learned
37.         R= arand       zana. The project's scope and its implementation schedule
were well defined and its objectives complemented those agreed during the previous Bank project
financed under loan 2273-BEL. The Ministry's staff and the consultants responsible for the
preparation and implementation of the previous project were also assocated with the prepartion
and the implementation of this project.  This facilitated the project's appraisal and its
implementation.
38.         Smgcndsion. Bank supervision of the project absorbed about 30.3 staff weeks
during the implementation period from mid-1988 to mid-1992. Five field supervision missions
visited Belize over four years. In general, the project was making good progress and was given
performance rating of 1, denoting lack of serious problems.
39.         Lessons Lned: Experience with contracted maintenance was usefil but not
conclusive as it was not possible to make a firm detminaton on the basis of the result of a
single maint   contract undertaken on the Northern Highway by perhaps the best road
contractor in Belize working on a road in good condition. The determination of the type of
maintenance works that would be best suited for contactng should be based on an analysis of
the relative cost effectiveness of contract and force account works and MOW should collect
pertnent cost data on equipment, materials and manpower inputs employed in road maintenmce.
To this end MOW needs to strengthen its accountability for field and overhead costs. Based on
the findings of the 'Report on Transportadon Sector Study' special attention should be given



- 12 -
during preparation of future tansportation projects to institutional issues regarding transport
sector planning;
I.    Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned
40.         Borrower Performance: MOW  supported the project's works program and
generally adhered to the project implementation schedule agreed at appraisal. Compliance with
the loan covenants was generally satisfactory. Support for the training of MOW personnel
produced good results which should be lasting. Support for road maintenance under contract
should be strengthened. With regards to the pavement problem on the Haulover Bridge to Bella
Vista road section, which developed after the completion of the Project's works, MOW has
taken prompt action to correct the occurrence of localized pavement distress caused by an
unexpected settlement of the roads subgrade.
41.         MOW support for institutional improvements was wvell focussed on the training
of MOW personnel in carrying out maintenance works. Institutional issues such as accounting
and the development of reliable unit costs data for the periodic and routine road maintenance
carried out by force account and under contract received less attention.
42.         ProLect Accounting and Audits: - Project audits by external auditors were carried
out annually. The auditors have not encountered any significant deficiencies in the system of
controls and administration of the Project. In their audit report for the FY 1991, the auditors
recommended that in order to satisfy both the Government and IBRD's recording and reporting
requirements, future project records should be computerized to provide for the sorting and
summarization of expenditure by budget line items. The auditors further statd that the
project's accounting system needed strengthening due to the lack of qualified personnel at MOW.
They found that the general accounting functions needed improvement to provide timely
statements reflecting the expenditures of the Project, and to make the staff sufficiently
knowledgeable about the project funds administration. The auditors recommended  at all new
accounting staff who should receive training under proper supevision in preparing the
reconciLiations of the Special Account; confirmation of the amounts deposited in the Specal
Account at the Central Bank, and in obtaining from the Bank, at least quarterly, written
confirmations on all funds advanced to the Project. The auditors noted that timely processing of
reimbursements for funds spent under the force account had not been done during the months
of February and March 1991, due to lack of sufficient supporting documents for related
expenditures. The problem was due to MOW's inability to retain its accounting staff; there were
at least three transfers which might have made timely record keeping difficult. The problem was
solved in 1991 when the Ministry appointed a full-time accountant to be in charge of the Prtect
accounts.
43.         Manufacturing of concrete giM. In 1983, during the implementation of the first
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitaton Project, the Ministry of Works, assisted by foreign
consultants made important improvements to its pipe manufachtring facility, producing high
quality reinforced concrete drainage pipes for the works completed under the first Bank Loan.



- 13 -
This undertaking was appropriate and had the Bank's support due to: (i) the high cost of
imported corrugated metal pipes that had a relatively short life (six years) due to corrosion and
the resulting need for their expensive replacement, and (ii) heavy demand for road drainage
structures for roads constructed in flat, poorly draining terrain; The production of the plant has
since been reduced because MOW has not been authorized to maintain a revolving fund
necessary to keep the plant in good repair and to maintain it fully operational. As a result, the
use of imported metal pipes for road drainage works has markedly increased. However, MOW
informed the Bank that the Ministry of Finance has recently helped MOW to resolve the
problem, and that the manufacturing of concrete pipes has been resumed.
44.         Lessons learned: The implementation of road maintenance on the Northern
Highway under contract demonstrated that this approach is technically valid because it is well
focussed and explicit as to its scope and work targets, and administratively manageable. Given
the growing number of qualified works contractors in Belize, the contracting of maintenance
merits to be furiher explored by MOW. The Ministry should prepare a definitive study
comparing cost effectiveness of routine and periodic maintenance carried out under contract and
by MOW force account.
C.   Bank-Borrower Relationship
45.         The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was appropriate and
facilitated the implementation of the project. Bank missions to Belize were limited to about one
per year, however, frequent communications with the Project Coordinator were maintained by
telephone and correspondence.
K     Co=sulting Services
46.        Technical assistance was important because MOW was short-handed and its staff
needed training. Consultants helped MOW to (i) prepare engieering for the project's
maintenance and rehabilitation works; (ii) introduce systems and standards for road maintenance;
(iii) acquaint MOW personnel with the use of stabilization of local road construction materials;
(iv) assist in the supervision of the execution of the Project's works; (v) carry out training
programs for MOW staff; and (vi) to conduct seminars for local works contractors. Consultants
also played an important role in strengthening the capability of the local road construction
industry by providing competent and effective hands-on training.
L.   Proect Documentation and Data
47.         Data needed for the preparation of the PCR were generally available in Bank files,
including the project preparation files, Bank supervision reports, aide memoirs, and the quarterly
reports, all of which were helpful.



- 14 -
PART U - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROVER'S PERSPEC1INE
A.   CoMnents on Part I of the Project Completion Report
1.          A draft of the Project Completion Report was sent to the Ministry of Works for
review  and comments.  The Ministry's Chief Engineer and the Project Coordinator
communicated MOW's comments directly, in lieu of a written report, and the comments were
incorporated in the text of the fnal Project Completion Report.



- 15 -
PART ml  STATISTICA INQFORMATfOl!
1.      Melated Bank Loans
Pect Nam             Purpos          Year          Status;              Comms
.                           .       Approved
LI 2273-BEL       Prepamtion of final    1983    Completed  Bank loan, US$S5.3m, provided for
Road                 engineering and              and fully  the completion of road maiutence
Maintenance       execution of related            disbursed  works; acquisition of equipment and
and                road rehabilitation             in 1988  spar parts; Tech.Assist. and hands-
Rehabilit-    works; puruase of road                        on taining for MOW personnl.
ation Project.   eupment & Technical                        Tbe project achieved its m
Assistance for                       objecives; the development of
nLstitutional                      capaity to progam and monitor
Strengthening of the                      project's activities continued under
Ministry of Works.                        this project.
2.     Eroiect Ilmtaim n
F      -;    ^  |' eI  Dat                         Da |                    Dat
Identification             May 12, 1987               N.A.                     Jun 8, 1987
Prepation Mission          August 8, 1987              N.A                   Augut 8, 1987
Appraisal Mission         November 9, 1987             N.A.                November 8, 1987
Loan Negotiations         Marh 21, 1988            April 19, 1988              Apri 19,1988
Board Approval             July 12, 1988               N.A.                    May 31, 1988
Loan Signature              June 8, 1988              N.A.                      June 8, 1988
Loan Effectiveness       Septmber 6, 1988             N.A.                 September 6, 1988
Project Completion          June 30, 1992              N.A.                    June 30, 1992
Loan Closing             December 31, 1992             N.A.               December 31, 1992



- 16 -
3.               Loan Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disburseme
(US$ millions)
Baank  Y                 88             89        90         91        92         93
Appaisal                       0.2            1.5       2.9        4.6       5.6a       5.61'
Actual                         0.3b           0.9       3.7       4.7        5.2        5.6
Actual as % of
Estimates                      100            60        128        102        93         100
a - Ibe dat of final disbdnment wa extend to Ax umths after, Decmbr 31, IM, the Loan Closing Date;
b - Bank's deposit to the Special Account
4.       Poject Imilementation
aa DOUARS                              US DOLUAS
TY      P 811   S ETh                Toal CosT         COWII                TOa Cos           cagdl-om
(nb MTilom)       (It llaama)          (n mEo)            an T_s)
_Ac_   -1  A_   Alpp=    md  Appmd  A1   -.  A*W  A_    Ao
Rehsbi           19.8      20.0       8.6      8.9       434       445       4.3       0.4      2.7       223
R-sal          53.5      56.0       1.1       1.7       20        30        0.5       0.8      10        is
Maktmmc         256.0     24.0       0.3       1.4      0.01      0.01       0.2       0.7       4        4
D_i_p          18.0      18.0       0.7       0.5       36        25       0.3       0.2       0.2      12
Lss=                       = -             -uwi  6    >*s  -  S*
I/ Tu date qffina disbws   was May 6, 192  Tu deadline for disbmwmem, was   ended to m2x .onfter *e
Loa CAASin Date December 31, I99



- 17 -
Provision of Equipment for the Training Program.
A.   WIT= ASSIMANCE FROM LOAN R1NDS                         B.    FL=  FOVERN   UNDS
for Technical Ance Services
F 150 Ford Pickup Reg. No. BS53 (4 wheel drive)             P 350 ftrd Super Cab Reg. No. 3118
F 150 Ford Pickup Reg. No. 8560                             P 150 Wagon Reg. No. B636
F ISO Ford Pickup Reg. No. 1561                             F 150 Ford Super Cab Reg. No. B677
F ISO Ford Pickup Reg. No. SS8                             FiRlt whe end computerizd devkiaioa Meter boxto
F 150 Fosd Pickup Rtg. No. BSS7                             contrl bitumn appllcation fiom the Biumn tanker.
P 150 Ford Crow Cab Reg. No. B723
3 Radio Telephone
Offie Equipeat                                              Offlce Equipmnet
LB.M. p.c. system 2 computer an Printer 2 Packad            6 No Packad BeU 386 p.c. Comnputer and piners.
Bdl 386 p.c. Computere and Pdann                            Xex 102S phocopy machine
7 Facimile macihine
1 drwing muhne - VemCO 520
Surre Equipmt
2 Esing thodoUcis we  overued an repaired.
2 levellng saffs
2 reaarin t
1 Lictm Triple filtering priam
I Lietz huiback
3 Wild NA-28 Automatic lvea
I Lion DT-4 ElectroIchodoli
I ats Red Mini -2
TRAINING MATRALS
Both the man    e and th main     e tig officea hbve beea isud witwh N.Z, Local Goveamenl rMaAe  Traini
M anual     a for  d mtnane training. Thse arecompehenive tainig documets Tey contai detail of l     pstep equired to
unde  tbe mjority of actvitaie volved in road maintenace.



- 18-
5.       Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(in US$ million)
|                               A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fxto                             AcO
|kzs~                 ,ogLCg                                  FTOWlu  od                  L                    EoT
Z~~~~~icig                       Ths                       Tota     Loca 1gg      R
Ct           19CTJ       Cosa                                Tota
A . Ro .  . a:.lIMgh_ 
Work"                    1.08       2.19         3.87         25         1.25        3.47        4.72
Periodic anid Routine
Malgmum work            5.98        3.82          9.80         63        12.11        1.39       13.50
S..&  u                 7.06        6.61         13.67         U         1336        4.86        182     
BEqui_                     -                                               0.1                     0.1
Sua             74*1 136    f l.46                                             44       6    "A
c. tautim.1
Technical
Andgnnce                 0.17        0.54         1.01         6.0        0.5         0.74        12           6
Sub4oL                   017                      jf.          6.0        _           0 l           2s         I
BI e e                    LU          7 Lo                      94         13.         5.60        190.7       1t0
byo                       0.15        0.35         C0i
-Prio                     0.11       O0.2          0.37
Sub-                       26 0m                    97         6.0 I                    *e
TOTA  COS                 LE          S-OS         LEE         MAM                                ALEf7       100
Peroo                      48          52           100                     71          29          100
() Cam lacd. phyia and ple camtwmciaa
B. Project Finang
SOUM   "Oksit,~.  0                                                             .-
A. IBRD                                  5NA00.0        S.600.0          600.                  N.A
1. Civil Worb                            4,100.0        4,100.0        4,616.7
2. Con D'tan' servim.ad ovetwn                                             0
raining                                   610.0          610.0           736.0
3. RFindingof Proj.iPsPstpntioo
Advunce                                   250.0          250.0          247.4
4. Unaload                                640.0          640.0            0
D. RQMIC                                  9,9S0          9,950         13,969.9
C.1XL4                                    IS,5S0         IS,SS0        19,S70.0                 N.A



- 19-
6.    IMect Reulti
A. Direct Beniefits
indicat                           Appraised Estmate                                eima    0 Closing Date
|  ) Road M  dai ae aNd      POraon of tb toad netWork Nad                  Road ues an basfit8g in financial ta  nd confoat
Rehabilitation Work          improvement through periodic  a    e  of the    fiam improved surfce coadition of rade which either
PrOaM.                       pavment surlae roughoeu to teduce vehicle      received periodic auiec , we renhabld or
operating cost and road accident.              impoved.
(ii) lstiadionl              Starengthening MOW s iniutional capacit        1. On-thejob aiwxg ad sema woe ascaly
improvementsthrough         through on-hob personnel raing to idetify       completed for the b   fit of te MOW's work foam. The
tring given by freiga        maint_nance needs and to plan, progam,         training wU well accped and th rcommion
consultants and enhanceent   schedule, ccw and to moitor toe maintensn      desid to ines productivity and quality of MOW
of MOW's accoubilty         wodk. Improve MOW's Accounting Systm for       cews performaneaevident. ImprvenofMOW's
rOd  maie e.                                   cco     sysem to eCe projcts' aou aity is
underway.
(1) Routine road             Carying out pilot prjec  for ainea   under   Routine aiene under a two-ye  conact w  canied
maintc  under contrat        conact on paved and unpaved roads to           out on 130 km of the paved Noate  Higway with         |
detemin its pratcability in Belize.            resu. Contr g routine maintenance on the unpaved
Southe  Higway was to succeu  as coAtracto lckked
previous experieC   wikth ths type of conracts.
fiv) Dvelopmn of oca         Givig local contractos in Bel  an opposnuity    Contra  benficed from advic an expeeceof
road contrator capabitea   to improve their sls for bidding on and in       foreig conss responsib  for the  pervin of the
!! _____________   carrying out oad wors of good quaty.                      PrOe  Works.
B. Economic Impact
1.                The methodology used for the economic evaluation of the project was based on user
costs savings calculated as the difference between vehicle operating costs with and without the road
improvements. The nature of road investment did not warrant the use of a sophisticated model.
Average daily taffic was determined in October 1987 and the assumed growth rate was five
percent. The post evaluation used the same model, replacing appraisal costs and tfc assumptions
with actual costs and traffic data obtained from  tffic counts taken in July 1992. The cost of road
works was within the Engineer's original estimates; however, the 1992 traffic reached, on a number
of roads, levels that at project appraisal, were expected in year 2,000. This resulted in a higher
economic rate of return for the road maintenance and rehabilitation component after the completion
of the project than was estimated at appraisal:
Overall Economic                                      33.6                                       44.6
Rate of Return



- 20 -
7.       Status of Loan Covenants
SECI1N                                II                  COVENA-T
1. in gerl, the Bonowers compliance with the folJowing clausem of Loan AgreeAent 2945-BEL wa satisficto!y;
3.01 (a) com_mens to Prkject' objectives, Schedule 2 of La. Agreement  complied
(b) Os)(u) - Prtovision of couatepat linds ad fiuda for the oad   complied with delays
Ma_teace progam Nad ImplemC tAIon of h program  ccordance                                                      i
wit Schdtle"S of Loan Agr-em
1. Tenderi for wodu, Pat A of the prject;                         complied
2. Start works unde Part A.1 thugh A.S, & B;                       complied
3. Employmnt of Consuhants under Part C.2;                         complied
4. Employmen of Conmahants for studei under Pats C3 and CS;        complied
S. Training of MOW staff in road maintenane on the San gnaci-      complied
Beaiopan   oad ien;
6. Reslir  San Jnacio.-Bdmopan rad sectio;                         complied
7. Resealing under Par A4 of the Proect;                           complied
8. Relhbilitation under Pat A.2 and A.3 of the Prject;            complid
9. Assigp a rad maintenane officer and the training officer to ast  complied
consulta  referred to in Part C2;
10. Furish to Bank an aOtio plan for improveent of MOW accountig   complied whh delays
sytem baed on recommendations of th pret oaitor and
condtsntL___
3.02- Procemen for work and services to be in aordan  with th        complied
proviions of Schdule 4 of the Loan Agreemen_
3.03 (a) upon coacli  of Pat C3 Governme  to frnuh to RBa            (a) - UJL- finacd trapo  study acceptable to
recom_endations for policy coordnaion in tbe transport ect, (b) cany out   fank wa prepard
such progam a agree with Bank (a) each Jun and Dec. 31 ach year,   O   ) - The Go_vernmet has nol yet aced upon
commncing Jun 30, 1989, review with Bak implemetoD  proge  of        recommdations of the sudy
swh a program                                                        (c) - Partay compLied
3.04 (aXi) com_mecing lme 30, 1989 ad ach ya thereafter review wih   coMied
thse ank implementaio progressp of the Proje  including maintenance
managemn systm  road and maintenac progrm and detailed description
Of WmaiIten.nce Wo   caried out by force acunt    by contators and
(b)crry out c   pogram; (c) by Dec. 31, 1990 i h to  DBaok for its
commen a threeyearmienane prom fot 1991 through 1993 and
cry out the ptogram.
3.0S do rA tender rehabilitati  wos under Part A until con_ul   r    complied
Part C.3 sArd work.
4.01 (a) keep Prtc record and accoun; (b) carry out audits of accot    compi
each fiscal year (1) fumbis audit repors to Bank within fr monthsI



- 21 -
8.  USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inpits
Su  of PojmCycjs         FYM4         FY8S      FY86   FYnu      FY88    FY89   FY90   FY9t   FY92    FY9 m
ThoqhAppa_                0.9          0.4       2.3      1.5     S.6                                                10.7
ABppuiJ Ihwu.h Bod                                        1.9     13.0                                               14.9
Appm
Dowd Apr-l -V
Effeabvem
Supv~in                                                           Ql0.3    7.S     2.8    6.8       8.1      5.0    30.3
TatL                   -0.9           04        2.3-     2.4    IL?       7.5  -- 2.      6.8:    8.I       5.a   S5.
B. Missions
SI f Ps#            Mc.hYcw        Numbera_fle         DiFFwd - . . -Speaiz                   OvuI            Tmf.;.
Cd .:nems (:    .                                                                         e.d..anmo.h Rsb.......    Pro)mu(
Stnem(b)
Ibwob                 e4/4                1                61 6Bca.a.
Appsail               Was5                1                3                 Bc                                 Ga. t.m
*/86               3                 6             B1 Bc. C             IL&               S.A
8/87               1                 4                BO                n..              n.e.
11187              2                 7                 Bc.No
Baud awzovnl          none              a.&.              *A.m.n
Bawtd eppwal
&moth                                   n.n one.                                                                n.
Effwdvum.
Supetvi               1/8                 1                6                 En                 I               .
S/8!               1                 6                ED                  I              ne.
m/90               1                 9                Bc                  1              n.m
10191              2                 9                 EC 8                               n.e.
(a) Ec - ecoaomig; E engineerw F    financial analysh Tr- tnawpoa            Vpecialid;
0.. - not applicable.
) 1-  No  p      anproblekma; 2- Moderc ptoblenu; 3 - Major pobloma; 4- Major ,robletna t
(c) P F   Finanial; M  - Mangra; P = Ptrocurem



