Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAs  Z9LvJ~- TE,,iz
Report No. 7089-BEL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 11, 1988
Department III
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       Belize Dollar (BZ$)
BZ$1                               US$0.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 mile (mi)                        1.609 kilometers (kEm)
1 meter (m)               =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilogram (kg)           -        2.205 pounds (lb)
1 ton  1)                 =        2,205 pounds (lb)
1 gallon (gal)                     3.785 liters (It)
1 cubic yard (cu yd)      =        0.765 cubic meters (cu m)
1 acre (ac)               =        0.405 hectares (ha)
ABBREVIATIONS
CAD      -    Civil Aviation Department
CDB      -    Caribbean Development Bank
EDF      -    European Development Fund
GDP      -    Gross Domestic ProdLct
IBRD     -    International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (The World Bank)
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
MOW      -    Ministry of Works and Housing
ODA      -    Overseas Development Agency
PA       -    The Port Authority
PPF      -    IBRD's Project Preparation Facility
TEU      -    Twenty Foot Equivalent Container
USAID    -    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
April 1st - March 31st



FOR OMCAL US ONLI
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae No.
I.   PROJECT SUMMARY . ......................   ..........                   1
II.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..............*..*..**....*.......                3
A.  Background ..................................................      3
B.  Institutional Organization ........................                4
C.  The Transport System . ........................ ..... .    5
D.  Bank Involvement in the Sector ....................    9
E.  Hain Transport Sector Issues ......................                9
P.  Country Sector Stretegy ................ ........ ...    12
III.   THE PROJECT ................. *at..,**..os. o...    12
A.  Project Origin and Objectives .....................    12
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ................ ..    13
C.  Project Description, Costs and Financing ......**   13
D.  Economic Justification............................    17
E.  Envlronmental Imipact................................  17
F.  Project Risks . ................................    s18
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS ........................    18
A.  Project Execution .                                               18
B.  Cost Estimates and Financing.....................                 20
C.  Disbursements, Special Account and Auditing .......   21
D.  Procurement and Monitoring ........................    22
B.  Bank Processing ............. .. ...............   24
This report is based on the findings of an appraLial mission which visited
Belize in November 1987. The mission comprised Messrs. A. Pas-Estenesoro
(Economist) and S. Kowalski (Engineer-Consultant). The report has been
typed by Mrs. M. Ospina.
This document has a fsticted distributon and ny be used by rocipients only In the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not othorwso be disciood without World Bank authorincton.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
PaAe No.
V.   RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................  24
A. Agreements Confirmed ...............................  24
b.  Recommendation ....................................  25
TABLES
Table 1: Road Traffic - Vehicles per day .....................   26
Table 2: MOW's Road Expenditures .............................   28
Table 3: MOW's Equipment - Availability and Utilization ......   29
Table 4: Force Account Maintenance Program and
Cost Estimates ....................................   30
Table 5:  Schedule of Estimated Loan Disbursements .... .......   31
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: Present Condition of the Project's
Highway Components ...............................   32
ANNEX 2: Details of Economic Evaluation ......................   34
ANNEX 3:  Schedule of Main Events .............................   41
ANNEX 4:  Details of Implementation Schedule ..................   42
ANNEX 5:  Outline Terms of Reference for Supervision of
Civil Works and Training ..........................   44
ANNEX 6: Outline Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance on Institutional Coordination
and Basic Planning Data ......................... 46
ANNEX 7: Outline Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance on Basic Accounting Improvements ......   48
ANNEX 8:  Scope of Work for the Annual External Audit .........   49
ANNEX 9s  Related Documents and Data Available in the
Project File .....................................   SO
CHARTS
CHART It Project Implementation Schedule .....................   51
CHART 2: Existing Roads Administration .......................   52
CHART 3: District Staff Organization .........................   53
Map: IBRD 20808 Rl



PELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AN:D REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     The Government of Belize
Beneficiaryt                  The Ministry of Works anI Housing
Amount:                       US$5.6 million
TerAs:                        Repayment in 17  years,  including  5 years of
grace, with interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
Project Objectives:           The  project   is   designed   as   a  highway
maintenance and rehabilitation operation with
institutional and policy objectives to con-
solidate improvements in MOW's management and
technical procedures to provide efficient and
safe levels of service to highway users and
help  coordinate  the   Government's  role  in
transport. In particular, the project would
assist in: (i) developing capacity for high-
way management, especially maintenance; (ii)
carrying out a pilot program of maintenance by
contract; (iii) training staff and implement-
ing revised procedures for integrating main-
tenance planning, programming, budgeting and
performance evaluation at MOW; (iv) reviewing
the   need   for   improved   definition   and
coordination of functions and responsibilities
of the different transport agencies; and (v)
upgrading, rehabilitating, seal-coating and
completing drainage structures on key sections
of the highway system.
Project Description:          The project proposes to include:  (i) periodic
maintenance  (resealing)   of   three  highway
sections  (53.5  km),   two  on  the  Northern
Highway and one on the Western Highway (4.8?
of total project cost); (ii) completion of
drainage structures and two years of routine/
periodic maintenance on 104 km of the unpaved
Southern Highway (4.92); (iii) three years of
routine maintenance on the paved Northern
Highway (152 km), (4.8Z); (iv) rehabilitation
of one paved section of the Northern Highway
(2.6 km), close to Belize City (4.6Z); (v)
rehabilitation, including paving, of the 1.8
km access road to the Belize City Port and the



-2-
12.5 km San Ignacio-Benque Viejo section of
the Western Highway (22.21); (vi) controlled
routine  maintenance   of   the  San  Ignacio-
Belmopan paved section (36.8 km) under force
account and for training of HOW personnel,
over   a   two-year   period   (0.4Z);   (vii)
scholarships for training abroad in transport
planning  and   highway   maintenance  (0.6?);
(viii) professional services for engineering
designs, supervision of civil works, training
of    contractors'    and    MOW    personnel,
institutional coordination and other basic
studies (6.3Z); and (ix) a program for routine
maintenance, under monitored force account and
over a three-year period, on the remainder of
the road network (51.4X).
Benefits:                     The  project  is  designed  to  reduce highway
costs, particularly user costs, and to defer
large capital outlays by performing adequate
maintenance.  As  such,  the  rate of economic
return  is  high.      The  pilot  program  for
contract maintenance is particularly important
to evaluate  the  cost-effectiveness  of main-
tenance  procedures,   develop   small,  local
contractors, and ensure actual maintenanice of
the  roads.    The  institutional  development
elements of the project would increase the
Government's capacity for highway management,
improve resource allocation and strengthen
transport coordination.
Risks:                        Two  are  the  main  riskss    availability of
counterpart funding and the relative weakness
of the local construction industry. The first
would  be   mitigated   by   the  deliberately
moderate  implementation  pace  adopted.   The
second would  be  minimized  by the programmed
consultants' supervision of works and training
of contractors' personnel, and by the ICB
procedures to be followed for rehabilitation
and resealing works, which are expected to
attract foreign regional contractors.



-3-
Estimated Project Costs:            Local          Foreign          Total
------------US$ Million--------------
Civil Works and Maintenance          7.06          6.61            13.67
Design, and Superviaion             0.15           0.56             0.71
Technical Assistance, Training
and Basic Studies                 0.02           0.28             0.30
Total Base Cost (March 1988
[  prices)                    7.23           7.45            14.68
Physical Contingencies            0.15           0.35             0.50
Price Contingencies               0.11           0.26             0.37
Total Project Cost              7.49           8.06            15.55
Financing Plan
Propcsed IBRD loan                   -             5.6              5.6
Government                           7.5           2.5             10.0
Total Financing                 7.5            8.1             15.6
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY                           1988      1989     1990      1991     1992
--------------------USS million-----------
Annual                              0.2      1.3      1.4       1.7      1.0
Cumulative                         0.2       1.5      2.9       4.6      5.6
Rate of Returns          342 (most likely case for loan-financed components)
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.       Background
2.01     Belize's economy expanded steadily--real  GDP grew at annual rates
between 4.52 and 5Z--during the 19609 and most of the 1970s. Growth was
fueled mostly by sugar and citrus exports, several infrastructure works,
and substitution of some light-industry goods which were previously
imported. By 1981 the economy had come to a standstill, affected by the
general deterioration of the terms of trade and, more specifically, by the
drastic drop in sugar prices coupled with a smaller US sugar quota.
Mexican transit trade, which until then had been increasingly important,
slumped in 1982 and has not recovered. GDP growth was negative in 1982 and
1983. An overall economic recovery in 1984, due to a temporary improvement
in sugar prices and a significant increase in construction and services,
was followed by virtually no growth in later years.



-4-
2.02     The lack of  adequate  transport  infrastructure  was of paramount
importance in the economic slow-down, as acknowledged in the 1984 Economic
Memorandum on Belize.1 With a population of about 150,000 living in an
area of close to 23,000  sq  km,  Belize  has  one of the lowest population
densities in the world.   This  situation, further complicated by acattered
production areas and low production volumes, makes provision of adequate
transportation crucial to  the  development  of  Belize.    In the domestic
sphere, however, even the country's most important roads experience light
traffic densities making unit transport costs (per ton and passenger) very
high.   Similarly, by world standards, import and export volumes are small,
making modern, capital-intensive facilities and equipment difficult to
afford. The relatively high contribution of transport to GDP at factors'
cost, averaging 9.3Z in the last four years, and the ratio of capital
expenditures in roads to Gross Domestic Investment, averaging 19? also in
the last four years, show, however, the importance of the sector to the
economy.
2.03     Belize's  main  exports  are  sugar,  citrus,  banana,  cocoa  and
seafoods, and its main imports are petroleum and containerized cargo.
Sugar is the largest industry (202 of GDP) and the most important export
commodity (532 by value).   About  two-thirds  of the 100-110 thousand tons
produced yearly are sold on protected markets, the only profitable ones.
Sugar, as well as molasses, must be double-handled, and must be loaded from
barges onto ocean vessels anchored just offshore from Belize City Port, a
slow and inefficient process.   The  citrus industry generates about 1O0  of
the total value of exports.   Close  to  two million boxes per year (80Z of
oranges--90 lbs per box, and 20? of grapefruit--80 lbs per box) were
produced in recent years.    Processed  primarily as concentrate, about 8.5
thousand tons are exported, using 55-gal drums loaded onto refrigerated
vessels at  Commerce  Bight  (Dangriga)  Port.    Banana exports--about 550
thousand (42 lb) boxes, also sold  in  a protected market--are trucked to a
landing at Big Creek, where, once  loaded orto covered barges, are towed to
Puerto Cortes, in neighboring Honduras, for shipment in reefer vessels.
Rice, cocoa and seafood exports are limited but appear to have promising
possibilities. Imports of petroleum products use dedicated, privately-
owned facilities in Belize City, including an offshore pipeline out to
about 6.5 m of water depth. On-land distribution of these products is done
by truck.   Most  finished  goods  imported  into  Belize are containerized
(about 4,000 TEUs per year), with two thirds originating in the US and the
remaining one-third in various European countries.
B.       Institutional Organization
2.04     Responsibility  for  the  transport  sector  rests  with different
Government institutions.  The  Port  Authority  (PA),  set  up in 1980 as a
statutory body under the Ministry of Works (MOW), was transferred when the
present Government took office to the Ministry of Corsmerce and Industry,
and transferred again, in June 1986, to the Ministry of Electricity, Trans-
port and Communications. PA, run on a day-to-day basis by the Port Commis-
sioner, is responsible for channels, lighthouses, and all other navigation
aids; owns, operates and maintains the port facilities at Belize City Port
and Commerce Bight; is responsible for pilotage and procedures for berthing
of ships; provides equipment for transfer of containerized cargo from/to
1/ Report No. 5244-BEL of August 1984.



ship side, to/from the stripping/stuffing shed, and is responsible for
storing and delivering the cargo to the consignee or agent. PA is not,
however, responsible for stevedoring services.
2.05     Aviation, including airports, is also  under the Ministry of Elec-
tricity, Transport and Communications. The Civil Aviation Department (CAD)
is run by the Chief Civil Aviation Officer whose duties encompass aerodrome
licensing, aircraft registry  and  management  of  the Belize City Interna-
tional Airport.
2.06     Highway and road construction and maintenance is under MOW.  Cons-
truction is handled  through  contractors;  most  periodic  and all routine
maintenance are carried out  by  force  account.    MOW's Chief Engineer is
responsible for maintenance and construction.   The country is divided into
six districts, each with a supervisor trained to program and implement
maintenance activities. Street works, both construction and maintenance,
are also ur.dertaken and often paid by MOW on request from local councils.
Routine maintenance of the Belize  City    International Airport as well as
routire and periodic  maintenance  of  the  district's airfields fall under
MOW.
C.       The Transport System
Ports and Water Transport
2.07     The major port in the country is at Belize City, and consists of a
concrete T-pier, connected to the mainland by a single-lane 760 m trestle,
reaching a natural depth of water of close to 5 m. The pier-head has two
berths, one for small conventional and container vessels (up to 3,500 DWT),
and the other for stern-loading small roro vessels (up to 2,500 DWT).
Shore facilities include a transit shed (2,000 sq m), an unpaved container
yard (10,200 sq m) and an open sided building (650 sq m). The Port has six
yard tractor-low load trailers, a 20-ton mobile yard crane, and seven 3-ton
and one 6-ton forklifts. This equipment is supplemented, when required, by
additional cranes and top loaders available locally on a rental basis. The
port was originally designed for a larger pierhead and a dredged-longside-
depth of about 9 m.    However,  funds  provided by a Caribbean Development
Bank (CDB) loan of US$10.5 million were not sufficient to complete the work
as originally intended.
2.08     In addition, a pier,  similar  in  construction to the facility in
Belize City but smaller, was built, also in 1979, at Commerce Bight. This
one-berth headpier, connected to shore by a i50 m single-lane trestle, has
6.5 m of depth alongside, due to a more favorable sea-bed morphology.
Natural deep water access channels exist to both ports. At Big Creek, the
banana industry maintains a timber wharf for loading barges with up to 1.5
m draught. Other shallow wharves are available at Corozal (1.5 m draught),
Dangriga (2.5 m draught), Placentia (2.5 m draught) and Punta Gorda (2 m
draught). A number of piers with minimal water depth are also in place on
the inhabited cays.



-6-
Airports and Air Transport
2.09     International air traffic is  handled  by foreign carriers through
the Belize City International Airport with flights to and from Miami,
Houston, New Orleans and cities in neighboring countries. Domestic air
transport plays a limited role, albeit of some importance for tourist traf-
fic to the cays, especially  San  Pedro.   Besides the Municipal Airport at
Belize City, some paved and unpaved airstrips exist throughout the country
(in Corozal, Orange Walk, Dangriga, Punta Gorda, Belmopan, San Pedro and
Belize City), only used by private/chartered small planes.
2.10     The Belize City International  Airport,  located 16 km from Belize
City, has a single 1,920 m long 45 m wide paved runway, the last stage of
which was built in 1968 and has, since then, received minimum maintenance;
two taxiways; a limited apron; and a totally inadequate building cons-
tructed in  1945.    The  airport  serves  military  as  well as commercial
flights, has the minimum required navigation and approach aids, and
receives air traffic control services from Tegucigalpa (Honduras). The
pattern of operations results in two critical hours in each day: departure
of six aircraft between lOOO and 10:30 to points in the US, and return of
the jame aircraft between 15:00 and  16:00.   In 1985, some 93,000 terminal
passengers were handled as well as close to 200,000 transit passengers.
The passenger demand is fairly even with the peak month (August) represent-
ing 102 of the annual figure and the peak quarter (June, July, August) 28Z.
Freight traffic is about 1,500 tons, two thirds in-bound and one third out-
bound.
Roads and Road Tranaiport
(a) The Highways
2.11     Four main highways, with a  combined  length of 537 km connect the
capitals of six districts and form the primary road system. From the main
highways, access to farms, forest camps, villages and other points is
available via rural roads, which have a combined length of 1,537 km.
Approximately 450 km are urban roads.
2.12     The Northern  Highway  (152  km)  connects  Belize  City  with the
Mexican border in the north. It passes through the sugar cane area and is
seal-surfaced to an adequate width for two-lane traffic. Except for 27 km
near Belize City, where the pavement is old and heavily deteriorated, the
road is in good condition.    The  Western Highway (134 km) connects Belize
City with the Capital, Belmopan, and the Guatemalan border. Between Belize
City and San Ignacio (116 km), the road is paved and some sections have
been recently reconstructed with Bank assistance. The remaining section,
between San Ignacio and the border with Guatemala (15 km), is a two-lane
road, unpaved and in poor condition. The Hummingbird Highway (88 km) links
Belmopan with Dangriga on the coast, passing through hilly terrain before
reaching the citrus producing area of Stann Creek Valley. The highway is
mostly one-lane, with alternating paved and unpaved stretches in very poor
and hazardous condition. Bridges are old and were originally built for a
narrow gauge railway.   In  low-laying  areas  sections of this highway are
frequently flooded, and in hillr areas, steep grades and dangerous curves
cause a large number of accidents.    The Southern Highway (163 km) extends



-7-
from its junction with the Hummingbird Highway (8.5 km west of Dangriga) to
Punta Gorda in the south. The road has a gravel surface and width suffi-
cient for  two-lane  traffic.    The  route  is  characterized  by frequent
flooding of the large number of streams and rivers that cross it; there are
53 single-lane timber bridges.   A  Bank-financed drainage program has been
completed along 104 km and seven concrete/steel double-lane bridges are
being built across major rivers.
(b) The Rural Roads
2.13     Host rural roads  in  Belize  were  originally  built for specific
purposes2 sugar cane in Corozal; forestry and general farming in Cayo,
Orange Walk and Toledo; rice and general farming in Belize; citrus and
bananas in Stann Creek. The road conditions are influenced by the current
and often fluctuating situation of the industry for which they were
primarily  built.    No  detailed  inventory  of  conditions  is available,
although due to better quality of local construction materials, rural roads
in the south are generally better than those in other parts of the country.
(c) The Vehicle Fleet
2.14     Information on the vehicle fleet  is  not complete.  The licensing
authority estimates that the fleet numbers some 11,000 vehicles, 672 of
which are cars and pick-ups, 32Z trucks and 12 buses. About 202 of the
fleet are licensed freight vehicles, mostly two axle trucks (about 900
units) used to carry loads of up to 2 tons. Most imported vehicles, except
when purchased for Government use or through externally ausisted programs,
are bought second-hand in the US.    A  typical truck or bus is already six
years old when imported into Belize. The average age of the fleet is thus
high: 9.5 years for trucks and 8.7 years for all vehicles (estimated in
1982).
(d) Traffic GrowtL
2.15     Road utilization in Belize is low, given the country's low density
of population and dispersed economic  activity.   Except within Belize City
itself, traffic congestion has never been an issue, nor will it be for the
foreseeable future. MOW carries out, though irregularly, one-week traffic
counts generally during each year at approximately 40 road locations all
over Belize. Seasonal variations are not eliminated and the periods over
which counts are carried out at each location are different from year to
year; thus caution is required when drawing conclusions from such records.
Table 1 gives the order of magnitude of traffic on each road. The most
heavily trafficked road is the Northern Highway with 1987 levels ranging
from 350 to 2,500 vpd. Traffic on the Western Hignway ranges from 350 to
650 vpd., and traffic on the Hummingbird and Southern Highways is the
lowest for main roads, ranging from about 100 to 300 vpd. On feeder and
secondary roads, traffic varies from minimum levels to about 200 vpd.
Overall, traffic is estimated to have grown during the past decade at the
low average annual rate of 1.52.   The proportion of trucks on the highways
and roads has continued high, at about 402 on average.



-8-
(e) The Road Freight Industry
2.16     Domestic  freight  transport  by  road  is  basically unregulated.
Market entry of trucks and their tariffs are generally unrestricted. For-
hire trucks are required to be licensed, besides the obligation of regular
registration of vehicles and  drivers.   International freight transport is
regulated in order to protect Belizean truckers and give them monopcly over
operations within the country. International transit traffic, on the other
hand, is moved exclusively  by  foreign  truckers.    The one man-one truck
(owner  operator)  system  prevails.    Most  trucks  are  operated without
offices, workshop or cost-controls,  but  also  with little overhead costs.
Most return trips are completed in one day, with return loads rarely
available. Shippers negotiate tariffs directly with truckers who are not
unionized or associated. Because of the great seasonal variation in road
conditions, truckers usually quote rates on a per-hour basis, which, on
account of the high cost (due to taxes) of vehicles and operating inputs,
short transport distances, imbalance of small freight flows and often poor
road conditions, result in comparatively high trucking costs. Capacity
constraints do not appear to be a problem.
(f) Axle Load Control
2.17     In 1983, a  survey  was  undertaken  by  MOW at selected locations
corresponding  with  the  traffic  counting  stations  (para.  2.15).   The
analysis of results concluded that the incidence of axle loads exceeding 8
tons was very infrequent, and there was no justification for adopting
restrictions on, and controls of maximum axle loads.
(g) Expenditures, Financing and Road User Charges
2.18     Road expenditures are  financed  by  the Government through annual
budget dllocations to HOW and by grants and loans from bilateral and
multilateral sources.    In  recent  years,  the  UK's Overseas Development
Agency (ODA) has mainly financed upgrading of highways, USAID and CDB have
contributed to reconstruction of rural roads, and the Bank has focused on
highway maintenance and rehabilitation.   ODA  has programmed to reduce its
involvement in highway construction and the European Development Fund (EDF)
has started to participate in financing initially bridge reconstruction
along the Hummingbird Highway.    During  the next years, road expenditures
will be dominated by the effort to rehabilitate and maintain highways and
rural roads. No major new construction is envisaged.
2.19     Expenditures   on   roads    (Tab'.e   2),   particularly   capital
expenditures, fluctuate strongly, as these are funded mainly by external
financial assistance.    Recurrent  expenditures  fluctuate  less, but have
tended to decrease more than the expected maintenance cost savings obtained
from upgrading the  highway  and  rural  road  systems.    Funding for road
maintenance, notwithstanding the improvements carried out on roads in
recent years, remains about 40Z below the technically and economicFlly
acceptable level.
2.20     The main sources of road  user  charge revenues in Belize are fuel
taxes,  import  duties  and  vehicle  and  drivers  licences.    The Belize
Government imposes a high level of taxes on fuels; taxes represent more



-9-
than 502 of the average pump price for gasoline in the country 2 (552 for
regular gasoline, 54Z for premium) and 402 of the average pump price for
diesel.  Revenues from fuel  taxes  in  1986  were estimated at about BZ$28
million. This source alone would cover the highest level reached in
annual capital expenditures during recent years, and would clearly exceed
the road-related debt service  obligations.    The ad-valorem import tax on
vehicles  and  spare  parts   is   also   important  in  relation  to  road
expenditures. All vehicles, except tractor-truck units, pay a 452 ad-
valorem import tax, a 152 revenue replacement (also ad-valorem) tax, and a
further stamp duty equivalent to 82 ad-valorem. Tractor truck units have a
lower (302)  ad-valorem  import  tax.    Spare  parts  pay  30? ad-valorem.
Revenue from taxes on vehicles and spare parts exceeded BZ$3 million in
1986. Finally, vehicle and driver licences account for some BZ$2.7 million
which, together with fuel taxes and the import duties from vehicles and
spare parts, cover all (recurrent and capital) road expenditures and would
still do so if maintenance expenditures were increased to acceptable
levels.
D.       Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.21     The first Bank loan  to  Belize  was  for the Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2273-BEL, US$5.3 million, May 1983). The loan
provided for road rehabilitation civil works, including engineering studies
and related supervision, for acquisition of equipment and spare parts, and
for technical assistance and training. Project implementation proceeded as
originally programmed and, notwithstanding problems resulting from weak
contractors, was completed three-and-a-half years after approval and within
the original closing date.   The  Project Completion Report3 concluded that
physical targets were achieved, but that one of the main objectives, i.e.
to develop the capacity to program and monitor maintenance activities was
only  partially  achieved.    The  Bank-financed  consultants  developed  a
maintenance management system which in,- luded specific maintenance programs
for the road networks of each of the highway districts, but the system was
too sophisticated and not adapted to local conditions.
E.       Main Transport Sector Issues
2.22     Several main issues have been  identified in the transport sector,
and especially in the highway subsector; they relate to institutional
organization, planning and budgeting and maintenance management. Further-
more, it is important that efforts continue to be made to resolve some
issues which began to be addressed during implementation of the first Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project.
2/ Official prices vary between different zones in the country and are
adjusted frequently.
3/ Achievements and shortfalls of the first Bank loan to the Government of
Belize for the transport sector are indicated in the Bank's Project
Completion Report (Report No. 7108) for Loan 2273-BEL, dated February
5, 1988.



- 10 -
Institutional Organization
2.23     Of  concern  is  the  present  dispersion  of  responsibilities of
different ministries with involvement over fragments of the system. This
does not facilitate coordinated planning and could potentially result in
inefficiencies. Given the limited scope of the transport sector in Belize,
however, it is not clear how serious this issue is. Hence, it is .ecessary
to revie' the iscue and determine the extent to which improvements in
transport coordination and in the definition of functions and responsi-
bilities within the sector need to be given priority attention.
2.24     Strengthening  of  MOW's   technical   staff   and  of  the  civil
engineering construction industry remains an issue in Belize. Under the
previous and already completed project, it was found necessary to acquaint
contractors and MOW staff with prequalification, bid preparation and cons-
truction procedures.   Discussions  with  contractors  stressed the need to
prepare and submit adequate prequalification information; to fully under-
stand conditions of contract, technical specifications and construction
methods; to select plant and equipment most suited to each task; and to
understand the required standards of quality of materials and specifica-
tions, the specific construction methods and the aspects of site control
and construction management. This type of practical training needs to be
continued, from the early stages of procurement and through construction
and maintenance supervision, and extended to key complementary activities
such as field surveying and soils and materials testing.
Planning and Budgeting
2.25     No planning is carried out for the transport sector as a whole nor
for the highways subsector in particular. Financial management has, in the
past, overshadowed planning and budgeting, and investment decisions are
usually the result of partial studies and analyses carried out by expa-
triate consultants and for externally financed projects. Sectoral policies
and investment decisions are made within each ministry, generally with
little involvement of the recently created Ministry of Economic Develop-
ment. In order to carry out comprehensive planning and budgeting, staff
needs to be suitably trained.    The  data  base  in the highways and roads
subsector should also be strengthened to provide for systematic structural
and surface condition surveys, adequate traffic counts and safety measures,
and sound accounting of capital and recurrent expenditures.
Pavement Management
2.26     Procedures for appropriate management  ot the highway network were
introduced under the (First) Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project.
Basic training was provided to improve skills of MOW's engineers and
technicians and personnel associated to the local construction industry;
engineering  standards  and   construction   specifications  were  revised,
progress was made in improving design capability, and manufacturing
concrete drainage pipes was  successfully  undertaken.   This last element,
and the location, testing and use of suitable materials for road works were
particularly important as drainage was lacking in most previous highway
work, foreign exchange was being spent to import pipes and use was being



- 11 -
made of poor quality, inadequate  borrow  pits.    These efforts need to be
further supported.
2.27     An area  with  clear  scope  for  improvement  is  that of highway
maintenance management. Collection of information regarding use of funds,
labor, equipment and materials, was started under the previous Bank project
and  as  indicated  before  (para.   2.21),  maintenance  standards  and  a
maintenance management system were developed.   The data and the system now
need to be used to program and monitor maintenance activities and, in the
process, validate the system to local conditions, generate management
information adequate to decision-making and technical levels, and justify
requests for, and allocation of funds to different maintenance activities.
2.28     MOW has traditionally performed maintenance activities under force
account with staff and equipment allocated to each district and supervised
by each district's superintendent.    The equipment fleet, its composition,
number, and the level of utilization is given in Table 3. Though the
equipment available is adequate to maintain the highways, the utilization
is extremely low. Management of the fleet and workshops has improved in
recent years, but continues to suffer from operational deficiencies and
lack of spare parts and tools. Funding remains insufficient and the force-
account effort made for feeder road construction under USAID financing
strains MOW's limited  capability.    Contracting  out periodic maintenance
and, as a pilot experience, routine maintenance on one or two of the main
highways, would use part  of  the  existing  availability and capability of
local contractors, would  set  a  standard  for MOW's force-account mainte-
nance, and would preserve and possibly increase the service levels of the
highways.
Project monitoring, Accounting and Auditing
2.29     MOW's monitoring of highway and  road  projects is mainly based on
reports prepared by consultant engineers supervising, in the field, to
ensure compliance with specifications and measure work quantities for
payment purposes. Works undertaken with UK aid have generally been carried
out without independent supervision and hence, without adequate monitoring
by MOW. For force account work, the Chief Engineer follows a monitoring-
by-exception approach, calling for actions once a problem has arisen and
been brought to his attention.
2.30     The accounting and internal  control  system, while in place, does
not provide records of expenditures with sufficient detail to be used as a
management tool. Annual audits of MOW accounts are made by the Auditor
General. These audits are usually late and are made to verify that proper
accounting procedures have been followed and that expenditures have been
made in accordance  with  the  approved  budget  item.    The previous Bank
project rightly required that periodic external audits be performed. An
attempt was made to develop, through consultants, suitable accounting
procedures for maintenance  management  purposes.    The  effort was weakly
pursued and failed to succeed.



- 12 -
F.       Country-Sector Strategy
2.31     Gross domestic investments in  Belize  have fallen in absolute and
relative terms since 1979, when they represented 30? of GNP (at market
prices). In 1985, the ratio was 18? proving the Government's five year
plan target of 24Z for 1986 to have been over-ambitious. Notwithstanding
major investment projects undertaken in the late 1970s, transport continues
to require significant levels of investment if basic infrastructural
bottlenecks are to be addressed mainly in support of increased agricultural
diversification, tourism development and lower fuel imports. The Govern-
ment's plan recognizes this need by assigning the bulk of the programmed
public sector capital expenditures to bridge, road and airport improve-
ments, which are expected to continue to be supported predominantly by
external savings.
2.32     The Bank's objective is to assist Belize to grow and diversify its
economy in the medium-term.   Key  strategies  that  need to be followed by
Belize and that are supported by the Bank are: improved public finances;
policy reforms to remove institutional obstacles, reduce imbalances on
incentives  and  encourage  private   investment;  improved  public  sector
management to upgrade planning and operations of agencies and enterprises.
2.33     In support of the  Bank's  country-wide  strategy, the Second Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, the only infrastruc- ture-related
operation in the present lending program, would support increased overall
institutional efficiency, and consolidate and further advance management
improvements initiated during the first Bank highway project. Strong
support needs to be given to highway maintenance, including planning and
monitoring of both force-account and contract activities.
III. THE PROJECT
A.       Project Origin and Objectives
3.01     During implementation of  the  first  Road Maintenance and Rehabi-
litation Prcject, and particularly after the ex-post evaluation conducted
by the Bank and thoroughly discussed with MOW, the needs in the highways
subsector were preliminarily identified. At the request of the Government,
the Bank had tentatively included in its lending program for Belize a
possible port  development  project.    A  transport  mission which visited
Belize in June 1986, carried out an assessment of investment priorities in
the transport sector and concluded that a deep-water port development would
not be economically justified given the shipping characteristics and the
present and prospective low volumes of internationally-traded commodities.
3.02     Based on the results  of  the  screening  of investments, the Bank
mission discussed with MOW and donor and lending agencies with programmed
involvement in transport, the findings on priority investments and recom-
mended that Bank management discontinue the port operation and instead
approve processing a highway maintenance and rehabilitation project. As a
result, MOW formally submitted a request to the Bank, on behalf of the
Government for such a lending operation, including some of the physical



- 13 -
components previously identified as having acceptable economic returns, and
initiated its preparation.
3.03     The project  is  designed  as  a  highway  maintenance and rehabi-
litation loan with institutional and policy objectives to make further
improvements in management and technical procedures, and help review
transport coordination issues. The improvements would help to develop and
retain capacity to effectively supply to highway users the required levels
of service and safety. The project would support actions dealing with each
of the main issues indicated before (paras. 2.22 to 2.30). In particular,
the project would assist the Government ins
(a)  developing  capacity   for   highway  management,  especially
maintenance;
(b)  carrying out a pilot program maintenance by contract;
(c)  training  staff  and   implementing  revised  procedures  for
integrating maintenance planning, programming, budgeting and
evaluating performance;
(d) reviewing the need for improved definition and coordination
of functions and responsibilities of the different transport
agencies; and
(e)  upgrading,  rehabilitating,   seal-coating,   and  completing
drainage structures on key sections of the highway system.
B.       Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.04     Improved growth  performance  of  the  Belize  economy  depends on
progress made in strengthening exports and tourism, mainly through adequate
provision of basic infrastructure and a climate of confidence for private
investment. The transport sector, and particularly the highways subsector,
could and should make a major contribution to such strategy by improving
access facilities, resolving bottlenecks, preserving the cupital stock,
providing better and safer services and lowering the transport costs. The
positive institution building advances initiated tunder the previous Bank-
financed highway project, and which would be further supported and consol-
idated under this operation, need a continttous, systematic and consistent
approach. These factors alone justify the Lank's involvement. Moreover,
the Bank's assistance would be timely, given the current conditions of the
highways.
C.       Project Description, Costs and Financing
3.05     The project would comprise the following components:4
(a) Upgrading to paved surface standards of the Western Highway
between San Ignacio and Benque Viejo (12.5 km), close to the
border with Guatemala, along the existing alignment. The
4/ Base cost estimates reflect March 1988 prices.



- 14 -
estimated contract base cost is BZ$4.6 million (US$2.30
million), of which the loan would finance the foreign
exchange  component   estimated   at  BZ$3.4  million(US$1.70
million)I
(b)  Rehabilitation of one surface-treated section of the Northern
Highway (2.6 km from Haulover Bridge towards Belize City).
The estimated contract base cost is BZ$1.2 million (US$0.60
million), of which the loan would finance the foreign
exchange component of BZ$0.9 million (US$0.45 million);
(c)  Rehabilitation of the  Central  American  Boulevard, from the
intersection of the Western Highway to the Port of Belize
(I km with a four-lane section, from the Western Highway
intersection to the intersection with Faber's Road, and an
additional 0.8 km with two lanes to the port). The estimated
contract base cost is BZS1.2 million (US$0.60 million), of
which the loan would finance the foreign exchange component
of BZ$0.9 million (US$0.45 million);
Cd)  Resealing by  contract  of  the  following  highway sections:
Haulover Bridge to Ladyville (5.2 km), Corozal to Santa Elena
(13.7 km)  and  Belmopan  to  San  Ignacio  (36.8  km).   The
estimated contract base cost is BZ$1.3 million (US$0.65
million) of which the loan would finance the foreign exchange
component of BZ$l.0 million (US$0.50 million)s
(e) Completion of drainage structures on the Southern Highway (18
km), from Big Creek to Crique Negra. The estimated contract
base cost is BZ$0.6 million (US$0.30 million), of which the
loan would finance BZ$0.4 million (US$0.20 million);
(f)  A maintenance  program  that  would  consist  oft   (i) pilot
routine  maintenance  by  contract   on  the  paved  Northern
Highway, between Belize City and Santa Elena on the Mexican
border (152 km.), over a three-year period; the estimated
contract base cost is BZ$1.4 million (US$0.70 million), of
which the loan would finance an estimated BZ$1.0 million
(US$0.50 million); (ii) pilot routine maintenance by contract
of the Southern Highway, initially between the intersection
with the Hummingbird Highway and Big Creek (67 km) and later,
once drainage is in place and over a 2-year period, to Deep
River (104 km); the estimated contract base cost is BZ$0.80
million (US$0.40 million), of which the loan would finance
BZ$0.6 million (US$0.30 million); (iii) controlled routine
maintenance, under force account and with training purposes,
of the Belmopan-San Ignacio paved section (36.8 km) over a
two-year period; the base cost is estimated at BZ$0.1 million
(US$0.05 million) and would be entirely financed by the
Government's own resources; and (iv) a program for routine
maintenance, under monitored force account and over a three-
year period, on the remainder of the network; the base cost
is estimated at BZ$16.0 million (US$8.0 million) and would
also be entirely financed by the Government's own resources;



- 15 -
(g)  Refunding of the  Project  Preparation  Advance that provided
for  consultants'  services  to   carry  out,  review  aadlor
complete the engineering designs and contract documents for
all civil works under the project, and further consultant's
services  to  conduct  supervision   of  works  and  hands-on
training  to   MOW   and   contractors'   staff   during  the
implementation phase.    The  estimated  base  cost is BZ$l.9
million (US$0.95 million), of which the loan would finance
the foreign expenditures estimated to be BZ$1.4 million
(US$0.70 million);
(h)  Scholarships for  training  abroad  in maintenance management
and transport planning and technical assistance to help the
Government coordinate functions and responsibilities over the
different transport modes and agencies, and to initiate
improved record-keeping of MOW's, the project's and other
related accounts; the base cost estimate is BZ$0.3 million
(US$0.15 million), of which the loan would finance close to
BZ$0.3 million (US$0.15 million).
3.06     The  total  cost   of   the   project,  including  provisions  for
contingencies over a four-year implementation period, is estimated at
US$15.6 million (BZ$31.2 million), of which US$5.6 million (BZ$11.2
million), equivalent to 36Z of total project cost, would be financed by the
loan.   The  balance  of  *the  project's  cost  would  be  financed  by the
Government. The table of the following page summarizes the components, the
foreign and local base costs, the provisions for physical and price
contingencies and the loan financing. The Government would be the Borrower
of the Bank loan and would implement the project through MOW.
3.07     Cost estimates  are  based  on:    (i)  final engineering studies,
drawings, and quantity and cost estimates prepared by consultants for the
upgrading, including paving, of the San Ignacio-Benque Viejo sector of the
Western Highway, the completion of drainage structures along the Southern
Highway, the rehabilitation of a section of the Northern Highway, close to
Belize City, and the paving of the access road to the Belize City Port
(Central American Boulevard and Caesar's Ridge road); (ii) preliminary cost
estimates, based on updated and actual costs of past similar resealing
workse (iii) quantity (materials, equipment and labor) standards for proper
maintenance of paved and unpaved highway sections as prepared and adjusted
by consultants for the maintenance management system, and cost estimates
prepared by MOWI and (iv) man-power estimates and prevailin: consultants'
fees for engineering studies, supervision, and other specialized studies
and technical assistance.
3.08     Provision for physical contingencies  varies according to the type
of works for rehabilitation and upgrading of highway sections involving
earth moving, drainage and pavement construction, 10 of the contract base
price has been adopted;   for  resealing and routine maintenance activities
an overall 52 of the contract base price was considered adequate. A
similar 52 was adopted for other services required from consultants.
Provision for foreign and local price escalation was based on projected
price index variations for manufactured goods, which are dominant with
respect to Belize's imported highway-related construLtion elements. The
rates used are: 32 p.a. for the period from mid-1988 to mid 1990, and 42
p.a. from mid-1990 onwards.



- 16 -
SECOND POAD MAINTE!.^bACE AND REHIABTL!TTIDTl PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------
PRO.JECT 'OST ETITMATES
Foreign      Bank
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange Participation
<-----Bd$ million-----)             115$ Billion-----)       S         5      S
------  -------  -------  -------  -------  ------~~ -  -----  - -- -   - -
A. Civil Norks
Road Rehabilitation
(i) San Ignacio-Benque Viejo          1.25      3.37     4.62       0.62      1.69     2.31       73       1.69   73
(ii) Central bmerican Boulevard        0.36      0.96     1.32       0.18      0.48     0.66       73       0.48   73
(iii) Baulover Br.-Center.Aler.Blv.    0.32       0.87     1.19        0.16     0.44     0.60       73       0.44   73
(iv) Southern Highway Drainage         0.23      0.37     0.60        0.12     0.18     0.30       61       0.22   73
Sub-Total (A)                           2.16      5.57     7.73        1.08     2.79      3.87      72       2.83   73
B. Period.(P) & Routine 8aint.(R)
(i) San Ignacio-Belmopan    (P)       0.23      0.63     0.86       0.11      0.32     0.43       73       0.32   73
(ii) Southern Highway         (RiP)    0.29      0.53     i.82        0.14     0.27     0.41       65       0.30   73
(iii) Haulover Br.-Ladyrille  (P)       0.04      0.10     0.14        0.02     0.05     0.07       73       0.05   73
(iv) Corozal-Sta.Clena        (P)      0.09      0.23     0.32        0.04     0.12     0.16       73       0.12   73
(v) Belize City-Sta. Rlena  (R)       0.89      0.48     1.37       0.44      0.24     0.68       35       0.50   73
(vi) San Ignacio-Belnopan      (R)     0.07      0.04     0.11       0.03      0.02     0.05       35        -
(vii) Balance of 8aint Program (B)    10.40       5.60    16.00        5.20     2.80     8.00       35        -
Sub-Total (B)                          12.01      7.61    19.62        5.98     3.82      9.80      39       1.29   11
C. Tech. Assistance & Training
(i) Design for (A),(B) above          0.05      0.46     0.51       0.03      0.23     0.26       90       0.23   90
(ii) Supervision for (A),(B) above    0.24       0.66     0.90       0.12      0.33     0.45       73       0.33   '3
(iii) Instit. Coord., Accounting        0.01      0.09     0.10       0.01      0.04     0.05       90       0.04   90
(lv) Training                          0.03      0.48     0.51       0.01      0.24     0.25       94       0.24   94
Sub-Total C                             0.33      1.69     2.02        0.17     0.84      1.01      83       0.84   83
Base Cost (larch 1988)                 14.50    14.87    29.37         7.23     7.45    14.68       51       4.96   34
Contingencies
Physical IOS of A(i)(ii)(iii),
5X of A(iv) B(i) thru (v) & C(ii)       0.29      0.71     1.00        0.15     0.35     0.50       70       0.37   73
Price 1988-1990: 3S p.a.
1990-1992: 4S p.a.                0.22     0.52      0.74       0.11      0.26     0.37       70       0.27   73
TOTAL                                15.01    16.10    31.11         7.49     8.06    15.55       52       5.60   36
APRIL 1988



- 17
D.       Economic Justification
3.09     The project is  designed  to  reduce transport costs, particularly
vehicle operating costs, and to defer large capital outlays which would
otherwise be needed if adequate and timely maintenance was not carried out.
Economic benefits would also be derived from the institutional development
elements of the project which would increase the Government's capacity for
highway management, improve resource allocation and strengthen coordination
in transport.
3.10     All physical  components  for  which  financing  would be provided
under the project, including the related consultants services, have been
subject to full economic  evaluation  during  appraisal.   The analysis was
done for each  individual  component  and  for  all  components as a whole.
Although investment alternatives  in  Belize  are  few, and the opportunity
cost of capital is likely to  be low, standard economic acceptance criteria
have been followed for evaluation of  the  project and its components.  The
details of the economic evaluation are included in Annex 2, and the most
likely results, low traffic growth and no time-related benefits, are
summarized below.
Most likely
Highway Sections Financed                                 Economic Rate
Under the Loan                                      of Return (2)
A. Rehabilitation
San Ignacio-Benque Viejo                                      15.9
Central American Boulevard                                    25.1
Haulover Bridge-Belize City                                   43.1
Drainage Southern Highway                                     38.5
B. Maintenance
Reseal San Ignacio-Belmopan                                   77.3
Reseal Haulover Bridge-Ladyville                            >100.0
Reseal Corozal-Santa Elena                                  >100.0
Routine Maintenance Northern Highway                          65.2
Routine/Periodic Maint. Southern Highway                    >100.0
C. Total Physical Components Financed
All A and B                                                 33.6
E.       Environmental Impact
3.11     Annex 1 gives an overview of the present condition of the highways
where the   project's  civil  work  components  would  be  carried out.  No
unfavorable environmental effects would be brought about by the project as
it would not involve new  construction.    It would, however, have positive
effects, particularly in Belize City, San Ignacio and Benque Viejo where
the existing roads would be rehabilitated and upgraded to paved standards,
thus improving drainage and reducing road dust air pollution, and along the



- 18 _
sections of the Southern Highway, where adequate drainage would be built
allowing year-round road  services.    Furthermore, consultants responsible
for supervision of civil works, would conduct surface surveys of possible
Maya mounds within 50 m of the roads, and would ensure that such mounds are
not destroyed by drainage and other rod works.
F.       Prolect Risks
3.12     This would  be  the  second  operation  in  the highways subsector
involving proven civil works techniques and procedures. MOW's experience,
gained with the first Bank-financed project, should reduce the risks
associated with project implementation management.
3.13     There are two main risks  connected with the project:  counterpart
funding and the relative technical weakness of the local construction
industry.   In  recent  years,  the  Governme.it's  local  cost  funding was
supplemented, when required, with USAID financial support. This assistance
ensured in many cases, one of which was the previous Bank-financed highway
project, the timely availability of the necessary counterpart funds. Such
support would no longer be available.    To mitigate the risk of a bhortage
of counterpart funds, a deliberately moderate implementation program was
developed and adopted. The other element of risk lies with the limited
number and technical capacity of the possible local contractors. This risk
would be minimized by the programmed technical assistance-cum-training to
be provided by the supervisory consultants, and by the ICB procedures which
would apply to procurement of rehabilitation and resea'Ling civil works and
which might attract foreign regional contractors.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
A.       Project Execution
4.01     The project would be  completed  by  the  Government in about four
years (from mid-1988 to mid-1992), with MOW acting as executing agency.
MOW has now acceptable experience in procurement of civil works, goods and
services, but is short of experienced engineers and qualified field
technicians. To ensure proper management and timely monitoring of the
project's main components, MOW has agreed to retain consultants. M'oreover,
the Chief Engineer would be appointed as project coordinator, with
functions and responsibilties acceptable to the Bank, and suitable key
officers would be assigned as counterparts to the consultants prior to the
start up of the civil works contracts.
4.02     The  engineering  studies  have   been  completed  with  financing
provided under the Bank's  Project  Preparation  Facility.  The consultants
retained were those who had been involved in earlier stages of preparation
of  the  proposed   project,   under   the   first   Road  Maintenance  and
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2273-BEL).   Preparation of final engineering,
where applicable, and the necessary tendering documents and procurement
notices in accordance with Bank guidelines were completed in May 1988.
4.03     Bids for the initial project  works  would  be submitted to MOW in
September 1988, contract awards would be finaiized in November 1988, and



- 19 _
site mobilization would be completed in December 1988. Road works would
begin in January 1989. Barring any unforeseen delays, the works would be
completed by June 1992, allowing for an overall three-month delay in
implementation. Road rehabilitation and improvement works, and periodic
and routine maintenance financed under the project would be carried out by
private centractors.   As  part  of  the  hands-on  training of MOW's field
maintenance personnel, consultants would assist to implement force account
routine maintenance on the San Ignacio-Belmopan section of the Western
Highway (36.8 km).    This  controlled  effort  would  also help MOW obtain
detailed costs for the standard maintenance activities, facilitate cost
comparisons between the pilot contract maintenance and the force account
maintenance over the rest of the network, and provide the necessary
analytical  elements  for  recommending   maintenance  policy  reforms,  if
warranted.    Findings  and  recommendations  based  on  pa.tisl  and final
evaluations of contract and force account maintenance would be jointly and
bi-annually reviewed by MOW and the Bank by not later than June 30 and
December 31 of each year, beginning  in  1989.   Based on the joint review,
action programs, acceptable to the Bank would be drawn up and implemented.
4.04     Funding for, and  actual  expenditures  by  section of highway and
district, under the rolling three-year maintenance program (Table 4) would
be monitored and bi-annually reviewed jointly by MOW and the Bank, also no
later than June 30 and December 31 of each year, beginning in 1989. The
review by June 30 each year would cover, inter alia, the implementation
performance of MOW's road maintenance program for the previous year, and
the review by December 31 each year would cover the road maintenance
program fo- the following year and would include, as necessary, revisions
of the funding requirements. Based on the experience gained in the first
two years of project implementation MOW's existing maintenance management
system would be revised and empirically validated by not later than
December 31, 1990. Based on the revised system, the resulting three-year
(1991-93)  maintenance  program  would  be   reviewed  by  the  Bank.    No
disbursements would be made for the rehabilitation of the Central American
Boulevard and the Haulover Bridge-Belize City highway sections, and for the
resealing of the Belmopan-San Ignacio, Corozal-Santa Elena and Haulover
Bridge-Ladyville highway sections unless the Bank would have found the
three-year maintenance program acceptable. This agreement, already reached
at the time of field appraisal, was also confirmed during negotiations.
4.05     In order to ensure  consistent  availability of counterpart funds,
during negotiations confirmation was obtained from the Government that it
would include in its annual budget, appropriate counterpart funds. The
counterpart funds required, both for the project comoonents for which
financing would be provided under the loan and for the balance of the
maintenance program are as follows:
Loan-financed           Balance of the
Fiscal Year               Project Components      Maintenance Program
------------US$ Equivalent-------------
1988/89                      250,000                  2,600,000
1989/90                      535,000                  2,800,000
1990/91                      570,000                  2,550,000
1991/92                      525,000                  2,600,000



- 20 -
4.06     The project's implementation schedule  is  shown  in Chart 1.  The
scheduling of works was done taking into account the length and effect of
annual rainy seasons (July through November) on road works, the size and
type of work and location of the proposed work sites, and the need to avoid
peaking of counterpart fund  requirements.    The  schedule of main project
preparation and implementation events is shown in Annex 3. Works and
technical assistance would begin in January 1989, as detailed in Annex 4.
As the supervision consultants would assist local bidders and MOW with pre-
qualification and bid submission procedures, they would be required to be
in place by August 1988.   Hiring  of such consultants would be a condition
of loan effectiveness and bidding would not start until the consultants are
in place.  Both conditions were confirmed during    ,tiations.
4.07     Upon completion  of  the  technical  assistance  for institutional
coordination of transport functions and agencies, the basic accounting
studies, and the annual audit reports, MOW and the Bank would jointly
review the findings and recommendations as well as the overall project
implementation during the meetings programmed to take place by not later
than June 30 and December 31 of each year, beginning in 1989. Action
programs discussed with, and acceptable to the Bank would be prepared in
order to implement the resulting policy, organizational and other reforms.
Agreements on the above were confirmed during negotiations.
4.08     Details  of  the  current  condition  of  the  highways  where the
project's civil works components would be developed are given in Annex 1.
B.       Cost Estimates and Financing
4.09     The total project cost of  US$15.6  million has a foreign exchange
component of US$8.1 million.   The  Government would finance the equivalent
of  US$10.0  million,  including  taxes.    A  three-year  rolling  highway
maintenance program ha3 been included under the project and requires MOW to
carry out force account maintenance without provision being made in the
loan for financing any part of it. Performance in programming, budgeting
and executing the activities shown in Table 4 would be monitored and
evaluated, and the program would be annually updated.
4.10     Cost estimates for  road  rehabilitation  and drainage improvement
works were based on quantities derived from final engineering studies.
Physical contingencies for this type of work of 10? were applied to base
costs.   Cost  estimates  for  periodic  maintenance  (resealing)  of paved
sections were based on field assessment of the highway conditions carried
out by MOW, with assistance from consultants. For routine maintenance of
paved and gravel-surfaced roads, and for periodic maintenance of the latter
type of roads, the cost estimates have been made based on materials,
equipment  and  labor  requirements   to  perform  normative  and  specific
maintenance activities.   These  requirements  are  part of the maintenance
management system developed by consultants under the pr0v sus Bank-financed
project.    For  periodic  and  routine  maintenance  works  by  contract a
provision for physical contingencies of 52 of the base costs was adopted.
4.11     For training abroad, the  cost  estimates  were  based on two man-
years of maintenance management training and one man-year for transport
planning training. Two engineers and two foremen of MOW's permanent staff



- 21 -
would be trained during at least a period of six months on organization of
maintenance programning and budgeting, control, field operations, adminis-
tration of contracts, methods, reports, etc. under cooperation arrange-
ments, already initiated, with relevant well-established regional and
national maintenance agencies in other countries. For transport planning,
at least one economist would be selected to participate in post-graduate
training courses abroad.
4.12     Cost  estimates  for  consulting  services  are  based  on  recent
contract rates per man-month for similar services by foreign firms,
including wages, fees, international travel and subsistence. A total of
about 118 man-months would be required for the completion of the design
studies, including bidding documents, for supervision of civil works and
training of MOW and contractors' personnel, and for technical assistance on
institutional coordination and basic accounting.   Annex 5 shows an outline
of terms of reference for design and supervision-cum-training professional
assistance while Annexes 6 and 7 show outlines of terms of reference for
the technical assistance on institutional coordination and accounting
procedures. Timing and scope of these professional services were confirmed
during negotiations.
4.13     The average foreign exchange  component  has been estimated at 732
for rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works on paved highways. This
relative value reflects the dependence on imported supplies. A similar
analysis based on the breakdown of inputs for main construction items, and
on unit prices gives 612 as estimate of the foreign exchange component for
drainage improvement works. For routine maintenance of paved sections, the
foreign exchange component was estimated at 352, while the same relative
value, in the case of gravel surfaced roads, including periodic replacement
of gravel was estimated at 652. Conaulting services for design studies and
for technical assistance to study transport policy coordination and
accounting procedures are estimated to have a 902 foreign exchange
component, while those for supervision and training are estimated as 73Z
and  942,  respectively.    The  percentages  for  design,  supervision and
training services have been based on actual (tentative) proposals that MOW
has already received from consultants and considered acceptable, for the
scope, time and personnel requirements corresponding to different tasks.
C.       Disbursements, Special Account and Auditing
4.14     Disbursements would be  made  against  the following categories of
eligible expenditures:
(a)   732  of  total   expenditures   for   all  civil  works  and
maintenance;
(b)   1002 of the  foreign  expenditures for consultants' services
and training abroad; and
(c)   Refunding of the Project Preparation Advance.
4.15     The esttmated schedule of disbursements is  shown in Table 5.  The
project is expected to be completed by June 1992, and the loan to be fully
Jisbursed by December 1992. The estimated disbursement profile is based on



- 22 _
the experience with the previous Bank-financed highway project and takes
into account the relatively simple nature of the civil works involved and
the expeditious legal procurement procedures of Belize. The disbursement
profile thus differs from the average profile of Bank-financed highway
projects in Latin America and the Caribbean which applies to projects with
large, complex highway components and frequently delayed implementation due
to cumbersome procurement procedures.
4.16     To  speed  up  reimbursement   to   the  Government  for  eligible
expenditures to be financed by the loan, a special account would be opened
in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of US$0.6 million made from the
loan account. The Government would be entitled to make withdrawals from
the special account for fully documented payments representing the Bank's
share of the project's cost incurred by MOW on Bank-approved contracts.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms and conditions for
operation of the special account.
4.17     In addition,  it  was  agreed  that  independent auditors (private
firm), acceptable to the Bank would be retained to audit MOW's accounts,
the special account and all other project-related accounts, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles, and to recommernd improvements in
accounting, as necessary.    Annual  audit  reports  would  be prepared and
forwarded to the Bank not later than four mont,is after the end of each
fiscal year.
D.       Procurement and Monitoring
4.18     Plans,  specifications,  bidding  documents,  award  proposals and
contracts for road rehabilitation and maintenance works would be subject to
prior review and approval  by  the  Bank.   All rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance civil works to be financed under the project would be procured
in accordance with  Ban'x  guidelines.    All rehabilitation and maintenance
work contracts estimated to have a base cost of US$450,000 equivalent or
more would be procured under international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures. Procurement for periodic and routine maintenance civil works
estimated to have a base cost below US$450,000 equivalent would be carried
out under  local  competitive  bidding  (LCB)  procedures.    In all cases,
prequalification of civil works contractors would be required. For reasons
of continuity and given their good past performance, MOW would wish to
retain for supervision of civil works and training the same consultants
(New Zealand) that provided technical assistance for the implementation of
the first Bank-financed highway project and who initiated and completed the
engineering for the proposed project.   This procedure is acceptable to the
Bank and is consistent with the Bank's guidelines. Technical assistance
services  would  also  be   selected   and  engaged  following  the  Bank's
guidelines. All procurement and related matters were discussed and agreed
upon during negotiations.



- 23 _
4.19     Procurement arrangements for components  to be financed5 under the
project would bet
Project Element                         Procurement Procedures
-------------US$ million----------------
LCB       ICB      OTHER      TOTAL
- Rehabilitation and              0.24      4.66                 4.90
Resealing of Highways          (0.18)    (3.40)      -        (3.58)
- Routine Maintenance             0.76      -          0.05      0.81
of Paved Highway Section       (0.56)     -         C _ )     (0.56)
- Routine and Periodic            0.44      -          -         0.44
Maintenance of Unpaved         (0.32)     -          -        (0.32)
Highway Section
- Balance of Routine Maint.       -                    8.00      8.00
(-)       (-)
- Completion of Drainage          0.32      -          -         0.32
(0.24)     -         -         (0.24)
- Design and Supervision of       -         -          0.78      0.78
Civil Works                     -         -         (0.62)    (0.62)
- Technical Assistance            -         -          0.05      0.05
(0.04)    (0.04)
- Training                        -         -          0.25      0.25
(0.24)    (0.24)
TOTAL                         1.76      4.66       9.13     15.55
(j..30)    (3.4C,)   (0.90)    (5.60)
4.20     Progress of the civil works components would be closely supervised
by consultants. MOW confirmed at negotiations that it would assign a road
maintenance  officer  and  a   training   officer  as  counterpart  to  the
supervision-training consultants by no later than December 31, 1988. The
counterpart staff, jointly with the consultants would review and adjust as
needed, the existing maintenance management system, prepare a revised
maintenance program and proceed to instruct maintenance personnel, revise
technical specifications, advise contractors and assist in carrying out
the program. In addition, progress would be monitored against the agreed
implementation schedule and the related level of actual and programmed
expenditures  (para.  4.05).    Of   particular  importance  would  be  the
monitoring of scope, funding, productivity and costs of maintenance
activities, by district and highway section, based on the full application,
and revisions as necessary of the maintenance management system in place.
MOW, with assistance from the supervision consultants, would regularly
(quarterly) report progress on the project, including the maintenance
5/ Figures in ( ) correspond to loan financing.



- 24 -
program. The maintenance program (Table 4) as well as the scope and timing
of reporting requirements were confirmed with the Government during
negotiations.
E. Bank Processing
4.21     The project was appraised  in  November 1987 and negotiations took
place in April 1988.
4.22     The Government has requested  and  obtained  a loan advance, under
the Bank's Project Preparation Facility, to meet foreign expenditures of
completing the engineering studies for the project components. The Project
Preparation Facility was for US$250,000.
4.23     The schedule of main events  for implementing the project is shown
in Annex 3. Loan effectiveness is expected for July 1988, and the project
is to be completed by June 1992, allowing for a delay of about 8Z (three
months).
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Confirmed
5.01     During the  Bank's  appraisal  of  the  project,  MOW undertook to
assign its Chief Engineer as project coordinator and retain consultants to
ensure proper management and timely supervision of the project's civil
works and maintenance components (para. 4.01). The Bank has accepted MOW's
request to retain, for supervision of civil works and maintenance training,
the same consulting firm which had been involved in project preparation in
order to complete engineering studies and tender documents (para. 4.02).
5.02     Loan effectiveness  would  be  contingent  upon  the assignment of
MOW's Chief Engineer as Project Coordinator, with functions and respon-
sibilitites acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.01), and the hiring of con-
sultants for supervision of civil works, maintenance and training (para
4.05).
5.03     No disbursements  would  be  made  for  the  rehabilitation of the
Central American  Boulevard  and  the  Haulover  Bridge-Belize City highway
sections, and for the resealing of the Belmopan-San Ignacio, Corozal-Santa
Elena and Haulover Bridge-Ladyville highway sections unless the Bank would
have received and found acceptable the 1991-1993 Maintenance Program, and
for disbursements to continue the Bank would have to be satisfied with the
progress made to implement it (para. 4.04).
5.04     The following agreements were also confirmed during negotiations:
(i)  MOW  to monitor,  review,  and  adjuat  as needed, with assistance
from the civil works supervision-cum-training consultants and
their counterparts, the existing maintenance management system;
prepare and update the three-year maintenance program; instruct
its maintenance personnel, revise technical specifications, advise



- 25 -
contractors of changes, and carry out the program; system to be
fully validated by not later than December 31, 1990 (paras. 4.04
and 4.20);
(ii)  biannual joint  reviews,  by  MOW  and  the  Bank,  of progress in
project implementation including the findings and recommendations
resulting from the evaluation of contract and force account road
maintenance, the three year rolling maintenance program and its
implementation,  the  technical   assistance  on  coordination  of
functions and responsibilities, the basic accounting study and the
ann^ual audit reports; and action programs, discussed with and
acceptable to the Bank would be drawn up and implemented (paras.
4.03 and 4.07); such reviews to take place by not later than June
30 and December 31 each year, beginning in 1989;
(iii)  supervision consultants to be  in  place before bidding procedures
are started (para. 4.06);
(iv)  bids for civil works scheduled  for  the first year of the project
would be submitted by September 1988, contract awards would be
finalized in November 1988, and road works would begin in January
1989 (para. 4.03); other components would be scheduled for
implementation as per Chart 1 and Annexes 3 and 4 (para. 4.06);
(v) terms and conditions for the Special Account (para. 4.16);
(vi)  inclusion, in the Government's annual budget, of agreed amounts of
counterpart funds to ensure full and project-specific financing
consistent with the implementation program (paras 4.05 and 4.20);
(vii)  MOW to retain  independent  (private)  auditors, acceptable to the
Bank, to annually audit its accounts, the Special Account and all
project-related accounts, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, and to recommend improvements in accounting, if found
necessary; annual audit reports to be prepared and forwarded to
the Bank not later than four months after the end of each fiscal
year (para. 4.17);
(viii)  procedures, arrangements and  related  matters  for procurement of
civil works and professional services (para. 4.18);
(ix) MOW to assign, as counterpart to the supervision-cum-training
consultants, a road maintenance officer and a training officer by
not later than December 31, 1988 (para. 4.20); and
(x) scope and timing of reporting requirements (para. 4.20).
B. Recommendation
5.05     Subject to the above, the project  pr.,vides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$5.6 million.  The terms would be 17 years including a five-
year grace period.



-26 -
TABLE 1
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Traffic - Vehicles Per day
1974          1979           1984        1985       1987      Average
Station    (January)   (February)    (December)    (July)   (October)  X Heavy
1         1,521         2,235        2,168        2,167      2,499          28
2           680         1,115        1,123        1,516      1,113           35
3           248           616           534         558        642          33
4           169           269           563         350        379           34
5         1,425           397        1,245          895      1,048          31
6           669         1,476        1,419        1,155        677           34
7           324           523           463         387         na          32
8           271             71        1,070         833        343           18
9           519           498          2080         945        990           32
10           897         2,187         1,773         939      1,350           36
11           247           234           111          67         85           45
12           146           329           167         141         na           49
13           226         1,313           290         221         na           47
14           180           279           194         194         na           40
15            77           274           n a          53         na           58
16           287           103            89          70         na           30
17           577         1,022           679         640        750           39
18           547           674           614         583        886           46
19           108           117           135         274         na           75
20           229           465           546         474        549           26
21           746           872           935         928        191           28
22           435           433           539         523        639           22
23            85            69            43          33         49           28
24           184           375           352         416        346           16
25            69             92          106         116         na           40
26           347           336           408         304         na           25
27            55           127           142         104        153           28
28            56           123            96          87         na           41
29            31             80           86          69        105           36
30            24             75          137         150        171           19
31a           27           173           123         239         na           34
31b           91           n a           166         102        201           34
32           501           363           463         420        406           37
33            30             75           82         101         na           30
34           761            766          919         285         na           51
34a          895           987           895         425        319           54
35           206           309            na         109         na           53
36           109           177           132         103        145           35
37           n a           326           369         424        440           27
38            86            88           223         233         na           23
39           n a           553           374         378        323           11
40           n a             97           72          47         na           41
41           n a           227           276          94         na           50
Source:  MOW
November 1987



- 27 -
Note
Station                             Location
1      Northern Road, 3 miles from Belize City
2      1 Mile north of Airport turning on Northern Road
3      1 Mile north of Burrell Boom turning on Northern Road
4      1 Mile from Carmelita Intersection on New Alignment on Northern Highway
toward Sandhill
5      Orange Walk Town - Southern exit on Northern Road
6      Orange Walk Town - Northern exdit on Northern Road
7      1 Mile down Louisville Road from Buena Vista Intersection
8      1 Mile from Remate Intersection towards Santa Elena
9      Mile 96 Corozal-Santa Elena Road
10      Mile 94 Corozal-Libertad Road
11      1 Mile down Libertad Buena Vista Road from Buena Vista Intersection
12      Orange Walk Town - Eastern exit
13      Orange Walk Town - Western exit
14      Orange Walk Town - 1 Mile down Guinea Grass Road from Northern  Highway
15      Orange Walk District -  1 Mile  down  San  Antonio  road from Yo Creek
Village
16      1 Mile West of Burrell Boom Village
17      1 Mile West of Faber's Road Intersection with Western Highway
18      1 Mile West of Hattieville on Western Highway
19      Opposite Gracie Rock Prison on Rockville Road
20      1 Mile West of roaring Creek Intersection Western Highway
21      1 Mile South of Roaring Creek Intersection on Hummingbird Highway
22      Mid-way between San Diego and San Ignacio
23      1 Mile South of San Diego
24      Between San Ignacio and Benque Viejo
25      Hummingbird Highway - 1 Mile up from Middlesex
26      Stann Creek Valley Road - 1 Mile from Stann Creek Town
27      Southern Highway - 1 Mile from Intersection with Stann Creek Valley Rd.
28      Independence Road - Beyond Intersection with Southern Highway
29      Southern Highway - 1 Mile up from Intersection with San Antonio Road
30      1 Mile from Punta Gorda on Carib Reserve Road
31a     1 Mile towards San Antonio  from  Intersection of San Antonio Road with
Southern Highway
31b     1 Mile from Punta Gorda on Coastal Road
32      Mile 35 on Western Highway
33      1 Mile from Hattieville on the Hattieville - Burrell Boom Road
34      Corozal District - 1 Mile West of San Francisco Intersection
35      1 Mile from Yo Creek Village on the Yo Creek - San Felipe Road
36      1 Mile from Coves Branch Bridge towards Dangriga Town
37      1 Mile from Teakettle Village towards San Ignacio
38      At Boom Ferry
39      Benque Viejo - Western Exit to Border
40      0.5 Mile from Remate Junction on Corozal by-pass road
41      0.5 Mile from Concepcion-Louisville Junction on Corozal by-pass road.



- 28 -
TABLE 2
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
MOW's Road Expenditures
(000 BZ$)
1980/81   1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85   1985/86
Recurrent Expenditures
Roads, Streets,
Ferries & Taxis       6,060    5,717    4,244    3,310    3,244         3,715
Mechanical Services       379       559       446      446       459        558
Engineering Services      166       170      228       157       136        136
Subtotal              6,595    6,446    4,918    3,913    3,839         4,408
Capital Expenditures
Highway Construction
Improvement and
Rehabilitation       12,266       N A    5,600    2,500    8,000       12,000
Bridges                   929       N A    5,600    2,500    8,000       12,000
Feeder Roads              262       N A      -         -       3,500      7,000
Equipment               2,525      N A     1,300       -         -          -
Subtotal             15,982      N A     8,900    2,500   16,500       28,000
TOTAL                ,2,577      14 A    13,818    6,413   20,339      32,408
Source:  MOW
September 1987                                                                           4



- 29 -
TABLE 3
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
MOW's Equipmentl/ - Availability and Utilization
Ty.pe           Number of Units              Days Used in the Year
In Inventory  Available    z       Total  Per Unit        _ Z
Asphalt Distributors        4          4       100.0       47      12          3.3
Air Compressors             3          3       100.0        6       2          0.5
Asphalt Kettles             2          2       100.0        -       -          0.0
Line Markers                1         1        100.0        7       7          1.9
Asphalt Mixers              1          1       100.0        -       -          0.0
Backhoe                     3         3        100.0      244     81          22.2
Dozers                     10        10        100.0      753      75         20.5
Tippers                    50        44         82.0   5,747    115           31.5
Graders                    23        20         87.0   2,224       97         26.6
Loaders                    18        18        100.0   1,366       76         20.8
Rollers                    15         8         53.3      236     16           4.4
Pickup & Jeep              46        38         82.6   4,628    122           33.4
Body Stakes                 8         5         62.5      415     52          14.2
Wdheel tractors            21        16         76.2   1,163       55         15.1
Water Tankers               7          5        71.4      295      42         11.5
Source: MOW
August 1987
1/ Data corresponds to 12 months (April 1985-March 1986).



TAKE 4
StElND ROAD HATMJAINIEN AljD RB4ARIL       PROJWr
Force Account Maintonmnce Proaram mnd Cost Estimtes
_---------------------- UNTITIES PROaWAMD-------~--------- ->    <___________________-----COST PROWPMMD-- ------------ -- -- --  >
ACrIVT                         BELITe CAY COROZAL ORANCE  STANW TOLEDO   TOTALS TB7F    CAYD   COZAL                  ORANCE    STAMN      TOLEO      TOTA1S
OF                              WALK    aC                                                       WALlt      CEW
101 Pothole Patching          Cu Ydu      212    506        60     120      99       0      978    37 860  90 862   10 100      34 288      27 137        0     199 747
113 Grading Unpaved Rd.       miles       8S4    426       339    S6O      376    640   2 600    32 87   39 215  36 730         39 769      45826   39 620      243 747
141 Con Vegatation CH)        Acres        41      11        7      12      1S       0       86    11 489   3 164    1 832       S 331       4 163        0      23 979
142 Con Vegetation (M)        Acres       777    912       286    572    448    134   3 129    84 314  61 637  39 468    38 782             30 376    9 086    234 063
102 Major Patching-Paw        Cu. Yde       0   1 378        0       0     200       0    1578          0 262 680         0          0      46 826        0    308 06
111  SpotPltchlngUnpv         Cu.Ydo        0       0        0       0     441       0      441         0        0        0          0      16 9f9        0      16 969
121 Cln/ReshplDiteh HIv)      Miles         0       0        0       0       0       8        0          0       0        0          0         120   1 105        1 225
122 Cln/R  hp Ditch  M)       Milou         0    204        78      68    266      940    1 366         0   14 084   9 113       6 351      14 913  68 685    103 146
131 Cn Drn. Struct            un) Uits    148    141        74    864    85          0    1 372      8 782   11 154   9 84 o     5 664      67 6S9        0     102 785
132  HridgeMinor Maint        Units         0       0        0      32       0       0       32         0        0        0      0 797           0        0       3 797
211 Rurfreo Unpvd Rd          Cu. Yde 48 480 25 462  118 880  42 020  94 449  59 05   78 786   713 349  55 467 867 369  1 093 994    831 S24 S28327  4 085 030
TOTAL                                                                                       858 681 S37 963  974 18  1 225 976  1 084 493 641 823  5 322 994
____ -           - ----------__----------- - --            -                1989 -1990-
101 Pothole Patching          Cu.Yde      234    475        81     164     104       0    1 044    41 788  84 826   16 370    42 860        28 706        0     214 552
113 Greding Unpaved Rd.       Hiles       334    406       339      65   3858    514   2 536    32 587  37 374  36 730    39 769            26 236  49 710    222 408
141 Con Vgatation (H)         Acres        41      11        7      12      15       0       86    11 489   3 164    9 113       S 381       4 163        0      31 260
842 Con Vegetation hl5         Acres      804    e93       286    716    431       128   3 2S8    54 814  60 649   39 468    42 548         30 376  10 135    243 S90
102 Major Ptehing-Pa          Cu. Yde       0   1 316        0       0    200        0    1 S16         0 250 861         0          0      41 702        0    292 66
111 Spot Patching Unpv        Cu.Yd-        0       0        0       0    441        0      441         0        0        0          0      16 969        0      16 969
121 CnjRash pDitch  H)        miles         0       0        0       0       0       3        3         0        0        0          0         120    1 103       1 225
122 ClnI;Reh: Ditch (H        Mi ls         0     194       78      68   1 206    600   2 346           0   1S 384    9 113       851       14 913  66 280      110 051                W
S   Cln Drn. Struct (         ui) its     148    139       1I3    562    814         0    1791      a 782   10 96   10 067      14124       67 639        0     111608                  o
1S2 Bridge Minor Maint        Units         0       0        0      32       0       0       32         0        0        0      3 797           0        0       3 797
211 Reurface Unpvd Rd         Cu. Yd- 66 850  12 444  115 750 118 650  94 449 53 297 460 440   978 370  187 987 841 260   986 328    779 161  640 701  4 363 827
TOTAL                                                                                     1 127 s   649 151 962 141  1 095 108  1 009 987 767 931  S 611 846
---------------------------------                                  -----1990 - 1991--------------------                                                    
101 Pothole Patching          Cu.Yd-      200    475        36     15O    104        0      965    35 716  84 755    7 672    42 860        28 708        0     199 711
115 Grading Unpaved Rd.       Miles       344    436       339    S65    341       464   2 489    81 482  40 136   36 730    39 789         26 236  49 710    224 063
141 Con Vegatatlon ()         Acres        41      11        7      12      15       0       86     11 469   8164    1 832       8 81        4 163        0      23 979
842 Con Veetation (H)         Acres       804    903       286    S72      414    116   3 098    54 541   61 227   39 468    38 782         30 S76  10 035    234 402
102 Major Ptching-Pav         Cu. Yd-       0   1 253        0       0     200       0    1 483         0 238 852         0          0      45 826        0     284 678
111  SpotP tching Unv         Cu.Yd-        0       0        0       0     419       0      419         0        0        0          0      16122         0      16 122
121C7n/l?hp Ditch   )         Hilve         0       0        0       0       0       3        9         0        0        0          0         120    1 10       1 225
122 Clnjelshp Ditch ()        Miles         0     194       78      68     196    800    1 336          0   13 79    9 115        8 351     19 532  66 280    lO9 O1S
131 Cin Drn. Struct H)        Unit        148    140       138     S2      775       0    1 758     8 782  11 075   10 067      14 124      67 639        0      Ill 687
132  rdgrd   linor Maint      Unite         0       0       00      32       0       0       82         0        0        0      3 797           0        0       3 797
211  ReAurfae Unpvd Rd        Cu. YdV  73 085 24 041   48 325 S7 940  94 449 51 998  347 78S 1 075 324 241 230 464 826    68s 260    779 161 640 701  8 884 504
TOTAL                                                                                     1 217 307 694 178  569 710   832 274   1 O0l 683  161 831   5 093 183
dnE: Cote aro e*preaged in constant June 1987 values.
H a _nualH - _mechanied                                                                                                                                                   >
November 1987



- 31 -
TABLE 5
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
Disbursement/           Cumulative                2
Semester                Semester             Disbursement             Diab.
FY/88
Dec 1987                  -
Jun 1988                 0.2                       0.2                 3.6
FY/89
Dec 1988                 0.1                       0.3                 5.4
Jun 1989                 1.2                       1.5                26.8
FY/ 90
Dec 1989                 0.7                       2.2                39.3
Jun 1990                 0.7                       2.9                51.8
FY/ 91
Dec 1990                 0.7                       3.6                64.3
Jun 1991                 1.0                       4.6                82.1
FY192
Dec 1991                 0.9                       5.5                98.2
Jun 1992                 0.1                       5.6               100.0
Sources Mission Estimates
April 1988



- 32 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Present Condition of the Proiect's Civil Works Components
The Southern Highway
1.       The Southern Highway is located in poorly drained lowlands between
Dangriga and Punta Gorda.   In  general, its alignment parallels the north-
south direction of the Atlantic coastline and is roughly perpendicular to
the creeks and rivers draining the large area from the main Maya Mountains
range  to  the  west  of  the  Southern  Highway.    As  a  result  of this
configuration, the highway is subjected to strong destructive action of
rains and floods during the long rainy season (June-November). The soils
adjacent to the road erode easily and silt up the road's drainage system,
reducing its efficiency. The road's drainage was recently improved along
some 64 kms under the Bank's First Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Project, but has not received the necessary routine maintenance. Besides
regular maintenance, improvements along an additional 40 km section are
required consisting of construction of culverts, lateral ditches, drainage
outfalls, and improved surface drainage.
The Western Highway
2.       The  section  of  the  Western  Highway  between  San  Ignacio and
Belmopan traverses a gertly ondulating area with most vertical grades not
exceeding 42. The road, which has a reasonably good alignment, was paved
in 1981 with UK financing, but has since deteriorated.   With the exception
of two sections totalling some 10 km which were sealed in 1985 with Bank
financing, the road needs to be repaired and properly maintained. There is
no evidence of major subgrade failure but there are weak subgrade areas,
potholes, extensive ravelling of pavement edges, loss of shoulder material,
inadequate lateral drainage and some localized alligator cracking. The
surface has roughness levels estimated to vary between 5,000 and 7,000 mm
per km along 70Z of its length, and well above 7,000 mm per km along the
remaining extension.
The Northern Highway
3.       Two sections of this road, namely Corozal-Santa Elena and Haulover
Bridge-Ladyville were rehabilitated in 1985 under the first Bank-financed
road project, and are scheduled for resealing in 1991. Part of the latter
section is marked by severe bleeding caused by inadequate quantity and
quality of surfacing materials.   Shoulders are narrow, uneven and degraded
on both highway sections.    The  section  from  the Haulover Bridge to the
Central American Boulevard in Belize City is constructed along a narrow
strip of land between the Belize River and the Atlantic Ocean. The section
of this highway adjacent to the Haulover Bridge is often flooded during
seasonal



- 33 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
storms; the existing low profile grade needs to be raised. The existing
pavement surface is in very poot condition and has a high index of
roughness. Failures of the road's foundation have occurred which, in some
cases, are as deep as 200  mm.    This  creates a serious hazard to traffic
which is presently estimated above 2,500 vpd.
4.       The unpaved  1.7  km  section  of  the  Central American Boulevard
ending at the access gate to the Belize City Port, is dangerous to both
vehicle traffic and pedestrians. It is also impassable when water does not
drain during  and  after  heavy  rains.    Besides  paving, concrete curbs,
sidewalks, and street signs for safety are also lacking. Because o' its
importance to heavy port traffic, costly efforts to maintain the road in
fair condition are regularly performed.
5.       An inspection of the Northern  Highway, carried out along its full
length between Belize City and Santa Elena on the Mexican border, showed
that about 402 of it is in fair condition, though localized areas of
failure, degraded shoulders and high surface roughness varying between
4,000 and 5,500 mm per km are common along these sections. About 302 of
the length of the highway presents higher roughness--up to 7,000 mm per km-
-although the surface does not yet show evidence of pavement failure.
Shoulders are  degraded  and  drainage  is  poor  along  some  parts.   The
remaining 302 of the highway's extension has poor surface conditions, is
highly deformed and cracked and along 10 km (mile 3 to 5 and mile 9 to 13)
the pavement is completely failed.   The side borr   pits located alone the
roadway, from which material was obtained for the construction of the
road's sub-base, are filled with drain water which weakens the subgrade
support and accelerates the failure of the pavement structure.



- 34 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 7
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Details of Economic Evaluation
A.       GENERAL
1.       Vehicle counts, lastly carried out  in  October 1987, were used to
base traffic projections on the highway sections which are to be financed
under the project. The main elements considered were past traffic growth,
and past and projected economic  growth.l/    Care  was taken to reduce the
effect of seaeonal variations on historic traffic data and to adjust for
uncounted night time traffic.    No  induced  traffic  was considered.  The
table on the following page shows ADT volumes for each highway or highway
section.
2.       For  projections,  two  scenarios   (A  and  B)  were  considered:
Scenario A presupposes a relatively high growth rate, and Scenario B a low
one.   Traffic  growth  was  projected  making  use  of  values  for income
elasticity of  demand  for  transport.    For  countries  with the economic
structure similar to Belize, the elasticity of overall freight traffic with
respect to  GDP  is  positive  and  greater  than  one.    Higher stages of
development tend to lower this elasticity value and approximate to one. A
freight traffic-GDP elasticity of 1.4 was adopted for projecting heavy
vehicle volumes.   For  light  vehicle  projections, a passenger-income per
capita elasticity of 1.1 was adopted. GDP was assumed to grow at a
sustained annual 52 in Scenario A and at 32 in Scenario B; population was
projected growing annually  at  a  sustained  21.   When projection-related
specific elements were available, as was the case with imports and exports
through the Port of Belize (and its road access), the above traffic
projections were checked  for  consistency.    Past evidence available also
shows that regional growth patterns do not differ significantly from the
national average.
3.       Besides rehabilitation and  periodic  maintenance costs, including
the cost of supervising the implementation of civil works, vehicle
operating and travel time costs were calculated in economic terms. For
this purpose the methodology developed for the Bank's Highway Design Model
III (HDMIII) was used. Shadow prices were not applied, and economic values
were defined as financial costs net of fiscal transfers. The estimated
economic life as well as the residual value at the end of it was assumed to
vary according to the type of civil work improvement proposed; only for
1/ -Five Year Macro-economic Plan for Belize, 1985-1989, Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and Economic Development.
-Export Transportation Master Plan (Sept 1985), Ministry of Commerce
and Industry.



- 35 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Average Daily Trafficl/ on Proiect Highways
1987                2000 A2/               2000 B3/
Highway Section         Total  Light  Heavy  Total   LiRht  Heavy   Total  Liht   Heavy
Central Amer. Blvd.       880    783      97  1,375   1,140    235   1,055    890        165
Haulover Br.-Belize    2,500  1,815    685  4,220   2,570  1,650   3,230  2,060   1,170
Haulover Br.-Ladyville 1,170    760    410  2,065   1,075    990   1,565    865          700
Ladyville-B.Vista         750    495    255  1,260       700    560      975    570      405
B.Vista-Libertad          355    165    190    655       235    420      495    190      305
Libertad-Corozal        1,500    960    540  2,550   1,360  1,190   1,960  1,090         870
Corozal-Remate          1,100    750    350  1,830   1,060    770   1,415    850         565
Remate-S.Elena            380    310      70    595      440    155      465    350      115
Belmopan-S.Ignacio        490    360    130    820       510    310      630    410      220
S.Ignacio-Benque Viejo   385    320       65    655      455    200      475    365      110
Jct.Humming-Deep Riv.    135       95     40    230      135      95     180    110       70
1/ ADT
2/ Normal ADT for high growth scenario (A)
3/ Normal ADT for most likely scenario (B)
SOURCEs MOW and Mission Estimates
December 1987



- 36 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
major rehabilitation works was a residual value adopted. Sensitivity tests
performed were based on recalculating the net benefit streams increasing
costs by 102 and decreasing total benefits by 202. The results obtained
are shown in the table at the end of this Annex.
B.       REHABILITATION CIVIL WORKS
(i)    San Ignacio-Bengue Viejo
4.       Over a period  of  more  than  25  years,  the Western Highway has
progressively been upgraded, beginning in Belize City towards the west and
reaching today the town of San Ignacio with -adequate and continuous
surface-sealed  capacity.    Between  San   Ignacio  and  the  border  with
Guatemala, the only section of the Western Highway still unpaved, the
highway follows the ground contours with generally poor vertical and
horizontal alignment limiting safe overtaking to only about 252 of the
section's length. The layer of gravel has practically been lost along all
the length and serious drainage problems, a combination of the lack of
adequate drainage structures and the road built originally lower than the
adjacent ground, cause flooding, frequ'nt damage and traffic interruptions
during the wet season.
5.       The project would  upgrade  the  section  between  San Ignacio and
Benque Viejo, which funnels all land trade and passenger traffic with
Guatemala, and transit trade between Guatemala and Mexico, to the same
standard as the remainder of the Western Highway including a bituminous
treated  surface.    Though   alternative   alignments  were  studied,  the
rehabilitation and upgrading of the highway section along its existing
alignment was retained based on cost-benefit considerations.
6.       The projected growth  under  Scenario  A  could be exceeded should
Mexico's trade with and  through  Belize  recover.    The economic life was
considered to be 15 years and the residual value 402 of the base cost. The
ERR was found to vary between 20.7? (Scenario A with time-related benefits)
and 15.9Z (Scenario B with no time-related benefits). Increasing costs by
102 would lower the same ERR values to 192 and 142; decreasing benefits by
202 would result in ERRs between 14Z and 102.
(ii)    Central American Boulevard
7.       The Central American Boulevard  follows  the Belize City limits to
the West and connects the Northern Highway and the Western Highway with the
Belize City Port.    Consequently,  it  carries  considerable long distance
heavy traffic to and from the port and local traffic which enters and
leaves through the numerous side roads. The section from the intersection



- 37 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
with the Northern Highway to the intersection with the Western Highway has
been constructed as a four-lane road with a central median. Two lanes
serve long distance traffic and two lanes local traffic. The remainder of
the Central American Boulevard, from the intersection with the Western
Highway to the Port is an unpaved road with level cross-section and serious
drainage and maintenance problems, particularly in wet weather. Dust, air
pollution and pedestrians' safety are also serious concerns, given the
urban characteristic of the zone transversed by the road.
8.       The first part of the Central  American Boulevard, about 1 km from
the intersection with the Western Highway towards the Port, would be
constructed as a continuation of the four-lane section on account of the
two distinct types of traffic using the  road.   The second part would be a
basic two-lane surface-sealed section, about 0.8 km long, reaching the
access gate to the Belize City Port.
9.       About 880 vehicles per  day  excluding  strictly local traffic are
estimated to use two lanes of the four-lane project section of the Central
American Boulevard, with about one third that volume using the remaining
section. Projections of heavy traffic are consistent with independent
projections for import and export volumes through the Port of Belize. A
15-year economic life period was adopted. with reseals taking place at the
end of seven and fifteen  years  of  service.   The ERRs obtained fluctuate
between 32.82 (Scenario A with time-related benefits) and 25.12 (Scenario B
and no time-related benefits). Increasing costs by 102 would lower the ERR
range to between 301 and 232, and decreasing all benefits by 202 would
lower the same range to between 272 and 202.
(iii)    Haulover Bridge-Belize City
10.      This is the major  trafficked  section  of  the highway network of
Belize; it carries traffic to and from the international airport, Mexico
and important towns (Orange Walk, Corozal) and other productive areas. As
such, the road is of paramount economic and social importance. This
section had already been proposed, but not included for a rehabilitation
under the previous Bank-financed project.    The existing sealed surface of
this section is very uneven and hazardous to traffic. Intensive, yet short
lived  patching  is  continously  carried  out.    Full  reconstruction  is
required.
11.      The analysis was carried  out  for  a 15-year service life peirod,
with necessary reseals after seven and fifteen years. The resulting ERRs
fluctuate between 53.7Z (Scenario A with time-related benefits) and 43.12
(Scenario B and no time-related  benefits).   Sensitivity to a 102 increase
in cost, varies the ERRs to between 492 and 39.22; lower (202) benefits
result in ERRs between 432 to 34Z.



- 38 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
(iv)     Southern Highways Drainage
12.      The Southern Highway is generally located within the coastal plain
which is crossed by numerous water courses.    It is the only access to the
Southern areas. During the last four years, seven of the 53 one-lane
bridges constructed along the route have been reconstructed with UK aid
funding. This, and the drainage improvement program funded under the last
Bank loan, have reduced the flooding problems along the 64 km were a
drainage system was placed. The remaining section, also with frequent and
critical flooding problems, was originally included under the past Bank-
financed project but, because of cost overruns, drainage works were not
carried out on the section between Big Creek and Deep River.
13.      The section now proposed is  that  which, though critical, was not
completed with the past Bank-financed  proje:.    The highway has a gravel
surface and is in poor  condition, notwithstanding frequent grading efforts
carried out by MOW. The poor condition is mostly the result of flooding
during the rainy season due to lack of drainage between Big Creek and
Crique Negra. Further south, towards Punta Gorda, the highway also lacks
drainage, but the impact on road serviceability is not as critical.
14.      As with the other sections  proposed for rehabilitation, a 15 year
economic life period was  adopted.    The  resulting ERRs range between 442
(Scenario A and time-related benefis) and 38.5Z (Scenario B and no time-
related benefits). Sensitivity to a 102 increase in eosts lower the ERRs
to between 39Z and 342; sensitivity to a 202 decrease in total benefits
gives ERRs between 342 and 29Z.
C.       MAINTENANCE WORKS
i)    Southern Highway
15.      During the  past  several  years,  only  critical  sections of the
Southern Highway, which is unpaved, have received some maintenance, and
most  of  that  was  not   adequate.    Culverts  and  drainage  structures
constructed along the first 64 km under the previous Bank-financed project
have  not  been  maintained   and   are   not  adequately  preventing  road
deterioration. Periodic maintenance (regravelling) has virtually not been
carried out in recent years.
16.      Traffic counts on two different  sections of the highway show that
for the project section, no significantly different traffic levels are
found. Hence, traffic has been uniformly projected. The project would
finance a two-year contract for combined routine and periodic maintenance
along the section between the intersection with the Hummingbird Highway and
Deep River. For the analysis the activities with and without this project
component have been projected over a seven-year period. The ERRs are high
as expected--above 1002; with costs increasing 102 the ERRs do not fall
below 802, with an overall reduction of benefits of 20Z, the ERRs do not
fall below 505.



- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
(ii)    Northern Highway
17.      Taking  into   account   tLaffic   level   and   physical  feature
differences, the Northern Highway which is surface-sealed along all its
length, has been divided for the economic analysis into seven different
sections.   These  are:    Belize  City-Haulover  Bridge,  Haulover Bridge-
Ladyville, Ladyville-Buena Vista, Buena Vista-Libertad, Libertad-Corozal,
Corozal-Remate and Remate-Santa Elena.
18.      Works programmed, and results  obtained from the economic analysis
of the rehabilitation of the Haulover Bridge-Belize City section were
indicated before (paras. 10 and 11 of this Annex). Along all the Northern
Highway, routine maintenance has been performed unevenly and inadequately.
Periodic maintenance on some sections is also evidently needed to prevent
serious deterioration and restore the highway's serviceability. As with
the analysis for the Southern Highway, routine maintenance activities with
and without this project component have been projected over a seven-year
period. Though the timing and effect of periodic maintenance activities
are necessarily related to the performance and adequacy of routine
maintenance, separate ERRs were estimated for each project component along
the Northern Highway, that is, the three-year contract routine maintenance
of the whole highway, and the resealing of the Haulover Bridge-Ladyville
and  Corozal-Santa  Elena  sections.    The  ERRs  obtained  for  routinely
maintaining the highway are above 302 in all alternatives considered,
including the sensitivity tests.   Resealing of the Corozal-Santa Elena and
Haulover Bridge-Ladyville sections give ERRs close to 1002 and above 80?
when costs are increased 10? or benefits lowered 20?.
(iii)    Reseal of Belmopan-San Ignacio
19.      This section, due  for  periodic  maintenance (resealing) by 1991,
would be routinely maintained under MOW's force account effort with the
guidance, for training  purposes,  of  consultants.   The highway's surface
would be subsequently resealed under contract.   The ERRs estimated are 872
(Scenario A and time benefits) and 77? (Scenario B and no time-related
benefits). Sensitivity to 10? cost increases and 20? lower benefits retain
ERRs above 702.
D.       CONCLUSIONS
20.      All civil  works  components  have  ERRs  which  demonstrate their
relative high priority.   As  expected, routine maintenance activities have
the highest ERRs followed by periodic maintenance and rehabilitation
expenditures. Upgrading of the San Ignacio-Benque Viejo section has the
lowest, though clearly  acceptable  ERR.    The  ERRs  for  all civil works
components give values between 42? and 34Z. It is estimated that the least
risk alternative would be that which retains low traffic growth rates
(Scenario B) and assumes a cero value for time-related benefits. The ERR
for all civil works components is, in this case, 342. The project is
economically sound.



BEUZE
SECOUO ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sumary Results of the Economic Analysis
Base                       Cost Up 101                 Benefits Down 201
Scenario A      Scenario B      Scenario A      Scenario B      Scenario A      Scenario B
HipwyISection      Type   With   Without  With   With.ut  With   Without  With   Without  With   Without  With  Withhout
Work   Tim     Tim     Tim     Timm    Tim     Tim     Tim     Timi    Tim     Tim     Tim      Time
X       X       X       X       1       X       X       1       X       X       X       X
S.Iganclo-Benque V.   R    20.7    20.1    16.8    16.9   18.6    18.1    14.6    14.1    18.9    18.6    10.2       9.9
Central Amer. Blvd.   R    32.8   80.8    26.6    25.1    80.0    28.2    24.2    22.8   26.6    26.0   21.1    20.0
Haul.BridgeBel. City   R    65.7    61.2    46.0    48.1    49.1   4U.8    41.8    89.2   48.8    41.5    3C.8    84.4
Southern Hi.-Drainago   R    44.0   41.2    40.6    88.5    89.1    86.8    86.0     4.1   88.6    81.1    30.1    28.7        0
Corazal-S.Elons       S  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0  )100.0    98.0  >100.0   99.0    90.9    86.6
Haul.Bridge-Ladyvillo   S  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0   99.6  >100.0  >100.0   98.4    87.7
Belmopan-S.Ignacio    S    87.4    82.6    78.7    77.8    79.7    76.4    71.7    70.4   82.8    78.8    74.6    78.2
Southern Hw.-Maint.   u  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0  >100.0   94.1    88.8   82.7    70.6   63.7    54.6
Northern Nw.-Maint.   V    88.4   78.2    69.9    65.2    62.0    68.1    60.6    48.6    48.3    43.6    87.1    88.4
All Civil Works            41.8   89.6    88.8    88.6    88.8    88.7    80.9    29.8   81.2    29.4    26.9    24.6
NMTE:   R u rehabilitation; S a resealing; 1 * routine mintenance.
Source: Mission's Etimates
April 1988
OQ 
ilh 
C 



- 41 -
Annex 3
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule of Main Events
Main Event                                     Timing
1.   Board approval                                           June 1988
2.   Loan effectiveness                                       July 1988
3.   Consultants hired for supervision of civil
works and training                                       August 1988
4.   Advertise tenders for:  (i) rehabilitation of
the San Ignacio-Benque Viejo section of the
Western Highway; (ii) routine maintenance
of the Northern Highway; and (iii) drainage
works and maintenance of the Southern Highway            August 1988
5.   Contracts above (under 5) to begin implementation        January 1989
6.   Consultants hired for transport coordination
and basic accounting studies                            January 1989
7.   Begin training in maintenance on the San Ignacio-
Belmopan section of the Western Highway                 January 1989
8.   Advertise tenders for resealing the Belmopan-San
Ignacio section of the Western Highway                  August 1990
9.   Contract above (under 9) to begin implementation         January 1991
10. Advertise tenders for resealing of the Haulover
Bridge-Ladyville and Corozal-Santa Elena sections
of the Northern Highway, and for rehabilitation of
the Central American Boulevard and the Haulover
Bridge-Belize City sections                             April 1991
11.  Contracts above (u'der 11) to begin implementation    July 1991
12.  Project completion                                       June 1992 /1
13.  Closing date                                             December 1992  l
1/ Allowance made for 82 (3 months) delay in overall implementation.



- 42 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Details of Implementation Schedule
1.       Works and  related  supervision,  and  technical  assistance would
begin in January 1989, starting with:
(a)  Improvements on the  San  Ignacio-Benque  Viejo section (12.5 km),
including paving (surface treatment) which would require 24 months
to complete by December 1990;
(b) Drainage improvement works along 18 km of the Southern Highway,
between Deep River and Crique Negra would be completed in not more
than five months, by May 1989; simultaneously, the contractor
would  carry  out   maintenance   on   the   section  between  the
intersection with the Hummingbird Highway and Big Creek, which has
already a  drainage  system  in  place.    Upon  completion of the
drainage works, the contractor's obligation to carry out routine
maintenance would be extended for a period of 17 additional
months, through December 1990, over all 104 km of the Southern
Highway to Deep River;
'c) Routine maintenance by contract on the Northern Highway between
Belize City and Santa Elena on the Mexican border (152 km). The
contract works would be completed by December 1991;
(d) Routine maintenance by MOW's force account, for training purposes
on the paved Belmopan-San Ignacio section of the Western Highway
(36.8 km), which aould be completed by December 1990, in time for
a contractor to begin and complete resealing of the pavement by
February 1991.
(e) Supervision of civil works and, in the course of implementation,
tr'ining of contractors' and MOW's personnel, and supervision/
training of MOW's force account routine maintenance on selected
sections, and monitoringlevaluation of MOW's three-year (rolling)
maintenance program; and
(f) Technical assistance for institutional coordination and other
basic studies.
2.       Road rehabilitation works on  the  section of the Northern Highway
between Belize City art. the Haulover Bridge (2.6 km) would begin in July
1991 and would be completed in eight months, by February 1992. Works on
this section require careful programming as it is a heavily trafficked link
that needs to be kept open to access the Belize City International Airport.



- 43 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
By mid 1991, contract work would begin to rehabilitate the 1.8 km access
road to the Belize City Port (Central American Boulevard and Caesar's Ridge
road). Work on this section is scheduled for completion in six nonths, by
December 1991. Finally, in mid 1991, contractors would begin scheduled
periodic main- tenance on the Corozal-Santa Elena (13.7 km) and the
Haulover Bridge-Ladyville sections (5.2 km), both of the Northern Highway.
The contractor for routine maintenance along the Northern Highway would by
then have left these sections ready for surface resealing. Completion of
these periodic maintenance road works would require two months and one
month, respectively.



- 44 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Supervision of
Civil Works and Training
Obiectives
1.       The consultants' services would assist MOW in the implementation of all
civil works under the proposed Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Pro-
ject.   These  services  would  include  assistance  to  local  contractors with
expressed interest in bidding on the project's works. In the course of super-
vising the civil works, the consultants would also provide hands-on training to
MOW personnel and to local contractors who would actually be working or would
have the possibility to work for MOW under the project. The consultants would
also monitor, supervise and assess technical and administrative procedures used
to carry out road maintenance.
Scope of Consultants' Services
2.       The  tasks  would  include,  but  not  necessarily  be  limited  to the
following:
(a) Completion of engineering designs for the rehabilitation and
maintenance works financed under the project; assistance in
preparing bidding documents and in reviewing and evaluating bids;
(b) Organization, implementation and monitoring of civil works
supervision; control of quantities, quality, costs,invoices
and payments; input processing data for MOW's management
system; survey and control of ancient Maya mounds, if any,
within 50 m of the roads;
(c) Evaluation of maintenance done by contract and force account;
revision and validation of parameters in the maintenance
management system and subsequent updating of a three-year
rolling  maintenance  program;    instruction  of maintenance
personnel and contractors; and revision of technical specifi-
cations;
(d) Identification of training needs and, in the course of super-
vising civil works,  implementation  of hands-on training for
MOW and contractors' foremen, technicians, engineers, equip-
ment operators and administrative personnel;
(e) On-site assistance to contractors and MOW staff for adequate
implementation of project components.
Staffing
3.       The assistance would be provided by the following specialists:
-    a highway engineer, who  will  be the program coordinator and



- 45 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
training specialist, with experience in planning, programming
and supervising rehabilitation and maintenance civil works,
and training of maintenance personnel (36 man-months);
-    two engineers, one  with  experience  in organizing, executing and
controlling maintenance operations, and another with background on
soils, materials and construction of bituminous surface treatments
51 man-months);
-    highway design specialists (7 man-months);
-    survey and engineering technicians (17 man-months)
-    home office support and supervision (2 man-months).
4.       It is envisaged that the assistance  would  be carried out with 96 man-
months of speLialized professional services (not including technicians) and
support provided by MOW in terms of counterpart and other technical staff,
especially surveyors and laboratory technicians.
Schedule for Reporting
5.       The consultants would be  responsible  for  preparing and submitting to
MOW:
(a)  drawings,  quantity  and  cost   estimates,  and  other  documents
suitable for requesting bids for all civil work components under
the project;
(b) reports on prequalification of bidders, and evaluation and award
recommendation of all bids;
(c) report on the surface survey of possible ancient Maya mounts;
(d) quarterly progress reports listing work performed, difficulties
encountered,  solutions  adopted,  value   of  work  executed  and
payments made. The reports should indicate what actions, if
warranted, have been taken to preserve Maya mounds that may be
found during road rehabilitation works. The reports would include
a revised work and financial program, when and if appropriate, and
information on the implementation of MOW's maintenance program;
(e)  a  special  report   reviewing   and   comparing  the  results  of
maintenance  by   contract   and   by   force  account,  including
recommendations for policy reforms, if warranted;
(f) a fii;al report summarizing the process followed for project
implementation, the achievement or not of agreed targets and the
problems encountered; the report to also include the ex-post
evaluation, findings and recommendations for MOW's preparation and
implementation  of   subsequgnt   maintenance  and  rehabilitation
programs.



- 46 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance on
Institutional Coordination and Basic Planning Data
Objectives
1.        The Technical assistance  would  help  the  Government review the
functions and organization of different ministries and agencies with
involvement  in  the  transport  sector,   and  assess  the  need  for  and
availability of basic sector management data. The major objectives are to:
(i)    ensure   consistent    and    coordinated   formulation   and
implementation of transport policies; and
(ii)    facilitate  decision   makIng   through  adequate  management
information.
Scope of Assistance
2.       A specialized  individual  consultant, with  expertise  in public
management of the transport sector, mainly in ports, airports, highways and
roads would  be  required.    The  consultant  would  review, recommend and
initiate actions, without necessarily limiting himself/herself to:
(i)    review  responsibilities,  functions   and  staffing  of  the
different ministries, departments and agencies in, and
related to transport, and determine the existing arrangements
for coordinating actions;  identify  the  needs,  if any, and
means to consolidate responsibilities, and improve policy and
operational coordination; and
(ii)    review,  update,  process  and  document  available transport
management data; identify needs and formulate a program for
adequate routine collection and use of the data.
Staffing
3.       The  technical  assistance  would   be  provided  by  a  transport
specialist with background in economics and experience in organizational
and policy planning, and public management of the transport sector (6 man-
months). Information would be provided by all ministries, departments and
agencies presently involved in aspects of the transport sector. The
Ministry of Economic Development would supervise the implementation of the
technical assistance.



- 47 -
Annez 6
Page 2 of 2
Schedule for Reporting
4.       The consultants would be  responsible for preparing and submitting
one report with tvo partus
(i)    one  part  would  be  the  result  of  the  transport  sector
organization   and   institutional   coordination   analysis,
including findings,  recommendations  and actions programmed;
and
(ii)    another part would evaluate the management information needs,
the data available and processed, the requirements for
updating, processing and using the data available, and the
actions and time-frame for responsible agencies to complete
and make use of the information.



- 48 -
Annex 7
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for
Technical Assistance on Basic Accounting Improvements
Obiective
1.       The technical assistance would help  review and improve, in the short
term, MOW's financial reccrd keeping and accounting procedures. The major
objective is to:
(i)    ensure that maintenance  expenditures,  project expenditures and
other   project-related   expenditures    are   adequately   and
consistently recorded from the start of the project;
(11)    provide  for  regular  and  timely  accounting  data  needed for
supervision and other management reports; and
(iii)    facilitate  control  and  audit  of  financial  performance  and
conditions.
Scope of the Assistance
2.       A specialized individual consultant, with background in accounting of
public works activities and Bank required standards for financial reporting
would be  required.    The  consultant  would  review  the existing practices,
propose improvements for immediate and short term (one year) implementation,
and assist MOW to make effective the necessary changes. The consultant in
particular would:
(i)    review and evaluate existing practices and accounting records at
MOW and the quality, reliability and timeliness of the source-
baued and processed information;
(ii)    assess the internal  controls  at  MOW  and  the role and effec-
tiveness  of  the  investigations  and  reports  by  the Auditor
General; and
(iii)    facilitate the carrying out  of  audits and further improvements
to the accounting practices.
3.       It is envisaged that this  technical  assistance would be carried out
over a period of two months.   Information and assistance would be provided by
the field districts, the Central workshop and the departments and supporting
units concerned, at MOW, with budgeting, recording, controlling and reporting
sources and application of funds, expenditures and other statements related to
MOW's general road-related activity, and specifically to the project.
Schedule for Reporting
4.       The consultants would be responsible for preparing and submitting one
report with the findings and recommendations, at the end of the assignament.



- 49 -
Annex 8
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Scope of Work for the Annual External Audit
1.       The  annual  audits  should  be  carried  out  in  accordance with
generally accepted audit standards.
2.       The audit should comment  on  the accounting principles adopted in
the keeping of MOW's accounts, the Special Account and other project
related accounts, and any changes incurred from one fiscal year to the
other.
3.       The audit program should include  a  review of systems of internal
control and checks, in order to determine the degree of reliance that can
be placed upon them, the scope and depth of the audits carried out on MOW's
accounts by the Auditor General and the extent of testing that needs to be
performed by the external auditor.
4.       The  auditor  should  appraise  the  procedures  for  safeguarding
assets, ensuring their proper use and that all transactions are accounted
for accurately and properly.
5.       The auditor should  evaluate  the  fairness  and accuracy of MOW's
accounts, the Special Account and all other project-related accounts by
obtaining sufficient evidence through the examination of accounting records
and supporting corroborative material, direct physical inspection, general
observation, inquiries and confirmations, and the necessary tests.
6.       The auditor's report should  consist  of  the auditor's opinion on
the respective annual accounts and a Management Letter addressing the
adequacy of the accounting and internal control systems, with relevant
recommendations to improve them, if warranted.
December 1987



- 50 -
Annex 9
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
General Reports
1.       Export Transportation Master Plan (Final Report), September 1985.
2.       Five-year Macro-economic Plan for Belize, 1985-1989
3.       Economic Survey--Belize, 1987.
4.       Estimates  of  Revenue  end  Expenditure  for  the  years 1985/86,
1986/87 and 1987/88.
5.       Origin and Destination and  Vehicle  Axle Weight Surveys, November
1985.
6.       Abstract of Statistics--1982-1986
7.       Summary tables of 1980 Population Census.
ProJect Preparation Reports
8.       Final Executive Project Summary  and  Project Brief, September 30,
1987.
9.       Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, November 16, 1987
10.      Computer  Print-Outs  on  the  Economic  Analysis  of  Civil Works
Components, April 1988.
11.      Economic Evaluation and Engineering Assessment, San Ignacio to the
Guatemalan Border, Crown Agents for Overseas, July 1983.
12.      Second  Road  Rehabilitation  and  Drainage  Improvements Project,
Interim Design Report, Consultants Beca Worley Int., March 1988.
13.      Routine Maintenance  by  Contract-Prequalification of Contractors,
Consultants Beca Worley Int., March 1988.
14.      Addendum to Contract  between  the  Government  of Belize and Beca
Worley Int. (for supervision and training services). March 1988.
15.      Minutes of Negotiations, April 20, 1988.



BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1988                       1989                       1990                       1911                       1312
COLN1117                    ----------------------- ----------------------- ----------------------- ----------------------- ------------------------
JIA-JCII    JULY-DIC    JIN-JUII   JULY-DIC    JII-JUIE    JOLY-DIC    JII-JIII               JUTLY-DC    JAl-Jl    JILY-DEC
ROID IERABILITATION
San Ignacio-Begque liejo                                        ------zznzzzuzzxuxx zuzuuzzzzzzzmnzz
Central Alerican Roulevard                                                                                                            ---- XUtXXXUUU
laulover Bridge - Belise City                                                                                                         ---- =x11!I!!1IRW
Draialge Southern lighway                                         ---- ux xxuu
AINIItIANCE
ReBeal San lgnacio - Belmopan                                                                                           ---- XU:I 
Southern Hwy. loutine Mainteancee                                 ---- UXUXX XXUUXXUXXXXXXXUIXXXXUUXUX
Reseal Corosal - Santa Elena                                                                                                          ---- n 
Reseal Haulover Bridge - Ladywille                                                                                                    ---- x
orthero Hwy. loutine Haiteuance                                   ---- zXzmn Uzn UUuz UUXz                   UXXauz     UUUXUUmUXXXu                ux
COISULIINO SllYICIS
Eagineering for Civil Works                  Zuin
Supervision of Works & Training                                 xxzzzuxuzzxnmuuxuxuxxxuzz:uxuxuumuuzuzuxzzunuzz
Ilstitut. Coordination/Accounting                              ----x xzsxxuxxuz:x
SCIOLAISHIPS (ABROAD)
training In Trasportation Planining                                                        u      xxnuun
Traiaing in Naintenance                                          xuuxuxnxz                  zzumuiuu
1.  Tendering, --   one sonth; Execution, u: one onath.
2.  board Approval: larch 1988; Completion of Engineering Design (PP!): April 1988; Project Effectiveess: lay 1988; Tenders ad Contractiag
Vorks:  October 1988; Begin lorta:  January 1889; Project Completion Dte: June 30, 1992; Closiug Dte: Deceber 31, 1992.
Noveber 1987



- 52 -
CHART 2
BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Existing Roads Administratlon
| MnifwdWallu 
MinhtpotWodcs
0~SuperAmat ~    ~      ~       ~      u~Ms                     S~e
BWLIO   Crook                ~~~~StaM in rek              Toledo
Dslvars W dmknw &                                          Odvo. Vodimsn &
Coto Stdr                                                  Oew Staff
Sour(* MON                                                                                Decembw 1987
WOdd Batk-24618



BELIZE
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REAILITATION PROJECT
DIsMct Staff Organi'.ation
3
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eet 196
L                    Iodena l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wdc*-d1
Z  ~~~~~~~~~~D r-d  _uav
Fmffion~~~~~~~~
wc&dm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~          Des1
Fomffm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     EEX-41 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L



IBRD 20808R1
89-00                        08'30 /                       Wool                          S7- 30'
8-30' -oChan Ctumol                                                     M E X I C 0                                             18 30
P3olche, Clt A   s_ 
M    E   X   I  C  0              ,5 { O   Corozoi
LoMF ESono tc
uo.gg rosPro3resso
Son Anlono                  COROZAL
WaOrongwlk DISTRICT
18-00    __.to4n/.e/ b                                                          AMtBERGRIS                                       1 t- 00 
8~~~~~~00  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~CAY
)  o   -tpe         MoskoIIS                                       C     N
_*1                                / nsetipe 8   Cth3,                                   SECOND ROAD
iORANGE,, WALK  t t\>  ,                     CowId                             MAINTENANCE
j XDISTR'ICT    1r-3.   9  .                                        AND REHABILITATION
! ~'                              -'ern.nd.on    H.u1                                       PROJECT
17- 30j                      w     \ >g    BELtvZE         ^                                                                    17-3
Holthen,iie       8mhz.
I _ . _s,_ + ........... b-- ~~~~~~~City                          TuRNEFFE
ISLANDS
>  ~~~~~0orngo                   DISTRlCT
j ,,C  Rocnngf T 
; wSan lgnocro '                                                                           /  ' _  _ _  _ PROJECT ROADS:
Boon/ 8ron.h,                                                           Maintenance
_V  8en, We >M  ddltse.                                                                       Rehabilitation
700l  CeA Y O   DI 'T RI C T       J   Al  to            .no               j                       Drainage Improvements   "
Dongrigo
I               -      t  g  STAN N  r;  i  Main Roods
j                                                                                      __C R EE K,  L  j  Other Roods
_   Kendol.                     *               <3     Notional Copital
< !               /       ~~~~~~~~D I S T R I C T  :'I@                                     DstitCptl
District Capitals
R,_zb  ~  ~    / w nedol  i                 Towns and Villages
Ai           Mayan Ruins
i4 -  -   5  ^eno BghiV.105.                          -   -     District Boundaries
. '                                .                                   f-n. . _ ,<~ : International Boundaries
o!   _ r ~~~~ ~~@<  i a  F > ePI3c*"0                     |                                                  le~~~I  1 30-
| /              Medino Bankf   T          :,$~                             !          KILOMETERS o    10   20   30   40   50
ro L EDOE         ii e  D  ISTRICT    7 kiR MILESo
/ XUoniey Rnver                                             87 30
S., Aw....  B.g                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U S.A
Son Antonnn   8 g F,          . lluS 
THE 8AHAMAS
SAPODILLA CAYS                                                  C              OJ
Punto Gordo                                                      MEXICO                            AITIR
i600 oo,,~, /    5              - ff  , c0.c  oIs C_t T_                            16 00'  - I BELIZE                       REPU81tC
!                                                   & X  X x,   ' N HONDURAS  
J>-SE_^  .- dE  NICARAGUA          VENEZUELA
G U A T E8MoAo L A    >    ,       t 88-420  ~  >               PuerloCorbcs  HONDURAS  SALVAD"                    COLOMBA 
-  COSIA  ..C.                    1
MAY 1988



