Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2945 BEL
(Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project)
between
BELIZE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 8, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2945 BEL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1988, between BELIZE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Belize dollar" or "BZ$" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated  December 
1, 1987 between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(d)
"MOWH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works and Housing.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to five million six hundred thousand dollars ($5,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the  Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required  to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and  
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992 or such later  date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum  for each 
Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed 
as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Page  3
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project through MOWH with due diligence and efficiency  and  in conformity 
with appropriate financial, administrative and engineering practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (ii) provide in its annual budget and make available 
promptly as needed: (A) the following minimum counterpart funds for the Project: (I) 
$250,000 equivalent in fiscal year  1988; (II) $535,000 equivalent in fiscal year 
1989; (III) $570,000 equivalent in fiscal year 1990; and (IV) $525,000 equivalent in 
fiscal year 1991; and (B)  the following minimum amounts for its road maintenance 
program: (I) $2,600,000 equivalent in fiscal year 1988; (II) $2,800,000 equivalent in 
fiscal year 1989; (III) $2,550,000 equivalent in fiscal year 1990; and (IV) $2,600,000 
equivalent  in fiscal year 1991; and (iii) appoint, during the period of Project  
implementation, a Project Coordinator, with powers and responsibilities and with 
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the  
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed  out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of  Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
promptly after conclusion of the review referred to in Part C.3 of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank for its comments its recommendations for policy 
coordination  in the transport sector, including the action program therefor;
(b)
carry out such program taking into account the comments made by the Bank 
thereon; and
(c)
not later than June 30 and December 31 each year, commencing on June 30, 
1989, review with the Bank the progress made in the implementation of such program.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) (i) commencing on June 30, 1989 and  not 
later than June 30 each year thereafter, review with the Bank the progress  made in 
the implementation of the Project, and its road maintenance management  system and 
resulting maintenance program in the previous year; and (ii) not later than December 
31, 1989 and not later than December 31 of each year thereafter review the  works and 
services of the Project to be carried out  and  provided, respectively, in the 
following fiscal year, and its road maintenance management system and road maintenance 
program to be applied and carried out, respectively, in the following year, including 
the action program and financing requirements for such program and for the Project, 
any modifications proposed to the amounts set forth in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) (A) and 
(B) of this Agreement, and a detailed description of the maintenance works carried out 
by  force account and by contractors;
(b)
carry out the action program for the Project and the road maintenance 
program discussed in the review of (a) above taking into account the comments made by 
the Bank thereon;
(c)
without limitation to the above, not later than December 31, 1990, 
furnish to the Bank for its comments a three-year road maintenance program to be 
implemented thereafter during 1991 through 1993; and
(d)
carry out such program, with the assistance of the works supervision 
consultants to be employed under the Project.
Page  4
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall not commence the tendering for rehabilitation 
works under Part A of the Project unless the consultants required for the supervision 
of works to be employed under Part C.3 of the  Project have initiated their respective 
assignments.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions  to 
the  effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
that the consultants required for work supervision referred to in  Part 
C.2 of the Project have been employed in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; 
and
(b)
that the Project Coordinator referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of 
this Agreement has been appointed.
Section 5.02. The date September 8, 1988 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Belmopan,
Belize
Telex:
101-MF/INVEST
For the Bank:
Page  5
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
BELIZE
By /s/ Dean Barrow
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            of %
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works                       4,100,000      73%
(2)  Consultants'                  610,000      100% of foreign
     services and                               expenditures
     overseas
     training
(3)  Refunding of                  250,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(4)  Unallocated                   640,000
          TOTAL                  5,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this  Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for  goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
Page  6
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and
(b)
in respect of Category (1) for rehabilitation and resealing works  under 
Parts A.2, A.3 and A.4 of the Project unless: (i) the Bank shall have  approved the 
three-year road maintenance program referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement; 
and (ii) the Bank shall  be satisfied with the progress made in the implementation of 
such program.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to develop the capacity of MOWH's staff 
for highway management and, in particular, maintenance management; and (b) to improve 
the coordination among the different transport agencies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Road Upgrading and Rehabilitation
 
1.
Upgrading, including paving, of about 13 kilometers of the Western Highway 
between San Ignacio and Benque Viejo.
2.
Rehabilitation of about 3 kilometers of the Northern Highway from the bridge on 
the Haulover river to Belize City.
3.
Rehabilitation of the Central American Boulevard, including the Caesar Ridge 
access to the port of Belize City, comprising about 1 kilometer with a  four-lane 
section from the Western Highway Intersection to the intersection  with the Faber's 
road, and about 800 meters with two lanes from such intersection to the port.
4.
Resealing of the following highway sections: about 5 kilometers from the  bridge 
on the Haulover river to Ladyville, about 14 kilometers from Corozal to Santa Elena, 
and about 37 kilometers from Belmopan to San Ignacio.
5.
Completion of drainage structures on about 18 kilometers of the Southern Highway 
from Big Creek to Crique Negra.
Part B:
Road Maintenance
 
Carrying out of a maintenance program consisting of: (a) about 152 kilometers of 
routine maintenance on the Northern Highway between Belize City  and Santa Elena; (b) 
about 67 kilometers of routine and periodic maintenance on the Southern Highway 
between its intersection with the Hummingbird Highway and Big Creek; (c) upon 
completion of drainage of the Southern Highway about 104 kilometers of routine and 
periodic maintenance in such highway from Big Creek to Deep River; (d) about 37 
kilometers of routine maintenance and resealing of the Belmopan-San Ignacio road 
section of the Western Highway; and  (e) the remainder of the Borrower's road network.
Part C:
Technical Assistance and Training
 
1.
Engineering designs and preparation of the contract documents for works under 
the Project.
2.
Supervision of civil works and maintenance under the Project and training of 
MOWH's staff and private contractors' personnel on maintenance and rehabilitation 
activities.
3.
Review the need for policy coordination among the agencies of the transport 
sector.
4.
Overseas training of MOWH's staff on road maintenance management, and of MOWH's 
staff, or staff of another ministry as shall be agreed by the Bank, on transport 
planning.
5.
Upgrading of MOWH's accounting procedures.
Page  7
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)
 
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 1994
through   January 15, 2005
235,000
 
On July 15, 2005
195,000
 
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the balance 
outstanding
on the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied 
by:
Not more than three years
.18
before maturity
More than three years but
.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
.65
Page  8
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for the works included in Parts A and B of the Project shall be 
prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures: Local Competitive Bidding
 
Works estimated to cost less than $450,000 equivalent per contract and not  
exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of $ 1,700,000, may be procured  under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised  locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid, bidding documents and of proposed awards and final 
contracts with respect to all contracts the procedures set forth in  paragraphs 2 and 
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the  Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower  shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
         Task Description             Beginning           Completion
                              (by not                (not later
                             later than)               than)
1.  Tendering for rehabi-    August 31, 1988     December 31, 1988
    litation works under
    Part A of the Project
2.  Commence works under     January 2, 1989     December 31, 1991
    Parts A.1, A.5 and B
    of the Project
Page  9
3.  Employment of con-       August 31, 1988     June 30, 1992
    sultants under Part C.2
    of the Project
4.  Employment of con-       January 31, 1989    August 30, 1989
    sultants for studies
    under Parts C.3 and
    C.5 of the Project
5.  Training of MOWH's       January 31, 1989    December 31, 1990
    staff in road
    maintenance on the
    San Ignacio-Belmopan
    section of the Western
    Highway
6.  Resealing of the         January 2, 1991     March 2, 1991
    road section
    mentioned in item
    5 above.
7.  Resealing under          January 2, 1991     July 30, 1991
    Part A.4 of the
    Project
8.  Rehabilitation           July 1, 1991        March 2, 1992
    under Parts A.2
    and A.3 of the
    Project
9.  Assignment of a road     December 31, 1988   June 30, 1992
    maintenance officer
    and a training officer
    to assist the consultants
    referred to in Part C.2
    of the Project
10. Furnish to the Bank      December 31 each
    an action plan for       year
    improvement of MOWH's
    accounting systems to
    be carried out the
    following year, based
    on the recommendations
    made by the auditors
    referred to in Section
    4.01 of the Loan Agree-
    ment and the consultants
    to be employed for pur-
    poses of Part C.5 of
    the Project
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of  the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed  out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible  Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $600,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special  Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
Page  10
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation,  the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and  deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis  of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit  into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible  Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either  of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the  Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not  eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special  Account will not be required to cover further  payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate 
cancellation.
