Dowt 0?of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA. 7g  / O
Report No. 6645-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 22, 1987
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICM.S REHABILITATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cedi (#)
e151 = US$1.00 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton        =          2205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)       =         2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)    =          0.62 mile (mi)
I meter (m)         =          3.28 feet (ft)
1/ A dual exchange rate system was established on September 19, 1986 when
a foreign exchange auction was instituted for specified transactions.
A 090 = 1 US$ rate applies to the first window (cocoa and residual oil
exports, petroleum and essential drugs imports, and central government
debt service contracted before January 1, 1986); the rate on the
second window is established at the weekly auction. The marginal rate
at the auction was 0151=US$1.00 in the week ending November 28, 1986.
The rates for the First and Second Windows have been merged on
February 20, 1987.



FOR OFFICIL USF. ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB      -   African Development Bank
AHPD      -    Animal Health and Production Department of MOA
ARDAC     -   Agricultural Research Development and Advisory Committee
APCC      -    Agricultural Policy Coordination Committee
CFDT      -    Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres
Textiles (French Company for Textile Development)
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
CIDU      -    Crops Inputs Development Unit
COCOBOD   -    Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board
CRI       -    Crops Research Institute
CRIG      -    Cocoa Research Institute of Ghar-
CSIR      -    Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
ERP       -    Economic Recovery Program
ERPS      -    Economic Research and Planning Services
FASCOM    -    Farmers' Service Companies
GCC       -    Ghana Cotton Company
GFDC      -    Ghana Food Distribution Corporation
GGADP     -    Ghana German Agricultural Development Project
GIDA      -    Ghana Irrigation Development Authority
GOG       -    Government of Ghana
GOPDC     -    Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation
GSC       -    Ghana Seed Company
GTZ       -    Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (German
Agency for Technical Cooperation)
KFW       -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Credit Agency for
Reconstruction)
MFEP      -    Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MIST      -   M'Iinistry of Industry, Science and Technology
MOA       -   Ministry of Agriculture
MTD       -   Mechanization and Transport Department of MOA
NORRIP    -    Northern Region Rural Integrated Program
PNDC      -    Provisional National Defence Council
PPMED     -    Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department
SOE       -    State Owned Enterprise
URADEP    -    Upper Region Agricultural Development Project
VORADEP   -    Volta Region Agricultural Development Project
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GHANA
AGRICTLTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
DOCUNFNTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE                                    iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                              iv
I.    INTRODUCTION                                                    1
II.   THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR                                          1
A.  Recent Performance in Agriculture                           1
Background                                               1
Policy Environment                                       2
Output Performance                                       2
B.  Potential for Constraints to Development                    2
Potential                                                2
Constraints                                              3
C.  Key Public Sector Agricultural Institutions                4
Demarcation between Cocoa and Non-Cocoa                  4
Parallel and Other Institutions                          4
The Economic Research and Plazining Services             4
The Delivery of Fertilizer and Tractor Hire Services   5
The Delivery of Extension and Research Services          5
The Delivery of Veterinary and Irrigation Services       6
Agricultural SOEs                                        6
D.  Government's Objectives, Strategy and Action Program        6
Objectives                                               6
Strategy                                                 7
The Government's Action Program                          7
E.  The IDA's Role                                             8
III,  THE PROJECT                                                     9
A.  Project Origin, Rationale and Objectives                    9
Project Origin                                           9
Project Rationale                                        9
Project Objectives                                      10
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. J. Cole and S. Singh and Ms. I. Tsakok (Bank)
which visited Ghana November/December 1986. Ms. K. Sesay-Bah provided
the secretarial support and figures were checked by Ms. C. DuCran.



- ii -
B.  Project Description                                        10
Summary Description                                     10
PPMED                                                   10
Studies                                                 12
Agricultural Research                                   12
Agricultural Extension                                  13
Irrigation Services                                     14
Veterinary Services                                     14
Privatization of Fertilizer Operations                  15
Privatization of Tractor Hire Services                  16
Agricultural SOE Reform Program                         16
C.  Project Costs and Financing                                18
D.  Project Implementation                                     18
Project Management and Technical Assistance             18
E.  Procurement                                                20
Amounts and Methods of Procurement                      20
F.  Disbursement                                               21
Summary Disbursement Schedule                           22
Project and Special Accounts                            23
G.  AuditIng and Reporting                                     23
H.  Financial Impact and Project Sustairnability               23
I.  Benefits and Risks                                         24
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED                                             24
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Key Statistics of the Agriculture Sector
Annex 2-1   Agriculture Sector Constraints
Annex 2-2   Key Agricultural Institutions
Annex 2-3   Government Agricultural Goals and Policies
Annex 2-4   Government Statement of Agricultural Policy
Annex 3-1   Ministry of Agriculture and Policy Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation Division: Reorganization and Training
Annex 3-2   Studies
Annex 3-3   Agricultural Research
Annex 3-4   Agricultural Extension
Annex 3-5   Irrigation Development
Annex 3-6   Veterinary Services Department
Annex 3-7   Privatization of Fertilizer Operations
Annex 3-8   Privatization of Tractor Hire Services
Annex 3-9   Agricultural SOE Reform Program



- iii -
Annex 3-10  Table 1 - Project Cost Summary
Table 2 - Project Cost by Components and Years
Table 3 - Project Cost by Categories and Years
Annex 3-11  Project Financial Plan
Annex 3-12  Project Coordination Unit
Annex 3-13  Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 3-14  Procurement Procedures
Annex 3-15  Table 1 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursement Chart
Annex 3-16  Special Project Account
Annex 3-17  Auditing and Reporting
MA?
IBRD No. 15116R3: Rainfall and Ecological Zones
Documents Available in Project File
A. Background
1. Ghana - Agricultural Sector Review; World Bank Report No. 5366-GH,
August 6, 1985.
B. Project Preparation
1.  Restructuring the Ministry of Agriculture in support of
Decentralization by C.L. Phocas. UNDP/FAO/Government of Ghana
Project GHA/85/005/A/01/12.
2. Agricultural Sector Rehabilitation Credit -
Identification/Preparation mission report, FAO/World Bank CP
November 15, 1985.
3.  Ghana: Fertilizer privatization Study submitted to the Ministry
of Agriculture, Accra, Ghana. International Fertilizer Development
Center.
C. Working Papers
1. MOA's Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Directcrate -
UNDP Project Document
2. Studies - Terms of Reference
3.  Privatization of MOA's Fertilizer Operations
4.  Privatization of MOA's Tractor Hire Services
5.  Agricultural Extension
6.  Agricultural Research
7.  Irrigation
8.  Veterinary Services, Cost Recovery & Privatization
9.  Agricultural Pricing and Trade Policy Framework
10. Import Program & Cedi Liquiditv
11. Project Costs



- iv -
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                The Republic of Ghana
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Agriculture
Credit Amount:            SDR 13.3 million (US$17.0 million equivalent)
Terms;                    Standard
Cofinanciers:            UNDP (US$1.5 million); parallel financing for
agricultural inputs by AfDB (US$25.0 million) and
KFW (US$8.5 million).
Project Description: The objectives are to: (i) strengthen MOA's insti-
tutional capacity to formulate and implement agricultural policies and
programs and (ii) rationalize and improve efficiency in the delivery of
public sector services to agriculture. The project would help prepare and
implement action plans and investment programs to strengthen agricultural
support services in the fields of research, extension, input supply,
veterinary, irrigation and credit.
The project includes: (a) the reorganization and strengthening of MOA's
work in policy formulation, planning, monitoring and evaluation; (b) the
preparation of a national master plan for research and funding of research
on cotton and rice (irrigated and valley bottom); (c) the reorganization of
MOA's agricultural extension services in 3 regions on a pilot basis, as a
forerunner to a national extension oroject, related training and logistical
support to the maize-cowpea program assisted by the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA); (d) the strengthening of the Ghana Irrigation
Deve1.opment Authority through a twinning arrangement, the introduction of
improved agronomic practices on existing schemes and Investment in six
small scale pilot irrigation schemes; (e) logistical support for veterinary
services; and (f) studies of the agricultural credit system and of food
security. The project includes a program for improving sector management
with respect to the privatization of MOA's fertilizer handling operations
and of its tractor hire services, divestiture of selected agricultural
State Owned Enterprises (SOEs), regular review of the investment program
and improved cost recovery from veterinary and irrigation services.
Support from the project is in the form of one or several of the following:
technical assistance, staff training, logistical support and operating
funds; for MOA's planning division, for agricultural research and for
extension, veterinary and irrigation support services. It also provides
for consultancy assistance for the reform of agricultural SOEs.



-v -
Estimated Project Costs:
Local       Foreign           Total
----US$ Million             … --
1. PPMED                            0.2          2.0              2.2
2. Agricultural Research            0.4          2.6              3.0
3. Agricultural Extension           0.7          1.5              2.2
4. Irrigation Services              1.0          4.2              5.2
5. Veterinary Services              0.4          1.2              1.6
6. SOE Reform                       0.2          1.4              1.6
7. CIDU                             0.1          0.3              0.4
8. PCU                              0.5          0.7              1.2
9. Refinancing of Project
Preparation Advance              0.1          0.4              0.5
Base Costs                           3.6         14.3             17.9
Contingencies                        0.6          1.3              1.9
4.2        15.6              19.8
Parallel Financing:
10. Vaccines and Drugs (KFW)          -           8.5              8.5
11. Fertilizers & Chemicals (AfDB)  -            25.0             25.0
Total Project Costs                  4.2         49.1             53.3
Proposed Financing Plan
IDA                                  2.9        14.1              17.0
Government                           1.3         -                 1.3
UNDP                                  -          1.5               1.5
KFW (parallel)                        -          8.5               8.5
AfDB (parallel)                       -         25.0              25.0
Total                           4.2        49.1              53.3
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
FY88     FY89      FY90      FY91    FY92   FY93
Annual                1.5       1.1      5.7       4.6      3.2    0.9
Cumulative            1.5       2.6      8.3      12.9    16.1   17.0
Project Benefits: The immediate benefits would be in training and
developing staff expertise to (i) formulate policy; (ii) plan, prepare and



- vi -
evaluate projects; (iii) develop medium-term investment programs for
research and extension; and (iv) manage irrigation investments. The longer
term expected benefit is effective public support for agricultural develop-
ment through (1) improved capacity to formulate and direct policies and
investment programs; (2) effective utilization and coordination of donor
aid; (3) impro'-ad access of farmers to basic public services. In addition,
the studies and pilot schemes would lay the basis for future investment
programs in agriculture. Public sector management reforms (iraciuding
privatization of fertilizer operations) linked to parallel financing of
agricultural inputs by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW) and African
Development Bank (AfDB) would contribute to increased crop and livestock
production.
Project Risks: There are institutional risks of two kinds. The first risk
is of delays in the program to improve public sector management. The
second is that the Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department
(PPMED) will not be able to retain the competent higher level staff whom
the project has trained a3nd who will be required to carry through the
program.
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:   6645-GH
Map:   IBRD No. 15116R2



GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ghana launched a major economic reform program
in April 1983. In response, the World Bank approved a series of short
term credits to provide critically needed imports and immediate rehabilit-
ation needs for key sect-rs (cocoa, timber, mining, roads and transport).
In addition, the Bank stepped up economic and aector work which resulted in
an agreement on a program to tackle medium term adjustment issues. The
program is supported by a Structural Adjustment Loan. As part of this
sector work, the Bank undertook an Agriculture Sector Review which
identified the main elements of a strategy to promote agricultural
development. The short term emphasis of this strategy is on improving
farmer incentives and availability of inputs to exploit existing capacity
and on rehabilitating road infrastructure and transport. The medium term
emphasis is on strengthening the capacity of public sector institutions to
plan and coordinate programs within the sector, to suppozt research and
extension services, and to make the required investments for expanded
agricultural production.
1.02      The proposed Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project (ASRP)
was identified as a priority recommendation in the medium term strategy
outlined by the sector review. It recommended strengthening national
institutions in contrast to the approach adopted by donors in the
seventies, where support was channelled through regional directorates of
the MOA and separate project implementation units in area development
projects.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   Recent Performance in Agriculture
2.01      Background.  Agriculture is the backbone of thi! Ghanaian economy.
It absorbs nearly 60 percent of total labor force; contributes about 53
percent of GDP and supplies up to 77 percent of total merchandise exports.
Despite its importance, from Independence through the early 1980's the
sector did not receive the policy and institutional support it needs for
sustained development.
2.02      The main features of agriculture in Ghana are:  it is primarily
rainfed, most producers are smallholders and productivity is generally low.
Agricultural production is particularly risky and the task of reaching
myriads of small farmers with improved techniques is of central importance
to agriculture's development. Cultivable land is relatively plentiful:
only 30 percent of the 10 million hectare of cultivable land is actually
cultivated. Only .07 percent cf total cultivable land is irrigated,
although the Government accorded high priority to irrigation in the last



- 2 -
decade. Most farmers practice shifting cultivation as land is abundant,
and mixed cropping is the common response to reducing the risks of rainfed
agriculture. However, there are more densely populated areas in the north
and the south, where permanent cultivation has to be adopted and where
maintenance of soil fertility is of particular concern. Over the longer
term, the pressure on land will intensify as Ghana's population growth
rate is estimated at 3 percent per annum.
2.03      Ghana's ecology makes possible a rich arrav of produce.  There
are two main ecological zones, the forest and the Savannah. The forest
zone which occupies one third of the country, produces the major food and
cash crops, namely maize, tubers, cocoa and oil palm.  The northern
savannah zone which occupies most of the remaining two thirds of the
country produces the other basic food crops: sorghum, millet, rice,
cowpea, and potentially imjportant cash crops, cotton, totacco, groundnuts.
Cattle is important in the north as a source of draught power and of meat.
In the rest of Ghana, backyard poultry, sheep and goats are common, and are
an important source of protein. Modern livestock rearing systems ( poultry
and pigs) are important only around major urban areas.
2.04      Policy Environment.  Exchange rate, tariff, trade and macro
economic policy throughout the seventies discriminated against agriculture.
The salient features were a severely overvalued exchange rate, heavy
taxation of cash crops, especially of cocoa, with farmers receiving roughly
30 percent of world prices and a highly protected manufacturing sector. At
the sectoral level, institutional support for formulating policies,
directing public investments, delivering services and inputs remained weak.
Numerous state owned enterprises were created while the transport system
deteriorated through neglect.
2.05      Output Performance.  Under these adverse circumstances,  output
of both food and cash crops steadily declined, at a rate of roughly 0.3
percent per annum between 1970-1980. With rising population, real per
capita income decreased by 30 percent during this decade. Cocoa production
fell from above 400,000 tons in 1970 to less than 160,000 tons by 1983.
Export earnings fell sharply, forcing a drastic cutback in imports.
Agriculture's decline contributed to the deterioration of the GDP by 0.5
percent per annum in the seventies. Droughts and bush fire3 of 1982-1983
had disastrous consequences on an already weakened agriculture.
Subsequently, under the combined impact of normal weather and improved
incentives gererated by the Economic Recovery Program (ERP), output
improved significantly in 1984. Growth is estimated at roughly 10 percent
in 1984, at I percent in 1985 and 5 percent in 1986. Thus after a decade of
negative growth, recent growth is positive.



B.   Potential for and Constraints to Development
2.06      Potential.  Ghana has a strong comparative advantage in a variety
of annual and tree crops.  The agronomic potential exists to nearly double
yields on most crops.  Improved technical packages exist for maize, cowpea
and rice (rainfed and irrigated). If rainfall is adequate, use of
fertilizers on local varieties can lead to a 20-30 percent yield increase;
if fertilizer-responsive varieties are used, a 100 percent increase is
achievable. There are improved planting materials for cassava and sweet
potatoes,  and improved cultural practices for yais.  There are no improved
materials for sorghum and mil3et, but fertilizer recommendations for loca'L
varieties are available, although they need to be updated. For the
industrial tree crops, cocoa, coffee, rubber, oilpalm, there is access to
improved materials and techniques in Ghana. Output and yields on cotton
and tobacco were much higher in the early seventies. For seed cotton,
there is improved technology from neighbouring countries; e.g. average
yields in the Ivory Coast reach 1200 kg. per hectare, twice the level in
Ghana. At present, crop technology is not a constraint to higher
productivity (Annex 2-4 on Extension).
2.07      Constraints.  To realise the substantial potential that exists,
constraints on several fronts must be surmounted. Of primary importance,
is the necessity of sustained producer incentives. Producer incentives, as
measured by effective protection coefficients for selected cash crops,
namely cocoa, cotton, tobacco have improved but remain low. For other
crops whose prices are determined by markets rather than the Government or
cartels, poor roads and communication systems raise the risks of marketing
and inhibit production as well. These risks are increased by weather
fluctuations inevitable in rainfed agriculture (see Annex 3-5 on
Irrigation). Sharp price instability is a problem for producers and for
the Government which views it a threat to its food security goal, which is
to ensure adequate supplies of maize, at stable prices in good times and
bad (see Annex 2-3 Agricultural Goals and Policies).
2.08      Positive incentives are necessary but not sufficient to realize
Ghana's agricultural potential. In addition, producers need effective
support in the delivery of extension, backed by adaptive research and
availability of inputs. Unfortunately, the delivery of most services is
weak and availability of inputs constrained by foreign exchange shortages.
Adaptive research and extension, which suffer from a chronic and severe
shortage of funds and of competent staff, need to be revitalised (see
para 2.15). Adequate supplies of improved maize and rice seeds from the
Ghana Seed Company have been a problem. Timely delivery of fertilizer and
other inputs for cocoa suffer from the institutional weaknesses of MOA and
Cocobod (see para 2.13).   For irrigated areas, GIDA has been unable to
extend effectively improved techniques for rice cultivation.
2.09      These constraints originated in a policy of discrimination
against agriculture, partly to c.olect tax revenues and partly to protect
manufacturing. In addition, ist policy favored extensive and direct
government intervention, in production and input supply. The first gave



- 4 -
rise to nineteen non-performing agricultural state owned enterprises, with
minimal payoff in terms of agricultural development. The second has
resulted in ineffective systems for delivering fertilizer and seeds. The
overall hostile environment for agriculture coupled with an over-expansion
of the public sector weakened MOA 's capacity to formulate and implement
policies to benefit agriculture.
C.   Key Public Sector Agricultural Institutions
2.10      Demarcation between Cocoa and Non-Cocoa.  Institutional
responsibility for agriculture is divided between cocoa and non-cocoa.
Cocobod is responsible for cocoa and MOA is responsible for all other
crops. Their areas of intervention are broadly but not entirely similar.
Common areas are: (i) the formulation and implementation of sector
policies, (ii) extension and delivery of inputs and; (iii) production and
marketing. Important differences are in the areas of research and
marketing. Cocoa research is under the Cocobod, but agriculture related
research is not under MOA (see para 2.15). Cocobod has monopoly in domestic
and external marketing of cocoa while MOA supervises the operations of
nineteen agricultural SOEs whose operations are an insignificant part of
total agricultural production and marketing (see para 2.17). Annex 3-1
contains a chart of the structure of the MOA. The institutional demarca-
tion of agriculture into cocoa and non-cocoa gives rise to problems of
policy coordination between these two major sub-sectors.
2.11      Parallel and Other Institutions.  Other than MOA and Cocobod,
there are a number of area based extension and research institutions, some
supported by donors. All are nominally under MOA but are practically
largely autonomous. Extension services throughout the two ecological zones
are supported by one or several of the following: Canada, Germany, EEC,
IFAD and IDA. Extension is also provided by other MOA parastatals, (the
Grains Development Board, Bast Fiber Development Board and the Ghana
Cotton Company); and private companies, (the Pioneer Tobacco Company and
International Tobacco Company Ltd). Basic research on soils, crops,
animals, aquatic biology, oil palm and food are undertaken by six research
institutes which are grouped under the CSIR and report to the MIST. The
universities at Legon and Kumasi and a variety of parastatals undertake
adaptive research (see Annex 3-4 on Research).  Annexes 3-1 to 3-9 contain
more detailed discussion of main agricultural institutions.
2.12      The Economic Research and Planning Services.  MOA's
responsibility for economic analysis, policy formulation and planning is
located with the Economic Research and Planning Services (ERPS) (see
organization chart in Annex 3-1. ERPS would be renamed Policy Planning
Monitoring and Evaluation. However, as in the case of other Government
institutions, the severe shortage of funds and professional staff has
undermined MOA's ability in this critical area. At the same time, lower
level staff Is excessive. For MOA as a whole, only 25 percent of univer-
sity level posts are filled. At headquarters, the situation is worse:
only one percent of all the posts established for technical staff, which



- 5 -
includes not only university graduates, but also diploma holders and
certificate holder graduates, are filled. This situation of severe short-
age is also true of the ERPS. Due to this constraint, its work program has
been limited to the processing of the 1984/85 census and the collection of
price data from urban and rurs. markets. No analysis of the data collected
has been undertaken and there is no effective ongoing planning
(see Annex 3-1).
2.13      The Delivery of Fertilizer and Tractor Hire Services.  The GOG is
the sole importer, distributor and retailer of fertilizers in Ghana. There
is no local production. The MOA takes delivery of the fertilizer at Tema
port and distributes it to its warehouses, regional stores, zonal stores
and farm service centers from which it either redistributes or makes direct
retail sales. In 2 of the 10 Regions, Government-controlled FASCOMs have
assumed MOA's role. The Government has not been able to manage timely
delivery of fertilizer owing to poor assessment of demand, delays in
procurement, slow discharge at port, poor road communications, unsuitable
and inadequate storage facilities and deficient management. Inappropriate
types are frequently imported. Fertilizer is sold at a uniform national
price incorporating a subsidy of 40 percent prior to the adoption of the
two-tier foreign exchange system and 66 percent under the current two-tier
system, costing the Government roughly $5 million a year.
2.14      In addition, since 1966 the MOA has provided subsidized services
for land clearing, levelling, field preparation, ploughing, harrowing and
combine harvesting. A combination of factors, which include unsuitable
equipment, inadequate funding, bureaucratic procedures, poor staff motiva-
tion and consequent low staff morale, have resulted in an ineffective
service which collects only about 10 percent of its costs. Privately-owned
farm mechanization equipment in operating condition outnumbers MOA equip-
ment in the ratio of 10:1.
2.15      The Delivery of Extension and Research Services.   Extension
services are undertaken by several departments within the MOA and by other
institutions in parallel to the MOA (see Annex 3-4 on Extension). Except
where there is donor assistance, services are without vehicles or operating
funds and are ineffective. Donor assisted projects (CIDA maize and cowpea
program, Ghana German ADP in the Northern Region, and IDA/IFAD Volta Region
ADP) are testing new institutional approaches and structures to elimina!:e
the duplication and provide more effective services. Instead of parallel
services, VORADEP adopts an integrated approach and the Training and Visit
System. In this approach, the extension agent deals not only with crops
but with livestock as well if the latter is part of the farming system.
The extension agent is backed by subject matter specialists for individual
farming activities. In research as in extension, external funding has been
necessary for supporting meaningful programs.  Technical ass-i'tance is
being provided through grants from CIDA and GTZ to the Ghaaa Grains
Development Project (maize and cowpea) and to the Nyankpala Agricultural
Experiment Station (farming systems and crop improvement) respectively.
Again, as in extension, there is the need to avoid duplication among the



- 6 -
numerous institutes, identify priorities and develop better linkages among
research programs.  Finally, linkages between ext;nsion and research have
not provided the feedback essential for improving the quality of both
services (see Annex 3-3 on research).
2.16      The Delivery of Veterinary and Irrigation Services.  Veterinary
and irrigation services are an important component of MOA's extension work.
The main role of MOA's AHPD is to help prevent the spread of contagious
diseases and protect livestock against parasites. Ghana is under the
constant threat of rinderpest from cattle moving south from neighboring
countries. These services were one sf the more effective in West Africa
but their effectiveness has declined due to budgetary constraints
(see Annex 3-6 on Animal Health and Production Departmen;). Support is
expected in the near future from the EEC for rinderpest control. As far as
irrigation is concerned, strengthening of irrigation services would enable
Ghana reap the benefits of its substantial investments in irrigation: over
$200 million (in 1985 prices) in the last decade. Costs are estimated
between $10,000 and $50,000 per hectare, well above the economic threshold
level of viability (approximately $3,000). Currently, GIDA's management is
weak, costs of operation and maintenance high (about $350 in 1985 prices,
per irrigated hectare versus a norm of roughly $200) and cost recovery low
(20 percent), extension to improve farmers' skills in irrigation management
ineffective (see Annex 3-5 on Irrigation Development).
2.17      Agricultural SOEs.  i±nally, a major area of MOA responsibility
is its supervision of agricultural SOEs. There are eighteen agricultural
SOEs, most of them minor in terms of their demands on the budget (although
SOEs as a whole are a burden on the Government) or their role in implement-
ing Government's agricultural policy. According to a diagnostic survey of
all SOEs, undertaken in 1985, SOEs incurred large operating losses,
accummulated arrears on their payments of taxes and loan repayments,
exhibited low productivity, and were illiquid. Of agriculture's eighteen
three however are significant and of direct policy interest to the proposed
project: (1) the GFDC which is in charge of implementing Government's food
security policy, (see para 3.09 on Food Security Study); (2) the Ghana Seed
Company in charge of supplying quality seeds to farmers (see para 3.24 on
the SOE reform program); and (3) the Ghana Cotton Company in charge of
revitalizing cotton in the north (see para 3.11).
D.   Government's Objectives, Strategy and Action Program.
2.18      Objectives.  The Government's short to medium term objectives for
agriculture are set out in the Statement of Agriculture Policy (see Annex
2-4). The major objectives are : (i) to rehabilitate the economy through
efficient production and marketing of commodities in which Ghana has
comparative advantage; (ii) to increase agriculture's net contribution to
the balance of trade through higher export earnings and reduced commodity
imports; (iii) to redefine and improve public sector management; and (iv)
to achieve an appropriate level of food security in a cost effective
manner. Over the longer term, the Government seeks to diversify the



- 7 -
production base as a means of reducing Ghana's vulnerability to cocoa price
fluctuations.
2.19      Strategy.  The Government's current strategy reverses the
priorities of past policy in three important respects. First, the emphasis
is shifting away from heavy taxation of cash crops to improved production
incentives for domestic import substitutes and exports. Second,
quantitative controls and import allocation through licensing are being
replaced by more market oriented mechanisms. Third, direct state
intervention in price setting, production and input delivery will be
substantially reduced in favor of more private sector involvement and
market orientation. In addition, the Government wants to decentralize
budgetary and decision processes in public institutions.
2.20     The Government's Action Program.  The program for agriculture
encompasses short term measures for improving prices and liberalizing
markets and medium term measures for strengthening public sector
management. Specifically, in the short term, it focusses on (i) an
increased share to farmers of world prices for cocoa, cotton, tobacco; (ii)
a gradual elimination of subsidies on fertilizer as the MOA withdraws from
its monopoly on import and distribution; (iii) privatization of tractor
bire services which are now also handled by MO*.; and (iv) improvement in
delivery and cost recovery for veterinary and irrigation services.
2.21      For the medium term, the program makes a start on strengthening
the capacity of the MOA to formulate and coordinate agricultural policy
within a decentralized structure. While Government accepts the principle
of minimum direct price intervention in the pricing of industrial crops
where monopolies or cartels exist (cotton, tobacco, palm oil), it wants MOA
to improve its analytical capacity to assess the validity and efficiency
implications of private sector proposals and to monitor their effects. GOG
sets the prices of cocoa, coffee and sheanuts. It announces minimum
producer prices for maize and paddy rice but does not enforce them in the
Tarket place. These apply only to the purchases of the Ghana Food
Distribution Corporation. Mandatory consumer price controls are retained
on only eight "essential" commodities, imported rice and sugar being the
only agricultural ones. More generally, GOG does not set any food crop
prices. At present, minimum prices of cotton, tobacco, palm oil are
negotiated between processors and farmers' representatives on the basis of
cost of production considerations.  MOA's role is to balance processors'
and farmers' interests and ensure that the final official price is in line
with GOG's overall policy. This arrangement serves the interests of all
parties involved: for processors, they want GOG to take responsibility for
the final price; for farmers, they use MOA as a check against processors;
and for GOG, it retains the option of actively intervening in the
negotiation. GOG wants to keep this present arrangement. In the delivery
of services where there is a valid role for the public sector, the
objective is to reorganize and focus limited resources on priorities.
Thus, for extension and research, the program must identify priorities and
develop appropriate institutions which can make effective use of Government
and donor support. In irrigation, there is an agreed action program



- 8 -
between the Government and IDA, so the broad task is to further develop and
implement components of the program. Finally, the MOA must provide
sustained support to make progress on the rationalization of agricultural
SOEs.
E.   IDA's Role
2.22      The focus in IDA's approach is improving incentives,
strengthening institutions and rehabilitating infrastructure. This focus
which has evolved over the years, is based on lessons derived from earlier
experience (betwenn 1969-1980) and the recommendations of more recent
analyses. In close consultation with the IMF, IDA has designed the
Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which the Government launched in April
1983. IDA's role has been to help Government rehabilitate productive
assets, lay the basis for sustained growth, mobilise and coordinate donor
aid in support of a market and export oriented recovery strategy.
2.23      Between 1969 and 1980 Bank Group commitments to agriculture
totalled US$105.5 million for projects covering tree crops (cocoa ard oil
-)alm), fisheries, sugar, livestock and integrated rural development. The
main lessons learned are:  (i) the need to ensure positive price incentives
to producers through an active d:alogue with the Government; (ii) the high
risk to successful project implementation in view of MOA's limited institu-
tional capacity to undertake planning and monitoring. This limitation at
the center could not be successfully overcome by strengthening management
in integrated area development projects. The more recent analyses of the
economy in general and of agriculture in particular highlighted, among
other things, the following as major causes or consequences of agri-
culture's economic decline: (i) low producer incentives for major indus-
trial crops in which Ghana has comparative advantage; (ii) weak analytical
and management capability throughout the civil service and the SOEs after
years of politiral instability, over-expansion of public intervention,
unattractivte -y scales and insufficient operating funds; and (iii) wide-
spread and severe deterioration of productive assets and of public infra-
structure.
2.24      In its current operations, IDA's emphasis is on creating a macro
policy and institutional environment supportive of production in which
Ghana has comparative advantage and on complementing its macro initiatives
with sectoral interventions. Specifically, a high priority area is the
reduction of price distortions and excessive controls which encouraged rent
seeking activities. Thus, major initiatives at the macro level are the
liberalization of the foreign exchange regime; the reform of the trade
taxation and tariff system; the development of an export diversification
strategy, increases in the annual prices for cocoa and other industrial
crops; and gradual elimination of comprehensive price and quantitative
controls on all but eight "essential commodities". To manage this
fundamental reform process, it is absolutely essential to rebuild public
sector management and reallocate scarce public funds. In this respect,
major initiatives are on improving the staff structure of the civil service
and incentives for senior level staff; demarcating areas for public and



- 9 -
private spheres of action; rationalizing the SOE sector, improving the
financial performance and accountability of SOEs with a valid public role
to play; and restructuring public expenditure. In agriculture, an
important long term institutional objective is the integration of cocoa
into general agriculture policy.
2.25      In support of the Economic Recovery Program, the Bank has
financed two Import Reconstruction Credits and an Export Rehabilitation
Credit. It is developing a Structural Adjustment Loan, a Structural
Adjustment Institutional Support Credit, and a Public Enterprise Project.
These macro level operations are complemented by sector level operations:
the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit; rehabilitation projects in public
infrastructure (roads, power, ports) and the health and education sectors;
and the proposed Agriculture Services Rehabilitation Project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin, Rationale and Objectives
3.01      Project Origin.  The project was proposed in the Bank's
Agricultural Sector Review 1/ the main conclusions of which were accepted
by Government in February 1985. The review recommended .a sustained
improvement in producer incentives, input availability an,. road
rehabilitation as major short term actions and the strenghtening of key
functions of the MOA as the major thrust of a medium term strategy. A
J4cint Bank/FAO Cooperative Program mission agreed on the project outline
with Government in April 1985 and the FAO Cooperative Program prepared an
identification report in November 1985 2/.
3.02      Project Rationale.  The proposed project is an integral component
of the Bank7-s portfolio of current operations in support of the
Government's Economic Recovery Program (para 2.24). It extends the
institutional reforms inititated at the macro level down to the sectoral
level. It translates the institutional objectives of the ERP and therefore
of the SAL, into a concrete program of reform for key agricultural
institutions. Institutionally, the Structural Adjustment Loan contains (i)
a review of the public expenditure program (1986-1988) to develop an
expenditure structure supportive of the ERP; (ii) a phased reform for
priority SOEs whose corporate plans must be reviewed and approved by the
Government; (iii) a timetable for staff redeployment throughout the civil
1/   Ghana Agricultural Sector Review, Report No. 5366-GH, West Africa
Region, August 6, 1985.
2/   Ghana Agricultural Sector Rehabilitation Credit,
Identification/Preparation Mission Report 80/85 FAO/CP-GHA.16;
November 15, 19P,5.



- 10 -
service and improvement of the terms of service for senior staff; (iv) a
skill mobilization scheme to attract and retain competent senior staff to
implement the ERP. This project enables MOA to support item (ii) and
participate in the other major exercises as part of its institutional
strengthening. The Structural Adjustment Institutional Support Credit
supports items (iii) and (iv) and the Public Enterprise Project, item (ii).
3.03      There are additional considerations.  First, the design of the
project responds to the Government's action program for both the short and
the medium terms (paras 2.20, 2.21). Second, it enables the MOA implement
the Government's policy of decentralization, at an early stage in Ghana's
economic recovery. Third, based on earlier experience, MOA must be able to
introduce sustainable policy initiatives and take control of the investment
program which has become donor driven, before undertaking an extensive
investment in new projects.
3.04      Project Objectives.  The basic objective of the project is to
initiate a self sustaining process of rehabilitation so that MOA can give
mo-e effective support to agriculture. Specifically, it has two
interrelated objectives: to strengthen the institutional framework for the
formulation and implementation of agricultural policies and programs; to
improve the delivery of public sector services to agriculture.
B. Project Description
3.05      Summary Description.  The ability to develop policies and monitor
implementation is central to improved use of resources. This is the basic
premise of the project. Specifically, the project would support
Government's action program (para 2.21) to improve public sector management
and would fund investments to: (a) develop MOA's capacity for policy
formulation, planning, monitoring and evaluation in the sector; (b)
strengthen research, extension, irrigation and veterinary support services;
(c) privatize fertilizer and tractor hire services; and (d) reform
agricultural SOEs. The project provides for technical assistance, staff
training, logistical support and operating funds. The proposed project
focusses on institutional support with parallel financing for selected
imports from AfDB and KFW ,
3.06      Policy Formulation, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation.  The
project would support reorganizing and strengthening of the Policy,
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED) of the MOA. The
reorganization of the MOA is underway at the national level and strength-
ening of PPMED is a key part of this broader reform. This broader re-
organization includes: (a) st.engthening central planning capacity (at
present, cocoa is not included); (b) merging a number of separate extension
services; (c) decentralizing field operations; (d) disengaging MOA from
fertilizer handling operatiorns and tractor services; and (e) providing for
better coordination between the various sector agencies. Agreement in
principle has been reached among the Government, the UNDP, and IDA on the



- 11 -
main components of MOA's reorganized structure. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Government would consult with IDA prior to making
any material change in the agreed structure and organization of the
Ministrv of Agriculture.
3.07      ln its Statement of Agricultural Policy, the Government
recognizes the need for better inter-institutional coordination of policy
affecting agriculture. Thus, as part of the reorganization of MOA, an
Agricultural Policy Coordination Committee (APCC) is to be established (see
Annex 2-4). Membership will include MOA, the Ministries of Local Govern-
ment, Finance and Economic Planning, Industry Science and Technology, Trade
and Tourism, Transport and Communications, Roads and Highways, Lands and
Natural Resources, COCOBOD and the Bank of Ghana. The Committee will be
chaired by the MFEP with MOA acting as the secretariat. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Committee will be set up by December 31,
1987, will meet at least once a year, that its composition is acceptable to
IDA, and that priority areas in its work program for the project years be
acceptable to IDA. Suggested priority areas are: pricing of selected
industrial crops and of imported agricultural inputs; selection of annual
feeder road rehabilitation program, extension for cocoa and non-cocoa
activities, work program of parastatals in agriculture (e.g. rubber and
cotton), linkages between extension and research.
3.08      The PPMED will be reorganized from the existing ERPS.  The
strengthening of PPMED would enable it to: (a) develop sustainable
policies, monitor their impact and take the lead in developing a sector
investment program including directing donor support; (b) review priorities
in MOA's annual public expenditure budget (c) improve project preparation
and monitor implementation; (d) review the impact of tariff changes which
will be set following the Trade Taxation and Tariff review scheduled for
1987; and (e) monitor pricing of industrial crops to assess relative
incentives and comparative advantage, following a methodology to be agreed
with the Bank (on methodology, see Annex 3-1, on GOG's current role in crop
pricing, see para 2.21). At negotiations, assurances were obtained that
MOA w411 review on an annual basis with IDA its annual public expenditure
budget and will follow the agreed methodology in reviewing with the Bank
selected industrial crop prices ' cotton, tobacco, palm oil) oa an annual
basis. PPMED will be supported by a UNDP technical assistance project with
IDA providing funds for studies under a cost sharing arrangement. The
project would fund technical assistance (three advisors plus short term
consultancies totalling 22 man months), refurbishing of offices, vehicles,
equipment and operating costs. At negotiations, assurances were obtained
that (i) technical assistance staff to be appointed to the PPMED should
have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
acceptable to Government and IDA; and (ii) that by December 31, 1987, MOA
and IDA are to agree on interim and long term staffing levels for PPMED. The
UNDP project in support of PPMED should be signed and TA staff selected is a
condition of effectiveness.



- 12 -
3.09      Studies which would be managed by the PPMED would cover:  (a)
review of Agricultural Research (para 3.10) 16 man months, (b) Agricultural
Extension (para 3.13) 8 man months, (c) Agricultural Credit (Annex 3-2) 21
man months; and (d) Food Security (Annex 3-2) 21 man months. Draft Terms
of Reference have been prepared (Working Paper 2). These studies would
help lay the basis for action programs in major areas now affecting
institutional support to agriculture. The Agricultural Credit study is to
be coordinated with a financial sector review planned for 1987. The Food
Security study is to help the Government develop a cost effective approach
to ensuring a desired level of food security, given its concern with sharp
price instability following the drought years of 1982-83 and its current
plans to invest further in food storage (see Annex 2-3 on Agricultural
Goals and Policies). The first phase of the Food Security study is an
assessment of the technical and financial aspects of the operations of the
GFDC and is expected to be complete by August 1987. In the context of the
SAL negotiations, February 23 to March 2, 1987, the GOG has indicated that
it will discuss the implications of the review and to incorporate actions
agreed upon with IDA in its 1988 budget. Agreement was obtained at
negotiations that (i) the Food Security study will be completed by December
31, 1989 and an agreed program of action developed by June 30, 1990; and
(ii) that prior to engaging any consultants, terms of reference for their
employment would be reviewed and agreed with IDA; and (iii) they would have
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
3.10      Agricultural Research.  The project would provide for (a)  a
review of agricultural research services ard preparation of a national
master plan (Annex 3-3) and (b) funding of research on cotton and rice
(irrigated and valley bottom). The review and preparation of a master plan
was recommended as a top priority following the West Africa Agricultural
Research Review carried out by the Bank. The review and the long term plan
should identify priorities for the next 15-20 years; suggest an appropriate
institutional framework for coordinating research and improving links with
extension; and quantify manpower and budgetary needs of the system. In so
doing, it would help the GOG mobilise coordinated support from donors, thus
providing research with what it needs most: adequate funding, a clear
structure of priorities, and suitable institutional channels. The GOG
agrees with the need for the study.  Terms of reference (Annex 3-3) have
been agreed with Government and assurances were obtained at negotiations that
(i) the review would be carried out by June 30, 1988 and conclusions
discussed with IDA and interested donors.
3.11      Despite the budgetary and institutional problems of research,
progress can be made in the medium term, in two priority crops for which
there is institutional capacity to undertake the research. Cotton is one.
CFDT is conducting a feasibility study for relaunching cotton production in
the north, where it is an important cash crop. Research on cotton would
further the revitalization of cotton. Rice is the other. The proposed
project is assisting the institutional strengthening of GIDA as
recommended by the Irrigation Sector Review (see Annex 3-5). The research
on rice is part of an agreed strategy with GIDA to make better use of water
resources and existing irrigation schemes (see Annex 3-3). The project



- 13 -
would provide for cotton iesearch at the Crops Research Institute's
Nyankpala Station (Northern Region) and research on irrigated rice at the
University of Ghana's, Kpong Station (Eastern Region). Technical
assistance, vehicles and field equipment, renovation of laboratory
facilities and operating costs would be funded.
3.12      Government has established the Agricultural Research Development
and Advisory Committee (ARDAC), which includes directors of research
institutes, MOA departments and development agencies. The membership will
promote linkage between research and extension at the national and field
levels. However, in view of prevailing budget constraints, there is the
need to ensure that financial support be assured for the functioning of the
Committee.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this committee
would continue to be supported and that ARDAC's comments are required prior
to the finalization uf the work programs of the six institutes under the
CSIR, which are engaged in agricul,ure related research.
3.13      Agricultural  Extension.  The project would continue the
restructuring and strengthening of agricultural extension services that has
commenced under the Volta Region Agricultural Development Project (Credit
1009-GH) and other Bank and non-Bank financed operations, and will parallel
a similar operation for the cocoa extension service under the Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project. The proposed project will support a pilot program
of extension strengthening in three Regions. Work in the first pilot
Region (in 1987) will be supported by a Project Preparation Facility.
Priority under the pilot program will go to organizing an effective
field-based extension service closely linked to agricultural support
services (especially research) and supported by regular in-service training
for all staff. The program is a pilot in the sense that it will be a major
input into the design of a possible national agricultural extension
project. Particularly to this end, the project would fund (para 3.09) a
study of early progress under the pilot program and more generally of the
organization, objectives and experience of agricultural extension and
related training in Ghana: By negotiations, assurances were obtained that
this study be completed by December 31, 1988. (The research review to be
completed by June 30, 1988, should also contribute to the formulation of
the proposed national extension project.) The pilot program implementation
schedule is in Annex 3-4.
3.14      The pilot program of extealsion strengthening would support (i)
short-term consultancy assistance for reorganizing non-cocoa and
non-plantation crop agricultural extension services within MOA and for
identifying extension staff training needs; (ii) training, vehicle and
equipment and incremental operational costs of staff of the restructured
extension service in pilot Regions; and (iii) logistical support to the
maize and cowpea demonstration activities of the Ghana Grains Development
Project in Regions where the pilot program is implemented. Funds are also
included under "extension" in the project to continue support of extension
activities in Vo]ta Region upon the closure of Credit 1009-GH, and for
related research and monitoring and evaluation activities in that Region.



- 14 -
3.15      Irrigation Services.  The project would assist GIDA in shifting
the focus of its strategy away from construction of capital intensive
schemes to optimizing returns from existing schemes. New investments would
be limited to small scale and supplemental valley bottom schemes, The
redirection from capital intensive schemes which have dominated investments
in the last decade was agreed in principle with GOG following the
Irrigation Sector Review carried out by IDA and GIDA in 1985. The agreed
program includes the following actions to be undertaken by GOG: (i)
reviewing its irrigation strategy to strike the appropriate balance with
the development of rainfed cropping and prepare a National Plan fcr
Utilization of Water Resources by December 31, 1990; (ii) giving priority
to small scale and supplemental valley bottom schemes; (iii) paying greater
attention to irrigation agronomy, optimizing returns from existing schemes
and launching a program of research and developrment for irrigated crops; (iv)
strengthening GIDA through a twinning arrangement with a comparable insti-
tution in a another country. At negotiations, agreements were reached on
(i) a policy statement incorporating these elements of the action program,
(ii) submission to IDA by July 31, 1987 a plan of action for improved cost
recovery from irrigation schemes, to be achieved over a three year period
and including staff reductions; and (iii) implementation of the cost
recovery plan agreed to by GOG and IDA. A shortlist of possible
authorities for twinning has been agreed with IDA. As a condition of
disbursement for t!he GIDA component, the twinning contract must be signed.
3.16      The project would provide funds to support the twinning
arrangement (including staff training), improved irrigation agronomy and
the development of six small scale pilot irrigation schemes to test the
feasibility of pump and low cost gravity schemes. The areas for the pilot
projects have been identified and the PPF provides funds for undertaking
surveys of these areas. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
pilot projects will be prepared by GIDA according to agreed criteria and
approval by IDA would be needed for release of IDA funds, for these
schemes.
3.17      Veterinary Services.  The project would provide logistical
support (vehicles, operating costs and storage facilities) for the AHPD to
enable them to make good use of the improved supply of vaccines and drugs
expected from parallel funding by KFW, expected to be US$8.5 million. A
system for recovering cost of materials is already operating and in two
Regions revolving funds have been set up for retention of revenues.
Adequate cost recovery will generate the funds necessary for the MOA to
sustain and improve the effectiveness of its services in preventing
contagious diseases and protecting livestock against parasites. By pricing
services at market rates, it will over time encourage private sector
participation (see Annex 3-6). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that Government would: (a) set up revolving funds on a national basis for
use of revenues by AHPD according to procedures and audit arrangements to
be agreed with rDA, (b) develop arrangements for the revolving funds, and
(c) set prices for services to recover costs of drugs from 1988 and drugs
plus operating costs excluding staff salaries but including travel



- 15 -
allowances and equipment maintenance from 1989. The GOG has already set up
arranigements for the revolving funds.
3.18      Privatization of Fertilizer Operations.  The project would
assist GOG transfer the importation and distribution of fertilizers to the
private sector in order to improve the efficikncy of supply. During the
project period, AfDB will provide US$20.0 million 3/ to fund fertilizer
imports, during a three year period. Privatization would be phased over
four years as time is needed to rebuild the distribution networks and
infrastructure and to phase out the subsidy (see para 3.19). The phasing
would be as follows. Government would be responsible for procuring and
distributing fertilizer during the transition period. In the first year,
the Project would introduce private retailing of fertilizers in the Volta
and Brong Ahafo Regions where traders would be encouraged to buy from
designated distribution stores at a discount (representing the retail
margin computed by the MOA in conjunction with the Prices and Incomes
Board) to the uniform national price and they would be free to sell it at
their own prices. Using the experience of the first year, the private
retailing system would be extended countrywide in the second year.  In the
third year, MOA would sell its fertilizers only to wholesalers/dealers from
its central stores at Tema, Swedru, Kukurantumi and Tamale and pan
territorial pricing would cease to operate. The internal marketing and
distzibution systdm for fertilizer would then be, substantially, in the
hands of the private sector and in the fourth year, direct imports by the
private sector for an MOA-approved list of fertilizers would be permitted.
There will be annual reviews to confirm the continued appropriateness of
the proposed pri^vatization time-table.
3.19      The fertilizer subsidy woulK.  - phased out in tandem with the
privatization of fertilizer operations. The subsidy level has been reduced
from 66 percent in 1986 to 42 percent in 1987 and would be reduced to 30
percent in the first -dar of the project (1988), 15 percent in the second
year (1989) and eliminated altogether in the third year. 4/   This period
is acceptable to GOG. It will also facilitate the adjustment of the main
users who are a minority, namely the larger farmers cultivating maize and
rice (see Working Paper 9). The majority, the smallholders who practice
shifting cultivation will not be affected (see Annex 2-1). The main short
term impact may be a fall in marketed surplus as larger farmers are the
main contributors to the surplus. The longer term impact will be a more
efficient delivery and use of fertilizers. Since fertilizer use is still
3/   This is out of a total anticipated funding of US$25 million for
fertilizers, chemicals and hand tools.
4/   The reference price for determining the extent of subsidy reduction is
the C.I.F. contiact price plus wholesale and retail margins as
determIned by the Prices and Incomes Board. The 1987 MOA selling
price recovers only the CIF Tema cost.



- 16 -
at an early stage of adoption in Ghana, its proper pricing now will be
particularly valuable in developing efficient use. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations on the phasing out of the fertilizer subsidy and
the privatization of fertilizer operations according to the following
time-table, unless MOA and IDA agree on adjustments to the time-table
following the annual reviewE: to 30 percent for the 1988 crop year by
January 31, 1988; to 15 per cent for the 1989 crop year by January 31,
1989; to make a public announcement on its privatization program by
December 31, 1988; and to complete elimination of subsidy for the 1990 crop
year by December 31, 1989.
3.20      An internationally-recruited person who has had extensive
experience in private sector fertilizer marketing would be in charge of the
privatization program and he would heed the Crops Inputs Development Unit
(CIDU) in the Crop Services Department of MOA. The types of fertilizers to
be imported would be approved by a Fertilizer Extension Advisory Committee
in the MOA (see Working Paper 3). The appointment of the Head of CIDU to
take charge would be a condition of effectiveness. The PPF provides funds
for initiating and completing the search for the Head of CIDU.
3.21      Privatization of Tractor Hire Services.   MOA intends to phase
out its tractor hire services in order to encourage private sector interest
in delivering these services. Wheeled tractor services would be terminated
by the end of 1987 and the combine harvester services by February 1989.
Land clearing services would be terminated by June 1991. This length of
time is considered necessary for a build-up in pr4vate sector supplies to
service both construction and agricultural needs and to enable the GOG to
comDlete the disposal of equipment and the redeployment of affected staff
starLing September 1988 through to December 1991 (see Annex 3-9).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) the wheeled tractor be
terminated by the end of 1987 and the combine harvester services by
February 1989; and (b) land clearing service charge would be raised to full
cost recovery level by January 1988 and the services terminated by June
1991.
3.22      Agricultural SOE Reform Program.  The project would assist the
MOA carry out a substantial portion of the agricultural SOE reform program.
The entire program is set out in Annex 3-9. The program would be
implemented in three steps, consistent with MOA's management capacity.
First, agreement was obtained at negotiations from GOG on the
catu¢orization of the SOEs according to actions to be taken. Second, MOA
will in the first three years of the project either complete or make
substantial progress in implementing the reform program for SOEs for which
there are on-going activities or for which decisions have already been
agreed upon. Third, MOA will in the last three years of the project,
initiate and set in motion appropriate actions for the reform of remaining
SOEs.
3.23      The initial categorization resulted from the findings of the task
force which conducted the diagnostic survey of the SOE sector in 1985.
This initial categorization was then discussed with the MOA. In the



- 17 -
agreed categorization, one is to be liquidated, one sold off, seven
converted into joint ventures, five divested under the recently appraised
Public Enterprise project, two (GFDC and a subsidiary company) retained as
parastatals but subject to an action plan arising out of the Food Security
Study, and one to be reviewed as part of the reorganization of agricultural
extension (see Annex 3-9 for exact listing of the 17 SOEs; the eighteenth
SOE is GIDA discussed in para 3.15). Agreement on this proposed categorization
was obtained during negotiations. The MOA and IDA will jointly assess the
financial and technical soundness of GFDC's current operations as part of a
broader study to develop a cost effective approach to ensuring food
security. The GOG has recently completed the construction of 17,000 ton
silo capacity and is planning on a further expansion of 150,000 ton. The
immediate question is whether this planned expansion is a cost effective
way of improving Ghana's prospects for ensuring food security. This
question will be dealt with in the first phase of the Food Security study,
which is expected to be completed by August 1987 (see para 3.09 on
Studies). A more fundamental question is what should the relative roles of
public and private sector be in major areas such as storage and trade, with
potential to significantly reduce food insecurity. Decision on the GFDC and
its subsidiary company is deferred until the completion of the Food
Security Study and an action plan agreed upon (see para 3.09, Annexes 2-4,
3-2 and 3-9).
3.24      In the first three years of the project, MOA is to continue
ongoing activities and implement reform where decisions have already been
agreed upon. These are: (i) proceed with converting GOPDC into a joint-
venture; (ii) revitalize the Ghana Seed Company in cooperation with USAID
so that GSC will be able to ensure an adequate supply of quality seeds;
(iii) review the role of the Ghana Cotton Company joint-venture and produce
an action plan on the reorganization of the cotton growing and ginning
operations; (iv) prepare a plan for the conversion of FASCOM UR and FASCOM
VR to joint ventures; and (v) facilitate the conduct of studies for
rationalizing 5 SOEs which are being handled under the Bank's forthcoming
Public Enterprise Project (see para 3.02). By the third and fourth years
of the project, MOA would conduct a set of studies and implement
recommended actions for the Grains Development Board, Irrigation Company
UR, Ejura Farms, Crown Rice Mill and Pomadze Poultry.
3.25      The project would fund (i) an internationally recruited
professional to manage and facilitate the conduct of studies for
rationalizing the SOEs, and (ii) the actions and the studies listed above
(including subsequent actions identified by these studies) for which MOA is
responsible. At present, a task force is undertaking the SOE work program
in the MOA. Given the complexity of the tasks, it is important to
formalize this arrangement. A unit in MOA would coordinate the SOE reform
program (see Annex 3-9). The establishment of the unit and the appointment
of its key staff will be conditions of effectiveness.
3.26     The categorization of the SOEs was agreed to at negotiations and
assurances obtained that MOA would undertake the work program of actions



- 18 -
and studies within the agreed timetable and that with effect from 1988
budget year, no subventions would be provided to any of the organizations
that are listed for liquidation or selling off.
C. Project Costs and Financing
3.27      Total project costs over the five-year project period are
estimated at US$53.3 million 4/ of which US$49.1 million or about 92
percent would be foreign costs. Without taxes and duties, total costs
would be US$52.8 million. Base costs are estimated using prices obtained
during appraisal and updated to levels expected to prevail in March 1987.
Project costs include (a) physical contingencies equal to 10 percent of
base costs for buildings and civil works and 5 percent for all other items
except personal emoluments and travel allowances; and (b) price
contingencies compounded annually at the following annual rates: all local
costs including salaries for 1987: 18 percent; for 1988: 15 percent; for
1989: 10 percent; for 1990: 8 percent and for 1991: 8 percent; foreign
costs for 1987: 3.1 percent; for 1988, 1989 and 1990: 1.3 percent and for
1991: 3.5 percent. Total contingencies are equivalent to 10 percent of
base costs or 9 percent of total project costs. Project costs which are
summarized in Annex 3-10 and detailed in Working Paper 11, are incremental,
covering those investments and operational costs over and above the present
expenditures by the GOG for similar items.
3.28      The proposed IDA Credit of US$17 million represents 32 percent of
total project costs and would cover 35 percent of foreign exchange cost and
69 r,ercent of lo"al costs. The project cost of US$53.3 million provides
for US$1.5 million (3 percent) being provided by UNDP, US$1.3 million
(2 percent) by GOG. US$8.5 million (16 percent) by KFW and US$25 million
(47 percent) by AfDB.
D. Project Implementation
3.29      The MOA would be responsible for ensuring that the project would
be carried out in accordance with the credit agreements. A Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) located in MOA and reporting to the Secretary of
Agriculture will be responsible for coordinating project implementation,
finance, procurement and monitoring, (see Annex 3-12). The establishment
of the PCU would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The actual
implementation of the different componente of the project will be
undertaken by the PPMED, the CIDU, the Mechanization and Transport
Department (MTD), the AHPD, 6 Regional Administrations of the MOA, the GIDA
and the Crops Research Institute (CRI).
3.30      Project Management and Technical Assistance.  The PCU will be
headed by a Project Coordinator (PC) whose appointment would be a condition
4/   Includes a Project Preparation Facility of US$0.5 million.



- 19 -
of Board presentation, and he will be assisted by a Project Officer (PO)
who would be appointed no later than 3 months after credit effectiveness.
The PCU assisted by the PO would communicate d!.rectly with all heads of
implementing units on matters of annual work prierams, budgets, project
accounts, credit disbursements and progress repn,rting. All heads of
implementing units would submit to the PCU, for approval by MOA and for IDA
information, the annual budget relevant to the project together with the
annual work program at least 3 months prior to the start of each fiscal
year. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
3.31      The project would finance 52 man-years of internationally
recruited personnel to support the different components of the project:
one persor each for PCU, CIDU and SOE Reform Program totalling 13
man-years; 3 for Research for 9 man-years; 7 for Irrigation Development for
21 man-years; and 4 for UNDP technical assistance for 9 man-years. In
addition there will be consultancies totalling 97 man-months.
3.32      Project monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility of
PCU and of PPMED which would assist in designing a management information
system. The evaluation section of PPMED would provide annual reviews of
the fertilizer privatization program,a mid-term evaluation of the impact of
the project's agricultural extension initiatives, the farm mechanization
divestiture program, the irrigation development program, and the cotton and
irrigation research programs in addition to preparing the Project
Completion Report. At negotiations, agreement was obtained on PPMED's
responsibility with respect to evaluation.
3.33      The project would be implemented over 5 years starting December
1987 with completion expected by December 1992. All staff selection and
appointment, international and local would be completed by September 1988.
About. 50 percent of the credit would have been disbursed by end-PY3 and
implementation could be expected to be completed on time as the project is
mainly composed of studies and technical assistance.



- 20 -
E. Procurement
3.34      Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement 5/
(US$ Million)
Procurement Component              ICB         LCB         Others      Total
1. Civil Works                      -          1.5           -          1.5
(1.3)                    (1.3)
2. Vehicles, plant, equipment,    1.8          1.3          0.4         3.5
materials and spare parts    (1.8)        (1.3)         (0.3)      (3.4)
3. Consultants' services,                                   10.1       10.1
studies and training                                   (8.6)       (8.6)
4. Operating costs                                           4.2        4.2
(3.2)      (3.2)
5. Project Preparation
Advance                                                0.5         0.5
(0.5)      (0.5)
1.8        2.8          15.2       19.8
(1.8)      (2.6)        (12.6)     (17.0)
3.35      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all goods and
services financed under the credit would be procured in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Goods contracts valued at US$200,000 or more for plant,
vehicles, construction materials and equipment would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB), and a margin of preference applied
to 15 percent of CIF bid price or actual customs duties, whichever is less,
would be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Purchases would be grouped
into packages of at least US$200,000 whenever possible. Contracts valued
at less than US$200,000 but more than US$ 20,000 would be procured through
local competitive bidding under procedures acceptable to the Bank. LCB
procedures used by GOG have been reviewed, and found acceptable. The
services of the Ghana Supply Commission would be used for procurement only
of items which have a long lead time for delivery. All other procurement
would be organized by the Project Officer (PO) in PCU who would have had
5/   Contingencies are included in the amounts shown. Amounts within
parentheses indicate IDA portion.



- 21 -
experience in Bank procurement procedures. The PO will coordinate with all
implementing units so that all procurement activities are carried out in a
timely manner and in accordance with Bank's procedures. The P0 would when
convenient or necessary utilize the services of private proeurement agents
for imported items (Annex 3-14).
3.36      Contracts of less than US$20,000 would be procured through direct
competitive shopping based on at least three quotations. Items would be
bulked to permit optimum use of competitive bidding. Contracts for works
such as buildings and small irrigation structures because of scattered
sites would be procured through LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank,
but would provide international contractors in Ghana an opportunity to
participate. Contracts for goods and works for small scale public
irrigation schemes would only be let upon these schemes having been
prepared in accordance with agreed criteria and approval obtained from IDA
(para 3.16). Procurement under ICB and LCB procedures would total
US$4.6 million.  US$15.2 million would be procured through other procedures
which are as follows: (a) force account and local shopping for operating
costs costing US$4.2 million; (b) employing internationally recruited
staff, consultants and training services in accordance with Bank guidelines
costing US$10.1 million; (c) local shopping of equipment and vehicles
costing US$0.4 million. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all
bidding packages over US$200,000 would be subject to the prior review of
IDA. This would result in a coverage of about 45 percent of the value of
such works.
F. Disbursement
3.37      The Bank loan of US$17 million would be disbursed over six years
beginning first semester of IDA FY88 through FY93. The disbursement
schedule (see Annex 3-15), is similar to the historical disbursements
profile for Bank-wide agriculture sector adjustment loans (6 years). The
project belongs to this category rather than the investment category
because of its high technical assistance component.



- 22 -
Summary Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Amount of Loan       % of Expenditure to
Category                             Allocated              be Financed
1.   Civil works                                        100% of foreign
(a) Irrigation                 1.1           expenditure and 85%
(b) Other items                0.2           of local expenditures
2.   Vehicles, plant, equipment,                        100% of foreign
materials and spare parts                          expenditure and 90%
(a) Irrigation                 0.6           of local expenditures
(b) Other items                2.5
3.   Consultants' services,                             100%
studies and training
(a) Irrigation                 3.0
(b) Other items                4.7
4.   Operating costs excluding                          80%
local salaries
(a) Irrigation                 0.5
(b) Other items                2.5
5.   Project Preparation Advance          0.5           100%
6.   Unallocated                          1.4
17.0
3.38      Reimbursement for civil works contracts less than US$50,000,
other contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent, local training programs
approved by the Bank, and operating and general service costs would be made
on the basis of statements of expenditures. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that all supporting documents for statements of expenditures
would be held by the project units in readily available form and made
available upon request for inspection by the Bank. Whenever possible,
withdrawal applications would be aggreg.ted it1 amounts of US$200,000 or
more prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement out of the loan
proceeds. All IDA reimbursements would be made to the Special Project
Account if appropriate or the other Project bank accounts (para 3.41). A
PPF of US$0.5 million has been made available to finance project
preparation work for fertilizer privatization, agriculture extension and
irrigation development.



- 23 -
3.39      Project and Special Accounts.  The project would establish a
Project Account (Account No. 1) with a local commercial bank. This account
would receive the GOG contribution. GOG would deposit in the Project
Account 50 million cedis which represents the estimated operating costs for
the first three months of the project, as a condition of credit
effectiveness. GOG assurance was obtained at negotiations that it would
promptly pay its contribution as a grant to the project, as would be stated
in the approved annual budget. In addition, a Special Project Account
(Account No. 2) would be established by the Project for its project
components into which the Bank would make an initial deposit of US$1.0
million to be used to prefinance goods and services reimbursable under the
loan. The Special Project Account would be operated under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank and its replenishment would be
conditional on GOG's release of its quarterly contribution laot later than
30 days prior to the start of the quarter. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations. The account would be managed by the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), and should any disbursement made from this account
be found to be ineligible for financing, GOG would deposit the corres-
ponding amount into the account prior to submission of any further re-
plenishment applications. Special accounts procedures are given in
Annex 3-16.
G. Auditing and Reporting
3.40      Agreement was obtained at negotiations that GOG accounts related
to the project (including separate accounts for amounts withdrawn on the
basis of statements of expenditures, and the Special Project Account) would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
auditor's report and statement of accounts would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the end of the GOG fiscal year. It would also be
agreed that PCU (on behalf of GOG) would submit: (a) quarterly progress
reports to the Bank (see Annex 3-12); and (b) within six months of the
project's closing date, a final report on implementation and project
achievements. Details of reporting requirements are in Annex 3-17.
H. Financial Impact and Project Sustainability
3.41      The projeet would generate US$0.5 million in government tax
revenue during the project period. Financial cost to the GOG during the
project period would consist of its share of project costs of US$1.2
million. The relatively small incremental costs are expected to be within
GOG's financing capacity. No incremental project costs would have to be
sustained by GOG in the post project period as no incremental staff would
be needed after the project period and the project itself is expected to
lead into nationwide projects for agriculture extension and agriculture
research. Besides it would contribute to staff reduction in GIDA,
liquidation and divestiture of several agricultural SOEs.



- 24 -
I. Benefits and Risks
3.42      The main expected benefit is stronger public sector aupport for
the rehabilitation and longer term development of agriculture,. The key
areas at the present time are: (i) formulating policies to promote a
market oriented and efficient development in agriculture; (ii) developing
an investment program which can effectively utilise scarce domestic
development resources and foreign aid; (iii) revitalizing the delivery of
basi public services -- veterinary, irrigation, extension and research.
These services have the potential of promoting the structural transforma-
tion of Ghanaian agriculture. For these benefits to farmers and the
economy as a whole to materialize, a necessary condition is the strength-
ening of MOA's capacity to undertake the analytical and managerial tasks
involved. Therefore the immediate benefits are in the training and
development of staff expertise and the shedding off of production,
marketing and distribution activities that can be nore efficiently under-
taken by the private sector. These benefits justify IDA's taking the risks
discussed below.
3.43      There are risks at both the macro and the project specific
levels. Ghana's economy is in flux and political uncertainties with
respect to the fundamental redirection of the economy persist. These
uncertainties may undermine the strong, stable and sustained commitment
from many parts of Government which institutional reform requires. Since
the project is essentially a sectoral extension of the public sector reform
program initiated at the macro level, delays in the latter could adversely
affect progress of project timetable. There is a severe shortage of
competent and committed higher level staff, and even in the absence of
these macro level uncertainties, the PPMED may not be able to retain the
staff the project has trained and which the program requires.
3.44      The project level risks are mitigated by the consensus that has
been achieved among senior officials in the MOA and MFEP on the direction
of the restructuring and staff strengthening. There is also a broader
consensus between GOG and the Bank on measures to improve the supply of
competent senior staff to the civil service. These measures are being
included in the SAL and supportive sectoral projects. During
implementation, close Bank supervision will be required in the development
of a detailed work program for PPMED.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED
4.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government on
the following points:
MOA and PPMED
(i) MOA would review its public expenditure budget on an annual
basis with IDA and in monitoring industrial crop prices



- 25 -
(tobacco, cotton, palm oil) MOA would use a methodology
agreed with IDA and would review industrial crop prices
annually with IDA (para 3.08);
(ii)  Government would consult with IDA prior to making any
material change in the agreed structure and organization of
the Ministry of Agriculture (para 3.06);
(iii) Technical assistance staff to be appointed to the Policy,
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department should have
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment acceptable to Government and IDA (para 3.08);
(iv)  Interim and long term staffing levels for PPMED would be
agreed with IDA by December 31, 1987 (para 3.08);
(v) Government would set up and maintain the Agricultural Policy
Coordination Committee by December 31, 1987 (para 3.07) and
maintain the Agricultural Research Development and Advisory
Committee (para 3.12) and ensure that (a) composition of
both committees are acceptable to IDA (para 3.07), (b)
priorities for work program for APCC during the project years
are agreed with IDA (para 3.07); (c) ARDAC's comments are
required prior to the finalization of the work program of
the six research institutes reporting through the CSIR to MIST
(para 3.12);
(vi)  PPMED would provide annual reviews of the fertilizer
privatization program; mid term evaluation of the impact of
the project's agricultural extension initiatives, the farm
mechanization divestiture program, the cotton and irrigation
research programs in addition to preparing the Project
Completion Report (para 3.32);
PCU
(vii) The Project Officer to be appointed no later than three
months after credit effectiveness (para 3.30);
(viii)  The annual budget and work program relevant to the project
should be submitted by all implementing units to MOA and IDA
at least three months prior to each fiscal year (para 3.30);
(ix)  All goods, works and services financed under the credit
would be provided in accordance to Bank guidelines and all
bidding packages for goods and services at or over
US$200,000 would be subject to the prior review of IDA
(paras 3.35, 3.36);
(x) All supporting documents for statements of expenditures



- 26 -
would be held by project units in readily available form and
made available upon request for IDA inspection (para 3.38);
(xi) The Special Project Account would be operated under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA and its replenishment would
be conditional to GOG's release of its deposit of its
quarterly allocation to the Project Account no later than 30
days prior to the start of the quarter (para 3.39);
(xii)  GOG accounts related to the project including separate
accounts for amounts withdrawn on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures and the Special Project Account would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
(para 3.40);
(xiii) COG would submit quarterly progress reports to IDA and
within six months of project closing date submit a final
report on implementation and project achievements (para
3.40);
STUDIES
(xiv)  The Agricultural Research Study and master plan would be
prepared and reviewed with IDA and other donors by June 30,
1988 (para 3.10);
(xv) MOA would carry out the Food Security Study according to
terms of reference acceptable to IDA, complete the Study by
December 31, 1989 and develop a program of action to be
agreed with IDA by June 30, 1990 (para 3.09);
(xvi)  The Agricultural Extension Study to be completed by December
31, 1988 (para 3.13);
GIDA
(xvii) GIDA would prepare by July 31, 1987 an action program for
improved cost recovery acceptable to Government and IDA; in
addition GIDA would implement the agreed action program
(para 3.15);
(xviii) Signing of the twinning contract is a condition of
disbursement of IDA funds for the irrigation component (para
3.15);
(xix)  Small scale pilot projects for project funding would be
identified according to agreed criteria and would be
submitted for IDA approval and contracts for such projects
would only be let subsequent to such approval; (para 3.16);



- 27 -
(xx) GIDA would prepare a National Water Plan according to terms
of reference acceptable to IDA and review the final plan
with Government and IDA by December 31, 1990 (para 3.15);
DELIVERY OF SERVICES AND INPUTS
(xxi) Government would (a) set prices for veterinary services to
recover cost of drugs from 1988 and drugs plus operating
costs excluding staff salaries but including travel allow-
ances and equipment maintenance from 1989 and (b) complete
arrangements for the revolving funds (para 3.17);
(xxii) Government would reduce the fertilizer subsidy to 30 percent
of the retail price for the 1988 crop year by January 31,
1988, to 15 percent of the retail price for the 1989 crop
year by January 31, 1989 and eliminate the subsidy for the
1990 crop year by December 31, 1989 (para 3.19);
(xxiii) MOA's fertilizer operations would be privatized according to
the following schedule: 1988 - test private retailing in
two regions, 1989 - MOA to sell only at main distribution
stores, 1990 - MOA to sell at four depots, 1991 - MOA
relinquishes import and distribution role (para 3.18);
(xxiv) MOA's tractor hire services would be discontinued as
follows: wheeled tractor services by December 31, 1987;
combine harvester services by February 28, 1989 and land
clearing services by June 30, 1991 (para 3.21);
SOE REFORM PROGRAM
(xxv) Government would carry out a reform program of the
Agricultural State Owned Enterprises according to the
following schedule: in the first three years of project, to
continue ongoing activities and implement reform where
decisions have already been taken, (para 3.24); in the third
and fourth years, to conduct studies and implement
recommended actions for selected list as specified in para
3.24.
(xxvi) With effect from the 1988 budget year, no subventions would
be provided to any of the SOEs that are listed for
liquidation or selling off (para 3.26).
4.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness agreed upon are:



- 28 -
(i)  UNDP project in support of PPMED signed and TA staff
selected (para 3.08);
(ii) The appointment of the head of CIDU to be completed (para
3.20).
(iii) MOA to establish a unit to handle agricultural SOE reform
program and have its key staff in place (para 3.25);
(iv) The Project Coordination Unit established (para 3.29);
(v)  The Government of Ghana having deposited in the project
account 50 million cedis which is the estimated operating
cost of the project for the first three months (para 3.39).
4.03      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the Project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$17.0 million.



- 29 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
Key Features of the Agriculture Sector
1)   Population            Units
Total population          million         13.00                 1983
it          13.95 1/        mid - 1985
Population growth                          3.1  2/              1973-83
Rural as % of total          %            61.9  3/              1983
Average
Units    1975-76        1984-85       1986
2)   Economic Overview 4/
GNP Per Capita in 1985 5/   $                       390.00       n/a
Agriculture GDP/Head of
Rural Population             $                      368.95       n/a
Agriculture GDP as % of
Total (in constant 1975
prices) 6/                   %        48.5           45.0        n/a
1/   Population Growth Policies in Sub-Saharan Africa, World Bank Policy
Study, July 1986, Table S-1, page 68. Quarterly Digest of Statistics,
March 1986 has different estimates 1983: 11.99, 1985: 12.62. See
World Bank Report No. 6635 GH, March 30, 1987.
2/   Population Growth Policies in Sub-Saharan Africa, World Bank Policy
Study, July 1986, Table 19, page 88.
3/   Data from World Bank Commodity Division, 1984.
4/   Ghana Towards Structural Adjustment, Vol. II, Statistical Annex, World
Bank, Report No. 5854-GH, October 7, 1985. Table 2.02, page 8.
5/   Atlas Methodology.
6/   Report No. 6635-GH, op.cit Table 2.02.



- 30 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
Average
Units           1974-76   1984-85        1986
Agriculture GDP as % of 7/  %                    48.5       52.0         n/a
Total (in current prices)
3)   Land Use 8/
Land Area                   million ha                      23.08        23.08
Forest                         "    "                        9.01        8.05
Perennial Crops                "    "                        1.07         1.07
Annual Crops                   "    "                        1.05         1.12
of which
area under irrigation       thousand ha                      7.0          7.0
4)   Outputs 9/
Maize                      thousand tons        372        485          495
Rice                            "                71         78           80
Millet                          "               140        130          140
Guinea Corn                     it              167        181          190
Cassava                         it            2,608     3,570        3,040
Yam                             i               711        642         660
Per Capita                    pounds            176.4      140.9        141
Cereal Production
5)   Inputs 10/
Fertilizer (Imports)      metric tons        26,231    34,175       20,100
Pesticides                                      n/a       n/a          n/a
Tractors                      units           3,183      3,700         n/a
7/   Report No. 6635-GH, op.cit. Table 2.03.
8/   FAO 1985 Production Yearbook, Vol. 39, page 48.
9/ Report No. 5854-GH, op. cit. Table No. 7.06. For 1986 data,
Report No. 6635-GH, op.cit.
10/  Ghana, Fertilizer Privatization Study, International Fertilizer
Development Centre. July 1986, page 15.



- 31 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
Average
Units         1974-76   1984-85       1986
5)   Trade
Total Exports of goods 11/    $m             772 12/   599 13/      773 14/
of which
Agricultural Products           %             75.7      70           73
of which
Cocoa Products                                58        95           92
Logs & Timber                                 13.5       5            8
7)   Imports 15/
Total of Goods                  $m           824       703.5        780
of which
Agricultural Products           %             11.6      n/a         n/a
Food Imports % of
total                          %              9.03     n/a         n/a
Agric. Inputs as % of           %
total                                         2.53     n/a         n/a
11/ FAO 1985 Production Yearbook, Table 117, page 297.
12/ Report No. 5854-GH, op.cit. Table 3.03.
13/ Report No. 6635-GH, op.cit. Annex D, page 1.
14/ Report No. 6635-GH, op.cit. Annex D, page 1.
15/ Report No. 5854-GH, op.cit. Table 3.03.



- 32 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
Units     1974-76         1984        1986
8)   Government Expenditures 16/    Om         1,300.5      26,694.0      n/a
Total Capital Budget 17/             "           363.7        3,994.0     n/a
of which
Agriculture and
Non-Mineral Resources               "            29.6          384.3     n/a
Total Recurrent Expenditures         "           936.4       22,700.0     n/a
of which
Agricultural and
Ncn-Mineral Resources               It           62.0          936.3     n/a
WAPAB
April 1987
16/ Report No. 6635-GH, op.cit. Statistical Appendix, Tables 5.01, 5.03,
5.05.
17/ Capital Budget referred to as total Development Expenditure does not
include foreign funding.



- 33 -
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURE SECTOR CONSTRAINTS
1.        Ghana's agriculture which is dominated by smallholders, is
primarily rainfed, with low yields characteristic of traditional
techniques. Population is increasing at a high rate of approximately 3%
per annum, intensifying the pressure on land. Government's development
goal is to improve productivity, by promoting widespread adoption of modern
techniques and use of related inputs and by improving marketing
infrastructure. To achieve this goal, Government must address four broad
sets of constraints.
2.        First, are inadequate incentives.  The situation is different
between industrial and food crops. The prices of industrial crops --
cocoa, coffee, sheanuts, cotton, palm oil, tobacco and rubber, are set
directly by Government or by monopolies and cartels, with Government
approval. Producers of some of these crops (cocoa, coffee, cotton and
tobacco) continue to receive prices which are low compared to border
prices, although there has been a significant improvement in recent years.
Palm oil and rubber production is hampered by technological rather than
incentive problems. The prices of basic food crops -- the major ones being
maize, rice, sorghum, millet, tubers -- are market determined. Except for
tubers, they are all tradeables but their prices are determined primarily
by localized gluts and scarcities, rather than the border prices of
competing imports because of the deteriorated state of domestic marketing
infrastructure and the severe foreign exchange constraint. As a result of
market segmentation, prices are volatile. For producers, the volatility
increases the risks and costs of marketing, which in turn tend to inhibit
incentives for production. For the Government, the volatility is viewed as
undermining its food security objective which is to ensure adequate food
supplies at stable prices (see Annex 3-5 on Irrigation Development).
3.        Secotd, are the difficulties in input supplies.  The import and
domestic sale of fertilizer and inputs to cocoa have been Government
monopolies. Their delivery have suffered from the institutional and
financial weaknesses of the Government machinery, and the poor state of
road transport. The right types and quantities of fertilizer are not
imported, and fertilizer is not available on time. The import of other
inputs handled by commercial importers and enterprises (e.g. fisheries and
livestock) experienced the usual delays and inefficiencies of a cumbersome
import licensing system. As of October 1986, Government has in theory
switched over to automatic licensing. Thus licenses are no longer required
to participate in the weekly auction which was introduced on September 19,
1986. With the rapid devaluation of the cedi from the official 90 cedi
rate to a 150 cedi rate (early December), cedi liquidity of commercial



- 34 -
Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 2
importers and enterprises is becoming a serious constraint on access to
imports.
4.        Third, are the weaknesses of the policy making and implementing
institutions serving agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has
not been able to adequately fulfill its role of identifying priorities for
the sector's development, formulating policies and programs, coordinating
the activities of the many agencies operating in the sector, and delivering
essential support services to farmers. Extension services are poorly
organized and lack mobility. Research also suffer fzom shortage of funds,
is fragmented and results are not adequately translated into extension
messages. Seed releases from the state owned Ghana Seed Company are often
of low quality and overpriced.
5.        Fourth, is the widespread deterioration of road and communication
systems and the limited development of an effective rural credit system.
Transport problems inhibit output marketing and timely delivery of inputs,
thus raising the costs of intermediation and contributing to sharp price
volatility. What is known about formal credit points to the high cost of
delivering credit to rural areas, including low recovery rates and lack of
public confidence in the formal system which undermines the mobilization of
savings. Effective demand for modern inputs suffers from farmers' limited
access to credit. Credit problems also contribute to price volatility.
6.        In short, sustained agricultural growth has been constrained by a
discriminatory policy environment, inadequate systems for delivering
extension services, and farm inputs, and poor marketing infrastnrcture.
WAPAB
April 1987



- 35 -
Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
KEY AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS
1.        The main public sector agricultural institutions are responsible
for (a) policy formulation and implementation, are involved in (b) the
delivery of services and inputs, and to more limited extent handle (c)
production and/or marketing of selected industrial crops. They are all in
the process of being restructured so as to better support the Economic
Recovery Progravi. This annex describes the main features. More detailed
features are described in the Annexes 3-1 to 3-8 which follow.
2.        The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is of primary importance to the
sector since it is responsible for both items one and two above, and it
supervises the operations of numerous state owned enterprises (SOEs). The
only area that does not fall under its jurisdiction is cocoa, which is
handled by the Cocoa Marketing Board (COCOBOD). MOA's operations are
highly centralized.  The headquarters in Accra set policy directions,
formulate programs and decide on the budgets for all the ten regional
offices. As a result, regional offices have no autonomy. Despite this
centralized structure, the management information system in Accra is
virtually non-existent. It is thus extremely difficult to effectively
manage even the Accra operations of the six major departments: crop
services, veterinary, animal husbandry, fisheries, agricultural engineering
and Economic Research and Planning Service (ERPS). The ERPS is intended as
the analytical and policy formulation arm of the MOA, but it has not been
able to function effectively as such.
3.        There are other institutional constraints, which are common to
other parts of the civil service. The main ones are staffing and
remuneration within a context of overall resource constraint. The skill
and pay structure does not support the highly technical and analytical
functions MOA has to fulfill. There are too many lower level staff and not
enough pay for higher level staff. Apparently, staff at all levels earn no
more than ten per cent of their total income from their MOA employment.
Both staff effectiveness and morale suffer as a result.
4.        MOA is responsible for delivering extension, fertilizers and
mechanization services. In the Upper East, Upper West and Volta regions,
Government owned Farmers' Services Companies (FASCOMs) handle fertilizer
sales, not MOA. The four technical departments provide their own extension
services, in parallel with other commodity and area based extension
services. There are three sets of issues with respect to extension. One
is the internal organization and resources of MOA's services to improve
their effectiveness. The second is their relationships with existing
systems so as to avoid duplication.  The third is their linkages with



- 36 -
Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 2
adaptive research so as to improve the quality of extension messages. On
fertilizer, a faulty system of assessing demand and chronic budgetary
constraints have undermined timely delivery. Mechanization services suffer
from similar managerial and budgetary shortcomings. Both fertilizer
supplies and mechanization services are subsidized, further constraining
budget and delivery.
5.        Research on crops, livestock and forestry is undertaken by six
institutes. Their work program and budgets are managed by the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research which in turn reports to the Ministry of
Industry and Technology (MIST). So although these institutes work on
agriculture, they fall under the jurisdiction of industry. Like other
public institutions, their work suffer from lack of funding and adequate
staff skills.
6.        COCOBOD is the other major policy making and marketing
institution. It handles all cocoa matters, including the supervision of
the Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana (CRIG). Its major subsidiaries are
the Produce Buying Company (PBC) which has monopoly over internal purchase
and the Cocoa Marketing Board (CMB) over external sales. Major issues are
the rationale for its marketing monopoly and the efficiency of its
operations. These are being discussed in the context of the Structural
Adjustment (SAL).
7.        The State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) form the third block of public
sector institutions in agriculture. They fall into three categories (a)
direct production and marketing such as Food Production, State Farms and
State Fishing; (b) delivery of inputs and services such as the Ghana Seed
Company and the FASCOMs in the Upper East, Upper West and Volta regions;
(c) implementation of Government policy on irrigation -- Irrigation
Development Authority and on food security -- the Ghana Food Distribution
Corporation. To a greater or lesser extent, they all face serious
financial and management problems. The operations of major SoEs, some of
which are agricultural, are being reviewed in the public sector management
components of the SAL and by the Public Enterprise Project. There are two
basic issues, namely the rationale for Government involvement in production
and marketing activities which can be undertaken by the private sector
without any loss to society's interests (case of market failure or of
externalities); and the cost effectiveness of their operations in
activities where Government has a legitimate role to play.
WAPAB
April 1987



- 37 -
Annex 2-3
Page 1 of 5
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
AND ECONOMIC PLANNING
P.O. BOX M. 40
ACCRA
March, 1987
Dear Mr. Conable:
Subject: Agricultural Goals and Policies
1.        I am writing in connection with the proposed Agricultural
Services Rehabilitation Project to inform the International Development
Association about the agricultural development goals being pursued and the
policy reform actions which the Government has already taken or proposes to
take to promote growth in Ghana's agricultural sector. The primary
objective is to rehabilitate the sector by providing incentives for
increased production of crops and animal products for which Ghana has a
comparative advantage.
2.        As you know, this Government launched an Economic Recovery
Programme (ERP) in 1983 to revive a deteriorating economy. We have
completed the first phase of the ERP which has brought improvements in the
economy and general living standards. In order to strengthen and build
further upon the successes of the first phase (1983-85) of the ERP the
Government has formulated a second phase covering the next three-year
(1986-88) period. The issues to be dealt with under the second phase of
the ERP are similar to those addressed under the first phase, but with a
greater emphasis on sectoral concerns so as to lay the basis for renewed,
vigorous and efficient growth in the key sectors of agriculture, energy,
industry, education and health. Against this background, the Government is
asking the International Development Association to grant a credit to
support the rehabilitation and the development of an efficient agricultural
sector.
3.        The report presented by the Government to the Consultative Group,
in November 1985, describes the main features of the second phase of the
ERP covering the period 1986-88. In this letter, I will describe in more
detail the Government's objectives and actions taken or planned in two
major areas of policy reforms, critical to the rehabilitation of the
agricultural sector: the trade regime and pricing policy; and the role of
the public sector in agriculture.



- 38 -
Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 5
4.        Trade Regime and Pricing Policy:  One of the fundamental
objectives of the ERP is to improve the competitiveness of tLe economy in
general and of agriculture in particular by appropriate trade and pricing
policies. These policies have been described in detail in a more general
macro-economic context in my letter of February 21, 1986, addressed to you
in relation to the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit financed by IDA.
5.        Import Regime:  The exchange rate is being devalued through the
auction and import procedures are being liberalized. Over the longer term,
this liberalization should improve the sca:e and efficiency of agricultural
production by expanding the availability and improving the timeliness of
Inputs. Government also intends to improve coordination of food and
commodity imports so as to ensure that commercial and concessional imports
do not undermine domestic incentives for production and marketing.
6.        Tariff Structure:  Government's objective is to reduce dis-
crimination against the sector and distortions within the sector, thereby
promoting efficiency of resource use and reducing costs of administration.
A Fiscal Review is being carried out in 1987 to recommend appropriate
tariff levels for the entire economy, including agriculture.
7.        Export Promotion:  Incentives to export will benefit from higher
exchange rates expected under the auction. Measures to promote exports
will include removal of legal and administrative impediments, a
strengthening of the Export Promotion Council and improvements in credit
facilities. In addition, the World Bank is financing a study, being
carried out in 1987, to develop a medium term strategy for export
diversification.
8.        Agricultural Pricing Policy:  The Government has taken steps to
improve financial incentives to farmers by significantly increasing the
prices of cocoa, sheanuts, coffee, tobacco and cotton. There has been a
positive supply response from farmers and production of these crops is
increasing. For tobacco, cotton and palm oil, for which there are one or a
few purchasing companies, Government wants to monitor private sector
proposals and develop its own price proposals. The Government proposes to
adopt efficiency criteria rather than cost of production alone in its
pricing work. The Ministry of Agriculture's Policy, Monitoring and
Evaluation Department (PPMED) will be suitably staffed and upgraded under
the proposed ASRP, to provide the required analytical underpinnings. For
sheanuts and coffee, it is intended to set local prices at levels closely
reflecting world prices. For cocoa, it is the Government's intention to
encourage production by increasing the prices paid to the producers to
levels approaching 60% of the estimated long-time world price by the
1988/89 crop year.



- 39 -
Annex 2-3
Page 3 of 5
9.        Public Sector Role in Agriculture:  The reform and ratio-
nalization of the public sector's role in agriculture will be carried out
through a four-pronged program:
(a) Improving the Coordination of Institutions Involved in the
Sector. Government recognizes the need for setting up an
inter-institutional agricultural policy coordinating committee to
harmonize policies between the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
COCOBOD and the Department of Forestry of the Ministry of Lands
and Natural Resources. The PPMED in MOA will be strengthened and
given the mandate of coordinating Government agricultural
policies and programs. An Agricultural Policy Coordination
Committee comprising MOA, COCOBOD, Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning, Ministry of Local Government, Ministry of
Industry, Science and Technology, Ministry of Trade and Tourism,
Ministry of Transport and Communications, Ministry of Roads and
Highways, Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, and Bank of
Ghana will be set up by the end of 1987. To ensure that the
required coordination of agricultural research and extension, the
Agricultural Research and Development Advisory Committee has
already been set up. This Committee brings together the research
institutes, MOA and the development agencies.
(b)  Rationalizing of Public Sector Role.  Government is currently
undertaking a thorough review of the state enterprise system in
order to carry out appropriate reform. This will include
rehabilitation of some state-owned enterprises because of their
strategic importance, in other cases, joint ventures and
divestiture. The overall strategy aims at limiting the direct
participation of the State in agriculture to critical areas in
which there is no interest by private investors or some other
exceptional justification for direct public involvement.
State-owned enterprises will be expected to operate without
Government subventions as commercial entities and contribute
positively to public savings. Critical areas for continued
Government involvement are agricultural research and extension.
Two studies to be carried out in 1988-1990 will prepare research
and extension strategies to meet future needs.
(c) Efficiency Criteria for Public Investment. In addition to the
rationalization of the state owned enterprise sector, the
remaining government investment in agriculture will receive
greater scrutiny than in the past based on efficiency criteria.
Allocation of a higher percentage of national resources to
agriculture will enable investments in longer term, institutional
development to begin during the period. To begin with, MOA will
be reorganized to meet the objectives outlined above, with a
strengthening through the proposed ASRP of the PPMED, the
extension services and the veterinary services.



- 40 -
Annex 2-3
Page 4 of 5
Adequate recurrent expenditure will be ensured in the budget
to operate and maintain projects or services which have been
deemed worthy of further support; particularly agricultural
research and extension. Cost recovery for services provided and
revolving funds will be introduced in irrigation schemes,
veterinary services and for other inputs provided by MOA
(seedlings, etc.). A study of the irrigation sub-sector has been
completed and it has been agreed that any new investments in
irrigation must be shown to generate satisfactory rates of
return.
(d) National Conservation Strategy. Ghana's ability to develop and
maintain a viable, productive and competitive agricultural sector
depends on its ability to maintain soil fertility and avoid
environmental degradation. To this end, the Ministry has set up
an Agro-Forestry Department to advise MOA on the conservation and
improvement of the country's agricultural resource base.  A
national policy will be developed by 1988 in conjunction with the
Forestry Department of the Ministry of Lands and Natural
Resources and the Environmental Protection Council.
10.       Food Security:  Government's policy has been to build and manage
stocks to support a minimum price to farmers and to increase food supplies
under emergency situations. The Ghana Food Distribution Corporation is its
implementing agency, but its operations are undermined by financial
constraints. It has recently completed the construction of 17,000 ton silo
capacity and is planning on a further expansion to 150,000 ton. Before
proceeding with this expansion, the Government with Bank assistance, will
assess the technical and financial soundness of current operations. The
MOA and the World Bank with financial support from USAID are jointly
undertaking a study of Food Security to review the effectiveness of current
operations and to develop cost effective options for ensuring a desired
level of food security. Based on the findings and recommendations of the
study, the Government and the World Bank will agree on a program of action,
which can be supported by interested donor governments.
11.       Farm Credit:  Government policy over the 1986-88 period involves
strengthening the institutional capability of Rural Banks and the
development of a manual for rural bank personnel. The Bank of Ghana will
be required to assume a wider range of responsibility in the field of
agricultural credit. We are also considering measures to promote savings
and facilitate local resource mobilization. Government policy of
maintaining real positive interest rates will improve the mobilization of
rural savings and thus contribute to credit expansion.
12.       Monitoring Policy Impact:  A strengthened Policy, Monitoring and
Evaluation Department will monitor changes in major prices along the
marketing chain from border to farm. In the case of three industrial
crops: cotton, tobacco, and palm oil which are purchased by monopolies.



- 41 -
Annex 2-3
Page 5 of 5
or cartels, the PPMED will also develop its own price proposals based upon
efficiency considerations. Finally, it will monitor farm level responses
and report to policy makers so as to facilitate flexible policy response.
Youirs faithfully,
PNDC Secretary for Finance and
Economic Planning
(Dr. Kwesi Botchwey)
WAPAB
April 1987



- 42 -
Annex 2-4
Page 1 of 9
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
GOVERNMENT STATEMENT OF AGRICULTURAL POLICY
A. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.        Agriculture, including forestry, has, in the past, accounted for
about 57% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), close to 80% of merchandise
exports, and employed 55% of the labor force. About 70% of the population
(8.5 million) live in rural areas. In every respect therefore, agriculture
is the "prime-mover" of the Ghanaian economy; and it is in the agricultural
sector that the battle for long-term economic growth and development will
be won or lost.
2.        The scope for efficient growth in agriculture is great since
Ghana is endowed with an immense agricultural resource base, a relatively
large and potentially competitive industrial capacity, an abundant supply
of hydroelectric power (1070 megawatts) a relatively well developed human
capital base and a relatively small population (12.2 million in 1984).
3.        The development of Ghana into a solid agricultural nation capable
of feeding herself and exporting her surpluses has in the past suffered as
a result of a general decline in Ghana's economy. Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) declined by 0.5% per annum between 1970 and 1982. Real per capita
income fell by 30%, import volumes fell by 65%, real export earnings
declined by 52%, falling from 21% of GDP in 1970 to 4% in 1982. The con-
sumer price index increased by 80% per annum between 1975 and 1982, and by
122% in 1983. Population growth rate on the other hand averaged 2.6% per
annum between 1970 and 1984. The population in 1984 was 12.2 million and
per capita GNP was about US$320.
4.        The general decline in the Ghanaian economy was caused among
other things, by inappropriate and uncoordinated economic policies, out-
moded institutions and unworkable procedures. The inappropriate policies
include (a) the maintenance of a grossly overvalued exchange rate, (b)
quantitative import restrictions which protected non-competitive systems of
industrial and agricultural production, (c) excessive taxation of exports
resulting in reduced production and foreign exchange earnings, (d) main-
tenance of low product prices through subsidies for the benefit of urban
consumers resulting in a marked decrease in domestic production, and (e)
the uncoordinated fashion in which research, extension and other institu-
tions pursued their narrowly defined objectives.
5.        The consequences of these unfavorable domestic policies have
been, among other things, disincentives to crops for which Ghana has a
clear comparative advantage and vice versa, resulting in a decrease in the



- 43 -
Annex 2-4
Page 2 of 9
production of several crops including tobacco, cocoa, cotton, rubber and
oil palm. The resultant highly distorted incentive structure imposed high
implicit taxation on some crops with a clear comparative advantage (cocoa,
rubber, cotton and tobacco) and high implicit subsidy to crops with clear
comparative disadvantage (mechanized rice and sugar-cane).
B. RECENT POLICY MEASURES
6.        Given the continuing decline of the economy, it was necessary to
take appropriate trade and exchange rate, monetary, fiscal as well as
non-price policy initiatives. The Government of the Provisional National
Defense Council (PNDC) which took office at the end of 1981 announced a
series of fundamental economic reform measures in April 1983 and agreed to
a short term stabilization program with the International Monetary Fund
(IMF). The major measures under this first phase of the ERP have included
the following:
-    progressive exchange rate adjustments from 02.75 - US$1.00 in
April 1983 to 090.00 = US$1.00 in January 1987. The latest
exchange rate of 0153 = US$1.00 (February 21, 1987) represents
unified market;
-    an increase in cocoa producer prices from 012,000 per ton in
April 1983 to 056,000 per ton for the 1985/86 mid-crop year and
¢85,000 for 1986/87 a 112 percent increase in real terms since
1983. An additional ¢500 per metric ton is to be paid if the
production target for the 1987/88 season of 230,000 metric tons
is exceeded;
-    the progressive reduction of price and distribution controls
reducing the list of goods subject to these controls from 23 in
1984 to 8 in 1985;
-    increased fiscal stringency including greatly reduced recourse by
Government to the banking system;
-    the preparation and implementation of rehabilitation programs for
key sectors including cocoa, gold, timber, mining and transport;
-    increases in low public sector salaries by 40 percent in April
1984, 80 percent in January 1985 and by a doubling of salary
levels on average in January 1987, with the objective of
providing increased incentives in the civil service, particularly
for the higher management levels, and
-    the encouragement of private sector involvement in activities
previously controlled by Government and parastatals.



- 44 -
Annex 2-4
Page 3 of 9
-    increasing interest rates to encourage saving and achieve a
positive real rate of interest.
7.        Recent figures show that the economy has begun to respond,
despite a slow start due to severe drought in 1983. Real GDP increased by
10.7 percent in 1984, helped by a more normal rainfall, after five succes-
sive years of decline. A further increase of 5.1 percent in GDP was
recorded in 1985 bringing the GDP to only 10 percent (in real terms) below
the production peak which occurred in 1974. The consumer price index rose
by 40 percent in 1984 and a further increase of only 10.4 percent occurred
in 1985 despite heavy exchange rate adjustments. The balance of payments
registered a US$215 million current account deficit in 1984. This was 2.8
percent of GDP, slightly lower than the deficit of US$230 million in 1983.
Total debt service (including IMF) was about US$281 million in 1985, which
was 45 percent of estimated export levels in that year, and it is estimated
to amount to US$391 in 1986.
8.        Agricultural output grew at ten percent in 1984, accelerated by
good rainfall improved incentives and input supplies, and accounted for
about 51 percent of GDP. A further growth in agriculture of about one
percent was recorded in 1985.
9.        In spite of the positive response to the policy reforms initiated
in 1983, the Government still faces a formidable task in maintaining the
momentum of the recovery in view of the still poor state of the economic,
social and administrative infrastructure and the depleted manpower base.
A serious current constraint is the shortage of foreign exchange and
liquidity at a time when inputs for the productive sectors, especially
agriculture, are badly needed. There is also the urgent need to improve
Ghana's institutional capacity for policy formulation and analysis as well
as monitoring and evaluation of projects.
10.       The purpose of this Statement of Agricultural Policy (1986-88) is
to indicate the policies and strategies the Government of Ghana intends to
pursue over the 1986-88 period and the general direction beyond that
period, in order to consolidate the gains so far made to improve the policy
environment which will provide the impetus for the future growth and
development of the National Economy on a sustained basis.
C. OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY
11.       The principal objectives of agricultural policy during the second
phase of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) are to:
(a) liberalize the mechanisms for determining domestic prices
and imports, thereby promoting more competitive markets and more efficient
resource allocation;



- 45 -
Annex 2-4
Page 4 of 9
(b) reduce and where possible eliminate dependence on imported
food and industrial crops, fish and livestock products for which Ghana has
a comparative advantage;
(c) increase export earnings from crops and animal products
including cocoa and non-traditional exports;
(d) rationalize and improve the performance of public sector
expenditure in agriculture;
(e) provide for sufficient research, incentive and investment to
ensure the implementation of a national conservation policy;
(f) through the attainment of the above objectives, an improve-
ment in producers' incomes, with particular attention to the lower-income
producers.
12.       Government's strategy for the rehabilitation and further develop-
ment of the agricultural sector is based on considerations of competitive-
ness, efficiency and equity. The Government's role in the sector will be
rationalized to provide a suitable environment for competitive markets to
develop and resources to be allocated more efficiently. It is Government's
intention that the process be phased in such a manner that producers can
adjust gradually (over the 1986-88 period) to more competitive and effi-
cient modes of production.
13.       The short-term strategy (2-3 years), which was begun under the
first phase ERP but requires additional follow-up and consolidation, is to
complete the rehabilitation of the existing productive capacity in the
major crop (including cocoa) forestry, fish and livestock subsectors. For
this, the principal short-term actions required are the provision of
adequate incentives and inputs to the agricultural sector. Direct incen-
tives are required for export and industrial crops, and indirect incentives
for increasing the production of all crops through the speedy rehabilita-
tion of transportation services and infrastructure so as to reduce
marketing costs and uncertainties. In addition, better coordination on
food imports must be carried out as recent importations (both food aid and
commercial) have depressed domestic prices (e.g., maize, fish). Increased
quantities of inputs, tools, spare parts, equipment, etc., have been made
available, but more needs to be done to increase resources for imports and
to facilitate and liberalize inputs importation and distribution.
14.       The medium-term strategy (4-6 years), would include four main
lines of action: (a) major institutional restructuring and investment to
promote export/import substitution crops, particularly cocoa, rubber,
forestry products, cotton and tobacco; (b) reorganization and/or strength-
ening of support services-: input distribution, seed production, extension;
assistance for prevention of post-harvest losses and improved storage in
support of food production (primarily maize, cassava, and sorghum/millet in
the northern savannah); (c) consolidation of irrigation development; and



- 46 -
Annex 2-4
Page 5 of 9
(d) rationalization of central and regional government support to the
sector, particularly in planning and resource allocation. Sustained
agricultural growth in the medium- to long-term would require continued
price incentives and additional measures to overcome existing constraints,
particularly the weak research base and extension/research link and
continued ineffectiveness in input distribution.
D. ACTION PROGRAM
15.       The agriculture sector's objectives and strategies described
above will be pursued through the following major policy measures and
specific actions:
(a) improve incentives to agriculture by improvements to the
general economic environment including exchange rate adjustments, facili-
tating and liberalizing the importation of inputs a,.1 rromoting exports;
(b) improve availability of agricultural inputs to rehabilitate
the sector and fully utilize existing productive capacity;
(c) develop the technologies necessary to intensify and diver-
sify production to increase local food supply and expand exports through a
coordinated research and extension program;
(d) rationalize and reform the public sector role in the agri-
cultural sector to one of support, through a concerted program of improved
coordination of institutions in the sector, limited direct public sector
participation in productive and marketing activities, improved investment
criteria and rehabilitation of essential services provided by Government.
(e) develop a national conservation policy with particular
reference to the forestry sub-sector and research into the maintenance of
soil fertility under traditional and more advanced farming systems.
E. POLICY FRAMEWORK
(1) Trade and Export Promotion Policy
16.       Liberalization of Imports of Agricultural Inputs.  Since
September 1986, the auction has been the official mechanism for importing
all production inputs, including agriculture. Quantitative allocation
through import licenses are no longer operative.
17.       Coordination of Food and Commodity Imports.  Government intends
to improve the coordination so as to ensure that commercial and
concessional imports do not undermine domestic incentives for production
and marketing. Since producers will be incurring increasing production



- 47 -
Annex 2-4
Page 6 of 9
costs with further devaluation, it is essential that output prices not be
artificially depressed through poor timing of imports.
18.       Phased Elimination of Quantitative Restrictions on Commodity
Imports. Government s objective is to promote efficiency of resource use
in production and reduce costs of administration. As part of a study on
Fiscal Review scheduled for mid 1987, the appropriate level of effective
protection for agriculture using tariffs primarily will be recommended.
19.       Export Promotion.  A concerted export promotion program will
attempt to diversify the production base and strengthen agriculture's
ability to earn foreign exchange. Recent exchange rate adjustments and
export retention schemes have reinforced selective price adjustments to
improve earnings from exports. Further measures to consolidate and expand
these gains will be developed, so that agriculture's and the economy's
vulnerability to a narrow export base can be reduced. An Export Promotion
Council will be strengthened to review, coordinate and provide the
necessary incentives for exporting.
(2) Pricing Policy
20.       Output Pricing.  Considerable progress has been made in
liberalizing price setting by Government, thereby improving incentives to
producers.  However, a few crops including cocoa, which is of significant
importance to the economy, still have producer prices set by Government.
Due to its position as the main source of foreign exchange, cocoa pricing
will remain in the hands of Government during the 86-88 period, but the
producer price will be increased annually to an indicative target of 55 to
60 percent of the world market price. For cotton, tobacco and plantation
palm oil, monopolies or cartels purchase the outputs. Government intends
to monitor the prices proposed as well as develop its own price proposals
using cost of production and border price considerations. The strengthened
Ministry of Agriculture's Policy, Monitoring and Evaluation Department
(PPMED) will provide the analytic basis to develop these price proposals
and to monitor buyers' proposals, so as to ensure farmers are offered
remunerative prices based on expected border prices and competitiveness
with other crops.
21.       Fertilizer Pricing and Privatization.  The Government has decided
to phase out the substantial subsidy on fertilizer and to complete the
privatization process by 1990. The subsidy will be reduced by 42 percent
by crop year 1987, 30 percent by 1988, 15 percent by 1989, and completely
eliminated by 1990. When a completely privatized system of importing,
handling and distributing fertilizers is established, the companies will
set prices and Ministry of Agriculture will only monitor them.
(3) Public Sector Role
22.       The reform and rationalization of the public sector's role in
agriculture will be carried out through a three-pronged program:



- 48 -
Annex 2-4
Page 7 of 9
(a) Improved Coordination of Institutions Involved in the Sector.
Government recognizes the need for setting up an inter-
institutional agricultural policy coordinating committee to
harmonize policies between the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
COCOBOD and the Department of Forestry of the Ministry of Lands
and Natural Resources. PPMED in MOA which will act as
secretariat to the coordinating committee, will be given the
mandate of coordinating Government agricultural policies and
programs. An Agricultural Policy Coordination Committee
comprising MOA, COCOBOD, Ministry of Finance and Economic Plan-
ning, Ministry of Industry, Science and Technology, Ministry of
Trade and Tourism, Ministry of Transport and Communications,
Ministry of Roads and Highways, Ministry of Lands and Natural
Resources, Ministry of Local Government and Bank of Ghana will be
set up by the end of 1987 to ensure the required coordination of
policy actions is carried out. Improved coordination of
agricultural research and extension has already been initiated
through the Agricultural Research and Development Advisory
Committee, which brings together the Research Institutions, MOA
and the development agencies.
(b) Rationalization of Public Sector Role. Government is currently
undertaking a thorough review of the state enterprise system in
order to carry out an appropriate reform. This will include
rehabilitation of some state-owned enterprises because of their
strategic importance, for others joint ventures and divestiture.
The overall strategy aims at limiting the direct participation of
the State in agriculture to critical areas in which there is a
gap in the availability of private investment or some other
exceptional justification for direct public involvement. State-
owned enterprises will be expected to operate without Government
subventions as commercial entities and contribute positively to
public savings. Critical areas for continued Government involve-
ment are agricultural research and extension. Two studies to be
carried out in 1987-1988 will prepare research and extension
strategies to meet future needs. Research needs of the country
will be studied to direct efforts towards increasing productivity
and promoting crop diversification for domestic use and export.
Government will also continue to play a role in facilitating
marketing and quality control by market information systems,
produce inspection, weights and measures.
(c) Application of Efficiency Criteria to Investment: In addition to
the rationalization of the state owned enterprise sector, the
remaining Government investment in agriculture will receive
greater scrutiny than in the past, based on efficiency criteria.
Allocation of a higher percentage of national resources to
agriculture will enable investments in long term, institutional
development to begin during the period. To begin with, MOA will
be reorganized to meet the objectives outlined above, with a



- 49 -
Annex 2-4
Page 8 of 9
strengthening through donor aid of the PPMED, the extension
services and the veterinary services. Adequate recurrent expen-
diture will be ensured in the budget to operate and maintain
projects or services which have been deemed worthy of further
support; particularly agricultural research and extension. Cost
recovery for services provided and revolving funds will be
introduced in irrigation schemes, veterinary services and for
other inputs provided by MOA (seedlings, etc.). A study of the
irrigation sub-sector has been finalized and the Government and
the Bank have reached agreement on the main points of an action
program. In particular, it has been agreed that any new invest-
ments in irrigation must be shown to generate satisfactory rates
of return.
(4) National Conservation Strategy.
23.       Ghana's ability to develop and maintain a viable, productive and
competitive agricultural sector depends on its ability to maintain soil
fertility and avoid environmental degradation. To this end, the Ministry
has set up an Agro-Forestry Department to advise MOA on the conservation
and improvement of the country's agricultural resource base. A national
policy will be developed by 1987/88 in conjunction with the Forestry
Department of the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, the
Environmental Protection Council and the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning.
(5) Food Security
24.       Government's objective is to improve food security by developing
cost effective means sustainable within Government's budgetary constraints.
The Government is concerned about the sharp fluctuations in maize prices,
causing hardships to farmers in times of surplus and to consumers in times
of scarcity. It thus intends to build food stocks in maize producing and
drought-prone areas and to improve village level storage capacity. With
external financing, GFDC is preparing the storage construction program.
The recurrent cost implications of this construction program, subsequent
stocking and its management are being fully monitored and must be cerefully
examined, so as to develop ways of effectively managing the stocks uithout
straining the Government's recurrent budget.
25.       Of immediate importance is to assess and improve the technical
and financial soundness of GFDC's current operations. Over the medium
term, we need to develop an affordable food security strategy by analyzing
the cost effectiveness of stockbuilding and other means of improving food
security. With World Bank assistance the Government is launching a study
to analyze the cost effectiveness of a mix of instruments: (1) public and
private stockbuilding at different levels, including recourse to emergency
food procurement and imports; (2) external trade and (3) special relief
measures.



- 50 -
Annex 2-4
Page 9 of 9
(6) Farm Credit
26.       Liquidity constraints have increased with successive devalua-
tions. Government has taken steps to provide additional funds to the rural
credit system, through its own funds and external aid. The Government
regards the Rural Bank concept as the best means of extending credit to
small farmers. Government policy over the 1986-88 period involves
strengthening the institutional capability of Rural Banks through training
programs for directors and managers of Rural Banks and the development of a
manual for rural bank personnel. The Bank of Ghana will be required to
assume a wider range of responsibility in the field of agricultural credit.
Specifically, the Bank of Ghana will be required to develop a more workable
Credit Guarantee Scheme for banks involved in extending credit to small
farmers and to improve the effectiveness of its supervisory activities over
rural banks. These measures are designed to improve the loan recovery
performance of the Rural Banks and other banks extending credit to small
farmers and thus increase the amount of loanable funds. Measures to
promote savings and facilitate local resource mobilization will also be
pursued. The Government also recognizes that farmers' ability to repay
their loans promptly, to a large extent depends on availability of ready
and lucrative markets for their produce. In this regard, private sector
initiatives will be encouraged to provide efficient marketing, storage and
distribution services, through tax and other incentives. Government policy
of maintaining real positive interest rates will improve the mobilization
of rural savings and thus contribute to credit expansion.
Monitoring Policy Impact
27.       The rapid and extensive changes being proposed in the policy
environment are likely to have far-reaching and at times may have unin-
tended consequences on production and marketing. A strengthened Policy,
Monitoring and Evaluation Department will monitor changes in major prices
along the marketing chain from border to farm. It will also monitor
industrial crop prices for cotton, tobacco and palm oil and farm level
responses and report to policy makers so as to facilitate flexible policy
response.
WAPAB
April 1987



- 51 -
Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 9
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture and Policy, Planning, Monitoring &
Evaluation Department: Reorganization and Training
1.        Overall Structure.  MOA is implementing a reorganization of its
services which was prepared with the assistance of UNDP/FAO and agreed with
the Bank; see chart 1, attached. The reorganization includes (a)
strengthening of the central policy, planning, monitoring and evaluation
capacity; (b) a phased program of decentralization of field operations; (c)
merging of a number of separate extension services; (d) the disengagement
of MOA from fertilizer operations and tractor hire services; and (e)
provision for better coordination between the various sector agencies.
2.        Staff Restructuring and Redeployment.  As a result of the
reorganization, staff restructuring and redeployment will be required.
Greater decentralization of responsibility and the start on strengthening
policy, planning and monitoring capacity at the center will require
qualified and experienced staff at the senior and middle level. Civil
service salaries have recently been raised and the differential between
senior and junior levels widened. The salary differential between senior
and junior level staff was 2:1 pre-January 1986; post January 1986, it has
widened to 3.3:1 and the target is 7.5-8.0:1 by 1989. The staff
retrenchment goal is 15,000 per year between 1986-1988. This target may be
revised following the functional staff review scheduled for 1987. The SAL
contains a skill mobilization scheme to improve the availability of
professional and managerial skills to support the Economic Recovery
Program. This scheme consists of incentive proposals to attract both
private sector professionals to perform as short and long term consultants
to the Government and civil servants to serve on specific task forces. The
staffing of the Ministry of Agriculture will necessarily be affected by the
improved salary differential, the retrenchment program and the skill
mobilization scheme, all components of the Technical Assistance Credit.
Within the ASRP, the functional staff review implicit in the restructuring
of the PPMED and the twinning arrangement for GIDA will contribute to
meeting the SAL targets of the public sector management reforms. An
assessment of the staffing needs of PPMED should be completed by December
31, 1987 and for GIDA by June 1988.
3.        Policy Coordination.  Government has decided to set up a
committee to improve coordination of policies and investment programs in
the sector, particularly between MOA and COCOBOD. The Agricultural Policy
Coordination Committee will include MOA, the Ministries of Local
Government, Finance and Economic Planning, Industry, Science and
Technology, Trade and Tourism, Transport and Communications, Roads and
Highways, Lands and Natural Resources, the Cocoa Board and the Bank of
Ghana. The GOG has agreed in principle to its establishment. Assurances



- 52 -
Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 9
will be obtained at negotiations that the Committee will be established by
December 31, 1987 and its performance will be monitored to assess whether
coordination is improved. Coordination is required in the short term in
the following priority areas: road rehabilitation including feeder roads;
price policy for industrial crops from farm to processing levels and for
agricultural inputs; extension and research.
4.        Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Capacity.
Strengthening of MOA's capacity to develop policies and monitor
implementation in the sector is central to efforts to strengthen
agriculture's production and diversify its export base. The Policy,
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED) of MOA will be
strengthened for this role. PPMED will be the current ERPS reorganized to
consist of four units: (i) Policy, Plan.aing and Analysis; (ii) Project
Preparation and Appraisal; (iii) Monitoring, Evaluation and Budget; and
(iv) Agricultural Statistics.
5.        The policy, planning and analysis unit will among other things,
monitor proposals from private sector processors on the pricing of cotton,
tobacco and oil palm. In its price policy monitoring work, it will use
border prices as efficiency benchmarks, the specifics of this methodology
to be agreed with the Bank (see Attachment 1). PPMED will also keep under
review the impact of the tariff structure which will be reformed in 1988
following the Trade Taxation and Tariff review scheduled for 1987. PPMED's
capacity in project preparation and appraisal will be developed to enable
it to take the lead in developing its investment program and directing
donor support. Currently the ERPS is conducting Annual Production Surveys,
processing the results of the 1984/85 census of agriculture and with
technical assistance from UNDP/FAO, is developing a Crop Forecasting and
Early Warning System. No analysis, monitoring or evaluation are
undertaken. Under the ASRP, a modest start will be made on monitoring and
evaluation. The key information requirements are set out in Attachment 2.
The agricultural statistics unit within the PPMED will be responsible for
collecting the information required.
6.        Training Needs Assessment.  PPMED will be supported by a UNDP
technical assistance project, with IDA and UNDP jointly providing funds for
studies. The broad outline of its reorganization has been worked out
following which, a detailed work program and staffing needs will be
developed as the first task of the UNDP project scheduled for April 1987.
This will include a detailed assessment of training needs. The assessment
would be completed by December 1987 and a training program worked out and
agreed with IDA by June 1988. The likely areas of technical assistance to
be financed is in Attachment 3.
Attachments 1, 2, 3.
WAPAB
April 1987



- 53 -
Annex 3-1
£hart 1
Page 3 of 9
$ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I
H 
-sX --
- - - ----------~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Ii
U Li                                                  ii)~~~~~~~~~~~j



- 54 -
Annex 3-1
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 9
Methodology Using Border Prices as Efficiency Benchmarks
1.        This note sets out the basic steps required for deriving border
prices which can serve as efficiency benchmarks. The purpose of the
derivation is to enable policy makers assess the likely levels of prices
producers would have faced in the absence of their domestic intervention in
price setting. These alternative prices represent the opportunity costs of
these commodities to the economy: namely the value to the economy if the
commodity were exported or the cost to the economy if the coLmodity were
imported. Within the perfectly competitive model, resource allocation is
efficient when market prices reflect opportunity costs. Therefore, border
prices which reflect opportunity costs will induce efficient resource
allocation. This is the theoretical basis for using border prices as
efficiency benchmarks.
2.        The main steps in the derivation are:
(a) Ascertain whether the commodity is an export or an import
substitute. If an export, then the relevant price is the f.o.b.,
if an import substitute, then it is the c.i.f.
(b) Determine the period relevant for the derivation. Should it be
the current, projected, or an average of past, current and
projected world prices?
(c) Determine the relevant (or a relevant range of) exchange rate(s).
The exchange rate(s) that best reflect(s) the scarcity value of
foreign exchange is (are) the relevant one(s). Given the weekly
fluctuations of exchange rates in Ghana, an average of the
unified auction rates (unified windows one and two) and the
parallel rates are indicative of the scarcity value of foreign
exchange to the Ghanaian Economy.
(d) Determine at what stage in the chain from farm through processing
to consumer level is relevant. The world price, converted by the
exchange rate into the border price should be adjusted for the
costs or margins iicurred from a given stage to the border.  For
an export, the margins from farm gate to export point are
subtracted from the border price, because the farwer would have
had to incur these costs to bring the commodity to the border.
For an import substitute, the margins from the border to the
wholesale level are added to the border price. The farmer
however does not receive this c.i.f. - plus price, if additional
costs are incurred to bring the commodity from farm to wholesale
point. If these costs exist, then they are subtracted from the
derived wholesale price to obtain the economic farm gate price,
which is the appropriate adjusted border price.



- 55 -
Annex 3-1
Attah-ment 1
Page 5 of 9
3.        These adjusted border prices are irdicative of the prices
producers would have received in the absence of direct price setting.
These are the prices to be used as efficiency benchmarks.



- 56 -
Annex 3-1
Attachment 2
Page 6 of 9
Information Requirements under the
Agriculture Services Rehabilitation Project for Monitoring
Effects of the ongoing Economic Recovery Program
1.   Area of Major Crops for Main and Minor Seasons, including Pure,
Mixed-Predominant, and Mixed:Subsidiary Areas for each major crop.
(Source:Crop Statistics Section - ERPS).
2.   Production of Major Crops for Main and Minor Seasons
(Source:Crop Statistics Section - ERPS).
3.   Disposal of Major Food Crops for Subsistence and Sale
(Source:Crop Statistics Section - ERPS).
4.   Regional Food Balance (Production + Import + Food Aid - Exports
Demand) for Major Food Crops
(Source:Crop Statistics Section - ERPS: FAO Early Warning System)
5.   Prices of Major Crops (Monthly and Annual Averages) at Farm Gate,
Retail and Wholesale, at Rural, Semi-Urban and Accra Markets)
(Source: Farm Management and Market Intelligence Sections - ERPS).
6.   Prices of Major Cropping Inputs (Monthly and Annual Averages) at
Farm Gate, Retail and Wholesale at Rural, Semi-Urban, Urban and
Accra Markets)
(Source:Market Intelligence Section - ERPS).
7.   Agricultural Input Usage = Amounts of Composite Fertilizer(15i15=15),
TSP, Urea and others, Insecticides and Herbicides.
8.   Use of Agricultural Inputs = Percentage of Farmers using each kind
of inputs e.g., fertilizers, insecticides, and herbicides
(Source:Farm Management Section - ERPS).
9.   Use of Hired Labourers = Percentage of Farms using hired labourers,
Amount (Mondays) used, and Average Wage rates.
(Source:Farm Management Section - ERPS).
10. Farm Budgets of Major Farming Systems - Cash portion only,
including non-paid labour input.
(Source:Farm Management Section - ERPS).
11. Adoption of Modern AGricultural Practices = Recommended varieties,
levels of inputs, cultivation practices and post-harvest technologies
(Source:Extension Service - MOA).



- 57 -
Annex 3-1
Attachment 2
Page 7 of 9
12.  Percentage Distribution of Household Income/Expenditure and Net
Balance, by Rural, Semi-Urban and Urban Enumeration Areas with
reference to Poverty Line and possibly by Occupation Group
(Source:Statistical Services Board - ERPS).
The responsibility for collating these items of information and
for preparing the progress reports rests with the Policy and Planning
Section in ERPS of the Ministry of Agriculture. Initially the reports
should be submitted annually.



- 58 -
Annex 3-1
Attachment 3
Page 8 of 9
Areas for Possible Technical Assistance
under the UNDP/FAO Project
Inputs from UNDP
The following persons will be provided under a sub-contract
arrangement with an international management consultancy firm specializing
in Agriculture Planning. Short-term consultants would be either foreign or
national ?rofessionals, as appropriate.
(a) Long term personnel:
(i) A Section Planner (and Chief Technical Adviser) for 3-year
period to help establish and advise on all functions or the
Policy, Planning and Analysis unit at the centre, and the
planning aspect of the Region and District units.
(ii) A Programme Monitoring specialist for a 3-year 8 month
period to help establish and advise on all functions of the
Programme Monitoring and Evaluation unit at the centre and
the relevant aspects of the Region and District units.
(iii) A project preparation and appraisal specialist for an 18
month period (12 months initially, and periodic visits over
the remaining project period during medium term and annual
plan preparation periods) to help establish and advise on
all functions of the project preparation and Budget unit at
centre, and the relevant aspects of the Region and District
units.
(iv) An Agriculture Statistics specialist for a 12 month period
b-eyond June 1987 (the end of the current GHA/84/003
Agriculture Statistics project), to help establish and
advise on those aspects of the Statistics unit which are not
covered under the present project (i.e. livestock,
fisheries, cocoa and forestry statistics, etc.) and the
planning information data base.
(b) Consultants
(i) A Planning Trainer Consultant, for a 12 months total of
period visits over the project period, to assist in the
design of training programmes and training manuals for staff
at all levels.



- 59 -
Annex <-l
Attachment 3
Page 9 of 9
(ii) An Organization and Methods consultant for a 4 month period
at the beginning of the project to support the finalization
and initial implementation of the institutional arrangements
and to assist the other advisers in designing the technical
systems, guidelines and procedures.
(iii) An information systems/data processing consultant for a 4
month period to support the establishment of the planning
information data base.
(iv) A consultant in budgeting for a 2 month period to assist in
designing and implementiuig new budgetary systems, guidelines
and procedures.
Source: Draft Project Document No. GHA/86/008: Strengthening Agriculture
Planning in support of the Government's Agriculture Sector
Rehabilitation Programme, November 29, 1986



- 60 -
Annex 3-2
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Studies
1.        The project is funding four studies, 2 on the delivery of
services: extension and research and 2 en broader policy issues: food
security and agricultural credit. The rationale for these studies is help
lay the basis for future strategy in these critical areas of public
intervention. Detailed Terms of Reference for these studies are in
Working Paper 2.
2.        The Extension and Research studies are institutionally oriented.
Their main outputs are concrete proposals on priorities and what kinds of
organization and resources will be required to improve the effectiveness in
the delivery of these services. For the Extension study, the experience of
the pilot projects will be evaluated to become a major input in the
development of these institutional proposals. Important issues to be
addressed are (1) the integration of services at field levels; (2)
budgetary and training requirements of an effective system; and (3)
linkages with adaptive research. For the Research study, major issues will
be what priorities should be supported; how institutions should be
reorganized to improve coordination and effectiveness; and implications for
funding.
3.        Food Security Policy  is highly controversial:  The controversy
is what constitutes a cost effective approach for a desired level of food
security. The immediate concern is twofold: (i) What should be the
respective roles of public storage, private commercial storage and expanded
foreign trade in improving the level of food security? (ii) How should
public storage be designed and managed to improve its effectiveness? The
Agricultural Credit study is envisaged as as follow-up on the financial
sector review scheduled for early 1987. This macro level review will
identify key areas for institutional reform. It is envisaged that this
identification should fLorm the basis of a financial sector structural
adjustment loan. It should also have implications for other areas to be
handled at the sectoral level. Important issues that have been identified
are the viability of formal rural financial institutions and the low level
of public confidence in them, the high cost of credit and low level of
savings in thie formal network.  Since this study is viewed as a follow-up
to the macro review, the terms of reference at this point are necessarily
broad. The main output of this study are likely to be proposals of a
policy and/or institutional nature to address this concern. The
simultaneous conduct of studies of two closely related. services, extension
and research, should benefit both efforts and help Ghana build up mutually
supportive systems that can attract donor support.
WAPAB
April 1987



- 61 -
Ainex 3-3
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Introduction
1.        Agricultural and related research is carried  out by at least six
autonomovs institutions reporting to the Ministry for Industries, Science
and Technology (MIST) through the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research (CSIR) and a few others reporting directly to Boards such as for
Cocoa and for Grains or to Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) such as Regional
Development Projects, and the Ghana Seed Company, doing adaptive research.
Some of these institutions once had excellent international reputation but
in recent years they have steadily deteriorated and are now unable to give
the desired support to agriculture. Trained staff have left, equipment
have not been properly maintained and many need replacement, and research
programs have contracted.
2.        Coordination of Research.  There has been little national coordi-
nation of research priorities and programs and links with extension ser-
vices are practically non-existent at most levels. As a result, the impact
of research on agricultural production is slight. The MOA, until recently,
had little influence on the programs of the various research organizations.
Since the several research institutions are autonomous, there is risk of
unnecessary duplication in effort and even conflicting extension messages.
Efforts are now being made to achieve some measure of coordination between
CSIR and other organizations with the MOA. A senior staff member has been
appointed each in the CSIR and the MOA with the specific responsibility for
coordination. Some cooperation exists between the universities and other
institutions in the conduct of specific research projects but it rests
mainly on the personal initiatives of the research staff rather than on a
formal position between the institutions for collaborative work.
3.        Recent Performance.  Agricultural research does not receive the
priority it deserves for a country whose mainstay is agriculture. Progress
in crop research during the last 25 years has been very limited, with the
possible exception of cocoa. But even cocoa research has not kept up with
the previous traditions for high quality. During the decade 1958-68,
research came to a virtual standstill because of government's lack of
interest and insufficient financial support. Research in industrial crops
has thus made no progress in the last three decades while the efforts in
food crops have not been adequate to make positive impact on food produc-
tion. The research institutions and organizations are all short of funds.
The number of experiments they can conduct is therefore limited and in some
cases no work is carried out at all. Many of the more capable research
scientists have emigrated because of low salaries and difficult working



- 62 -
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 4
conditions in Ghana, due primarily to shortage of funds which have also
made it impossible to purchase laboratory equipment, chemicals and to
provide transport facilities.
4.        Future Strategy.  The main consideration is the strengthening of
Ghana's capacity to attend to the research needs for agricultural develop-
ment and growth. The strategy should take into account the short as well
as the medium to long term needs. The project would provide assistance for
short term strategy measures, some of which would pave the way for the
longer term strategy.
5.        Short Term Strategy.  This would include the following specific
measures which would be supported by the project:
(a) Review of Agricultural Research. An in-depth review would be
undertaken during 1987 of agricultural research in Ghana by a
team of local and foreign scientists of international repute who
would examine the programs and resources for agricultural re-
search, the institutional framework, including staffing levels
and quality, the possibilities for rationalization and mergers
between organizations, strengthening MOA's coordinating role over
research and for improving links with extension services. The
team would formulate measures and make recommendations for
reorganizing national agricultural research institutions and
organizations to be able to address adequately the problems of
the sector.
(b) Supporting Resuscitation of Cotton Production. As part of the
measures for resuscitation of the cotton industry, CRI would
resume research on cotton which was stopped since the early
1970's.
(c) Initiate Program of Irrigation Research. CRI and SRI would
embark on a program of research in irrigation management directed
at efficiency of wacer use and of crop production.
(d) Provide Support for Valley Bottomland Development. CRI in
consultation with the Ghana Irrigation Development Authority
(GIDA) will develop and test out simple low cost systems for
control of water in wet valley bottoms for cultivation of swamp
rice and other crops.
(e) Embark on Program of Farming Systems Research in Upper East and
West Regions. Building on the work started in the Upper Region
by lUTADEP and the British Overseas Development Administration
(ODA), and the information already gathered, CRT and SRC, in
collaboration with URADEP would undertake a program of farming



- 63 -
Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 4
systems research to arrive at results with possibilities for
application within the next 3 years. The work would be centered
on catchments with small ponds or reservoirs and water supply
systems and the capabilities and needs of village communities.
(f) Establish a Coordination Framework for Agricultural Research.
Following the recommendations of the Research Review, the neces-
sary reorganization would be undertaken so as to involve MOA or
an appropriate body, such as the recently established Agricul-
tural Research, Development and Advisory Committee in
establishing research priorities, coordinating the research and
establishing appropriate linkages between adaptive research,
extension and farmers.
(g)  Tmprove Arrangements for Publlsning and Disseminating Research
Results. The results of research during the last 10 to 15 years
in Ghana are largely unknown because of the inability of the
research institutions to publish the information for dissemina-
tion in the country. The project will enable clearing of the
printing backlog of scientific and practical information for use
by the farmers and support agencies, and will provide for
continuation of the publications during the next 3 years. It
will also enable the resumption of information exchange with
other relevant agricultural research and publishing institutions.
6.        The details of the short term research programs are being worked
out by CRI in collaboration with SRI and GIDA and are expected to be ready
in time for the implementation during 1987.
7.        Medium to Long Term Strategy.  The medium to long term strategy
will follow the short term measures being financed by this project, and
could be subject for possible external assistance. They would include:
(a) strengthening of the reorganized research institutions, particu-
larly those involved in research and adaptive trials on crops;
(b) breeding, screening and selecting high yielding varieties of food
and industrial crops suitable for the different ecological zones;
(c) intensifying trials on different combiLnations and levels of NPK
elements for major food and industrial crops with the view to
reducing costs and developing recommendations for the most
economical formulations, thereby enhancing fertilizer use and its
efficiency;
(d) developing programs for rapid soil fertility tests for the major
food and industrial crops; and



- 64 -
Annex 3-3
Page 4 of 4
(e) embarking on a program of farming systems and mixed cropping
research applicable to small farmers, and including use of
herbicides, no tillage and direct seeding vs. bullock ploughing
and hoe cultivation, and soil moisture management.
8.        Organization and Adminiatration of the Program.  Prime responsi-
bility for implementing the research program will be with CRI. The Minis-
try of Agriculture will enter into a contractual arrangement with CSIR and
CRI which will collaborate with and obtain specialized assistance from
local associated institutions in the conduct of the work. Specific compo-
nents of the work program to be undert&ken by any of the collaborating
institution would require sub-contractual agreements especially with regard
to scope of work, facilities, the timing, staffing, costs and payments,
reviews, reporting, etc.
9.        The program will be undertaken in two parts, namely: (1) the
Southern part based at the Irrigation Research Station at Kpong; and (2)
the Northern part based at Nyankpala Agricultural Experiment Station. Each
part will have a coordinator to assist the Director of CRI in coordinating
the work of the collaborating institutions. The coordinators will report
directly to the Director CR1, based at Kwadaso near Kumasi but will have
other responsibilities. An Agricultural Research Development and Advisory
Committee (ARDAC), comprising directors or representatives of the Research
Institutes involved and the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance has been
established to provide general policy guidelines. It shall review the work
programs and progress, and make recommendations for meeting the objectives.
Provision is made for recruitment of additional specialist staff, some of
whom will be international. Most of the local staff to start the program
are in post and others can be recruited without much difficulty.
10.       Some of the laboratory and field facilities are in need of
rehabilitation or replacement and provision is made in the project for this
and for meeting some of the operating costs, particularly the foreign
components.
WAPAB
April 1987



- 65 -
Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 9
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Agricultural Extension
Introduction
1.        Extension Agencies.  The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is the
principal agency for agricultural extension which is executed by its Crop
Services Department (CSD). Several other agencies also undertake extension
work. They include the Grains Development Board (GDB), the Cotton Develop-
ment Board, which was recently converted into the Ghana Cotton Company
(GCC), the Bast Fiber Development Board (BFDB), the Cocoa Board (COCOBOD),
the tobacco producing companies - Pioneer Tobacco Company (PTC) and Inter-
national Tobacco Ghana Ltd. (ITG), and the Ghana Irrigation Development
Authority (GIDA). A number of area development projects with outside aid
and operating semi-autonomously under MOA provide direct support fcr
extension services; these include the Bank/IFAD supported area agricultural
development project in the Volta Region (VORADEP) and the West German
supported project in the Northern Region (GGADP). In addition the CIDA
assisted Ghana Grains Development Project is developing improved technology
for maize and cowpea and is promoting research/extension links.
2.        Responsibilities of Extension Staff.  Total numbers of MOA staff
involved in extension are estimated at about 2500. Their responsibilities
include management of procurement and distribution of inputs (improved
seeds and seedlings, farm tools and equipment, fertilizers and other
chemicals), collection of cash from sales, organizing Nuoboa (group) farms
for joint activities under mechanization and "crop associations" for group
credit from the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), collection of rainfall
records and crop prices, undertaking market surveys and establishing field
demonstration plots. Recently the responsibilities for supplying non-
fertilizer chemical inputs and tools have been handed to private traders,
but MOA staff maintains close supervision over the distribution of these
chemicals and tools. Extension activities of CSD suffer from this
involvement in non-extension work and a lack of logistical support. In
addition to CSD which carries out crop extension, other MOA departments -
Veterinary, Animal Husbandry, Fatm Mechanization, Plant Quarantine,
Fisheries and Home Extension - provide some extension services, Morale and
motivation of all extension staff are generally low because of the absence
of a clear and implementable mandate, low salaries, inadequate
transportation, absence of extension materials, little or no in-service
training and relevant technical literature, lack of useful technical
messages for farmers, lack of linkages with research, an absence of formal
work programs or evaluation of activities, and involvement in non-extension
duties.



- 66 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 9
3.        Staff of other agencies provide crop specific advice and organize
input delivery and, in some cases, play a role in crop marketing. These
agencies such as BFDB and GCC operate in parallel to MOA staff and there is
little liaison between them. Extension support to cocoa farmers is
provided by COCOBOD's Cccoa Services Division.  That extension service had
more than 12,000 staff (including labor); it is being restructured into a
force of under 1000 in the first instance under the Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project; it deals only with cocoa and coffee. MOA has a reduced presence
in the cocoa areas. Extension staff in agencies other than MOA and COCOBOD
total about 500.
4.        Available Technology.  The status of available technology for the
major crops is as follows:
(i) For the main tree crops, cocoa and oil palm, an acceptable
improved technology based on improved planting material and
cultural practices is available. Cocoa hybrid planting
material (which is CSSVD tolerant) is available from COCOBOD
seed gardens (capacity for planting 25,000 ha per year) and
capable of yielding about 600 kg/ha under smallholder
conditions. Capsid control systems have been developed but
further work is required to control blackpod, to develop
recommendations for use of fertilizer on hybrids, and to
continue bringing forward new hybrids. Uptake by farmers of
hybrids and CSSVD, capsid and blackpod control programs
depends primarily on cocoa prices. Improved oil palm
planting material is available from the Oil Palm Research
Centre (OPRC), which is supported by IDA, and MOA nurseries,
and is in strong demand. For rubber, the existing Ghana
Rubber Estates Ltd. plantation is suitable for
rehabilitation and the main need is to change the processing
system to produce for export. Traditional coconuts in the
coastal situation are attacked by Cape St. Paul wilt
disease; potentially tolerant planting materials are under
test.
(ii) Food Crops. For maize, the major cereal crop in Ghana,
improved planting material and a package of practices (plant
density, fertilizer, weeding) has been developed by the
CIDA-assisted Grains and Legumes Development Project (phase
I 1978/84 and phase II to continue to 1988/89) which works
through CRI and GLDB. Improved composite varieties have
been released and about 10 percent of the maize area is
estimated to be under these improved practices. The project
continues to test and release new va:-ieties of maize and
cowpeas (including IITA releases) and provide a link of
research with extension services. Demonstrations plots of
the improved technology are laid by extension staff of GLDB,
MOA and VORADEP. Hybrid maize varieties with a high yield
potential are also under test and can be expected to be



- 67 -
Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 9
introduced gradually; an acceptable hybrid could form the
basis for revitalizing the Ghana Seed Company under private
sector management. Major factors affecting the uptake of
improved maize packages are planting material with a signi-
ficant improvement on traditional varieties, adequate crop
prices and seed supplies. Improved planting material for
the major cereal crops in the northern savanna - millet and
sorghum - is not available and requires continued develop-
ment. However, some replacement of sorghum with maize on
better soils with adequate rainfall can be expected to
improve total production in the north. For the major root
crops, improved cassava planting material has been under
test by VORADEP and CRI and three varieties suitable for
food preparations used in southern Ghana have been released
in 1986. Extension will have a major role in the demonstra-
tion of this new material. For yam, improved planting
material is not available, but the mini-set technique for
seed yam multiplication (introduced under IITA supervision)
is being tested and promoted under VORADEP. Improved sweet
potato planting has also been introduced from IITA and taken
up by farmers.
For rice, improved varieties and practices have been deve-
loped for irrigated conditions as well as for valley bottom
conditions. However, with largescale mechanized development
of valley bottom land, weed control has proved difficult and
led to partial abandonment of the schemes. Rice and vege-
tables are the main crops likely to yield a return on the
existing irrigation schemes. A policy of consolidation is
proposed on the large formal schemes plus testing of small-
scale developments.
(iii) Among industrial crops, an acceptable improved technology
for tobacco is promoted by the two main tobacco companies,
PTC and ITG. For cotton, improved technology developed in
neighboring countries is available. The improved technology
of both these crops will require small farmers to change
from mixed to pure cropping to reap full benefits, but this
change has proved acceptable where adequate prices, inputs
and marketing support services are provided.
Reorganization and Strengthening of Agricultural Extension Services
5.        There are a number of issues to be tackled in preparing a compre-
hensive program for strengthening agricultural extension in Ghana,
including:
(i) What should be the responsibilities of the extension
service, particularly its coverage of crops? Should there



- 68 -
Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 9
be one agricultural extension service (covering all non-
plantation crops, animal husbandry, farm fisheries, farm
forestry, etc.), or should there be more than one service
(for example, ona for cocoa, and one for other crops)?
(ii)  What i; the most appropriate way to structure the extension
service/s, and to coordinate between it/them and other
agriculturai support services, what is an appropriate
extension system and strategy, and what staff and other
resources (existing and incremental) are required for this
over the medium- and long-terms?
(iii) How can appropriate resources and attention be given to
developing effective two-way contacts between agricultural
extension and research?
(iv) How should on-going extension operations with external
assistance (e.g., VORADEP, NORRIP, Ghana Grains Development
Project and GGADP), be assisted while a national extension
strategy is being designed, and how can the experience of
these on-going activities be incorpkrated into the design of
this strategy?
6.        MOA has already initiated efforts to rationalize and strengthen
agricultural extension services. The recent reorganization of MOA with the
creation of a Department of Extension to bring together existing parallel
extension activities within the Ministry and the moves towards a modest
decentralization of management should provide an improved structure with
which to begin work. There is also a consensus within MOA on the need to:
Mi) exclude extension staff from direct involvement in input supply or
regulatory functions; (ii) operate one service covering all sub-sectors
(i.e., including animal husbandry, farm forestry and farm fisheries, as
well as field crops, (but excluding cocoa) through one agent supported by
Subject Matter Specialists; (iii) strengthen extension/research links; and,
(iv) make a considerable investment in applied and adaptive farmer-relevant
research.
7.        Given the current consensus on the objectives and organization of
extension and the existence of other on-going projects at various stages of
development, a two phased, action-oriented approach to strengthening
extension services is proposed. During Phase 1, ASRP would support a
field-based pilot program for strengthening food crop extension activities
under MOA, while COCOBOD's extension services would be supported under the
Cocoa Rehabilitation Project. The question of whether ultimately there
should be one extension service in the cocoa areas is put aside while
alternative approaches are tested, Government commitment gauged, and appro-
priate means of possible unification worked out. However, other overlaps
with GCC, BFDB and GDC and other organizations involved in extension would
be addressed during Phase 1. Also during Phase 1, a study would be carried
out to provide a plan for the reorganization of extension services at the



- 69 -
Annex 3-4
Page 5 of 9
national level. Phase 2 would comprise a national level reorganization of
agricultural extension services supported by a proposed national
agricultural extension project. The national extension project would take
into account its design work with extension under a proposed cocoa
rehabilitation project that would be implemented simultaneously with this
project (ASRP).
Project Actions
8.        The Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project would fund:  (i)
the testing in three regions on a pilot basis of the reorganization of MOA
extension services including logistical support for MOA extension staff
working on the Grains Development Project in regions where extension staff,
supervision, training and technical support are appropriate; (ii) continued
support to the VORADEP extension, research and monitoring and evaluation
services after the closure of the present IDA/IFAD project in December
1987; and, (iii) a study of extension and training as preparation of a
possible national extension project.
9.        The schedule of (i) is at Appendix 1.  The first pilot operation
will be initiated in the Ashanti Region and be funded under a Project
Preparation Facility. The objective of this and subsequent pilot exercises
planned in three regions is to provide a more precise definition of issues
and organizational alternatives in broader extension strengthening. The
on-hands experience of the pilot program should lead to practical ways to
overcome specific problems in organization, research linkages and
technology identification. The pilot program would build on the experience
obtained in implementing the T & V approach in VORADEP, the demonstration
approach of the CIDA-assisted Grains Development Project and the work of
GGADP in the Northern Region. The pilot operation would include a review
of the training programs and resources available at an agricultural
training institution.  The ?ilot program would also provide for logistical
support to MOA staff working with the Grains Development Project in
selected regions: this would be temporary assistance to enable MOA staff
in those regions to operate more effectively prior to the national reorgan-
ization of extension services.
10.       Under (ii), key extension, adaptive research and monitoring and
evaluation services developed in the Volta Region under Credit 1009-GH
would continue to receive outside support for a period of 3 years, when
Government could be expected to take full responsibility.
11.       Draft terms of reference for the agricultural extension and
training study are at Appendix 2.



- 70 -
Annex 3-4
Appendix 1
Page 6 of 9
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PILOT PROGRAM
Outline of Activities, December 1986-1989
Implem.   Fund
Action                               Responsible   Period   Source
1' Area selection - Region to be pilot;
number of districts and subdivisions,
and extension staff in these                 GOG         Dec.86    GOG
2.  Consultant selection/appointment
(i) Field extension specialist
(5 staff months)                         GOG        Apr.87    PPF
(ii) Extension training needs analyst
(3 staff months)                        GOG        Apr.87    PPF
3.  Equipment procurement for 1st regional
pilot exercise                               GOG         Apr.87    PPF
4. Field extension assignment, first part        Cons.    May-Sept 87 PPF
5.  Training needs assignment                    Cons.    May-Sept 87 PPF
6. Study tour to Nigeria or Burkina Faso
(10 Ghanaian staff)                          GOG         Aug.87    PPF
7.  Field extn. assignment, second part                      Feb.88
(5 staff months)                             Cons,      May.88    PPF
8.  Commence 2nd regional pilot exercise         GOG         Apr.88    ASRP
9.  Extension/training study                     Cons./GOG  June-
Dec.88    ASRP
10.  Commence preparation of possible national   GOG/
agricultural extension project                Cons?      End.88    ASRP
11.  Commence 3rd regional pilot exercise          GOG        Mar.89    ASRP
*
These activities would pre-date Board presentation; they are left here as
they are integral part of a plan of action agreed by the MOA and the Bank.



- 71 -
Annex 3-4
Appendix 2
Page 7 of 9
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for a Study of the Organization of
Agricultural Extension & Training in Ghana
1.   Objectives
1.        The main objectives would be to assess the organization, programs
and resources of the agricultural extension services in Ghana with the
emphasis on the potential for rationalization and creation of a unified
structure. The study would follow a pilot program of on-hands testing of
organizational alternatives and would lead to preparation of a master plan
for rationalizing agricultural extension activities. It would be a basic
input into the preparation of a proposed national - gricultural extension
study.
2.        The study report would contain detailed proposals for the re-
organization and strengthening of the extension services, including organ-
ization structure, staffing levels, training and technical assistance
requirements, job descriptions, vehicle and equipment needs, etc.
2.   Scope of the Study
(a) Organizations to be Covered
-    The MOA including all its technical departments.
-    VORADEP, URADEP, the GGADP and zonal projects promoted
by NORRIP.
-    The Cocoa Marketing Board.
-    The Grains Development Board.
-    The Ghana Cotton Company.
-    The Bast Fibre Development Board.
-    The Irrigation Development Authority.
-    Other organizations involved in extension.
(b) Organizational Analysis
-    Organizational structures.
-    The functions other than extension services carried out
by extension officers.
-    The coordination of extension policy by the MOA.
-    Duplication and overlap between extension services and
potential for rationalization.



- 72 -
Annex 3-4
Appendix 2
Page 8 of 9
-    Links between extension services and research at all
levels.
-    Training support for agricultural extension staff.
-    Operational planning, monitoring and control.
-    Evaluation of results.
(c) Programs
-    Evaluation of present extension programs and their
suitability for development needs and policies.
-    The generation and availability of suitable research
resuilts.
-    The availability of technology packages for the various
ecological zones.
-    Extension methods.
-    Staff training and training planning.
(d) Resources
-    Financial.
-    Staff.
-    Farmer/extension ratios.
-    The availability of necessary skills and the needs for
recruitment, training and technical assistance.
-    The availability of necessary training facilities.
-    Conditions of service of extension officers and other
staff.
-    The availability of vehicles, other equipment and
promotional materials.
-    The role of existing extension demonstration stations.
3.   Work Program
3.        The study would require six months of work and would be initiated
in mid 1988 of the project by a senior agricultural extension expert with
possible assistance from a costing and budgeting expert. TU. individual
would be graduate agricultural scientist with at least ten years experience
in organizing and managing extension services in developing countries.
4.        The consultant would report to the MOA through the Director of
the PPMED. The report would be expected to review the options available
for reorganizing the extension services and to develop a workable and
effective system which the country can afford.



- 73 -
Annex 3-4
Appendix 2
Page 9 of 9
5.        These terms of reference would be substantially revised by
Government and the Bank in light of experience with the pilot program prior
to the start of the study. Final Study Terms of Reference will be approved
by the Bank.
WAPAB
April 1987



- 74 -
Annex 3-5
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
Introduction
1.        Rainfall reliability imposes moderate to high risks for success-
ful crop production on more than 60 percent of the estimated 10 million ha
of cultivable land in Ghana. In the coastal Savannahs and in the northern
half of the country, potential evapotranspiration exceeds precipitation
during 6 to 8 months of the year, and only short-term (3 to 5 months) crops
can be produced there. Even in the wet areas in the south, particularly in
the transition vegetation zones, rainfall is inadequate for optimum plant
growth during 3-4 months of the year. Perhaps more serious is the
unpredictable timing of the onset of the rains and its distribution to
allow farmers to prepare adequately to take full advantage of a relatively
short growing season in a large part of the country.
2.        Limitations to Food Production.    Seasonal rainfall deficiency
is generally recognized as one of the limitations to successful production
of food crops throughout Ghana. After the traumatic experiences of a few
years ago when food production failed in Ghana and shortages of foreign
currency did not allow imports, the Government strengthened its resolve to
place high priority on irrigation to improve the country's food security.
3.        Irrigation in Ghana.  Irrigation development is relatively new to
Ghana, starting only about fifteen years ago. During this period, the
Government spent well over $200 million (in 1985 value) and succeeded in
developing only a little over 5,000 ha of irrigated land. The eighteen
schemes involved vary in size from a little over 100 ha to about 2,500 ha
and have a potential irrigable area of about 10,000 ha. They are located
mainly in the southern region although three of the larger schemes are in
the northern and upper regions. Rice is the main crop produced under
irrigation, using more than 80% of the developed area. The rest produces
vegetables.  When sugar was produced, some of the sugar cane was irrigated.
4.        Promotion and Performance of Irrigation Development.  The Minis-
try of Agriculture (MOA) has been the main Government itnstitution respon-
sible for promoting the development of irrigation and in 1975 it
established the Ghana Irrigation Development Authority (GIDA) for this
purpose. In the last ten years the economic, social and political environ-
ment has not allowed GIDA to function effectively. This is reflected in
poor perfcrmance of irrigaticn development and the maintenance and
operation of projects. Its staffing and organization need substantial
strengthening. In particular, measures should be taken to improve the
morale of the professional staff to give better opportunities to utilize



- 75 -
Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 3
their skills, while the large number of under-utilized employees, many of
whom are unskilled, should be trimmed to an effective size for operating
and maintaining the irrigation schemes more efficiently.
5.        Irrigation Costs.  A review of the irrigation subsector in late
1985 by the Bank confirmed the high costs of developing irrigation, ranging
from US$10,000 to over US$50,000 per ha. The operation and maintenance of
the schemes were also inefficient and production levels from them were
lower than desired and little or no better than well managed rainfed
production. They were thus not the most appropriate for investment of
scarce financial resources.
6.        Future Strategy.  Until it is able to reduce costs significantly,
Ghana will postpone major irrigation development and concentrate on im-
proving the efficiency of those schemes already completed or requiring only
moderate expenditures relative to the benefits to complete or rehabilitate.
It will address the institutional weaknesses undermining efficient
Irrigation and will take appropriate steps to correct them. These include
(1) strengthen the capacity of GIDA to effectively undertake its mandate;
(2) establish incentives for farmers to make full use of investments in
irrigation; (3) ensure that necessary input supplies and services are
readily available; (4) train farmers in skills for sound irrigacion
management; (5) organize research to determine the most appropriate
technologies for efficient water use and irrigated crops management; (6)
improve the agronomic practices on rainfed agriculture, particularly
techniques in moisture conservation and semi-arid farming to increase
production from existing cultivations; (7) develop technologies for use of
wet valley bottom areas for swamp rice and supplemental irrigation of other
crops; (8) make better use of the potential for small-scale irrigation
schemes in which farmers are involved directly ir. their development and
operation. These measures were the main ones identified by the subsector
review to receive priority attention and have been accepted by Ghana for
adoption in its future policies and programs.
7.        Assistance in Irrigation.  This project will assist the Govern-
ment of Ghana to consolidate present irrigation schemes and prepare for
better planning and implementing future ones. It will support:
(a) strengthening the capacity of GIDA to deal more effectively with
planning, designing, constructing, managing and maintaining
irrigation schemes. Reducing 0 & M costs of projects and
recovering all 0 & M costs;
(b)  improving the technology of irrigation farming by "on farm"
testing of techniques proven elsewhere, and modified where
necessary for application on existing schemes;
(c)  establishing about 6 pilot small-scale simple irrigation schemes
of about 50 ha average size and involving simple watercourse
diversions or low head pumping. They would be constructed and



- 76 -
Annex 3-5
Page 3 of 3
managed by farming groups with GIDA giving technical advice in
planning and implementation. Expenditure for materials and
equipment would be recovered from production of irrigated crops
over a reasonable period of time, e.g. 7 to 10 years;
(d)  initiating a program of irrigation research which will attend to
the need for:
(i) a better understanding of crop water requirements and use,
and efficient irrigation management systems;
(ii) formulating sound agronomic practices, taking into account
crop varieties, land preparation, timing of planting,
spacings, soil fertility and crop protection, water conser-
vation measures, etc., to make the most effective and
economical use of available water;
(iii) developing and testing systems for use of wet valley bottom
lands which could incorporate supplemental or full irriga-
tion for rice and other crops.
8.        Organization and Administration of the Program.  The MOA, as the
implementing agency, will organize the assistance to irrigation development
in two parts. The first part concerns the strengthening of GIDA and
assisting it in improving irrigation development through technology testing
and transfer and establishment of small scale pilot schemes. The second
concerns the research proposals which will be carried out by CRI and SRC in
association with other research organizations under specific contract
arrangement with MOA. This is discussed under proposals for Agricultural
Research. The key element in the strengthening of GIDA is its twinning
with a well organized and successful irrigation authority working under
conditions comparable eo those in Ghana and which has the capacity to
extend its expertise and experience during the next five years. This will
be under contractual arrangements between Ghana and the TA institution.
The T.A. will provide for seconding qtaff to work with the management and
technical staff of GIDA and assigning GIDA staff for specific periods to
projects of the T.A. institution to work wiLh their staff on operations
relevant to responsibilities in GIDA. The T A. institution in addition to
strengthening the organization of GIDA through the training process and
rationalizing the staffing composition, will be involved with the testing
and transfer of technology, particularly appropriate irrigation management
and associated agronomic practices, and the planring, organizing and
establishing pilot smallscale low cost irrigation schemes. They will work
closely on the pilot schemes with the farming groups who will be expected
to participate from the conceptual and planning stages right through to
their taking full responsibility for operation and management.
WAPAB
April 1987



- 77 -
Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
ANIMAL HEALTH AND PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT
1.   Background
1.        The Ghana Veterinary Services has a history of being one of the
more effective services in West Africa. In spite of the constant threat of
diseases especially rinderpest, from across her borders, Ghana has enjoyed
a relatively stable sanitary situation since the end of the International
Campaign against Rinderpest (JP 15) in the middle sixties. For example,
between 1978 and 1983 there was only one outbreak of rinderpest in Ghana,
compared to 34 in Burkina Faso, 4 in Ivory Coast, 78 in Mali and 90 in
Nigeria. The laboratory support and health care delivery especially to
commercial poultry farms has contributed in no small measure to the
viability of the livestock poultry industries.
2.        Within the last ten years however, like the rest of Government
services, the effectiveness of the veterinary services has decreased, due
in large measure to the general economic decline, ineffective use of the
many professional and technical staff and budgetary constraints. While
control of epizootics is still adequate, the service is unable to carry ont
effective preventive treatment, particularly in the non-commercial sector,
resulting in foregone production in the order of 170 tons of eggs, and
3,820 tons poultry, goat, sheep and cattle meat. In 1986 terms this is
equivalent to approximately ¢1,323 million or US$14.7 million and quite
possibly enough to eliminate meat imports and meet rising local demand.
This is not to mention the loss in output in manhours as farmers engage
themselves in fruitless attempts to overcome diseases which could have been
prevented if the veterinary services had the necessary tools and logistic
support to provide satisfactory prophylactic coverage.
2.   The Policy Reform ane Rehabilitation Program
3.        The deterioration of Veterinary Services was part of a general
erosion of Government services due to the economic decline during the 1970
to 1982 period (see Agricultural Sector Review, Report No. 5366-GH, August
6, 1985, for greater details). Since 1983, the Veterinary Services
Department (VSD) has modified its policies and mode of operation as part of
the Economic Recovery Program in an effort to increase its effectiveness.
Its proposed action plans (Working Paper 8, Annex 3 - 1986-88 Action Plans
and Strategies for VSD Services) require both a reform of its policies and
a rehabilitation of its services and funding for capital items (equipment
and :ehicles), their subsequent operation and maintenance costs, veterinary
drugs and field allowances for staff. To resolve these problems, VSD has
undertaken a three-pronged policy reform and rehabilitation program
consisting of: (i) privatizing selected services, (ii) rehabilitating VSD



- 78 -
Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 3
with external aid, and (iii) instituting cost recovery practices and
establishing a revolving fund within the Department with the proceeds to
cover its recurrent expenditures.
4.        Privatizing Selected Services.  One reason for inappropriate
staffing (many lower level, fewer middle level staff) of the Department is
due to the policy commonly practiced throughout the Ministries of accepting
all graduates of related disciplines, i.e. VSD is obliged to hire all vet
graduates. VSD is now changing this policy so that it will no longer be
obliged to hire all vet graduates and would instead hire them as needed.
It would concurrently promote private veterinary practice particularly in
the commercial livestock sectors where a vet can "make a living". There is
still a long way to go before there is sufficient remunerative work for a
sizeable number of veterinarians to go private. However, a growing number
of technical staff (animal health assistants, etc.) are being hired by
commercial poultry and pig operations. For the time being, epidemiological
control and animal health in the traditional village context cannot
generate sufficient funds for a vet to cover his costs and make an adequate
income.
5.        Concurrent with encouraging private vets, VSD is now allowing
companies to procure, distribute and sell a selected list of drugs and
chemicals. Retail prices are determined with the concurrence of the Price
and Income Board. The list of items includes all drugs and chemirals which
do not require special handling (live vaccines requiring refrigeration),
btologicals and poisonous drugs, or drugs which through improper use
(underdosing, breakdown of cold chain) could result in the built up of
resistant strains or delivery of non-viable drugs. The list of items being
handled privately includes: antihelminths, coccidiostats, disinfectants,
feed additives including vitamins and minerals, water soluble powders and
mixes, dressings, and acaricides. VSD will hand'le the biologicals (live
virus/vaccines), trypanocides, poisonous drugs and anasthetics and
tranquilizers.
6.        Rehabilitating Veterinary Services.  Assistance has been
requested from both the World Bank and the EEC to re-equip the Department.
Assistance was provided by IDA to the Veterinary Departments in two
regional projects--URADEP and VORADEP where cost recovery and revolving
funds were introduced. In addition, in 1984, emergency aid (US$300,000)
was provided by the World Bank to assist in the Rinderpest Eradication
Campaign. As a considerable risk exists that the disease could be brought
in the country again by migrating herds, continued assistance is required.
It is expected that the EEC will provide about US$2.2 mn to Ghana for the
rinderpest campaign as part of the regional program for Africa. This will
include vaccines, equipment and vehicles. To supplement this aid, IDA
would provide support for the balance of equipment and vehicles required by
VSD for its rehabilitation estimated at about US$2.5 mn under the ASRP. In
addition, KWF will provide funds for the import of drugs & vaccines.



- 79 -
Annex 3-6
Page 3 of 3
7.        Increased Cost Recovery.  Within the ERP framework, VSD was
requested by Government at the end of 1985 to introduce a cost recovery
program for services provided. VSD's proposal was approved and
implementation began April 1, 1986. There have been some implementation
problems as the Ministry of Agriculture did not precede the program with a
press release announcing the new charges. This is being rectified and the
medium term objective is to recover costs in the following order of
priority:
(a) costs of vaccines, drugs, medicaments used for treatment includes
CIF cost, and transport, storage and distribution costs;
(b) (a) + operating and maintenance costs of lab and field chemicals,
spare parts, equipment and vehicles (excludes transport, storage
and distribution in (a));
(c) (a) + (b) + replacement cost of capital items directly associated
with the provision of services - refrigerators, vehicles,
equipment. Does not include such overheads as buildings,
administration, etc. May or may not include vehicles replacement
costs, particularly at the beginning;
(d) (a) + (b) + (c) + field allowances of staff-travel and per diems;
8.        It is anticipated cost recovery would be at level (d) as per
above by end of 1989. Remaining overheads such as buildings are not
included in the recovery proposal as these are regarded as an investment
made by Government which will reap benefits to the economy in excess of
individual benefits received by each livestock producer, and thus the
producer should not have to pay for (directly). With items (a)-(d)
covered, VSD will be able to operate without the interruptions of services
so often occasioned by delays in budgetary procedures and actual allocation
of funding to the Department, usually below its requirements.
9.        Under ASRP, funds will be provided to hire a firm of independent
auditors to: (i) review the fee collecting system and accounts, and produce
annual dudits with suggestions for improvements where necessary; and (ii)
point out inefficiencies in the system which are increasing costs, and
recommend cost cutting where necessary. The auditors' work will have as
its objective ensuring the cost-effectiveness of the VSD.
IDA would annually review with VSD its cont recovery program to ensure its
meeting its three-year target based on the auditors' report. This audit
would also cover the Vet Departments under URADEP and VORADEP, which have
begun cost recovery programs and revolving funds several years ago, to
ensure consistency across the country. Terms of reference for the
audit/management team are at Working Paper 8, Annex 12.
WIAPAB
April 1987



- 80 -
Annex 3-7
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Privatization of Fertilizer Operations
1.        The Government of Ghana through its Miristry of Agriculture is
virtually the sole importer, distributor and retailer of fertilizers in
Ghana. There is no local production. The Government intends to privatize
the fertilizer delivery system in order to reduce budgetary burden and
improve efficiency of delivery. A study on fertilizer distribution
privatization has as its main recommendations the following:
(i) that the process of privatization be phased over 5 years;
(ii) that the price subsidy be eliminated in step with
privatization; and
(iii) that uniform pricing be replaced by a free market system.
2.        The study report also emphasizes the need to strengthen MOA's
Crop Production Services Department to facilitate privatization and
rationalization of fertilizer policy. The GOG accepts these main
recommendations and the Project proposes to assist GOG in transferring its
fertilizer procurement and distribution.
3.        A phased process of privatization would allow the development of
a wider retail network, a phased reduction of the subsidy and smooth
transition to free-market pricing. In essence it means privatizing the
retail level first, followed by the wholesale level and finally the
importation. This means that MOA will continue to be involved in the
internal distribution and importation at the first stage. It would be
purely an importer during the second stage and it would give up this role
at the third stage.
4.        In the first year (1988) the Project would introduce private
retailing of fertilizers in the Volta and Brong Ahafo Regions. In the Volta
Region fertilizers are currently distributed through a Farmers Services
Company (FASCOM) which is essentially government-owned and was set up in
conjunction with IDA Project Credit No. 1009-GH. Distribution in the Brong
Ahafo Region on the other hand is with the MOA extension service. FASCOM
and MOA would withdraw from retailing and instead sell to private retailers
from designated stores. The selling price at these stores will be at a
discount to the national uniform retail price to reflect a retailing
margin. The retailers would be free to set their own retail price in the
two regions. Farmer groups and cooperatives would receive the same terms
as private retailers. The experience in developing a private retailing
network in the two regions in the first year would be used to develop a
national private retail network.



- 81 -
Annex 3-7
Page 2 of 4
5.        In the second year (1989) private retailing will be extended to
all the administrative regions. There would be a uniform Distribution
Point Price which retailers would pay and use as the basis for establishing
their own retail prices. In areas where it is not possible for the
MOA/FASCOM to withdraw from retail sales, for reasons of lack of retailers,
cooperatives or farmer groups, the retail price would provide for retailer
margins based on the experience in Volta and Brong Ahafo Regions.
6.        In the third year (1990) the MOA will hand over the internal
distribution functions to the private sector by limiting sales to
wholesalers/distributors from central warehouses at Tema, Swedru,
Kukurantumi and Tamale. The price at each warehouse will reflect the cost
at each location. Wholesalers/distributors will fix their own prices to
the retailers who in turn will set their own retail prices. As the
existing general distribution system for goods continues to function
adequately up to the main towns which are distribution centers, it is
considered that one year should be adequate to install a fertilizer
wholesaler network instead of two years as indicated in the study.
7.        In the fourth year (1991) MOA will relinquish its importation
role. In July 1990 it will make a public announcement that the private
sector would be permitted to import fertilizers that appear on a MOA -
approved list which would be published. The announcement would indicate an
estimate of existing stocks and anticipated stock as at end of 1990. With
this the transfer of fertilizer procurement and distribution to the private
sector would have been completed.
8.        The price subsidy on fertilizer would be phased out in 3 years.
It is estimated that the 1987 subsidy would be 42% on the principle that
the cif cost would be fully recovered. In 1988 the subsidy would be
reduced to 30% and in 1989 it would be reduced to 10%. In 1990 it would be
eliminated altogether. Thus by the time the whole fertilizer delivery
system is privatized in 1991 there would be no price subsidy and a free
market system would operate.
9.        To facilitate a smooth transition to full privatization within
four years the MOA would require the services of a person who has had at
least 10 years' experience in the marketing of agricultural inputs in a
commercial concern.  He or she would head MO.:'s Crops Inputs Development
Unit (CIDU) for a minimum period of 3 years. A senior MOA official with at
least 10 years' experience in extension and input distribution will be the
counterpart of the internationally-recruited head of CIDU. CIDU would also
have a sales agronomist, with a minimum of 5 years' experience in selling
agricultural inputs in the private sector, to assist in the planning and
implementation of the privatization process. CIDU would set up a
monitoring system based on monthly reports from extension officers to keep
track of retailer development and sales. CIDU would be responsible for
estimating demand and arranging for procurement, importation and internal
distribution prior to such activities being privatized. A Fertilizer
Extension Advisory Committee will be set up in MOA to assist CIDU in



- 82 -
Annex 3-7
Page 3 of 4
determining the types of fertilizers that are to be promoted and imported.
It would help in the development of fertilizer recommendations for various
crops and conditions.
10.       To recap fertilizer privatization will be completed over 4 years
with price subsidies being eliminated in 3 years and a free market pricing
system installed in that process. MOA's CIDU will oversee and promote the
process of privatization. A series of actions will be required to complete
the process and these are as follows:
Schedule of Actions by MOA to Facilitate
Privatization of Fertilizer Delivery
Action                                                  Completed by
1. Appointment of key personnel to CIDU              June 30, 1987
2. Begin preparation of implementation plan
for private retailing in 1988 in Volta
and Brong Ahafo Regions                           July 30, 1987
3. Invite bids for 1988 supply                        August 31, 1987
4. Evaluate bids                                      November 30, 1987
Award bids                                         December 31, 1987
5. Announce 1988 prices with price subsidy
not to exceed 30%                                  January 31, 1988
6. Launch private retailing program in
Volta and Brong Ahafo Regions                      January 31, 1988
7. Import and distribute fertilizers                  March 31, 1988
8. Invite bids for 1989 supply                        August 31, 1988
9. Analyze performance and problems of
private retailing in 2 pilot regions               September 30, 1988
10. Finalize plans for launching private
retailing in other regions and make
public announcement on privatization
program                                           December 31, 1988
11. Award bids for 1989 supply                         December 31, 1988
12. Announce 1989 Distribution Point
Price with subsidy not to exceed 13%               January 31, 1989



- 83 -
Annex 3-7
Page 4 of 4
Action                                                  Completed by
13. Launch private retailing in all regions            January 31, 1989
14. Import and distribute to all
Distribution Points                                March 31, 1989
15. Invite bids for 1990 supply                        July 31, 1989
16. Complete plans for private
wholesaling in 1990                                September 30, 1989
17. Award bids for 1990 supply                         November 30, 1989
18. Launch private wholesaling                         December 31, 1989
29. Announce ex-central warehouse prices               December 31, 1989
20. Announce approved list of fertilizers
that private sector may import.
Also publish estimated stocks at
May 31, 1990 and anticipated stocks
at December 31, 1990                               July 31, 1990
WAPAB
April 1987



- 84 -
Annex 3-8
Page l of 3
GHANA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Discontinuation of MOA's Tractor Hire Services
1.        The Mechanization Division of the Mechanization and Transport
Department (MTD) of the MOA has, since 1966, provided services to farmers
for land clearing, levelling, field preparation, ploughing, harrowing and
combine harvesting. These services have not only been loss-making (because
of low hire charges), but are also plagued with problems of inefficient
operations and inadequate funding. It has been proposed that the
Mechanization Division of the MTD of MOA be revitalized through additional
capital injection and be operated as a private limited company with
government as well as private sector (both foreign and local)
participation. It is difficult to see any justification for continuing
MOA's mechanization services and it is even more difficult to justify that
these be taken over by a govetnment-led company particularly as the private
sector, in spite of foreign exchange difficulties, plays a dominant role in
farm mechanization services.
2.        In 1985 the MTD of MOA was allowed to spend only 50% of its
budgeted expenditure of 40 million cedis of which approximately 1/3 goes on
tractor hire activities. In return for this expenditure, the revenue
collected was only 1.5 million cedis. This indicates the extent to which
the government is actually subsidizing its mechanization services as
opposed to the nominal subsidy contained in its rather low rates for
equipment hire. The official rate for ploughing is 1,200 cedis per hectare
whilst the private sector is charging around 2,000 cedis/ha. 1/
3.        MOA's tractor hire services are in reality a relatively small
proportion of the total mechanization services available in both the public
and private sectors. For example, in the Northern Region MTD has only 10
operating tractors out of an estimated total working tractor fleet of about
900. Similarly, it had only four serviceable combine harvesters out of a
total fleet of about 35 in working condition. This situation is repeated
in other regions. There at least six private sector firms which undertake
land clearing and/or combine harvesting operations on contract. The
ownership of wheeled tractors and cultivation machinery is well spread out
and includes private companies, farmers, cooperatives and state farming
institutions such as the Grains Development Board and the Cotton
Development Board.
1/   Although official equipment hire charges are controlled by the
government at MTD rates, private contractors are able to circumvent
the regulation and obtain higher fees.



- 85 -
Annex 3-8
Page 2 of 3
4.        Consequently, the abolition of MOA's tractor hire services is
unlikely to have any serious adverse effects on agricultural production.
MTD staff, however, feel that a rather abrupt withdrawal of land clearing
services could slow down expansion of agriculture. The upsurge in demand
for similar equipment in construction activity has placed agriculture at a
disadvantage at a time when demand is greater than supply. This, however,
is likely to adjust itself with better foreign exchange availability. It
is, therefore, appropriate that plans be made to discontinue the services.
Since wheeled tractor services are readily available from the private
sector and MTD itself has hardly any worthwhile operation in this category,
these should be the first to be dispensed with. The withdrawal of land
clearing services could be delayed in order to allow for a better
demand-supply balance in equipment availability. Nevertheless, no
additional land clearing equipment should be supplied to MTD and a period
of four years to slut down the service wouid seem reasonable. In addition,
land clearing service charges would be raised to a level of full cost
recovery. All other services including the combine harvester service
should be closed down as soon as possible. The major obstacle to
discontinuation of the services is expected to be staff redeployment. It
is estimated that of the current 1,200 staff of the MTD, about 500 would
become redundant if only the land clearing services were retained and all
other mechanization ser'zices withdrawn. 2/ A list of actions to be taken
by MOA to achieve the objective of disengaging from tractor hire services
are as follows:
List of Actions Required of MOA
in Conjunction with the Discontinuation
of Tractor Hire Services
Action                                                   To Be Completed By
1.  Discontinue wheeled tractor service                     Dec. 31, 1987
2. Establish list of wheeled tractors and
associated equipment that is to be disposed
of as a result of Action 1 above                       Dec. 31, 1987
3. Establish list of staff that has to be
redeployed as a result of Action 1 above               Dec. 31, 1987
4. Announce new land clearing service charges
based on full cost recovery.                           Jan. 31, 1988
2/   The majority of the remaining staff would be servicing the
transportation division, which is separate from the mechanization
services.



- 86 -
Annex 3-8
Page 3 of 3
Action                                                     To Be Completed By
5. Establish means of disposal of wheeled tractors
and associated equipment on an "as-is,
where-is" basis, i.e., either by tenders
or by aucLion                                           Mar. 31, 1988
6. Complete disposal of wheeled tractors and
associated equipment                                    Sep. 30, 1988
7. Obtain agreement of relevant government units
on service termination dates for staff to be
redeployed on basis of Action 3 above                   Sep. 30, 1988
8. Establish list of combine harvesters and
associated equipment                                    Dec. 31, 1988
9.  Discontinue combine harvester service                     Feb. 28, 1989
10. Establish list of staff to be redeployed as
a consequence of Action 9 above                         Apr. 30, 1989
11. Complete disposal of combine harvesters
and associated equipment                                JuxLe 30, 1989
12. Obtain agreement of relevant government units
on service termination dates for staff to be
redeployed on basis of Action 10 above                  Sep. 30, 1989
13. Establish list of land clearing equipment                 Dec. 31, 1990
14. Establish list of staff to be redeployed on
discontinuation of land clearing services                June 30, 1991
15. Discontinue land clearing services                        June 30, 1991
16. Complete disposal of land clearing equipment              Dec. 31, 1991
17. Obtain agreement of relevant government units
on service termination dates for staff to
be redeployed on basis of Action 15 above               Dec. 31, 1991
WAPAB
April 1987



- 87 -
Annex 3-9
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Agricultural SOE Reform Program
1.        There are 18 agricultural SOEs that come under the purview of the
MOA. The complete list of SOEs with the various actions to be taken by the
Project under the SOE reform program is set out below:
SOE                      Action to be taken under the Project
A. Proposed for Joinat-venture:
1. Pomadze Poultry Enterprises      hOA to engage consultants by PY4 to
Ltd.                             prepare action plan for
implementation by PY5.
2. Ghana Oil Palm Development       Restructuring into a private
Corporation (GOPDC)              company already under way and
expected to be completed before PY3.
3. Ghana Seed Company               MOA task force to determine
restructuring and to be completed by
PY3.
4. Ejura Farms Ltd.                 MOA to engage consultants in PY3 to
prepare action plans for
implementation by PY5.
5. Ghana Cotton Company             Joint venture between government and
six private companies already formed
and studies are being undertaken to
prepare an action plan with regard
to the role of the company in
agriculture extension, production
and ginning. The action plan is to
be implemented before end of PY3.
6. FASCOM (U.R.)                    See FASCOM (V.R.).
7. FASCOM (V.R.)                    Studies to determine future
corporate and ownership structure
are under way and would be used as
the basis for developing an action
program for both FASCOMs for
implementation by PY3.



- 88 -
Annex 3-9
Page 2 of 3
SOE                      Action to be taken under the Project
B. Proposed for Selling Off:
A. Crown Rice Mill                  MOA to engage consultants by PY4 to
prepare action plan for full
implementation by PY5.
C. Proposed for Liquidation:
9. Irrigation Company (Upper        MOA to engage consultants to prepare
East Region) Ltd.                action plan in PY3 for full
implementation by PY5.
D. No Change in Status:
10. Ghana Irrigation Development    Twinning arrangements and
Authority                        technology transfer consultancies to
be undertaken by PY3 to improve
management and operations including
cost recove,ry.
11. Ghana Food Distribution          Action to depend on Food Security
Corporation and Ghana Milled    Study expected to be completed by
Rice Production Company          PY2.
Ltd. 1/
12. Grains Development Board         MOA to engage consultants by PY3 to
prepare reform plan for full
implementation by PY5. Reform plan
should be an integral part of the
overall reorganization of extension
being developed under the Project.
Agricultural SOEs to be Reformed Under the
Forthcoming Public Enterprise Project
SOE                      Action to be taken under the Project
13. State Farm Corporation (SFC)    MOA will coordinate with
consultants of PE Project and
supervise action plan to be
implemented by PY3.
1/   A subsidiary of GFDC.



- 89 -
Annex 3-9
Page 3 of 3
SOE                      Action :o be taken under the Project
14. State Fishing Corporation        Action plan to be implementcd by
December 31, 1987. 2/
15. Ghana Food Production            MOA to coordinate with PE Project
Corporation                      consultants and supervise acLion
plan to be implemented by PY3.
16. Kwahu Dairy Farms                Same as for Ghana Food Production
Corporation.
17. Bast Fibre Development Board    Same as for Ghana Food Production
Corporation.
2.        MOA would establish a unit to coordinate the various SOE reform
actions that need to be taken under the Project. An internationally-
recruited professional (IRP) with sufficient experience to determine the
logistical and irtellectual needs of a divestiture program would head the
unit. The IRP would maintain liaison with consultants appointed under the
Project and under the Public Enterprise Project and prepare quarterly
status reports on studies and action plans for review by the PNDC
Secretary. The IRP will coordinate with all SOEs in the reform program to
ensure compliance with time tables and government decisions. The IRP would
be appointed w'thin six months of credit effectiveness.
WAPAB
April 1987
2/   Covenant under the SAL.



GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(Cedis '000)                       (US$ '000)              % Foreign
Local     Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign    Total       Exchange
A. Policy, Monitoring and
Evaluation                  30,853.1   328,271.9   359,125.0    187.0    1,989.5    2,176.5         91
B. Agricultural Research
-  Research Review          10,107.1    46,221.9    56,328.9       61.3       280.1       341.4     82
-  Cotton                   17,865.2   117,316.1   135,181.2    108.3         711.0       819.3     87
-  Irrigation               29,312.9   203,915.6   233,228.5    177.7    1,235.9    1,413.5         87
-  Valley Bottom Dept.      17,274.4    62,665.0    79,939.4    104.7         379.8       484.5     78
Sub-total              74,559.6   430,118.6   504,678.0    452.0    2,606.8    3,058.7         84
C. Agricultural Extension
-  Pilot Programs           57,100.8   164,763.9   221,864.8    346.0         998.6    1,344.6      74
-  Volta Region             53,375.1   129,060.6   182,435.7    323.5         782.2    1,105.7      71
Sub-total             110,475.9   293,824.5   404,300.5    669.5    1,780.8    2,450.3         71
D. Irrigation
-  Development Authority   85,163.0   574,882.9   660,045.9    516.1    3,484.1    4,000.3          87
-  Pilot Schemes            85,224.9   119,324.5   204,549.4    516.5         723.2    1,239.7      58
Sub-total             170,387.9   694,207.4   864,595.3  1,032.6    6,207.3    5,240.0         79
E.  V7eterinary Services Dept.   60,303.8   204,294.0   264,597.8    365.5    1,238.1    1,603.6          77
F. State Owned Enterprises
Reform                      28,119.9   242,200.3   270,320.2    170.4    1,467.9    1,638.3         90  t o
G.  Crops Inputs                                                                                              lr b
Development Unit            15,772.1    76,309.8    92,081.8        95.6      462.5       558.1     83  M F- 
H.  Project Coordination Unit   87,587.4   108,452.0   196,039.4    530.8          657.3    1,188.1       55
0 



(Cedis '000)                     (US$ '000)            % Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign   Total    Excbange
===== =S*=z== ===== ===== =*===__ _____ ____ ............   ___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS          578,059.6 2,377,678.6 2,955,738.3  3,503.4   14,410.2   17,913.6    80
Physical Contingencies       24,375.7   121,021.8   145,397.5    147.7      733.5      881.2    83
Price Contingencies         172,665.5   362,324.7   534,990.2    459.9      511.5      971.4    53
Sub-Total                775,100.8 2,861,025.2 3,636,126.0  4,111.0   15,655.1   19,766.1    79
PARELLEL FTNANCING
I.  Vaccines and Drugs (KFW)      -         1,283.5     1,283.5     -           8.5        8.5    100
J.  Fertilizers, Chemicals,
etc. (AfDB)                 -         3,775.0    3,775.0      -          25.0       25.0    100
TOTAL PROJECT C03T            775,100.8 2,866,083.7 3,641,184.5  4,111.0   15,688.6   19,799.6    80
=e=====5===========   === ==…==-=====_ =======           ==
WAPAB
April 1987
tD
0 x
0



GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
ProJect Cost by Components and Years
(Excluding Parallel Financing)
Total Including Contingencies                                                  Total Including Contingencies
(Cedis '000)                                                                (US$ '000)
87/88          88/89          89190       O'0191      91/92        Total       87/88       88/89       89/90      90/91       91/92        Total
-~        ~     ~ -  .    =          -       _     =         c=       _     n        =_          = 
A.  Policy, Monitoring and
Pvaluation                  157,163.8      131,602.8      103,5I6.8   42,546.1       -          434,829.4    969.7       731.0       505.8      193.3         -      2,381.7
B. Agricultural Research
-  Research Review           41,888.7       10,389.0       11,669.5       -          -           63,947.2    258.4        57.0        56.3        -           -        371.7
-  Cotton                    73,094.3       42,575.9       43,185.S       -          -          158,856.0    451.0        211.0      230.7        -           -        892.6
-  Irrigation              120,727.2        73,128.9       82,367.6       -          -         275,923.8    744.9        401.0       396.2        -           -      1,542.0
-  Valley Bottom Devpt.    50.811.4         21,638.7       lq,967 I       -          -           92,417.3    313.5         97.6      117.2        -           -        528.3
Sub-total             286,521.6      147,732.f      155,89(1.0       -         -          591,144.3  1,767.8        800.4       766.6        -           -     3,334.6
C.  Agricultural Extension
-  GCDP Support              65,213.6       20,418.4       23,084.7       -          -         108,716.7    402.4        110.6       112.8        -           -        625.8
-  Pilot Program            49,690.4        48,111.4       56,816.6       -          -          154,618.3    306.6       260.6       277.6        -           -        844.8
-  Volta Region              80,010.1       70,503.2       69,393.8       -          -          219,907.1    493.7       382.0       339.0        -           -      1,214.7
Sub-total             194,914.1      139,033.0      149,295.1        -          -         483,242.i  1,202.7        753.2       729.4        -           -     2,685.3
D.  Irrigation
-  Development Authority  262,649.1        268,167.3      268,156.7       -          -          798,973.1  1,620.5    1,452.8    1,310.2          -           -     4,383.5
-  Pilot Schemes             27,577.0      118,877.5      132,582.3       -          _          279,036.8    170.1       644.0       647.8        -           -      1,461.9
Sub-total             290,226.1      387,044.8      400,739.0        -          -       1,078,009.9  1,790.6    2,096.8    1,958.0           -           -     5,845.4
E.  Veterinary Services Dept.  106,004.1        101,214.3      114,437.5       -          -          321,655.9    654.0        548.3       559.1        -           -     1,761.5          c  t, 0
F.  State Owned Enterprises                                                                                                                                                                   ( x
Reform                      111,365.3       36,761.1       74,804.6   81,501.4  37,321.1        341,753.6    687.1       199.2       365.5      370.2       160.8   1,782.'           0 r
G.  Crops Inputs                                                                                                                                                                                 - 
Derelopment Unit             36,618.0       32,225.6       35,524.4    4,346.0   4,693.6        113,407.6    225.9        17  1.     173.6       19.7        20.2      614.0               O
H. Project Coordination
Unit                        48,810.2       47,822.5       53,716.8   58,525.8  63,207.8        272,083.1    301.2        25v.1      262.4      265.9       272.3   1,360.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            1,231,623.2   1,023,436.6   1,088,924.2  18t.,919.2 105,222.5   3,636,125.9  7,599.0    5,544.6    5,320.4             849.1       453.3  19,766.0
WAPAB
April 1987



6WM
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUWIART CCOUNTS COST SUNWARY
(Excluding Parallel Financing)
(CEDIS '000)                                       (US$ '000)
Z Total                                       2 Total
I Foreign  Base                               Z Foreign  Base
Local     Foreign     Total    Exchange   Costs    Local Foreign   Total  Exchange   Costs
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS AND CIVIL VORKS                              86,650.9   125,257.9   211,908.8         59       7    525.2    759.1  1,284.3         59        7
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIPHENT                                  70982.5   510,732.4   518,714.9         98      18      48.4  3,095.3  3,143.7        98       18
C. .URNITURE AND OFFICE EGUIPhENT                          4,231.5    11,151,2    15,382.7         72        1     25.6     67.6     93.2        72        1
D. CAPITAL INJECTION                                             -    82,500.0    82,500.0        100        3        -    500.0    500.0        100       3
Total INMESThENT COSTS                                       98,864.9  729,641,5   828,506.4          88      28    599,2  4,422.1  5,021.3         88       28
Phvsical Contingencies                                     9,275.8    38,620.0    47,895.8         81        2     56.2    234.1    290.3         81
Price Contingencies                                       26,836.3    59,709.7    86,546.1         69       3      75.6    118.8    194.4        61        1
Tutal INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                               134,977.1   827,971.2   962,948.2         86      33    731.0  4.774.9  5,505.9         87       31              1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. PERSONAL ENOLUHENTS                                   21,602.0            -    21,602,0         -       1    130.9         -    130.9         -        I
B, TRAVFLLIN6 ALLOUANCE                                 155,595.0            -   155,595.0         -       5    943.0         -    943.0          -       5
C, VEHICLES AND EOUIPHENT OPERATION                      63.26&,6  265,585.7   328,852.4          81      11    383.4  1,609.6  1,993,0         81       11
D, OFFICE AND GENERAL OPERATION                          28,788*6   66,426.2    95t214.7          70       3      i.5    402.6   577.1          70        3
E. TRAINING                                              14,208.0    54,255,5    68,463.5         79        2     86.1    328.8    414.9         79       2
F. STUDIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     184,434.5 1,261.769.8 .,446,204.3         87      49  1.117,8  7,647.1  8764.9         87       49
6. IRRIGATIQN PILOT SCHEME OPERATION AND NAINTENANCE    11.300,0             -    11,300.0         -       0      68.5        -     68.5         -        0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                       479,194.7 1,648,037.2 2,127,231.9         77      72  2,904.2  9988.1 12,892.3          77       72
Physical Contingencies                                    15,099,9    82,401.9    97,501.7         85       3      91.5    499.4    590.9        85        3         t
On
Price Contingencies                                      145,829.2   302s615,0  448,444.2          67      15    384.3    392.'   777.0          51        4   r r-jT
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                               640,123.8 2,033,054.0 2,673,177*8         76      90  3,380.1 10,880.2 14,260.2         76       80      w  1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                         578,059.6 2W377,678,6 2W,55,738.3         80     100 3,503.4 14P410.2 17t913.6          80      100
Phwsical Contingencies                                     24,375.7  1219021.8   145,397.5          83       5    147.7   733.5   881.2           83        5
Price Contingencies                                       172,665.5  362,324.7  53499"0.2           68       18    459.9    511.5    971.4         53 .     S
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          775,100.8 2,8614025,2 3W636,126.0         79     123 4W11,0 15,655.1 19766.1           79      110
=-_                            -- =       =                         -==   === =  -_=



- 94 -
Annex 3-11
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Financial Plan
(Million US$)
Project Year              IDA          UNDP            GOG           Total
1                    0.5           0.6            0.2            1.3
2                    2.3           0.4            0.4            3.1
3                    5.9           0.3            0.5            6.7
4                    5.0           0.2            0.1            5.3
5                    3.4            -              -             3.4
6                    0.9            -              -             0.9
Total                  18.0           1.5            1.2           20.7
%                     87             7              6            100
WAPAB
April 196;



- 95 -
Annex 3-12
Page 1 of 7
GHANA
AGRICULTURE SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
1.        The main functions of the PCU would be the following:
(a) Maintain close liaison with all the MOA Units, the
Irrigation Development Authority and the Crops Research
Tnstitute which are responsible for the implementation of
different components of the Project, with the objective of
ensuring that implementation is in accordance with both the
spirit and the letter of the Credit and Project Agreements
with IDA and its SAR;
(b) Coordinate the preparation of the annual work plans and
budgets of the relevant implementing units including the PCU
for submission to IDA not later than November 30 of the
preceding year and maintain a record of all agreed work
plans and hudgets;
(c)- Organize the procurement of IDA-funded goods and services
and the appointment of IDA-funded consultants and ensure
that these are acquired consistent with the "Guidelines for
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" and
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing Agency";
(d) Maintain project accounts according to accepted accounting
principles and practice and produce an annual statement of
accounts which is to be audited by external auditors and
submitted to IDA not later than June 30 of the following
year;
(e) In the event the PCU or any of the implementing units are
being confronted with problems that cannot be resolved, the
PCU would take the initiative to raise such prublems at an
appropriate level and keep IDA informed of progress and
results achieved.
(f) Monitor the progress of implementation of the various
components of the Project and submit to IDA, not later than
45 days after the end of each quarter, reports which,
amongst others, would provide the following:
(i) progress achieved during the quarter as measured
against targets giving reasons for delays, explaining



- 96 -
Annex 3-12
Page 2 of 7
problems encountered and measures taken to overcome
problems;
(ii)  actual disbursements received from IDA as at end of a
quarter; applications pendinig; and estimated
disbursements for the coming 4 quarters and annually
thereafter;
(iii)  actual expenditure to end of a quarter including GOG
contribution compared with budget with explanations on
shortfalls and/or overspending; and
(iv)  list of incremental and non-incremental staff engaged
in the implementatioTi of each component of the Project
indicating changes cver previous quarter and any
planned changes forthcoming.
Project Coordinator
2.        The PCU would be headed by a Project Coordinator (PC) who would
be responsible for its operations as listed above. The PC would be
responsible directly to PNDC Secretary for Agriculture and shall keep the
latter informed of all problems and progress related to the Project through
regular briefings and/or reports. In carrying out these functions the PC
would be assisted by a Project Officer (PO) who would be specifically
responsible for organizing the procurement, reporting, disbursement and
accounting aspects. The actual maintenance of accounting records and
preparation of quarterly and annual accounts would be undertaken by a firm
of accountants who would be engaged for an annual fee.
3.        The PC would be a senior government official from the Ministry of
Agriculture who is capable of establishing a harmonious and effective
working relationship with the different implementing units and provide the
leadership and initiative to help them overcome managerial, administrative
and budgeting constraints. The PC must have the confidence and trust of
his superiors.
Project Officer
4.        The PO who would be the support officer to the PC would be
selected on the basis of the following criteria:
(a) a university degree or equivalent professional
qualification;
(b) a minimum of 5 years experience in a supervisory capacity
with exposure to both operational and administrative aspects
and a basic knowledge of accounts;



- 97 -
Annex 3-12
Page 3 of 7
(c) familiarity with IDA/World Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures;
(d) ability to work independently and represent the PC at
meetings and discussions related to the Project; and
(d)  willingness to travel within Ghana regularly to ascertain
actual status of lmplement4tion of project components and
provide on-the-spot advice on procurement and disbursement
procedures.
Accountants
5.        The firm of accountants who would be responsible for maintaining
the accounting records and preparing the financial and accounting reports
would be selected in accordance to IDA/World Bank guidelines and would be
fully responsible for this aspect of the Project. They would report to the
PO and keep the PO informed of progress in maintaining and preparing
accounts and reports, and any problems and delays in their work. The PO
would provide an assessment of the firm's performance in the accounts
section of the quarterly report.
Recruitment
6.        The PC would be appointed by the MOA prior to the proposed
Project being presented to the IDA Board in order to take over the
responsibility for coordinating actions by the various implementing units
on matters which are preconditions to effectiveness. The PO would be
appointed to take office no later than 3 months from date of effectiveness.
The accounting firm would be appointed no later than 3 months from date of
effectiveness with the initial contract being for three accounting years
and being renewable by mutual agreement thereafter.



- 98 -
Annex 3-12
Page 4 of 7
QUALIFICATIONS AND JOB DESCRIPTION
PROJECT COORDINATOR
QUALIFICATIONS:
(1) A senior official of the Ministry of Agriculture with at least 10
years' service in agricultural development/administration.
(2) Have proven leadership abilities as reflected in performance of
current and/or previous jobs.
(3) Possesses qualities that would enable the development of a
harmonious and effective working relationship.
(4) Has the confidence and trust of his superiors and colleagues.
JOB:
(1) Responsible for the overall operations of the Project
Coordination Unit and reporting to the PNDC Secretary for
tgriculture.
'2) Ensuring that the Project and its components are implemented in
accordance with the spirit and the letter of the Ciedit Agreement
and the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
(3) Supervise the coordination work necessary for the preparation of
the annual work plans and budgets of the implementing units to
produce a consolidated annual project work plan and budget to be
submitted to IDA by November 30 of preceding year.
(4) Supervise the procurement of the IDA-funded goods and services
and the appointment of IDA-funded consultants and ensure that
IDA/IBRD Guidelines are complied with and the work is carried out
expeditiously.
(5) Ensure that the Project Officer regularly supervises the work of
the firm responsible for maintaining the accounting records and
that the firm produces the quarterly and annual accounts on
schedule. To supervise the selection of external auditors and
ensure that their work is in accordance with IDA/IBRD guidelines
and meets the scheduled completion dates.
(6) To visit and discuss with implementing units, including visits to
project sites, to ascertain general progress and problems.



- 99 -
Annex 3-12
Page 5 of 7
(7) To take the initiative to raise problems at in appropriate level
when implementing units are not capable of resolving the problem
at their level.
(8) Monitor the progress of imp'ementation and supervise the
preparation of quarterly progress reports to be submitted to IDA
not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter.
(9) Be responsible for the budget and expenditure of the PCU.
(10) Supervise the work of the PO and delegate to the PO whenever
necessary responsibility to act on the PC's behalf.



- 100 -
Annex 3-12
Page 6 of 7
QUALIFICATIONS AND JOB DESCRIPTION
PROJECT OFFICER
QUALIFICATIONS:
(1) A university degree or equivalent professional qualification.
(2) A minimum of 5 years experience in a supervisory capacity with
exposure to both operational and administrative aspects.
(3) A basic knowledge of accounts.
(4) Familiarity with World Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures.
(5) Ability to work independently.
(6) Willingness to travel within Ghana to regularly ascertain actual
status of project implementation and provide on-the-spot advice
on procurement and disbursement procedures.
JOB:
(1) To prepare an annual procurement schedule on the basis of
submissions from implementing units, to be ready by November 30
of preceding year.
(2) To organize the preparation of bid documents and ensure that they
meet World Bank requirements, ensure World Bank prior approval is
obtained on bid documents for International Competitive Bidding.
(3) To organize the evaluation of bids and the approval to purchase,
organize the preparation and signing of procurement and
consultancy contracts, and keep track of
supplier/contractor/consultant performance.
(4)  Visit project implementation units to ascertain actual progress
and problems and provide on-the-spot advice on procurement and
disbursement procedure.
(5) Organize applications for disbursements of IDA funds and keep an
up-to-date record of disbursements.
(6)  Liaise with all implementation units on the preparation of annual
work plans and b. :gets and prepare consolidated work plan and
annual budget for the Project including the PCU.



- 101 -
Annex 3-12
Page 7 of 7
(7)  Compile the Project Quarterly Report for submission to World Bank
within 45 days of the end of the quarter.
(8) Supervise the work of the firm of accountants engaged to maintain
accounting records and preparing quarterly and annual statements,
organize the timely appointment of auditors and review progress
of audit in relation to agreed completion dates.
(9) Prepare the budget for the PCU and keep track of its
expenditures.
(10) Represent the PC at meetings, discussions, etc., which he may
not be able to attend and carry out any other responribilities he
might delegate.
WAPAB
April 1987



- 102 -
Annex  3-13
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Project Year    Pre-Project                       2             3             4              5              6
IBRD FY       FY87           FY88    I     FY89           FY90          FY91           FY92          FY93
1986187       1987 88        1988 89       1989190        199091        1991;92        199293
Quarter   1  2  3  4  1        2 3    4  1|       2 1 3        | 4  _1| 2  3  4 4  |2T3|4    11 21 3 1 4
I IBRD
11 Negotiations
1 2 Board Presentation
1 3 Effectiveness
1 4 Completion Date
1 5 Closirng Date
2 Project Implementation
2 1 Staff Appointment                       |
Project Coordn Officer                O               j
Project Officer
Accounting Firm
AIDU Head                             0)
2 2 Budget ana Work Program
01    0              0                                           0
Submitted to Bank                                   O
2 3 Reports
Quorterly                                                                 0  a i O  *         o   l    0 O        0  1     0
Completion
2 4 Procurement
Vehicles and equipment         _      m _
Buildings and civil works
2 5 Consultancies
FNED
Agricultural Extension
SOE Reform
Reseorch
-ec 31 i9?2 0



- 103 -
Annex 3-14
Page 1 of 2
GHAN}
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Procedures
1.        According to the Ghana Supply Commission Act, 1960, "The main
function of the Commission shall be to procure for the Government all
supplies and stores the cost of which falls to be met out of public funds
and, except with the permissiJn of the Minister, no such supplies or stores
shall be purchased by the Government from any other person." Subsequent to
the establishment of the Ghana Supply Commission (GSC) the Ghana National
Procurement Agency (GNPA) was created to mainly handle imports of
commodities. Only the activities of the GSC are relevant to this Project.
2.        Over the years there has been a reldctance to use GSC services
and shift to direct purchases or use other procurement agents to satisfy
specific donor requirements. According to laid-down procedures except for
construction projects and very large contracts which go to the Central
Tender Board in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and those
determined by donor requirements, all other non-commodity imports are to be
made through GSC. In practice this is not so. Ministries/departments
prefer to place orders directly with local distributors or agents of
imported goods. The reasons advanced are that it ensures follow-up service
in the case of equipment and it also avoids the problem of obtaining
separate local cost funding and approval for payment of port clearing,
handling, customs duties and internal transport. Those who use GSC
services have had problems of goods being held at the port for an extended
period of time until GSC has obtained the funds for local costs from the
client. At a time when there is high uncertainty on fund availability the
preference to deal directly with local suppliers is expected.
3.        Ministries/departments select local suppliers either on the basis
of the lowest evaluated bidder from a minimum of 3 quotations, or for being
the only supplier of a particular brand or item that has been determined by
a technical unit to be the most relevant to the need in question. GSC
procedure is to receive a request together with assurance of funds from a
Ministry/department and call for bids either from a list of registered
suppliers or through open tender on the basis of the estimated value of the
tender. Although GSC is required to call for open bids if the value
exceeds 17,000 pounds sterling ($24,000) but does not strictly follow this
requirement and does it according to the requirements of each exercLe. In
respect of open tenders there is a public opening of bids. Upon receiving
bids GSC evaluates and passes on the evaluation to the client for
consideration. Upon receiving the client's agreement, GSC places the
orders. When the goods arrive at the port the client is required to
provide the necessary funds for port clearing, handling, customs duties and
local transport upon the payment of which the goods are taken out of the



- 104 -
Annex 3-14
Page 2 of 2
port and delivered to the final destination. The billing of the 2 percent
se-vice charge is done upon completion of delivery.
4.        It is assessed that GSC is unlikely to be the preferred channel
of procurement because of, firstly, the uncertainty of the supply of local
funds and, secondly, its perceived inability to cope with speedy
procurement. The Project itself requires that items be procured in the
quickest possible manner within the Bank's Guidelines which require a
degree of planning and skills that are not needed in normal government
operations. The reluctance of government organizations to use GSC suggests
that it would not be able to provide the desired level of service except
perhaps where there is a long lead time. It would, therefore, be necessary
that the Project recruit a person who is familiar with Bank procedures and
is able to plan and schedule procurement actions well in advance of
requirement. This person who would be the Project Officer in the PCU would
have to organize the preparation of bid documents, the calling of bids, the
evaluaLion and award of the bids, and the preparation and signing of
contracts. The transitory nature of the Project itself would not justify
the establishment of a full-scale procurement unit to carry out the total
procurement exercise. Consequently, the preparation of bid documents,
calling of bids, evaluation and prepat"tion of contracts would be carried
out by a procurement agent for a fee to be negotiated. The choice then is
between GSC or a private procurement agent. All items that need the
services of a procurement agent and have only a short lead time would be
procured through an experienced private procurement agent equipped with
good external communications and access to suppliers. Items that have a
long lead time would be offered to GSC for procurement after Project staff
are satisfied that GSC wcjld be able to perform as required.
6.        All procurement would be in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Purchase contracts of a value exceeding $200,000 would be arranged through
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Purchase contracts of
values exceeding $20,000 and up to $200,000 would be arranged through local
competitive bidding procedures. International and local shopping based on
at least three price quotations would apply to all other purchases, except
proprietary items or items costing less than $1,000 which may be procured
through direct negotiation with a supplier. It is not anticipated that all
procurement will be organized by PCU staff. Local shopping and direct
purchase would be the responsibility of the heads of the implementing units
but they would be required to keep proper documentation of each process and
the evaluation of bids.
WAPAB
April 1987



- 105 -
Annex 3-15
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
(US$ mn)
IBRD Fiscal Year                    Cumulative   Cum. Disbursement    Cum % of Investment
and Semester      Disbursement  Disbursement    as % of Credit    Disbursement Profile 2/
FY88 1st Semester       1.2            1.2              7.0                   10
2nd    "           0.3            1.5              8.8                   29
?Y89 Ist Semester       0.3            1.8              10.6                  47
2nd    "           0.8            2.6             15.3                   60
FY90 1st Semester       3.1            5.7             33.5                   70
2nd    "           2.6            8.3             48.8                   78
FY91 1st Semester       2.1           10.4             61.2                   83
2nd    "           2.5           12.9             75.9                   87
FY92 1st Semester       1.6           14.5             85.3                   89
2nd    "           1.6           16.1             94.7                   91
FY93 1st Semester       0.3           16.4             96.5                   93
2nd    "           0.6           17.0            100.0
1/   Loan effectiveness and closing date assumed to be December 1, 1987 and June 30, 1993
respectively.
2/   For agricultural sector adjustment loans for all regions as per PPD office memo of
October 3, 1985.
WAPAB
April 1987



GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABIUTATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT CHART
100'
90
80
70                                        7
360                                  /                               wt   aeo   fetvns
~~50~~                      /                                     sue   sDcebr1   97
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Z  40
Cumulative Disbursement
30                                                               (with date of effectiveness
assumed as December 1, 1987)
20              /_istorical disbursement profil
for Agricultural Sector
AdJustment Loans for all
10                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~regions 'FY 76-85
10  t°3
0-onth   12  3  6  9    12  3  6  9   12  3  6  9  12  3  6  9   12  3  6  9   12  3  6  9  12                 oC
Mlonth    12  3  6  9    12  3  6  9   12  3  6           12  3  6  9   12  3  6  9   12  3  6  9  12
87  J8  - ~ 89                  9i )



- 107 -
Annex ',-16
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Special Project Account
1.        The Special Project Account (Account No. 2) would be established
by the Project with a commercial baiek. IBRD would make an initial deposit
of $1 million to be used to prefinance goods and services which are
reimbursable under the Credit. The account would be replenished through
disbursement applications which would be supported by (a) a statement of
transactions of the Special Project Account certified by the commercial
bank where the account is held; (b) a certificate signed by the Project
Coordinator or the Project Officer jointly with a Senior Accountant
appointed by the accounting firm acceptable to the Bank confirming that the
goods and services have been supplied as contracted; (c) reconciliation of
withdrawals and deposits with statements of permitted expenditures and IBRD
disbursements certified by the Project Officer and the Senior Accouatant;
and (d) statement disclosing the quarterly contributions made by GOG and
credited to the Project Account. Additionally, replenishment will be
con'itional to GOG remaining current with its contributions.  In an
instance where a disbursement made from the Account is not acceptable to
the Bank, GOG would be required to refund the corresponding amount of the
disbursement into the Account.
WAPAB
April 1987



- 108 -
Annex 3-17
GHANA
AGRICULTURE SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Auditing and Reporting
1.        PCU and Project Implementing Units would keep financial records
In accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect their operations
and financial positions, and would have the accounts including the special
account and statement of expenditure audited annually by a firm of
independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audited accounts
and the auditor's report, including a statement as to whether or not Bank
funds had been used for their intended purpose, would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the eiid of the fiscal year.
2.        PCU and Project Implementing Units would prepare annual budgets
and work programs based on appraisal estimates, amended where necessary to
reflect changes in costs and project development policies. At the time the
annual work programs and budgets are prepared, PCU would also prepare a
procurement program for the coming year, giving items and quantities
required, sources of funds, timing and procurement methods (whether ICB or
other). This program would be submitted along with the annual budget to
MOA for approval, and to the Bank for information. The PCU would prepare
quarterly cash flow statements, which would be submitted to MOA and the
Bank, and would operate on the basis of these statements. On the basis of
the approved budgets and procurement program, the Government of Ghana would
make budgetary allocations and thereafter would release the necessary funds
quarterly in advance.
3.        PCU would submit quarterly reports to MOA and the Bank showing
actual and budgeted expenditures, statements of progress achieved and
objectives for the forthcoming quarter by each project component. The
4uarterly reports would contain summaries of expenditures and use of funds
to date. After completion of the project, PCU would prepare a project
completion report analyzing the implementation of the project and its
impact in relation to its objectives, and would submit them to the Bank
within six months of the closing date.
WAPAB
April 1987



IBRD 15116R3
BURKINA  FASO
G H A N A
UPPER      0Bolgotongo                               RAINFALL  AND
.,U P P E R  W E ST T           EAST                                                ECOLOGICAL ZONES
REGION                                                          HIGH FORES T ZONE
REGION                                             '                                      Equotoriul Roin Forest
I) OWO  ()   s   }  oNosio  \                     F  5Moist Semi- dcciduous
Noi                                            Forest
,W0j                  f                  , i             \                       '              SAVANNAH ZONE
17        ~~Guineo Savannah
Woodlond
-1_   9  _  t  /  \   \           ; <            : Sudon Sovannah
Woodland
\*  ~   )R                                                                                                Coastal  Thicket  and
N R   ERN                                                                  Grasslond
Tamole
a         ,-    /.           i }   ' Mongroves
Roinfoll (mm)
rf ¢Dongo                                -. _Region Boundaries
International
4 ,J     ,     \._,  -'-Boundaries
2~~~~~
COTE                                                <                    Sologa                     z N.
D'IVOIRE *\Mm      
OAtebubu
0~~~~~~~~
/                    BRONG.- AHAFO  REGION\                                                                TOGO
Suvnyoni       -7-.
ASHANA S H A N T I-    7                                                                 ,,, 
Kunaosi
i / ~~~~~~~~~~R  E  G  I O   N  -' 't
V N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EE     S T E R N                              ,\r  s   
<   '8 /         REGION ,2 ,E                          0  14DV
'JV E S T EJ ERTERN
9, ~ ~ ~ ~ Axm\ \-.                                /             RE,O {    iooolo 7    ° 8KofoIdMtE                  Ar
C     E  N  TRAF                                                                   1AALINIR
REGiON  3, ~~~~~~~~~~~            '~~~X~~~ACCRA                     6~fl.,URKINA' 
,,,~~~~ -REGION   ~~~~~~~~~(FASO'~
-..                 COTE   /18~~~~~~~~f' ~NIGERIA
'~~ ~   30  40  50MiIES    ~ ~   D'IVOIRE , ~  '
Axim' \1          0Tkra                       20   40  60   80 KiIMAETER$
FEBRUARY 1987



