Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14500
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1801-GH)
MAY 12, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CL. RRKENCX JL ! * ALLN I S
(Deccmber 1994)
Currency Unit                       =            Cedi
Exchange Rate:
at appraisal: US $1.(0            =             Cedi 151.00
average, 1987-1994: US $1.00      =             Cedi 422.00
at completion: US $1.00           =             Cedi 915.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I millimeter (mIn                  -             0.039 inches
I meter (m)                                      3.28 feet
I square meter                     =             10.76 square feet
I cubic meter                      =             1.31 cubic yards
I kilometer (kni)                                0 0.62 inches
I square kilometer                               0 ).386 square miles
I hectare (ha)                     =             2.47 acres (ac)
I kilogramii (kg)                  =             2.'05 pounds (lb)
I metric toin (ton)                =             2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADC           Agricultural Developmenit Corporation of South Korea
AED           Agricultural Extension Department
AtDB          African Development Fund (African Development Bank)
AMTD          Agricultural Mechanisation and Transport Department
AP&HD         Anitial Production and Health Department
APCC          Agricultural Policy Coordinating Coiitnittee
ASRP          Agricultural Services Rehabilitationi Project
PCU           Project Coordinating lJiit
CIDU          Crop Services Department of MOFA
COCOBOD    Cocoa Marketing Board
CRI           Crops Research Inrstihute
CSIR          Council on Scientific and Industrial Research
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DIC           Diverstiture Implementation Committee
FAO           Food and Agricultural Organisation of the tUnited Nations
FD            Fisheries Departtment
GIDA          Ghana Irrigation Developmenit Authority
GOG           Government of Ghana
GSC           Ghana Supply Commission
ICR           Implemenitation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
KFW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiedaraufbau
MOFA          Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MTD           Manpower Training Department
MTADS         Medium Tertm Agricultural Development Strategy
NARMvlP       National Agricultural Research Masterplan
NARC          National Agricultural Research Committee
NEAP          National Ertvironmental Action Plan
O&M           Operations and Mainteniance Expenditure
PCtl          Project Coordination Unit
PPD           Plant Protection Departnent
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PPMED         Policy, Planninig. Monitoring and Evaluation Department of MOFA
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SOE           State Operating Enterprises
TA            Technical Assistance
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
VORADEP    Volta Region Agricultural Development Program
VSD           Veterinary Services Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1801-GH)
Table of Contents
Page #
Preface
Evaluation Summary..........................................
Part I               Project Implementation Assessment
1.  Introduction   .................................................1
2. Project Objectives ..................................................I
3. Implementation Expenence and Results ..................................................2
4. Summarv of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned ......................... 10
Part II              Statistical Annexes
1.   Summary of Assessments ..........................................                                                    12
2.   Related Bank Credits ..........................................                                                      14
3.   Project Timetable ..........................................                                                         15
4A. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ....................................... 16
4B. Disbursement by Categories ..........................................                                                 17
5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..........................................                                 18
6.   Key Indicators for Project Operations ..........................................                                     19
7.   Studies Included in Project ..........................................                                              20
8A. Project Costs .......................................... .                                                           21
8B. Project Financing ........................................... 22
9.   Status of Lcgal Covenants ..........................................                                                 23
10. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..........................................                               25
11. Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ..........................................                                             26
12. Bank Resources:  Missions ..........................................                                                 26
Appendixes: A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
C. Borrower (GIDA)'s Evaluation of Twinning Component
D. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties   Its contents may not otherise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 1801-GH
Preface
1.    This is the Implementationi Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Services
Rehabilitation Project (ASRP), for which Credit 1801-GH in the amount of SDR13.3 million
(US $17.0 million equivalent) was approved on June 30, 1987 and made effective on December
18, 1987.
2.    The credit was closed on June 30, 1994, compared with the original closing date of
June 30, 1993. It was almost fully disbursed with a small undisbursed balance of SDR
23,918.21 being cancelled at closing. The last disbursement took place on September 8, 1994.
Parallel financing for the project was provided by: UNDP (US$1.5 million), to strengthen the
Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED); AfDB (US$25.0 million),
to finance the importation and distribution of fertilizers by the private sector; and, KFW
(US$8.5 million), to finance supply of animal vaccines and other veterinary drugs and to
provide logistical support to the Animnal Health and Production Department (AHPD). The
KfW credit, which closed in March 1994, was fully disbursed. The AfDB credit closed in
1993 and the UNDP grant closed in 1991, both were also fully disbursed.
3.    The ICR was prepared by George Alibaruho, Agriculture and Environment Division,
West Central Africa Department and reviewed by Cynthia C. Cook, Division Chief, AF4AE,
Anil Bhandari, Portfolio Manager, AF41N, and Franz Kaps, Operations Advisor, AF4DR.
The contributions of the Borrower and parallel financiers of the project and their written
comments are included as appendices to the ICR.
4.     Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, May 23-June 9, 1994. It is based on materials in the project files, field visits to
project sites and interviews with officials of government and implementing agencies as well as
participating farmers. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by participating in
the completion mission and contributing views and written comments reflected in the mission's
aide-memoire (Appendix A) and this ICR, and by preparing its own evaluation of the project's
preparation, execution and post implementation operational plan (Appendix B).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
[Credit No. 1801-GH]
Evaluation Summary
1.    Introduction. Ghana's Economic Recovery Program, of stabilization and structural
adjustment, was launched in April 1983. IDA policy advice and mobilization of donor assistance
played a key role in defining the GOG's coherent and sustainable policy framework that
underpinned economic recovery. Prior to the ASRP, IDA support was also through a series of
reconstruction import credits; export, energy, power, infrastructure, and social sectors
rehabilitation credits; and an industrial sector adjustment credit, (all spread over 15 operations).
The first IDA commitment specific to the agriculture sector was fcr a US$25 million Oil Palm
project in 1984.
2.     Project Obiectives and Components. The primary objective was to initiate a process of
rehabilitation to enable Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) to provide effective support to
agriculture and this would be through strengthening the institutional framework for the formulation
and implementation of agricultural policies and programs and impioving the delivery of public
services in the sector. Corresponding components were: (i) strengthening MOFA's capacity for
policy formulation, planning, monitoring and evaluation; (ii) carrying out policy reform, focusing
on privatization and divestiture of fertilizer and veterinary drugs distriUution, tractor hire services,
and other state-owned enterprises in the agriculture sector; and, (iii) improving agricultural
support services in research, irrigation and extension [Para. 2.01].
3.     Special Covenants and Agreements Designed to Achieve Objectives. Conditions of
effectiveness were: GOG signing a TA agreement with UNDP and selecting TA experts under the
UNDP project to strengthen Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED) of
MOFA. GOG also agreed to: privatize fertilizer distribution by 1991, phase out fertilizer subsidy
by 1990; recover 100 percent of cost of veterinary drugs as from 1988; submit to IDA and other
donors a masterplan for agricultural research by June 30, 1988; and withdraw from tractor and
plant hire services in the agricultural sector by June 10, 1991. Compliance with these covenants,
which was on the whole satisfactory, was critical to the attainment of the institutional and policy
objectives of the project [Para. 2.02].
4.     Evaluation of Proiect Objectives. The objective of initiating a process for MOFA to
provide effective support to agriculture was clearly appropriate and timely. The strengthening of
public sector institutions in policy formulation and plaining and delivery of services to the sector
was consistent with this objective.
5.     Proiect Success. The project succeeded in initiating a process of rehabilitation to
revitalize MOFA to provide meaningful support to the agricultural sector. MOFA's policy
formulation, planning, monitoring and evaluation processes were substantially strengthened.
Policy reform targets were also mostly realized. Success in improving agricultural support
services during the project period was only partial: agricultural extension objectives were
substantially met; crops research targets were met to a very limited extent; pilot-testing of small,
farmer-operated irrigation facilities was not completed but pilot-testing of rain water harvesting
was essentially implemented. Studies substantially achieved their objectives, having led to, among



other things the Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy (MTADS). National
Agriclutural Research Masterplan (NARMP) and National Environimiental Action Plan (NEAP). but
no study addressed the problem of duplication of extension services between MOFA and Cocoa
Marketing Board (COCOBOD) [Paras 3.01, 3201].
6.     Project Sustainability.  The sustainahility of manyv of the benefits from completed project
activities, appears well tfounded. The capacity improvemiienits of MOFA and Ghania Irrigation
Development Authority (GIDA) are likely to be sustained if GOG can provide the required
budgetary resources for periodic investment in vehicles, equipment replacement. operations and
mairitenance and staff training. Adequate remuneration is a key to staff retention, which will be
critical to sustainability. With privatization of the distribution of fertilizers and veterinary drugs
there is reduced pressure on the government's budget and its managerial resources, but poor
market penetration by the private sector, especially in remote areas, needs further attention. The
benefits from the revolving fund for veterinary drugs established under the project (KFW  funds)
will be sustained only if the local cedi prices for drugs fully reflect the market exchange rate. For
project activities not comilpleted or tested, assessment of expected benefits and sustainability is
premature [Para. 3.201.
7.     Project Costs, Financing and Tim-letables. Project cost at appraisal was $53.3 millioni that
was to be finianced in parallel by an IDA Credit of $17.0 million (SDR 13.3 million), Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederautbau (KFW), ($8.5 million); the African Development Bank (AfDB), ($25.0 million);
and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), ($1.5 million). The Government of
Ghana's share was $1.3 niillion. At completion, the ASRP cost $53.2 million, which was financed
in line with original expectations. Implemilenitationi time tables, from credit effectiveness to closing,
proved dift'icult to adhere to. Institutional capacity building (apart from 'JiDA where serious
delays were experieniced), policy reformiis and the studies components of the project were
implemilented with the least delays. The support services improvelmient activities, apart tfl-omi
extension, experienced serious delavs and some of the field pilot programs were not completed
[Paras. 2.0(2. 3.01, 3.02, 3.-01].
8.     Key Factors Affecting Proiect Performliance. Adverse factors were: () inadecluate
appreciation of the weakness ol' the Governmalenit bureaucracy by IDA and lack of comprelhenisioni of
project scope and its demnands by GOG; (ii) IDA procuremilenit and disbursemenit procedures took a
longer time to internalize within GOG and Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in particular: and (iii)
a multiple number of imiiplemilentinig agencies that initially did not relate smoothly to the PCU. On
the positive side, particulakrly for the successful implemienitationi of the institutionial developmenit
and policy reforimis, were: (i) the availability of goverinmiienlt personnel of a higih academic level; (ii)
the willingness of' MOFA to draw upon professionals from outside MOFA; (iii) commilitimienit to the
project at the highest levei of MOFA; and (iv) support fromii the Banik's Resident Mission in Accra.
[Paras. 3.04. 3.t)5. 3.18. 3. 191.
9.     Bank Performanice.   Bank performance was satisfactory. However, it over-estimated
Ghanaian implementation capacity and could have reduced the number of project activities. Slow
commnuniication increased the turn-around time for clearance of documents sent to Washing,tonl:
changes in Bank supervision staff tended to underminle continiuitv and sometimes led to different
interpretations of the concept and design of project components. However, by financing a higher
percentage of project costs, extending the closing date ftor the credit, and transferring the
supervision responsibility for the project to the Accra Resident Mission, the Bank helpe] make
substantial imnprovements in implementation. Conversely, by acceding to MOFA and GIDA on
changes in the concept. design and implementation of the pilot irrigation schemes. IDA m1ay have



obtained Borrower ownership, but it resulted in reduced farimier involvemilent and consequenitly poor
implementationi.
10.    Borrower Performance.  In spite of poor managemenit in the initial years the overall
performance of the Borrower could be judged as satisfactory on the basis of the implemientatioii of
reformis and institutional strengthieninig. During the start-up phase, key officials caused long delays
in decisions, as in the case of the GIDA/ADC technical cooperation contract; counterpart funds
were insufficient; the PCU and implementing agencies were unfamiliar with Bank procedures.
However, as staff recruitment and training progressed, implementation improved. The GOG also
took the exceptional step of exempting the project from using the procurement services of the
Ghania Supply Coiimmissioni, to help reduce the turn-around time for procuremient actions.
Nevertheless, the initial delays did not allow comipletioni of field activities in research and
irrigationi during the project period [Para. 3.071.
1 1.    Proiect Outcome. Overall project outcome was satisfactory. with variations between
componlenits. Institutional rehabilitation and reform, capacity-buildinig and logistics support to
MOFA were satisfactory. The studies component was satisractory. Policy reforms, extension.
preparationi of MTADS, NARMP. NEAP anid follow-on projects, were satisfactorily carried out.
In the early stage implemilenitatioii suffered from the inexperience of the PCU and beneficiary
agenicies, which led to unsatisfactory outcome in the case of the pilot and research activities in the
field. At project closure, four of the six irrigation pilot schelimes and two of the six valley bottom
rice pilot projects had not comimileniced. Correspondingly, the Borrower did not derive the full
b'enefits of the techinical assistance under the GIDA/ADC twinniniig contract, which was expected to
assist GIDA in improving its services [Para. 3.201.
12.    Key Findings of Imiplemilenitation experience. (i) a demoralised bureaucracy is slow to
respond to efforts to improve its operations, particularly in an environllment where macroeconomic
reform substantially erodes the buy'ing power of salaries; (ii) Bank's procurement and disbursement
procedures require muchi forward planining and painstak-inig attention to detail and it takes time to
understand firstly, wlhv the procedures are necessarv and, seconidly. actually miake the effort to
comlply with themil; the situation is worsened if there is no direct benefit accruinig to individuals
involved; (iii) havinig gained training and experienlce, staff become more niarketable as an economy
liberalizes and are likely to miove out of the public sector and therefore affect sustainability of
activities supported under the project: and (iv) institutions whichi are being strengtihenied through a
learning-by-doing process need a longer timie to implemiienit activities/projects identified for this
purpose.
13.    Plans for Future Operation. Support services initiated under the project are being assisted
by IDA under successor projects for agricultural research (FY 91 ). agricultural extension (FY 92),
livestock (FY 93), environimilental resOurces maniagemilenit (FY 93), agricultural sector investment
(FY 94); and the Fisheries Sector Capacity Building Project (FY 95). The GOG has undertaken to
provide funds for the pilot activities that wvere not completed within the project period. On policy,
the GOG is coiimmitted to the reforimis carried out under the project. Oin institutionlal rehabilitation,
the GOG will provide adequate budgetary fundinig ftor O&M. particularly for vehicles, office and
field equipmienit. GOG will also build into the budget and work planis the periodic replacement of
equipimienit so as to iiiaiit and i      uprove upoin the level of service efficieticy created by the
project. GOG will also maintain the PCLI and consolidate administrative services tor as miany
IDA-funtded projects as possible under the PCI). [Para. 3.031.



14.    Key Lessons for Future Proiects. Where a key project objective is the strengthening of
institutions, expectations on their capacity to simultaneously undertake execution of investment
activities in the project should be closely examined; where the role of the PCU is crucial in
advising on and facilitating the procedural aspects of implementation, especially procurement and
disbursement, the PCU should be established, staffed and made fully functional, perhaps through a
PPF, before major project activities commence; the benefits to be derived from twinning
arrangements for technology transfer can be drastically reduced if suchl arrangements are not well-
synchronized with project implementation; to improve Borrower understanding of project concept
and implementation demands and ensure overall project ownership, a broad-based project
launching workshop should be organized and all key officials concerned with implementation of the
project should participate; locating supervision responsibility in the resident mission definitely
improves project implementation; where an investment project contains sector or macropolicy
adjustment objectives and measures to attain them, their development and social impacts should be
studied and monitored closely [Para. 4.02]



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
[Credit 1801-GH]
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1. Introduction
1.01   Ghana's Economic Recovery Program, of stabilization and structural adjustment, was
launched in April 1983. Policy advice and mobilization of donor assistance, by IDA played a key
role in defining the GOG's coherent and sustainable policy framework that underpinned economic
recovery. Prior to the ASRP, IDA support was also through a series of reconstruction import
credits; export, energy, power, infrastructure, and social sectors rehabilitation credits; and an
industrial sector adjustment credit, (all spread over 15 operations). The first IDA commitment
specific to the agriculture sector was for a $25 million Oil Palm project in 1984.
2. Project Objectives
Proiect Objectives and Components.
2.01   The ASRP was designed to strengthen institutional capacity and services in the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) and to support agricultural policy reforms.
Specific objectives were:
to strengthen capacity for the formulation and implementation of agricultural policies
and programs, through technical assistance and staff training, provision of computers
and other office, field and laboratory equipment, supply of vehicles, rehabilitation and
refurbishing of offices and staff houses, and provision of funds for some project-related
operating costs. Departments to be covered were: the Policy, Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation Department (PPMED), to enhance capacity for formulating sectoral
policies and programs, monitoring and evaluating their impact; and the Ghana
Irrigation Development Authority (GIDA), to strengthen capacity for development of
sustainable irrigated agriculture, through a program of technical assistance underpinned
by a twinning arrangement; and, the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), to facilitate
project coordination and administration, including procurement. At mid-term the
scope expanded to include: MOFA's Head Office, to strengthen policy and program
coordination and decision-making; Fisheries Department (FD), to improve mobility
and logistics; Plant Protection Department (PPD), to improve logistics and capacity
for pest control, seed-testing and staff training; and, the Manpower and Training
Department (MTD), to manage and provide ministry-wide training and improve the
effectiveness of human resources development services;
to carry out policy reform, focusing on divestiture of fertilizer and veterinary drugs
distribution, tractor hire services and privatization/reform of agricultural state operat-
ing enterprises (SOEs). Departments involved were: Crop Services Department-
Input Development Unit (CIDU), to promote privatization of fertilizer marketing;
Agricultural Mechanization and Transport Department (AMTD), to privatize



2
tractor hire services; Animal Health and Production Department (AHI&PD)[later
renamed Veterinary Services Department (VSD]), to promote privatization of
veterinary drugs;
to undertake studies and develop a Medium-to-long-Term Agricultural Development
Strategy (MTADS), leading to sectoral and sub-sectoral plans, programs and projects.
to improve agricultural support services in research, extension and irrigation. This
was to involve: the Council on Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), to prepare
a National Agricultural Research Master Plan (NARMP) and, through affiliated Crops
Research Institutes (CRIs), conduct research on cotton, rice and rain water harvesting
techniques, in six different ecological zone settings; GIDA, to design, in consultation
with farmers, and pilot-test the establishment of farmer-owned and farmer-operated
small-scale irrigation schemes at six-to eight ecologically different sites; and,
Agricultural Extension Department (AED), to carry out pilot programs In
agricultural extension.
Covenants and Agreements Designed to Achieve Obiectives
2.02   Key covenants were: for effectiveness by December 31, 1987, the signing of an
agreement between GOG and UNDP for TA to PPMED; selection of TA personnel under
UNDP project to strengthen PPMED; appointment of head of CIDU, to be in charge of
fertilizer privatization program; arrangement by MOFA, satisfactory to IDA, for divestiture of
SOEs; establishment of the PCU and of the APCC. Others: PPMED to review with IDA
progress of fertilizer privatization program by December of each year, starting 1988; Borrower
to reduce fertilizer subsidy to 30 percent of retail prices in 1988, 15 percent in 1989 and
eliminate it in 1990; Borrower to privatize fertilizer distribution by: testing private retailing in
Volta and Brong Ahafo regions in 1988; selling only at its main distribution stores in 1989;
selling at Tema, Swedru, Kukurantumi and Tamale depots only in 1990; and, relinquishilg all
import and distribution functions in 1991; Borrower to recover 100 percent of cost of
veterinary drugs as from 1988, submit to IDA and other donors a masterplan for agricultural
research by June 30, 1988, discontinue wheeled tractor services by December 31, 1987.
combine harvester services by February 28, 1989, and land clearing services, by June 10,
1991. Compliance with these covenants, which was on the whole satisfactory, was critical to
the attainment of the institutional and policy objectives of the project.
3. Implementation Experience and Results
Achievement of Proiect Obiectives
3.01   Realization of the project objectives can be summed up as partial. However, since the
project covered many areas, a summary of the components and the extent to which their
objectives were achieved follows. Institutional strengthening, including rehabilitation, and
logistical support to MOFA and its departments and agencies: objectives substantially
achieved; the PCU, to provide administrative services, particularly procurement, accounting
and financial reporting services and promoting cohesion among project entities: objective
substantially met; privatization of tractor hire services, distribution of veterinary drugs, except
vaccines, and import and distribution of fertilizer: objective substantially realized; privatization



3
of agricultural SOEs: this activity was transferred to the Divestiture Implementation
Committee, which has a broader mandate to privatize/divest all SOEs, including those outside
agriculture; pilot-testing extension modalities: objective substantially realized; crops research:
objective partially met for rice but negligible for cotton; pilot-testing the ability of small
farmers to establish with their own resources and sustainably manage irrigation facilities:
results negligible; pilot-testing rain water harvesting practices (low risk rice cultivation trials),
in conjunction with low cost small scale irrigation on some sites (valley bottom rice
cultivation): objective partially achieved; and, Studies, including preparation of MTADS and
NARMP: objectives substantially achieved, but follow-up is needed to translate them fully into
beneficial programs. The benefits from all activities could increase in time, as resources and
supervision inputs are made in the post-implementation phase [para.3.03].
Proiect Costs and Financing
3.02   Project cost at appraisal was $53.3 million that was to be financed by an IDA Credit of
$17.0 million equivalent. Parallel financing was to be provided by Kre,ditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KFW), ($8.5 million equivalent); the African Development Bank/Fund
(ADB/ADF), ($25.0 million); and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), ($1.5
million). The balance, $1.3 million was to have been contributed by the beneficiaries. At
completion, the ASRP cost $53.2 million, which was financed in line with original
expectations. Expenditures by project categories are shown in Table 4B, by project
components in Table 8A, and yearly and cumulative disbursements in Table 4A of the
Statistical Annexes.
Proiect Sustainability
3.03   The sustainability of many of the benefits from completed project activities, based on
the design and performance so far, of follow-on projects, appears well founded. The capacity
improvements of MOFA and its service and technical departments, the organizational and
structural changes and logistical support that have improved coordination are likely to be well
sustained if GOG can generate and allocate to them the required budgetary resources.
Maintaining a reasonable level of periodic investment in vehicle and equipment replacement
and provision of adequate O&M funds are critical. In terms of retaining the benefits of staff
trained under the credit, their environment and working facilities need to remain serviceable
and adequate, renovating or replacing them as needed, and their remuneration must be
attractive. In the final analysis, these are budgetary matters. On privatization of fertilizers and
veterinary drugs, the benefits from the policy changes supported under the credit are debatable,
from the point of view of some key officials, due to what is seen as inability of the private
sector to supply remote areas at affordable prices; doubts about benefits could undermine
policy commitment and its sustainability. The benefits from the refrigeration and field
equipment for veterinary services are protected by the operation of the revolving fund
established under the project (KFW funds), whose operation will continue beyond the
implementation phase. For project activities not completed or tested, it is too early to tell
whether expected benefits will accrue, let alone be sustainable. This includes the pilot
irrigation program and much of the research, especially on cotton. For rice research, the
identified benefits need to be confirmed by more testing and economic analysis to ascertain
their sustainability. Follow-up activities, such as re-organization of the cotton industry, need
to be pursued to realize and sustain project benefits.



4
Factors Generally Affecting Achievement of Objectives
3.04   Scope. The needs of the Ghana agricultural sector and related institutions were
extensive, following more than a decade of neglect. The ASRP sought to build both planning
and implementation capacities whilst rationalizing institutional responsibilities in areas that
appeared critical to medium-to long-term growth in the sector. The multiplicity of components
required coordination and implementation capacity that needed time to be built. Management
of the project's field activities consisting of sub-components such as irrigation, research and
extension at different sites and locations, proved difficult. Most activities did not get off the
ground until up to three years after credit effectiveness. The project's implementation schedule
was too ambitious to be completed in a timely manner, in light of institutional weaknesses
whose rectification was the genesis of this very project. Implementation of activities in
multiple phases over a longer period, but planned at identification, may have achieved more
results for the field sub-components.
3.05   Project Coordination. Administration and Implementation Arrangements. The PCU,
which was to provide essential support services to all project entities, including facilitation of
compliance with Bank policies and procedures, should have been fully functional before the
start of project activities. The Unit was slow in appointing a financial controller and so
lacked, in the start up period, the capacity to discharge adequately its accounting, financial and
procurement functions. Training of the Unit's key personnel in Bank procedures, particularly
procurement and disbursement, took longer to accomplish than was expected. Additionally,
the functions of the PCU did not always seem to be well understood by all parties. Some
project entities felt that the PCU was being obstructionist, and not supportive, while the Unit
tried to maintain central control to ensure that the correct procedures were followed, even
though that might cause delays. The relationship between the PCU and project entities was
smoothed out by giving more authority, including control of their approved budgetary
resources, to the implementing agencies. The PCU was then able to attend more effectively to
the procurement and accounting functions. Most of the implementing agencies were able to
attend more efficiently to their operations.
3.06   Capacity Building in MOFA: The more successful aspects of the ASRP include the
strengthening of capacity for: policy analysis and decision-making processes; formulation of
sector strategy and programs; project coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
Contributing to this result were: facilities' rehabilitation and upgrading; and, provision of
mobility and logistical support to MOFA and associated departments' agencies;
computerization of data storage, retrieval and analysis; and, training. The Agricultural Policy
Coordinating Committee of MOFA, established with the support of the project, is functioning
as intended. The strengthened PPMED has improved its performance substantially and is
functioning well; the staff have received the required training and are putting it to good use in
data collection, including conduct of field surveys, and data analysis and publication of results.
This improved performance is facilitated by the computing and other office equipment and
related facilities and staff support. With PPMED staff attached to all MOFA departments,
coordination and linkage with on-going programs and projects in all sub-sectors has improved.
On the problems side, refurbishing residential bungalows for the senior staff, did not take
place. As these were in the general government housing pool, there was no guarantee that,
after renovation, the units would have been allocated to PPMED staff. Furthermore, partly
because of poor housing and better opportunities in the local private sector and overseas for



5
trained people, staff turnover has been larger than normal and has tended to undermine the
sustainability of project benefits.
3.07   Irrigation Agronomy and Efficiency Trials.  This program of work was only partially
fulfilled largely due to its late start. A contributory factor was the issue, which was not
resolved until two years after credit effectiveness, of whether or not the program should have
been the responsibility of CRI or GIDA. The conduct of research field trials, by its nature so
heavily influenced by the vagaries of the seasons, requires adequate time to ensure that the
results and conclusions are sound and replicable. Nevertheless, the findings so far are showing
that the low risk water harvesting, rain-fed, rice farming practices developed under the project
appear to offer good prospects for raising efficiency of rice produztion in the north of the
country. Farmers are enthusiastic and yields as high as 3.0 to 4.0 tons/ha have been recorded
on trial sites, compared with 1.0 ton/ha. in neighboring farms using the same seed variety with
unimproved water management. The valley-bottom water management technology
development and testing for improved cropping was conducted by CRI in the Kumasi and
outlying areas also with promising results. Farmers have been highly impressed with the
technology and are organizing themselves to adopt it where possible. As it entails the need to
divert perennial streams or use of pumps, especially in the dry season, the cost effectiveness of
this technology needs to be further evaluated.
3.08   Rice Research. This program was linked closely to pilot water use in valley bottoms,
focused on developing and testing appropriate agronomic practices for smallholder application.
It included soil fertility and water use responses, tillage and crop rotation practices, variety
trials and pest management methods. The research was managed by the CRI at Besease, near
Kumasi. The work was replicated on only four of the planned six ecological sites, because it
was started two years behind schedule, following resolution of the issue of responsibility
between GIDA and CRI for the conduct of the work. Early results from this work are
promising and CRI is well on its way to working out applicable agronomic practices for small
farmer rice production in the valley bottoms. There is need to continue the program, to test
the findings under other representative ecological zones and to conduct "on-farm" trials to
generate realistic costs so as to assess the commercial viability of the responsive production
operations. This should be undertaken in the post-implementation phase.
3.09   Cotton Research and Fibre Testing. The program covered a range of agronomic trials
to determine the optimum recommendations for smallholder producers for high yielding
varieties, and best management practices for soil tillage, its fertility and moisture levels
including their conservation, and pests and diseases. It also provided for training of staff of
the cotton buying company; and for refurbishing and equipping the laboratory, including
provision of cotton fibre testing equipment for quality control. On-station trials were
conducted in the vicinity of the station at Nyankpala, Wa in Upper West Region, Manga in the
Upper East region and at Damongo in the Northern Region. The on-station yields ranged from
1.0 ton/ha of seed cotton to 2.0 tons/ha. No "on-farm" trials have been carried out to test the
findings of the trials on a practical scale and this will be necessary in order to be able to make
appropriate judgments on their commercial viability and to formulate sound recommendations
to farmers. Fibre testing laboratory equipment was installed by the supplier in October, 1993,
two years after orders were made. The equipment had not been made operational by the time
of the completion mission's visit. The supplier's follow-up service was needed to rectify the
problem. The equipment would assist the cotton buying companies in analyzing the fibre



6
quality essential for the export markets. Also, the training received by the ginnery staff cannot
be put fully into use until the fibre-testing laboratory becomes operational.
3.10   Cotton Industry and the Small Farmer. The project paid for consulting services to
study the structure and organization of the industry and present a plan and recommendation for
its possible restructuring. A key objective of such restructuring and re-organization was to
bring the benefits of the research financed under the ASRP to the small farmer. The
consultant's report confirms that, without changes, the small-scale cotton farmers will continue
to operate as seasonal contract laborers for ginneries, dependent largely on them for the supply
of inputs, including credit. They are paid the equivalent of only 7.0 percent of the f.o.b price
for their seed cotton, after ginneries have deducted the cost of input supplies and other support
services they render to the farmers. Larger farmers, who source their own inputs
independently of ginneries and pay a ginning fee, receive 91.0 percent of f.o.b price of lint and
seed, which implies that small-scale farmers receive poor prices for comparable grades. At
current market prices, the technologies being tested, while commercially beneficial to larger
farmers and ginneries, offer relatively little benefits to small farmers unless the industry is re-
organized. Re-organization would be needed to increase competition in the supply of inputs to
the small farmers, including credit, and to enable them to sell their output competitively as lint
and seed and realize higher returns. Follow-up by GOG is recommended so that the benefits
of this project activity may be fully realized and sustained.
3.11   Building GIDA's Capacity. This project component, representing a substantial part of
the expenditure out of the IDA credit, started very late. In its first decade of irrigation
development Ghana's strategy concentrated on establishing costly water impounding reservoirs
or pumping schemes for medium to large scale irrigation. It did not pay sufficient attention to
the farming requirements and farmers' interests and concerns. The result was very little down-
stream development of sustainable irrigated lands which could be productively managed by
farmers. Thus the main consideration in the ASRP was a shift to low cost, small scale,
sustainable irrigation systems, with direct involvement of farmers in assuming the risks of
ownership and operation of the facilities. This new approach called for change in the
management and operations of GIDA and commensurate training of the staff in the required
skills. Support to building GIDA's capacity was three-pronged: a twinning arrangement with a
successful similar irrigation authority in a country with comparable resources and other
relevant conditions; pilot testing ol small scale irrigation schemes identified with the
participation of farmers; and, logistical support, mainly in the form of vehicles and office
equipment. GIDA would train the farmers to prepare them to assume most responsibilities for
designing, financing and operating their schemes;
3.12   The Twinning Arrangement. The twinning benefits were modest because of delays in
signing the twining contract and therefore a reduced implementation period. Other factors
which reduced the impact are discussed below. GIDA twinned with the Agricultural
Development Corporation of South Korea (ADC). Communication between GIDA and ADC
staff, while adequate at the senior management level, left much to be desired at the lower
professional and technical levels. There appeared to be a perception among national engineers
that in any event, the designs of the "experts" (meaning the Koreans), who knew less of the
local farming and crop cultivation methods, would carry the day, although they were based
more on a Korean-type agricultural and socio-economic environment: more capital-intensive,
with a focus on rice irrigation in a mono-crop culture. Substantially better results could have
been achieved if there was greater cooperation between the technical staff of the partners.



7
Cultural and communication problems, including unfamiliarity with the English language and
hierarchical barriers to open discussions, made the training and skills transfer difficult to
accomplish. Furthermore, some of GIDA's professional staff felt that the arrangement was
conducted in a client/consultant relationship, rather than as a " partnership", aimed at
transferring specialized skills and experience, where basic technical knowledge is presumed of
Ghanaian engineers. The relationship resulted in a degree of indifference between the two
groups of staff. There was also a perception among national staff that in any event, the designs
of the foreign "experts" would always carry the day. On the positive side, GIDA staff
claimed that the study periods in South Korea and elsewhere (part of the intended training)
were beneficial, particularly the level of technical information received. Also, substantial
benefit was derived from the practical training of farmers by staff of the twinning partner, in
proper irrigation practice on some of the existing schemes. As a result, this part of the
program was extended to reach more farmers.
3.13   The Small-scale Pilot Irrigation and Farmer Training Schemes. The conduct of these
pilots was associated with the twinning program, and had to await the selection and recruitment
of the twinning partners. Decisions on this by GOG proved very difficult and the process
became protracted. The result was several years delay in starting the pilot schemes. The
performance of GIDA in undertaking these pilot schemes was also poor. They neglected to
observe in the exercise the basic concepts underpinning the new policies of GOG to foster
irrigation development. The schemes' and GIDA's major deficiencies were: inadequate
involvement of the cooperating farmer groups in the identification, planning and designing of
schemes; neglect of simple, inexpensive options, which were affordable and manageable by the
farmers; use of contractors in implementation rather than farmers; and, failure to provide
technical guidance during the construction and early stages of operation and maintenance.
While six pilot sites were selected, only two reached the implementation stage (Kikam and
Sata). The designs were inappropriate in parts, and unnecessarily complicated. GIDA,
contrary to the pilot requirements, chose to implement by contract under local competitive
bidding. The selection process was subject to delays in decisions. The contract prices were
much higher than expected and threatened the financial sustainability of project activity.
Neither contractor showed the required competence for such work and both experienced
serious problems. In one case, they relied on heavy earth moving equipment for the canal
networks where the ground conditions were too wet for such equipment The contractor on the
second scheme was unable to complete the works and GIDA staff were left with the task of
completing them. By this stage the cost overruns had become prohibitive and cost cutting
measures adopted had to focus on reduction in design standards while maintaining original
design area. This led to discontent among farmers who preferred to have concrete-lined,
instead of clay-lined, main canals, which required more maintenance. At project closure, the
farmers had not gained enough experience in operating the scheme and the technical feasibility
of water flow through the canals had not been tested. More time is needed to demonstrate the
technical viability of the schemes and the competence of the farmers in operating them and
achieving economic results. This project activity would not have suffered so much if: (a)
GIDA realized that manual methods were more appropriate and efficient for small scale
systems; (b) farmers were involved in their projects from the conceptual stage and undertook
as much of the implementation works as possible; and (c) IDA had taken a firmer stand against
the changes by GIDA in the agreed implementation guidelines. GIDA disagrees with some of
the above findings and these are reflected in its comments in Appendix C.



8
3.14   Pilot Extension System. This was one of the most successful activities of the project.
Under the pilot extension activity, eight districts in four regions, reflecting different crop
combinations or the dominance of a single crop (as in the case of cocoa), were identified to try
out different modalities for reaching the farmer with improved technical packages. MOFA
Extension Department and COCOBOD, in the case of cocoa, were the implementing agencies.
The mobility of extension staff was facilitated by the provision of motor bikes and pedal
bicycles. The point of departure for testing extension modalities was the well-known Training
and Visit system but during implementation, modifications were made in training frequency,
from a bi-weekly frequency to a monthly cycle. The research/extension/farmer linkage was
strengthened. A more efficient Unified Extension mechanism was established, as the demand
on the farmers' time by different subject matter extension staffs was curtailed. The system
worked well and it was replicated in four other districts during implementation. The objectives
of this activity were substantially realized, leading to the nation-wide National Agricultural
Extension Project. The dichotomy of an extension system run by COCOBOD, in addition to
MOFA's national system, still exists. This duplication needs to be sorted out if there is to be a
really unified system.
3.15   Privatization of Fertilizer Trade. Tractor Services and Veterinary Drugs. The
privatization of input supply services (fertilizer, tractor hire services and some veterinary
drugs) has essentially been successfully accomplished. Privatization of tractor hire services
was completed. Distribution of veterinary drugs, except vaccines, has been privatized. The
revolving fund, which supports the vaccine program, is not replenished at levels that will
ensure program sustainability because cedi vaccine charges have not been raised in proportion
to cedi devaluation in the past. Apart from a small implicit subsidy, commercialization of
fertilizer has been carried out. Private dealers import and distribute fertilizers of the types
specified by MOFA and only with its permission. Thus the dealers appear to act as wholesale
and retail agents of MOFA, not taking the full business risks of trading in the products. And
occasionally, MOFA "assists" dealers in the form of transport and sometimes warehouse rental
(MOFA still owns the warehouses but leases them to the dealers/agents). There is also an
element of guaranteed fertilizer purchase by MOFA from the agents (MOFA's purchases
various quantities of fertilizers for what it calls "a strategic buffer stock"), suggesting that
some indirect subsidies may still exist on fertilizer trade. MOFA is aware of this, but
explained that: (a) the required capital base and level of risk-taking in private fertilizer trade
was beyond the means of Ghanaian businessmen; (b) fertilizer was a seasonal product with a
short shelf-life, a life made shorter in Ghana by inadequate private storage facilities; and (c)
scarce working capital could be tied-up for up to a year, at high commercial interest rates, if
deliveries were not made on time for a crop season, leading to dealer bankruptcies that could
disrupt agriculture. MOFA regretted that the private sector had not been sufficiently
responsive in certain markets for fertilizer and veterinary drugs, particularly the remote rural
areas, with possible adverse impact on some farmers. Thus while much progress has been
made towards realization of the privatization objectives, it might have helped to identify
farmers who were adversely affected by this policy and to design and implement targeted
mitigating programs so as to enhance policy commitment and its sustainability.
3.16   Privatization of Agricultural SOEs. This activity was discontinued under the project.
Shortly after ASRP start-up, the GOG initiated a program of divestiture of State-owned
Enterprises (SOEs), and this led to MOFA transferring the responsibility for privatization of
agricultural SOEs (18 enterprises had been identified in the SAR) to the new agency. the
Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC), established for the purpose. Thus ASRP took



9
no further part in the privatization exercise and its progress is therefore not assessed in this
report.
3.17   Studies Financed Under the Project. This activity was carried out satisfactorily. The
objective of developing a strategy for the development of the agricultural sector through a
series of studies leading to sectoral and sub-sectoral plans and specific projects appear to have
been substantially realized. The ASRP is generally described as "the seed that produced all
agriculture projects", following the resumption of IDA lending to Ghana. The ASRP pilot
programs, studies, sectoral and sub-sectoral plans and preparatory activities led to the Medium
Term Agricultural Development Strategy and the National Agricultural Research Master plan,
in which context the following IDA-assisted projects have been designed and are at different
stages of implementation: (a) the National Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 2247 GH); (b)
the National Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 2346 GH); (c) the National Livestock Project
(Cr. 2441 GH); (d) the Agricultural Diversification Project (Cr. 2180 GH); (e) the Agricultural
Sector Investment Project (Cr. 1802 GH); (f) the Environmental Resources Management
Project (Cr. 2426 GH). and (g) the Fisheries Sector Capacity Building Project approved on
May 2, 1995. Several development agencies and co-financiers have also based their sectoral
assistance strategy and plans on the studies, pilot projects and programs tested and developed
under the ASRP. On the other hand, the water resources and food security studies and action
plans were not completed. Careful follow-up will be needed to translate all studies into
beneficial programs, some of which, like in the restructuring plan for the cotton industry, are
urgently needed.
3.18   Bank Performance. Bank performance was, on the whole, responsive and satisfactory.
However, staff were overly optimistic about the pace at which the implementing capacity could
be built up. Consideration could have been given to a two-phased approach, planned in
advance of implementation: rehabilitation/institutional strengthening objectives and their
associated activities could have been pursued in phase one, and field/investment activities in
phase two, after capacity-enhancing benefits of the project had accrued to the implementing
entities. Also, slow communications increased the turn-around for clearance of procurement
and other documents sent to Washington; several changes in Bank supervision staff, which
tended to undermine continuity at critical times and led to differing opinions on the basic
concept and design of the project components. Responding to the need to shorten the
turn-around time for procurement and other necessary consultations between implementing
agencies and IDA, the task-management of the ASRP was transferred to the Accra Resident
Mission. IDA later also agreed to re-design of the project at mid-term, re-allocation of funds
between categories, finance a higher percentage of project costs and extend the closing date for
the credit. This, and subsequent actions taken at mid-term, led to substantial improvements in
the implementation. By conceding to MOFA and GIDA and agreeing to contractor-
implemented schemes, the Bank may have obtained Borrower ownership, but this resulted in
reduced farmer involvement and poor implementation. The Bank could have taken a firmer
stand with GIDA over the design and implementation of the pilot irrigation schemes,
considering that a shift towards farmer-owned and farmer-operated small-scale irrigation
projects was a key objective for the irrigation sub-sector.
3.19   Borrower Performance. In the initial years of the project, poor management, lack of
experience by the PCU and other implementing agencies led to deficient performance.
However, as the PCU and other beneficiary agencies became fully staffed and their staff better
trained, especially in Bank procurement, disbursement and financial reporting procedures, the



10
Borrower's performance improved. When IDA delegated procurement-related decisions to the
Accra Resident Mission, the GOG also took the complementary step of exempting the project
from using the procurement services of the Ghana Supply Commission, and further reduced the
turn-around time. Some of the start-up delays were due to decisions outside of MOFA, e.g.,
the long delay in signing the technical co-operation contract with ADC. This was a major
factor in the late start-up and non completion of the field irrigation component. An additional
factor that partly slowed the pace of implementation was inadequate provision for counterpart
funds. Aside from teething problems early in the implementation cycle, the Borrower's overall
performance could be judged as satisfactory.
3.20   Assessment of Outcome. The outcome of the project is satisfactory on the whole.
Rehabilitation, institutional reform, capacity-building and logistics support to MOFA and to
most of its departments and support agencies were satisfactory. The studies cemponent was
implemented satisfactorily. Policy reforms, extension, preparation of an MTADS, ARM, and
follow-on projects, largely underpinned by studies financed under the project were
satisfactorily carried out. Nevertheless, some outcomes were unsatisfactory. The project start-
up and early stages of implementation suffered from the inexperience of the PCU, which
consequently constrained the implementing agencies. The management bottlenecks led to
delays in full implementation of the pilot and research components in the field. The
performance of the project's field activities was generally deficient. The need to complete as
many of these field activities as possible was a major factor in the extension of the credit's
closing date by one year to June 1994 and at project closure, some of the irrigation pilot
schemes and the cotton research at Nyankpala, including the fibre testing facilities, were still
incomplete. Furthermore, the impact of some of the technical assistance may be less than
expected; for example, the T.A for the restructuring of the cotton industry has not yet shown
the expected full benefits and the GIDA/ADC twinning contract did not convey all the expected
benefits to GIDA.
4. Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
Project's Future Operation
4.01   Support services initiated under the project are being assisted by IDA under successor
projects for agricultural research (FY 91), agricultural extension (FY 92), livestock (FY 93),
environmental resources management (FY 93), agricultural sector investment (FY 94); and the
Fisheries Sector Capacity Building Project (FY 95). The GOG has undertaken to provide
funds for the pilot activities that were not completed within the project period. On policy, the
GOG is committed to the reforms carried out under the project. On institutional rehabilitation,
the GOG will provide adequate budgetary funding for O&M, particularly for vehicles, office
and field equipment. GOG will also build into the budget and work plans the periodic
replacement of equipment so as to maintain and improve upon the level of service efficiency
created by the project. GOG will also maintain the PCU and consolidate administrative
services for as many IDA-funded projects as possible under the PCU. The PCU is already
providing procurement and accounting services to the IDA-assisted Livestock Project (Cr.
2441-GH) and will perform similar functions for the Fisheries Sector Capacity Building Project
(FY 95) [Details are in Appendix B].



11
Key Lessons for Future Operations
4.02   Lessons learned are: where a key project objective is the strengthening of institutions,
expectations on their capacity to simultaneously undertake execution of investment activities in
the project should be closely examined with a view to simplification of project scope, possibly
through phasing or smaller multiple projects; where the role of the PCU is crucial in advising
on and facilitating the procedural aspects of implementation, especially procurement and
disbursement, the PCUs should be established, staffed and made fillly functional, perhaps
through a PPF, before major project activities commence; the benefits to be derived from
twinning arrangements for technology transfer can be drastically reduced if such arrangements
are not well-synchronized with project implementation; Bank's procurement and disbursement
procedures require much forward planning and painstaking attention to detail and it takes time
for officials to understand firstly, why the procedures are necessary and, secondly, to actually
make the effort to comply with them; to improve Borrower unders.anding of project concept
and implementation demands and ensure overall project ownership, a broad-based project
launching workshop should be organized and all key officials concerned with implementation
of the project should participate; locating supervision responsibility in the resident mission
definitely improves project implementation; where an investment project contains sector or
macropolicy objectives and measures to attain them, their development and social impacts
should be monitored closely and, if necessary, complementary targeted programs should be
designed and implemented to minimize adverse social impacts.



12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                      it               E                                   Li
Sector Policies                                      EL 0                                Li
Financial Objectives                                 E                Cli               [
Institutional Development                   El                        [                  Li
Physical Objectives                 [                                 L                  Li
Poverty Reduction                   El               L                Li
Gender Issues                       Ei                                I El
Other Social Objectives             El                5 
Environmental Objectives             5               5                 5
Public Sector Management            [ VI
Private Sector Development          EL                                L                  Li
Other (specify)                     EL               L                L                  Li
B. Proiect Sustainability               Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(v')                      (9')                      (9')



13
Highlv
C. Bank Performance                      satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                      (1)                        (vi)
Identification                       a                                                   El
Preparation Assistance              E                         el 
Appraisal                                                     E
Supervision                         E                         El                         a
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                        satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(~/)            (V)             (V)
Preparation                                    Q              E
Implementation                                E               I                Cl
Covenant Compliance                            5              IA               a
Operation (if applicable)                      5               5               5
Highly                                             Highlv
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
0/             (I)               0/                 0/



14
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Loan/Credit Title             Purpose                       Year of Approval   Status
Preceding Operations
1. Second Oil Palm                   Development                         1984         Completed
CR1498-GH, US$25.0 m              of oil palm estate
Following Operations
1. Cocoa Rehabilitation              Support Policy                     1988          On-going
CR. 1854-GH, US$40.0 m            Reforms and increase cocoa
production
2. Forest Resources                  Conservation and                    1989         On-going
Management CR 1976-GH             Management of forestry
US$39.4 million                   resources
3. Rural Finance Project             To provide investment credit        1989         On-going
CR 2040-GH, US$20.0 m             to farmers
4. Agric. Diversification            Development of tree and             1991         On-going
CR 2180-GH, US$16.5 m             horticultural crops
5. National Agric. Research          Rationalization of Agric.           1991         On-going
CR. 2247-GH, US$22.0 m            research resources
6. Agric. Sector Adjustment          Reform of agricultural pricing      1992         On-going
CR. 2345-GH, US$80.0 m            and marketing; improvement
Agric. Sector Adjustment          of resource allocation and to       1994         On-going
CR. 2345-1-GH, US$5.74 m          foster private initiative
7. National Agric. Extension         Provision of efficient              1992         On-going
CR. 2346-GH, US$30.4 m            extension services
8. Environmental Resources           To support National                 1992         On-going
Management Project                Resource and Environmental
CR. 2426-GH, US$18.1 m            Planning and Management
9. National Livestock                Increase livestock production       1993         On-going
CR. 2441-GH, US$22.5 m            and services
10. Agric. Sector Investment         Provision of low-level              1993         On-going
CR. 2555-GH, US$21.5 m           investment for rural
infrastructure



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                      Date planned        Date actual
Preappraisal                                 10/30/86           10/30/86
Appraisal                                    11/22/86           11/25/86
Negotiations                                04/13/87            04/13/87
Board presentation                          OS/21/87            06/30/87
Signing                                     06/22/87            06/22/87
Effectiveness                               07/30/86            12/18/87
Midterm review                              06/20/91            07/05/91
Project completion                           12/31/92           06/30/94
Loan closing                                06/30/93            06/30/94



16
Table 4A: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
US $ Million
FY 88   FY 89   FY 90   FY 91   FY 92   FY 93   FY 94
Appraisal Estimate                 1.5       2.6    8.3       12.9    16.1    17.0       17.0
Actual                             1.1       2.5    6.0        9.8    14.0    15.9       16.8
Actual as % of Estimate           73.3      96.2   72.3       76.0    87.0    93.5       98.8
Date of Final Disbursement: September 8, 1994.



17
Table 4B: Disbursement by Categories
Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimates
Cat.         Description
Amount        Percentage       Amount         Percentage
(US $M)                  _     (US $M)
1.    Civil Works                           100% of Foreign,                100% of Foreign,
A.    Irrigation                  1.1      85% of Local          0.4       85% to 14/8/92,
B.    Other Items                 0.1      Expenditures          0.2       95% to 30/6/94 of
Local Expenditure
2.     Vehicles, Plant,                     100% of Foreign,                 100% of Foreign
Equipment & Spare                    and 90% of Local                & 90% of Local
Parts                                Expenditures                    Expenditures
A.    Irrigation                  0.6                            0.1
B.    Other Items                 2.5                            6.5
3.     Consultants' Services                100%                            100%
Studies & Training
A.   Irrigation                   3.0                            3.9
B.    Other Items                 4.8                            4.0
4.     Operating Costs                      80%                             80% to 14/8/92,
(Excluding Local                                                     90% to 30/6/94 of
Salaries)                                                            Local Opt. Cost
A.    Irrigation                  0.5                            0.1
B.    Others                      2.5                             1.6
5.     Refunding of Project        0.5                             0.5
Preparation Advance
6.     Unallocated                  1.4
TOTAL:                  17.0                            16.8



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Page 1 of 2
Project Component                     Expected as at Completion           Actual
A. STRENGTHENING OF PPMED
Fully operational
a. Strengthening of PPMED           Reorganized and strengthened      PPMED.
PPMED.
Refurbishing
b. Refurbishing PPMED offices       Refurbished offices.              completed
c. Housing for PPMED staff          Full completion.                  Discontinued under the
project as no guarantees
could be given that
only PPMED staff
would occupy houses.
B. STUDIES
a. Review of agricultural credit    Strategy for improved credit      Completed
system.
b. Food security study              Food security policy in place.    Not completed.
c. Action program of food security  Food security and programs in     Not completed.
place.
C. RESEARCH
a. Review of agricultural research  Research program/plan in place.   Completed
b. Prepare master plan for research  Research program/plan in place.  Completed
c. Conduct research on cotton,      Recommendation on useful          Partially completed.
rice, rrigation.                technologies.
D. EXTENSION
a. Review agricultural extension    Process of reform in place/unified  Partially carried out.
nation-wide.                     extension in place.
Completed
b. Pilot T & V Extension program    Experience to be used for
expanding the program
nationwide.



19
Page 2 of 2
Proiect Component                      Expected as at Completion          Actual
E. IRRIGATION
a. Preparation of National Water    Master plan in place.              Not completed.
Master Plan
b. Re-organization of GIDA          Smaller and efficient GIDA.        Completed
c. Pilot small-scale irrigation     Six schemes (300 ha) fully         Four out of six
completed.                        schemes completed.
d. Training (overseas) of staff.    Overseas and on-the-job training   Essentially carried
for GIDA staff.                   out.
F. ANIMAL HEALTH
a. Construction of cold storages    Improved logistical support.       Completed
b. Establishment of a revolving     Financially sound scheme.          Completed
fund for veterinary services.
G. PRIVATIZATION OF
FERTILIZER MARKETING
a. Phased program of                Completely privatized marketing.   Completed
privatization.
No subsidy.                       Completed
b. Phased elimination of subsidies.
H. REFORM OF SOEs                      Phased program of reform of        Activity
Ghana oil Palm Dev. Co., Ghana    discontinued
Seed Co., Ghana Cotton Co.,       under this project.
FASCOMs; Irrigation Co. (UR);
Grains Dev. Board (UR); Ejura
Farms, Crown Rice Mill; and
Pomadze Poultry.
1. PRIVATIZATION OF                    Termination of government          Completed
TRACTOR  SERVICES                    services; elimination of subsidies.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
No indicators for project operations were established for the project period. For future
operations, please refer to Borrower's Evaluation Appendix B (Attachment as Appendix 6B).



20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                   Purpose as defined at             Status            Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
1. Agric. Extension       Integration of services, budgetary                    National Agricultural
and training requirements and        Completed       Extension Project is one
linkages with adaptive research.                     outcome.
2. Agric. Research Review   Review of agricultural research                      National Agricultural
services and preparation of master-  Completed       Research Project is one
plan, and research on cotton and                     outcome.
rice.
3. Valley Bottom Rice                                           Completed
Research, and Water     To improve rice yields.              on four out      Rice yields have improved.
Resources Harvesting                                         of six sites.
and Management.
4. Medium Term Agric.    Agenda for Sustained Growth                             Follow-on IDA and other
Development Strategy    and Development.                     Completed       donors' assistance is within
(MTADS).                                                                     framework of MTADS.
5. Preparation of          Designing of Livestock Services      Completed        National Livestock Services
Livestock               Project.                                             Project was born out of the
Development Strategy.                                                        study.
6. Pilot Study on Farmer    To test the feasibility of sustainable  Not completed,
designed and operated    small scale irrigation schemes     attempted on      None y et.
small-scale irrigation.    operated and owned by small      2 of 6 sites.
farmers.
7. National Water          To define a strategy for the medium-
Resources Utilization    to-long term development          Not completed     None
Study/Plan.             and use of water resources.
8. Agricultural Credit     To identify steps to improve credit  Completed        Rural Finance Project
Review                 to the sector.                                        was born out of this
study.
9. Food Security Study     To identify actions needed to        Not completed    None
improve food security.
10. Cotton Research        To develop strains that are high
yielding using minimum purchased    Not completed    None yet.
inputs.
11. Study of Cotton        To identify a strategy and actions for
Industry               possible reorganization of industry.    Completed     None



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimates
(US $M)                       (US $M)
Item
No.                                                     _
Local   Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign      Total
Cost     Cost                 Cost       Cost
1.   PPMED                   0.2        2.0        2.2       0.2        1.0       1.2
2.   MOFA Head Office         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.2        0.8        1.0
3.   Agric. Res.              0.4       2.6        3.0       0.6        2.0        2.6
4.   Fisheries                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.1        1.3        1.4
5.   Agric. Extn.             0.7       1.5        2.2       0.5        1.3        1.8
6.   Irrigation               1.0       4.2        5.2        1.7       4.7        6.4
Services
7.   Veterinary               0.4        1.2       1.6       0.5        2.5        2.5
Services
8.   Plant Prot.              0.0       0.0        0.8       0.1        0.4        0.5
9.   CIDU                     0.1       0.3        0.4       0.1        0.6        0.7
10.  VORADEP                  0.0        0.0       0.8        0.2       0.6        0.8
1I.  P.C.U.                   0.5        0.7       1.2        0.3       0.5        0.8
12.  Ref. Project             0.1        0.4       0.5          -      0.05       0.05
Prep . Advance
13.  Contingencies            0.6        1.3       1.9          -         -
14.  Vaccines &                 -        8.5       8.5          -       8.5        8.5
Drugs & KFW
15.   Fertilizers &             -       25.0      25.0          -      25.0       25.0
Chemicals AfDB
TOTAL: I/              4.2       49.1      53.3        4.5      48.7       53.2
I/Totals may not add up due to rounding



22
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
(US $M)                        (US $M)
Source
Local    Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total
Cost      Cost                 Cost      Cost
IDA                              2.9         14.1      17.0     3.1          13.7      16.8
Government of Ghana               1.3                   1.3      1.4            -       1.4
UNDP                              -           1.5       1.5      -            1.5       1.5
KFW (Parallel)                                8.5       8.5                   8.5       8.5
AfDB (Parallel)                   -          25.0      25.0      -          25.0       25.0
TOTAL:             4.2        49.1      53.3      4.5         48.7      53.2



23
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Paze 1 of 3
Credit
Agreement
Reference                              Covenants                             Status
6.01 (a)       I   Signing of agreement between Government and               Done
UNDP on TA for PPMED, as condition of
effectiveness.
6.01 (b)       2    Selection of TA personnel under UNDP Project to          Done
strengthen PPMED, as condition of effectiveness.
6.01 (c)       3    Appointment of Head of CIDU (also in charge of           Done
fertilizer privatization program), as condition of
effectiveness.
6.01 (d)       4    Arrangement by MOA, satisfactory to IDA, for     Decision taken to
divestiture of SOE's (including establishment of a unit  transfer this activity
to coordinate the divestiture, and appointment of staff  to Government's
to the unit), as condition of effectiveness.     overall divestiture
program under SAC.
6.01 (e)       5    Establishment of the PCU, as condition of                Done
effectiveness; and maintain it thereafter.
6.01 (f)       6    Borrower to deposit in the Project Account 50 million    Done
credit initially, as condition of effectiveness.
3.01 (d)       7    Borrower to establish and maintain an Agricultural       Done
Policy Coordination Committee (APCC) by December
31, 1987.
Sch. 5         8    The APC to meet at least once a year.                    Done
Sch. 5         9    Borrower to continue to maintain PPMED, the
Agricultural Research and Development Advisory           Done
Committee, the Crop Inputs Development Units, the
Crops Production Department.
Sch. 5         10   PPMED to review with IDA progress of fertilizer
privatization program by December I of each year         Done
starting 1988.
Sch. 5         11  MOA to review with IDA each year its annual public        Done
expenditure budget.
Sch. 5         12   PCU to submit to IDA quarterly progress reports on
the project by February 15, May 15, August 15, and       Done
November 15.



24
Page2of3
Reference                              Covenants                              Status
Sch. 5         13   Borrower to reduce fertilizer subsidies to 30% of
retail prices for 1988, 15% of 1989, and eliminate the    Done
subsidies starting 1990.
Sch. 5         14   MOA to review with IDA, each year, prices of               Done
tobacco, cotton and palm oil.
Sch. 5         15   PCU to submit to IDA by September 30 of each year          Done
annual work program and budget for the project.
Sch. 5         16   Borrower to privatize MOA's fertilizer operations
according to following schedules:
a) test private retailing in Volta and Brong          Done
Ahafo regions in 1988;
b) sell fertilizer only at its main distribution      Done
stores in 1989;
c) sell fertilizer at its depots only in Tema,         Done
Swedru, Kukurantumi and Tamale in 1990.
d) relinquish all its import and distribution          Done
programs in 1991.
Sch. 5         17   Borrower to recover 100% of cost of veterinary drugs       Done
as from 1988.
Sch. 5         18   Borrower to submit to IDA and other donors a master        Done
plan for agricultural research by June 30, 1988.
Sch. 5         19   Borrower to complete study of agriculture extension        Done
by December 31, 1990.
Sch. 5         20   MOA to discontinue its tractor services according to
following schedule:
a) wheel tractor services by December 31, 1987;   Done
b) combine harvester services by February 28,    Done
1989;
c) land clearing services by June 10, 1991.    Done



25
Page 3 of 3
Reference                              Covenants                      Status
Sch. 5         21   GIDA to prepare a national water master plan and   Decision taken by
submit this to IDA by December 31, 1990.          MOFA and IDA to
carrv this out later in
the framework of
Government's
MTADP
Sch. 5         22   Borrower to submit to IDA audit reports, including  Complied, save for
audit reports on project and special accounts, SOEs by  some delays as in the
June 30, of each calendar year.                   case of the 1989
report.
Sch. 5         23   Borrower to carry out Agricultural Extension Study  Unification of
extension services of
MOFA and Cocobod,
which activity was to
have been based on
this study, was not
effected.
Sch. 5         24   MOA to carry out Food Security Study by December   Study not completed.
31, 1989.                                         First draft of the
consultant report
submitted on June 15,
1991 but not found
acceptable.
Sch. 5         25   MOA to submit to IDA action program on food        Dependent on
security by June 30, 1990.                        outcome of study on
food security.
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of compliance with any applicable Bank Operational
Manual Statements.



- 26 -
Table 11. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                 Planned                Revised                 Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks       USS2      Weks         USS        weesS
Through appraisal               na.         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.      181.3         n.a.
Appraisal-Board                 n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       37.7         n.a
Board-Effectiveness             n.a.        n.a.       na.        n.a.       00.5         n.a
Supervision                  123.5          n.a.    235.3         n.a       173.8         n.a.
Completion                    20.0        23.8       20.0        23.8        24.4        23.8
TOTAL                           n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a       417.7         n.a.
Table 12. Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of           Month/       Number   Days    Specialized Staff     efirmance     ti          Types of
Project Cycle         Year          of       in           Skills       Implementa-    Develop-    Problems
Persons   Field     Represented      tion Status      ment
Persons   Field  Represented   Objectives
Through Appraisal       04/85-12/86.     24       151   REIAG/EX/FA/
*   AEIMFAID
Appraisal through       01/87-05/87      9        21    RE/FA/LEG/                       _
Board Approval                                          EXIAG/AE
Board Approval through   06187-12187     2         0    RE/AE                    -             -
Effectiveness
Supervision            03188g8193       22       145   RE/AG/EX/FA/            1-2            1        Implem.
AE                                             Delays
Completion              05/94-12/94      1        23    EC                      2             2
I
Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.
2
Available for FY 94 only.
3
Available for FY 94 only.
4
Key to specialized staff skills: RE - Rural Engineer, AG - Agriculturalist; EX - Extension Specialist;
FA - Financial Analyst; AE - Agricultural Economist; EC - Economist; Me -Monitoring and
Evaluation; ID - Institutional Development; LEG - Lawyer



APPENDIX A
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT [ASRP]
[CREDIT NO 1801-GH]
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
AIDE-NMEMOIRE
1.    Introduction. A mission consisting of Messrs George Alibaruho (World Bank),
Allassan Salifu (Ghana Government [GOG], Ministry of Food and Agriculture [MOFA],
ASRP, Project Coordinating Unit [PCU], Mark Owusuansah and John Poku (Consultants)
undertook final implementation supervision of the ASRP project in conjunction with
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), from May 23, 1994 to June 16,
1994. This Aide-memoire is a record of: the main findings of the mission; understandings
reached with ihe Government and implementing agencies on the main achievements of the
project; steps to address some important problems identified in the field; the agreed
framework and content of the ICR and its processing, including the key elements of the
Government's post-implementation project operational plan, its contribution to the ICR and
the consultation process with other financiers of the project. Prior to the mission's departure
from Washington, parallel financiers of the project were informed by IDA of the forthcoming
ICR mission. KFW contributed to the mission's field investigation program. No response
was obtained from AfDB. Contact with UNDP was established in the field.
2.    Staff and Officials' Responsibility. The draft Aide-memoire was prepared by George
Alibaruho, Agricultural Operations Division of the Africa region, assisted by other members
of the mission referred to in paragraph 1. It was provided .o the heads of all implementing
agencies, the Hon. Minister of Food and Agriculture and concerned officials of the Ministry
of Finance, Development and Economic Planning for their comment. The Aide-memoire was
finalized, taking into account comments by Ghanian officials and other World Bank staff.
the draft ICR will, in addition, be reviewed by the Project Advisor, Africa Department IV,
World Bank. The officials of KFW, AfDB and UNDP will be given an opportunity to
comment.
3.    Work Plan and Data Sources. Preparation of this Aide Memoire was begun in
Washington as a step in drafting the terms of reference for the final supervision and
implementation completion mission. The terms of reference for each member of the mission
were discussed and agreed between the staffs of IDA and GOG and the two consultants to the
mission. They are attached in the annexes. The Aide Memoire is based on: material in the
project file; field visits to project sites; interviews of beneficiary individuals and groups;
responses to a structured questionnaire administered to all implementing agencies; one-on-one
and group discussions with officials of implementing agencies and selected major civil works
contractors and the project's auditors. Discussions were also held with the staff of UNDP and
FAO, Accra field offices, who are responsible for project affairs. At FAO, the staff who
were responsible for executing the UNDP-financed technical assistance were still in post. The
mission's program of field visits and schedule of interviews and meetings are attached in the
annexes. The consultants are expected to complete their work and submit their draft report to
GOG with a copy to IDA on July 15, 1994. The GOG's contribution to the ICR is expected
to be sent to IDA a month later. The completed draft ICR, including GOG contribution, will
be sent by IDA to GOG, AfDB, KFW and UNDP for comment and a final date for reply will
be indicated then.



-2-
4.     Project Cost and Financing Plan. The ASRP was costed at $53.3 million at appraisal,
of which $17.0 (SDR 13.3 million) was to be provided by IDA as Credit 1801-GH, which
was approved by the Board on April 29, 1987. Parallel financing was to be provided by
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW), ($8.5 million equivalent); the African Development
Bank/Fund (ADB/ADF), ($25.0 million); and the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP), ($1.5 million). The GOG was to contribute $1.3 million equivalent as part local
cost financing. The project was re-designed at mid-term, as the data in paragraphs 6 and 7
and appendix 1 tables show, to support additional departments of MOFA (Fisheries; Plant
Protection; VORADEP; and MOFA head office) and to reallocate funds between expenditure
categories).
5.     Financing and Disbursement Status. The IDA credit became effective on December
18, 1987 and closed on June 30, 1994, instead of the scheduled date of June 30, 1993. The
credit will be fully disbursed by the closing date (appendix 1, p.2 and p.3). The KFW credit
closed early in 1994 and was fully disbursed. The ADBIADF loan and credit as well as the
UNDP grant closed in 1993 and 1991 respectively, and were fully disbursed. At completion
of implementation and final disbursement of external loans and credits, the ASRP cost $53.2
million, just about what was estimated at appraisal.
6.     Actual Proiect Costs and their Allocation between Components. At the closing date,
actual costs are estimated at $53.2 million equivalent (appendix 1, p.1). The shares of each
component, compared to appraisal estimates in the SAR/Credit Agreement (in parentheses),
are: Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department [PPMED], $1.2m ($2.2m);
MOFA Head Office, $1.0m ($0.0m.); Veterinary Services Department [VSD], $2.5m ($1.6
million); Fisheries Department [FD], $1.4m ($0.0m); Plant Protection Department [PPD],
$0.5m ($0.Om ); Agricultural Extension [AED], $1.8m ($2.2m); CSIR-Agricultural Research,
$2.6m ($3.0m); Ghana Irrigation Development Authority [GIDAJ-Pilot Irrigation Schemes,
$6.4 m ($5.2m); Volta Region Agricultural Development Project [VORADEP] -On-farm
adaptive trials, $0.8m ($0.0m); Crops Services Department [CIDU], $ 0.7m ($0.4m); Project
Coordination Unit [PCU], $0.8m ($1.2m); refund of Project Preparation Advance [PPF],
$0.05m ($0.5m); and, Contingencies, $0.Om ($1.9m). The costs of animal vaccines and
drugs, financed by KFW, and of fertilizer and chemicals, financed by ADB/ADF were $8.5m
and $25.0m, respectively, within the loan limits.
7.     Expenditure Categories. The project financed: technical services, including training,
$7.9m compared to $7.7m in the Development Credit Agreement [DCA]; equipment, mainly
vehicles, motor bikes, computers and other office and field equipment, laboratory, diagnostic,
measurement, training and cold storage equipment, $6.6m, compared to $3. lm in the DCA,
the increase being largely on account of vehicles, 115 vehicles at a cost of $1.42m;
incremental operating costs, excluding local salaries but including consumable items such as
office supplies and fuel, $1.69m, against $3.Om in the DCA; works, including physical
rehabilitation of office, staff residential facilities, laboratories, irrigation canals and land
preparation, $0.6m, compared to $1.3m in the DCA. Procurement of technical services and
equipment, largely vehicles, accounted for over 80 percent of the total IDA credit.
Procurement of works was less than half of what was planned; and for incremental O&M,
only 56 percent of planned expenditure took place (Appendix l, p.4).



-3-
8.     Overall Project Objectives. The ASRP was one in a set of operations in support of
institutional reformns in the Government's economic recovery program, whose anchor was a
series of Structural Adjustment IDA credits. The basic objective of the ASRP was to initiate
a self-sustaining process of reforms and rehabilitation so that the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture could give more effective support to agriculture through:
strengthening the institutional framework for the formulation, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of agricultural policies and programs;
rationalizing the range of public sector services and activities, focusing on
privatization of fertilizer, tractor hire services and veterinary drugs and privatization/reform
of agricultural state operating enterprises (SOEs);
developing a medium-to-long-term development strategy for agriculture,
through a series of studies leading to sectoral and sub-sectoral plans, programs and specific
projects;
improving the quality and delivery of public sector services to the farming
community, focusing on research, extension, irrigation and veterinary services.
9.     Proiect Component-specific Obiectives.  Beneficiary agencies and their specific
objectives were: Policy. Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation Department, to enhance its
capacity for formulating sectoral policies and programs, monitoring and evaluating their
impact; MOFA head office, to strengthen its role in policy and program coordination and
strengthen decision-making process; Manpower and Training Department, to facilitate and.
provide ministry-wide training and improve its effectiveness in rendering human resources
development services; Crop Services Department, to promote privatization of fertilizer
marketing; Council on Scientific and Industrial Research. to prepare a master plan for
agricultural research and, through the Crops Research Institute, conduct research on cotton,
rice and irrigation water use on inland valleys bottoms, in six different ecological zone
settings; Ghana Irrigation Development Authority, to improve its capacity for effective
development of sustainable irrigated agriculture, taking advantage of the experiences of a
similar organization with a good track record in another country with comparable conditions
through an appropriate twinning arrangement; and to design, in consultation with farmers, and
pilot-test the participatory establishment of farmer-owned and managed small-scale irrigation
schemes at six sites in different agro-ecological zones; A2ricultural Extension Department. to
carry out pilot programs in agricultural extension; Livestock Department. to improve
mobility, field logistics, availability and privatization of selected veterinary drugs; Fisheries
Department, to improve mobility and logistics; Plant Protection Department, to improve
mobility and logistics, pest control and seed-testing capabilities, and staff skills enhancement;
and, the ASRP Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). to facilitate project coordination and
administration, including procurement. Several Studies were also included in the project.
Their execution was assigned to different project entities, depending on the subject, and were
to formulate future projects and programs.
10.    Realism and Consistency of Obiectives. The rehabilitation and institutional
development objectives of the project were well conceived and consistent, focussing on the
then key activities of MOFA. During the early implementation years, the changing country
circumstances brought additional activities into focus in the MOFA, thus making it necessary



at the mid-tern  review to expand the project objectives and redesign it to address adequately
the additional priority activities. On the implementation aspects, the tendency, at first, was to
centralize critical operational decisions at the PCU level, primarily because of inexperience or
lack of consideration for basic measures to ensure effective and timely implementation
decisions. This was resolved by allocating to the implementation units all the implementation
decisions, and allowing them the authority to control their approved budgetary resources.
The PCU was then able to attend more effectively the procurement and accounting functions.
Most of the implementing agencies were able to attend more efficiently to their operations.
The result was that the expected follow-up from the pilots materialized as expected in most
cases.
11.Achievement of Project Objectives: Overview. Overall, achievement of the project
objectives has been good. However, in some programs the benefits would increase in time,
as resources and supervision inputs are made in the post-implementation phase. Sustainability
of project benefits for components completed during the implementation stage appears
generally to be firmly placed. Although the project had fairly disparate components, the
major objective was institutional strengthening. The institutional strengthening and capacity
building objectives were largely achieved, although implementation of some of the
components was not wholly satisfactory. Component-specific objectives and the extent to
which they were realized are presented in more detail below.
12.    Realization of Component-specific Obiectives. Substantial success was achieved in
realizing the objectives of the rehabilitation, institutional development and logistical support to
MOFA and its technical and services departments. Privatization and commercialization of
selected agricultural services and enterprises has been partial; the fertilizer subsidy was
officially eliminated in 1990, and in practice, only a very small element of indirect subsidy is
implied in the retail marketing arrangement; tractor hire services have been privatized; supply
and distribution of veterinary drugs, except for vaccines, was also fully privatized;
privatization of agricultural SOEs ceased to be a project objective as the activity was
transferred to the Divestiture Committee, which has broader mandate to privatize/divest all
SOEs, including those outside agriculture. The crops research objectives have been partially
realized, with rice research component clearly more successful than cotton. Realization of the
objectives of pilot-testing extension modalities has been substantial. In contrast the
implementation of the small-scale pilot irrigation schemes was unsatisfactory. The objective
of testing the ability of small farmers to establish with their own resources and successfully
manage sustainable irrigation facilities was poorly executed by GIDA. The objectives of
pilot-testing rain water harvesting practices (low risk rice cultivation trials), in conjunction
with low cost small scale irrigation on some sites (valley bottom rice cultivation), have been
substantially achieved. Studies supported under the project appear to have largely
fulfilled expectations but some follow-up is needed to translate them fully into beneficial
programs. The objectives underlying the setting up of the PCU, to provide administrative
services, particularly procurement, accounting and financial reporting services and promoting
cohesion among project entities were substantially met.



-5 -
Project Activities, Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
General Factors Affecting the Proiect:
13.    Scope and Design. While the original design of the ASRP provided for capacity
building in several departments and sections of MOFA, the project start-up and early stages of
implementation would not would not have suffered if the respective implementation agencies
were not unduly constrained by the PCU. By the time of the mid-term review, sufficient
progress had been made to allow some attention to the new priority areas of MOFA,
including the Head Office; Departments of Fisheries, Plant Protection and Regulatory
Services, and Human Resources Development. However the early implementation bottlenecks
caused by an inexperienced PCU led to delays in full implementation of the pilot components
which were to be in the field. In the case of the small scale irrigation pilots, the
circumstances were more serious because of the inability of GIDA, the implementing agency,
to undertake the program as intended. This could have stemmed from difficulties in accepting
policy changes and lack of confidence in adopting new operating parameters for developing
sustainable irrigation practices. The need to complete as many of these field activities was a
major factor in the extension of the credit's closing date to June 1994. While this compares
favorably with other projects where more than one extension was granted, it should be noted
that some of the irrigation pilot schemes and the cotton research at Nyankpala, including the
fibre testing facilities, were still incomplete at project closure.
14.   Bank/Borrower Responsibilities. The delay in credit effectiveness and start-up
activities and the relative slow pace of implementation were a result of: lack of familiarity by
the Borrower and implementing agencies, particularly the nascent PCU, with Bank
procedures, including managing procurement procedures; long turn-around time for
procurement and other documents sent to Washington for clearance or other action; and
inadequate provision of counterpart funds. The several changes in Bank supervision staff
added to the problems, with lack of continuity, and differing opinions on the basic concept
and design of the project components.
15.   Proiect Coordination and Administration. The PCU, which was to provide essential
support services to all project entities, including facilitation of compliance with Bank policies
and procedures, should have been fully functional before starting the project activities. The
staffing and training the unit's key personnel in Bank procedures, particularly.procurement
and disbursement, took longer to accomplish than was expected. Additionally, the terms of
reference of the PCU did not always seem to be well understood by all parties. Some project
implementation agencies felt that the PCU was being obstructionist, and not facilitative or
supportive, while the Unit tried to maintain central control with the object of ensuring that the
correct procedures were followed regardless of any delays which may occur as a result. The
unit was slow in appointing a financial controller and so lacked, in the start up period, the
capacity to discharge adequately its accounting, financial and procurement functions.
Component-specific Activities and Factors Affectine them
16.   MOFA and its Services Departments: The more successful aspects of the ASRP
include the policy analysis and decision-making processes, programs and project coordination,
implementation , monitoring and evaluation, facilities rehabilitation and provision of mobility,
office and field equipment to MOFA and its services departments and other units. The



-6 -
Agricultural Policy Coordinating Committee of MOFA established with support by the
project, is functioning as intended. The strengthened PPMED has improved its performance
substantially and is funcfioning very well at MOFA headquarters; the staff have received the
required training and are putting it to good use in data collection, including conduct of field
surveys, and data analysis and interpretation and publication of results. This improved
performance is facilitated by the computing and other office equipment and related facilities
and staff support. With PPMED staff attached to all MOFA departments, coordination and
linkage with on-going programs and projects in all sub-sectors has improved. On the
problems side, refurbishing residential bungalows for the senior staff, did not take place. As
these were in the general government housing pool, there was no guarantee that after
renovation, the units would have been allocated to PPMED staff. Furthermore, partly
because of poor housing and better opportunities in the local private sector and overseas for
trained people, staff turnover has been larger than normal and has tended to undermine the
sustainability of project benefits.
17.   Irrination Agronomv and Efficiency Trials. This program of work was only partially
fulfilled. This has been due partly to the lateness in starting. A contributory factor to this
situation was the issue of whether or not the program should have been the responsibility of
CRI or GIDA. The issue was not resolved until 1989, two years after credit effectiveness.
The conduct of research field trials, by its nature so heavily influence of the vagaries of the
seasons, requires adequate time to ensure that the results are replicable and would allow sound
conclusions. Nevertheless, the findings so far are showing that the low risk water harvesting,
rain-fed, rice farming practices developed under the project ajre offering good prospects for
raising efficiency of rice production in the north of the country. Farmers are enthusiastic and
yields as high as 3.0 to 4.0 tons/ha have been recorded on trial sites, compared with 1.0
ton/ha. in neighboring farms using the same seed variety with unimproved water management.
The valley bottom water management technology development and testing for improved
cropping was conducted by CRI in the Kumasi and outlying areas also with very promising
results. Farmers have been highly impressed with the technology and are already organizing
themselves to adopt it where possible. As it entails the need to divert perennial streams
water, especially in the dry season, or use of pumps, the cost effectiveness of this technology
needs to be further evaluated .
18.   Rice Research. This program focused on developing and testing appropriate
agronomic practices for smallholder application. It included soil fertility and water use
responses, tillage and crop rotation practices, variety trials and pest management methods.
The research was managed by the CRI at Besease, near Kumasi. Thus this activity was
closely linked to pilot water use in valley bottoms. The work was replicated on only four of
the planned six ecological sites, because it was started 2 years behind schedule due to the an
then unresolved issue on responsibility between GIDA and CRI for the conduct of the work.
The results of this early work shows good promise and CRI is well on its way to working out
applicable agronomic practices for small farmer rice production in the valley bottoms. There
is need to continue the program, to test the findings under other representative ecological
zones and conducting "on-farm" trials to generate realistic costs and assess the-commercial
viability of the responsive production operations. This should be undertaken in the
post-implementation phase.
19.   Cotton Research. The program covered a range of agronomic trials to determine the
optimum recommendations for .smallholder producers for high yielding varieties, and best



-7-
management practices for soil tillage, its fertility and moisture levels including their
conservation, and pests and diseases. It also provided for training of staff of the cotton
buying company; and for refurbishing and equipping the laboratory, including provision of
cotton fibre testing equipment for quality control. On-station trials were conducted in the
vicinity of the station at Nyankpala, at Wa in Upper West Region, Manga in the Upper East
region and Damongo in the Northern Region. The on-station yields ranged from 1.0 tonlha
of seed cotton to 2.0 tons/ha. No "on-farm" trials have been carried out to test the findings
of the trials on a practical scale and this will be necessary in order to be able to make
appropriate judgements oti their commercial viability and to formulate sound recommendations
to farmers.
20.    Cotton Fibre Testing Laborator . The computerized fibre-testing laboratory
equipment was ordered in December, 1991, and delivered and installed by the supplier in
October, 1993. It was not operational at the time of preparation of this report but it is
understood that the equipment operated one week after it was installed and has not had
required follow-up service by the suppliers. The cotton buying company confirmed that the
fibre-testing service is needed so that the ginneries could specify the fibre characteristics of
their product and more and attend to proper labelling of the cotton bales prior to selling,
especially in the export markets. The training received by the ginnery staff cannot be put
fully into use until the fibre-testing laboratory becomes fully operational.
21.    Or2anization of the Cotton Industry. The project paid for consulting services to study
the structure and organization of the industry and present a plan and recommendation for its
possible restructuring A key objective of such restructuring and re-organization was to bring
the benefits of the research financed under ASRP to the small farmer. The consultant's report
confirms that, without changes, the small-scale cotton farmers will continue as seasonal
contract laborers for ginneries, dependent largely on them for the supply of inputs, including
credit. They are paid for their seed cotton the equivalent of only 7.0 percent of the f.o.b
price for the combined lint and seed products after ginneries have taken into account the value
of input supplies and other support services rendered. Analysis of returns per/man-day is
currently being undertaken. However, the widespread practice of diverting ginnery-supplied
fertilizer to non-cotton crops (rather than the intended cotton) may be an indication that
returns per man-day are lower in cotton than in other crops where effective competition is
ecologically feasible. Larger farmers, who source their own inputs, independently of
ginneries and pay a ginning fee (about 120 cedis/kg) receive 91.0 percent of f:o.b price of lint
and seed products, or thirteen times what small-scale farmers receive for comparable grades.
Even when the cost of purchased inputs is removed from the large farmers' revenues from the
crop, inputs, the disadvantage of the small farmer in the arrangement is indisputable. At
current market prices, the technologies being tested, while commercially beneficial to larger
farmers and ginneries, offer relatively little benefits to small farmers unless the industry is
re-organized to enable them to sell their output as lint and seed, and pay the ginneries the at
the going rate for ginning. Follow-up by GOG is recommended so that the benefits of this
project activity may be fully realized and sustained.
22.    Capacity Building of GIDA. This project component, representing a substantial part
of the expenditure out of the IDA credit, started very late. It involved a two-pronged-
approach to strengthen the skills of GIDA staff to adopt more appropriate pblicies and
practices for promoting the development of sustainable irrigation programs. In its first decade
of irrigation development Ghana concentrated on establishing water impounding reservoirs or



-8 -
pumping schemes for medium to large scale irrigation schemes and neglected to pay the
necessary attention to the farming requirements and farmers' interests and concerns. The
result was costs'schemes, with very little down stream development of sustainable irrigated
lands which could be productively managed by farmers. Thus the main consideration in the
ASRP was a shift to low cost small scale systems, with direct involvement of farmers in
assuming the risks of ownership and operation of their irrigation facilities. This new direction
in policy called for substantial change in the management and operations of GJDA, requiring
commensurate training of the staff in the required skills. The program for GIDA capacity
building was to be two-pronged. One was a twinning arrangement with a similar irrigation
authority which had demonstrated a good track record in a country with comparable resources
and other relevant conditions. The other prong was the pilot testing of farmer-owned and
operated small scale irrigation systems - giving GIDA staff the opportunity to work with
farmers in identifying potential schemes; organizing and training farmer groups for assuming
the responsibilities for developing and operating their schemes; drawing up the designs and
agreeing with them on the implementation, operating and financing procedures.
23.    The Twining Arrangement. The twinning benefits were only moderately successful.
Communication with staff, while adequate at the senior management level, left much to be
desired at the professional and technical staff level. Substantially better results could have
been achieved if there was greater cooperation between the technical staff of the partners.
Cultural and communication problems, including unfamiliarity with the English language and
hierarchical barriers to open discussions, made the training and skills transfer difficult to
accomplish. Furthermore, GfDA professional staff intimated that the arrangement was
conducted in a client/consultant-type relationship, rather than as a " partnership" aimed at
transferring specialized skills and experience, where basic technical knowledge is presumed of
all engineers. The relationship resulted in a degree of indifference between the two groups
of staff. There was also a perception among national experts that in any event, the designs
of the "experts", whc knew less of the local farming and crop cultivation methods, carried the
day, although their designs were based more on a Korean-type agro-sociological environment:
more capital-intensive and with a focus on rice irrigation in a mono crop culture. On the
positive side, GIDA staff claimed that the study periods in South Korea and elsewhere (part of
the intended training) were beneficial, particularly the level of technical information received.
Nevertheless the professional environment described above did not seem to have promoted
GIDA "ownership" of designs that may have been prepared by ADC staff, but which had to
be supervised later by GIDA staff. On the other hand, substantial benefit was derived from
the practical training of farmers by staff of the twinning partner, in proper irrigation practice
on some of the existing schemes. As a result, this part of the program was extended to reach
more farmers.
24.    The Pilot Small-scale Schemes. Since the conduct of these pilots was to be associated
with the twinning program, it had to await the selection and recruitment of the twinning
partners. Decisions on this by GOG proved very difficult and the process became
unnecessarily protracted. The result was several years delay in starting the pilot schemes.
The performance of GIDA in undertaking these pilot schemes
was poor. They neglected to observe in the exercise the basic concepts underpinning the new
policies of GOG to foster irrigation development. The major deficiencies were (a) inadequate
or no involvement of the cooperating farmer groups in the identification, planning and
designing, (b) neglecting simple, inexpensive systems which are affordable and manageable by
the farmers, (c) the implementation being undertaken by contractors and not by farmers, (d)



9
GIDA staff not providing technical guidance during the construction and in the early stages of
operation and maintenance. While six pilot sites were selected, only two reached the
implementation stage. The designs were inappropriate in parts, and unnecessarily
complicated. GIDA, contrary to the pilot requirements, chose to implement by contract under
local competitive bidding. The selection process was subject to delays in decisions. The
contract prices were much higher than expected and threatened the financial sustainability.
Neither contractors showed the required competence for such work and both experienced
serious problems. In one case, they relied on heavy earth moving equipment for the canal
networks. The Fround conditions were too wet for such equipment which were also old and
in poor mechanical condition, resulting in frequent break-downs and loss of time. Eventually,
they had to swit^h to manual labor. At project closure, the farmers had only one year's
experience in op-erating the scheme. They will require a few more years to demonstrate their
competence in operating it and achieving economically viable results.
The contractor on the second scheme was unable to complete the works and GIDA staff were
left with the task of completing them. By this stage the cost overruns had become prohibitive
and cost cutting measures adopted had to focus on reduction in design standards while
maintaining original design area. This led to discontent among farmers who preferred to have
concrete lined instead of clay lined main canals which required more attention to their
maintenai,ce. The lessons to be drawn from the experiences with these two schemes include
(a) manual methods are more appropriate and efficient for small scale systems (b) farmers
must be involved in their projects from the conceptual stage and must undertake as much of
the implcmentation works as possible and (c) that IDA should have taken a firmer stand
against the changes by GIDA in the agreed implementation guidelines.
25.   Extension. Under the pilot extension activity, eight districts in four regions,
reflecting different crop combinations or the dominance of a single crop (as in the case of
cocoa), were identified to try out different modalities for reaching the farmer with improved
technical packages. MOFA Extension Department and COCOBOD, in the case of cocoa,
were the implementing agencies. The mobility of extension staff was facilitated by the
provision of motor bikes and pedal bicycles. The point of departure for testing extension
modalities was the well-known Training and Visit system but during implementation
modifications were made in training frequency, from a bi-weekly frequency to a monthly
cycle. The research/extension/farmer linkage was strengthened. A more efficient Unified
Extension mechanism was established, as the demand on the farmers' time by different subject
matter extension staffs was curtailed. The system worked so well that it was replicated in
four other districts during implementation. The objectives of this activity were-substantially
realized, leading to the nation-wide National Agricultural Extension Project. The dichotomy
of an extension system run by COCOBOD, in addition to MOFA's national system, still
exists. This duplication needs to be sorted out if there is to be a really unified system.
26.   Privatization of Fertilizer Trade. Tractor Services and Veterinary Drugs. The
rationalization of services and production activities of MOFA, through privatization of input
supply services (fertilizer, tractor hire services and some veterinary drugs), has had mixed
success. The privatization of tractor hire services was completed but that of fertilizer trade
was not. Whereas only the private sector imports fertilizers of the types specified by and with
the permission of MOFA, they appear to act as wholesale and retail agents of MOFA in the
local distribution and do not take the full business risks of trading in the products. MOFA
explained that the capital base and level of risk-taking in private fertilizer trade is beyond the
means of Ghanaian businessmen. Thus private traders have not been able to supply the



- 10 -
product to all farmers at affordable prices, considering the returns to small farrm agriculture,
especially in remote areas. Thus occasionally, MOFA "assists" dealers in the form of
transport and sometimes warehouse rental (MOFA still owns the warehouses but leases them
to the dealers/agents). There is also an element of guaranteed fertilizer purchase by MOFA
from the agents, to build MOFA's strategic buffer stock, suggesting that some indirect
subsidies may not have been eliminated on fertilizer trade. NWhile much progress has- been
made towards realization of project objective, input supply services are yet to be fully
privatized and the sustainability of the benefits and actions taken so far has not been fully
tested.
27.    GOG Concerns on full Privatization of Fertilizer. MOFA expressed anxiety at the
"negative" impact of the fertilizer privatization policy, explaining that the private sector has
not been as responsive in providing the product as was anticipated. Being a seasonal product
with a short shelf-life, especially in light of inadequate storage facilities of potential dealers,
and considering the risk of tying-up working capital at high commercial interest rates if
dealers were to miss one crop season and have to wait for as long as one year to off-load
stock on hand, the fertilizer trade could be very risky. Hence the claim that the private sector
has not been responsive. It would also appear that net incremental financial benefits of
fertilizer use have been seriously eroded by recent fertilizer price increases in local currency
due to devaluation and inflation, relative to domestic price increases of rice and other non-
export crops. Evidence was cited that in the last three years, market fertilizer prices have
risen more than twice as fast as those of rice, hence the reduction in fertilizer use and yields.
Additional data to support further analysis of these issues, including nation-wide fertilizer use
before and after privatization, are being compiled by the Borrower, through private
consultants.
28.    Privatization of SOEs. Shortly after ASRP start-up, the GOG initiated a program of
divestiture of State-owned Enterprises (SOEs), and this led to MIOFA transferring the
responsibility for privatization of agricultural SOEs (18 enterprises had been identified in the
SAR) to the new agency established for the purpose. Thus ASRP took no further part in the
privatization exercise.
29.    Studies. The objective of developing a strategy for the development of the
agricultural sector through a series of studies leading to sectoral and sub-sectoral plans and
specific projects appear to have been substantially realized. The ASRP is generally described
as "the seed that produced all agriculture projects", following the resumption of IDA lending
to Ghana. The ASRP pilot programs, studies, sectoral and sub-sectoral plans and preparatory
activities led to the Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy and the National
Agricultural Research Master plan in which context the following IDA-assisted projects have
been designed and are under implementation: (a) the National Agricultural Research Project
(Cr. # 2247 GH); (b) the National Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. # 2346 GH); (c) the
National Livestock Project (Cr. # 2441 GH); (d) the Agricultural Diversification Project (Cr.
# 2180 GH); and (e) the Agricultural Sector Investment Project (Cr. # 1802 GH). Other
follow-on proposals in the current investment pipeline include a National Fisheries Project.
Several development agencies and co-financiers have also based their sectoral assistance
strategy and plans on the studies, pilot projects and programs tested and developed under the
ASRP.



- 11 -
30.    Project Sustainability.  The sustainability of benefits from project activities, based on
the design and performance so far, of follow-on projects, appears well founded. The capacity
improvements of MOFA and its service and technical departments, the organizational and
structural changes and logistical support that have improved coordination are likely to be well
sustained if GOG can generate and allocate to them, the required budgetary resources.
Maintaining a reasonable level of periodic investment in vehicle and equipment replacement
and provision of adequate O&M funds are critical. In terms of retaining the benefits of staff
trained under the credit, their environment and working facilities need to remain serviceable
and adequate, rerovating or replacing them as needed, and their remuneration must be
attractive. In the final analysis, these are budgetary matters. On fertilizers, the benefits from
the policy chang;!s supported under the credit are debateable, from the point of view of GOG.
The same is true, though to a lesser extent, about the privatization of veterinary drugs, due to
the inability of private sector to penetrate remote areas where the industry is not
commercialized. The benefits from the refrigeration and field equipment for veterinary
services are protected by the operation of the revolving fund established under the project
(KFW funds), whose operation will continue beyond the implementation phase. For project
activities not completed or tested, it is too early to tell whether expected benefits will accrue,
let alone be sustainable. This includes the pilot irrigation program and much of the research,
especially cotton . Fu,r rice research, the identified benefits need to be confirmed by more
testing and economic analysis to ascertain their sustainability. Follow-up activities, such as
re-organization of the cotton industry, need to be pursued to realize and sustain project
benefits.
31.   Bank Performance.  While its performance was, on the whole, responsive and
satisfactory, it appeared to have been somewhat optimistic about the pace at which the
implementing capacity could be built up. The objectives and scope of the project were
perhaps ambitious, given that proven capacity to implement was weak at the start and it had to
be built up by this very project. Staff could have given greater consideration to phasing of
project activities over a longer period or designing two separate projects, with the institutional
development/technical capacity build-up coming before the field/pilot investment activities.
However, IDA realized later that the Borrower's implementation capacity growth was
over-estimated and maintained flexibility with the borrower, with re-design of the project at
mid-term, re-allocation of funds between categories, financing a higher percentage of project
costs and extending the closing date for the credit. Shortening the turn-around time for
procurement and other necessary consultations between implementing agencies and the Bank
became necessary to accelerate implementation. IDA responded by transferring the
task-management of the ASRP to the Accra Resident Mission. while this did not immediately
have the expected results, the actions IDA at the mid-term and subsequently led to substantial
improvements in the implementation performance.
32.    Borrower Performance.  Performance of the borrower was at start-up only marginally
satisfactory. The PCU and the implementing agencies were initially overwhelmed by Bank
procurement, disbursement and financial reporting procedures. It took a while to overcome
these teething problems. As the PCU became fully staffed and its staff trained-in the various
skills, the Borrower's performance in project administration and implementation improved
substantially. when the Bank delegated procurement-related decisions to the Accra Resident
Mission, the GOG also took the exceptional step of exempting the project from using the
procurement services of the Ghana Supply Commission, and further reduced the turn-around
time. Some of the local delays were due not only to the PCU and the implementation



- 12 -
agencies but to decisions outside of MOFA. It appeared that the Cabinet was not adequately
briefed about the project. After negotiations and signing of the Credit Agreement, the GOG
(or some senior officials of GOG) became somewhat uncomfortable with some of the
provisions of the project. including the- proposals for capacity building in GIDA by a twining
arrangement and privatization of import and distribution of fertilizers and other production
inputs. These issues could have been raised earlier in the project cycle but were not brought
t- the attention of IDA . Thus the long delay in signing the technical co-operation contract
w,I ^.l in; construed to have been due to bureaucratic delays at the level of the GOG's chief
legal officer, appears to have been more the result of discomfort at higher levels with the
proposals.
3i.    Assessment of Outcome. The outcome of the project is good. The rehabilitation,
institutional development, capacity-building and logistics support activities in MOFA were
successful in most of its service and technical departments and support agencies, the exception
being GIDA and CRI whose programs were unduly delayed and incomplete at the end of the
project. The impact of some of the technical assistance may be less than expected; for
example, the restructuring the cotton industry has not yet shown the expected full benefits.
The extension components were particularly well executed and showed early results. The
least successful aspects of the project were the pilot irrigation program and some of the
research.
34.    Proiect's Future Operation. The GOG has indicated that the principles underlying the
project's future operational plan are: to continue funding promising project activities that
have not been completed as planned and are not funded under on-going successor projects; to
continually review those activities whose end results may not justify additional investment,
considering the resources sunk in the activity, the length of time the activity has been
on-going and prospects for cost recovery, in the case of those activities where cost recovery
was an objective: irrigation and water use; to provide adequate budgetary funding for O&M
to maintain the value of the investment made, particularly vehicles, office and field
equipment; to build in the budget and work plans, the periodic replacement of equipment so
as to maintain and improve upon the level of service efficiency created by the project;
consolidate administrative services for as many IDA-funded projects as possible under the
PCU, which would be strengthened in a manner and time-frame to be agreed with IDA.
Further details of the plan are attached (Appendix 5).
35.    Key Lessons Learned. A major lesson learned is that simplification of project scope
through adequate phasing or smaller multiple projects, should always be considered as an
option where a key project objective is the strengthening of those institutions charged with the
execution of investment activities in the project. The inclusion of expensive technical
assistance arrangement in small dollar-value projects should be looked at carefully. In order
to increase Borrower "ownership' of projects, as much formal and informal consultations
should be carried out with all affected constituencies early in the project cycle. The Task
Manager's counterpart should provide written confirmation that the green cover documents,
including the draft DCA, have been reviewed by concerned government agencies and that the
negotiating team is conversant with the project. The communication should also confirm that
the team's positions at negotiations would represent institutional positions.
36.    Appendixes. Appendixes contain: project costs, disbursement and financing tables
(Appendix 1); the written contribution of KFW to the field investigation (Appendix 2); the



- 13 -
ICR mission member's terms of reference (Appendix 3); the mission's schedule of field visits
and meetings (Appendix 4); and, the GOG's draft post implementation Project Operational
Plan (Appendix 5).
37.   Issues Reguiring GOG Follow-up and Action. The suppliers of cotton fibre-testing
equipment for the laboratory at Nyankpala or their agents, should be asked to correct the
present deficiencies in the equipment in good time for the next cotton crop. Farmer groups at
the Sata pilot irrigation scheme will need substantial technical guidance to manage their
operations, and particularly to be able to meet the additional debt burdens brought on by the
loans from the Agricultural Development Bank to continue the unfinished construction left by
the contractor, on the understanding that they would be able to farm year round to derive the
required additional income.
Agricultural Operations Division
Western Africa Dept. IV
World Bank.
August 15, 1994






APPENDIX B
IMPLEMENTATION
H COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION
(~)PROJECT (ASRP)
CREDIT NlO. 1801-GH
,(A
November 24, 1994
Note: Appendixes are not included except Appendix 6B.



(ii)
E. Evaluation Summary
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 1801-GH
Introduuction
Since the launching of the ERP in April 1983, IDA's role has been to assist GOG rehabilitate
productive assests/infrastructure, lay the basis for sustained growth, mobilise and coordinate
donor aid in support of a market and export oriented recovery strategy. Between 1983 and
1986 Bank group commitments to agriculture totalled US$25.0 million for oil palm project
only.
Proicct Objectives
The basic objective of the project was to initiate a self sustaining process of rehabilitation so
that MOFA can give more effective support to agriculture through: (i) strengthening the
institutional framework for the formulation and implementation of agricultural policies and
progranmes, and (ii) improving the delivery of public sector services to agriculture. The
components of the project included: Policy Formulation, Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation; Studies, Agricultural Research and Agricultural Extension; Irrigation, Veterinary
Services; Privatization of Fertilizer Operations and Tractor Hire Services and veterinary
drugs- and, Reform  of Agricultural State-owned Enterprises.   Shortly after the
imp)lementation of ASRP started, the responsibility of privatising agricultural SOEs was
assigned to Diversiture Implementation Committee (DIC). In 1989, at Mid-term Review,
IDA and MOFA modified the scope of the ASRP to encompass Fisheries sub-sector and Plant
Protection and Regulatory Services (DPPRS).
The project was implemented in the legal framework of the Development Credit Agreement
between Republic of Ghana and IDA signed on June 22, 1987.
The internal consistency and importance of the objectives of ASRP to the agricultural sector
cannot be overemphasized, although, as was realized later, the scope of the project did not
cover all institutional development priority areas. The redesign expanded the scope of ASRP
to embrace Fisheries and Department of Plant Protection and Regulatory Services(DPPRS).
The rehabilitation and institutional development aspects of the project were well conceived.
The main risk to attainment of institutional objectives of the project was high attrition rate
of trained staff of PPMED.
Implementation Experience and Results
The overall achievement of the ASRP objectives has been partial. There were substantial
achievements in rehabilitation, institutional development, logistical support, study
programmes and agricultural extension, while gains in privatisation of fertilizer trade,
vetcrinary, tractor hire and irrigation services, and agricultural research were partial. Results
from rice and cotton research, and irrigation agronomy are inconclusive and more time and



(iii)
resources will be required in post-implerneintation period to complete them. Most of the
benefits generated under the project are likely to bc sustained by the on-going IDA-funded
projects, namely, National Agricultural Research Project (NARP), National Livestock
Services Project (NLSP), National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP), Agricultural
Sector Investment Project (ASIP) and government's budgetary allocations to meet capital and
recurrent expenditures of the departments. However, the sustainability of PPMED will be
undermined should government fail to make adequate budgetary allocation to it as there is no
existing external funding for it.
At completion ol ASRP, final disbursement for project costs were nearly the same as ($53.2
million) the budgeted $53.3 million at appraisal. A number of project activities in irrigation,
crop and water management research were not completed as planned. Their completion
would have resulted in much higher project costs than was recorded.
At the outset, PCU staff were overwhelmed by: Bank's procurement, disbursement and
financial reporting procedures They were, however, overcome through the normal learning
process anJ in 1989, dhe PCU was judged efficient enough by GOG to be exempt from using
the procurement services of Ghana Supply Commission (GSC). Coordination problems,
procurement delays, late appointment of key staff and consultants, and selection of contractors
partially retarded progress during the early stages of project implementation. Lack of credit
for farmers and private dealers, and depreciation of the Cedi adversely affected the fertilizer
trade.
Bank nerformance in identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory.
However, the costing of the pilot irrigation schemes at a threshold of $5000/ha, without price
revision, was not realistic under Ghanaian conditions since fuel price increased by 60 % by
the timne the project started. This was a major factor in the withdrawal of seasoned
contractors from the civil works bidding process. While there were sufficient supervision
missions to research sites, the pilot irrigation schemes at Sata and Kikam appeared not to have
been adequately supervised as lapses in contractors' performance were not rectified during
implementation. The Bank, however, was quick in responding to problems in project's
administration by transferring the task-management of the project to Accra Resident Mission,
where it assigned a staff member for organizing, programming and approving requests for
the project.
Government performance was also satisfactory. But the signing of GIDA/ADC twinning
arrangement was unduly delayed, and time was lost in selecting the six pilot irrigation
schemes.  The government was responsive in exempting the project from using the
procurement services of the Ghana Supply Commission.
The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. However, to retain the benefits of
trainedl and experience staff better conditions of service and incentives should have to be
provided and maintained.
Sunm >ay of Findings. Futuire One-rations- 2nd Ke-y 1eons Learned
The turnaround time of PPMED's marketing reports has been considerably reduced from one



(iv)
year to two months, culminating in early dissemination of information for effective planning.
The agricultural data collection now cover I10 enumeration areas instead of 45, thereby
improving the quality and reliability of field data.
The agricultural research master plan spells out a mechansim for priority setting, planning
and management of agricultural research. A National Agricultural Research Committee
(NARC) was established in August, 1991, as a sub-committee of the Agricultural Policy
Coordinating Committee (APCC), to rationalize use of resources in agricultural research.
Rice research has identified high yielding varieties, and developed a rotation of rice-ratoon
rice-cowpea for valley bottom cultivation. Farmer's rice yields have increased from about
0.9 t/ha to about 2 t/ha; with break-even yield estimated at about 1.5 t/ha. The benefits of
cotton research are yet to reach farmers and cotton companies.
The inherent training feature in the T & V system served to upgrade the skills and the
competence of the extension staff, and helped forge a strong extension-farmer linkage. But
the much desired linkage between research and extension remains weak.
Institutional development and capacity building at GIDA has improved through the
reorganization and training. Through improved irrigation agronomic practices, farmers' rice
yield increased from about 4 to 6 t/ha. However, recent data collected during the last
supervision nission indicate downward trend of yields (3.5 t/ha). The reason being reduced
input usage, notably, fertilizer.
A steady production of tilapia fingerlings for sale to farmers and for annual restocking of
reserviors has been achieved as a result of regular maintenance of fish hatcheries. The annual
rate of fingerlings production now exceeds one million (5 - 10 g) fish.
The privatisation of drugs and vaccines has been satisfactory in urban areas. However, the
private sector has not found it financially rewarding to provide veterinary services in rural
areas, where farmers do not view  livestock rearing as a commercial venture.  The
implementation of fertilizer privatisation policy has been satisfactory, but private sector
response has been below expectation. Only four importers are presently supplying fertilizer
to farmers, thus exposing them to possible monopsonistic market pricing.
It is expected that GOG and the on-going IDA-funded projects will fund promising
uncompleted project activities. GOG should provide adequate budgetary allocations for 0
& M, periodic replacement of equipment and vehicles in order to sustain the benefits
generated by ASRP.
The major lessons learned are: (i) the use of high cost technical assistance in small dollar-
value project is not economically beneficial for the country; (ii) the Attorney General's office
should be involved early in project cycle rather late at negotiations to facilitate the provision
of legal opinions on future credit agreements; and (iii) supervision of the project by the
World Bank, KFW and AfDB in parallel would have been unwieldy and not cost-effective.
Therefore, as better co-ordination of financing institutions in supervision eased the load of
implementing agencies, it should be explored in future programmes.



1
Policy Formulation, Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation
The department was to be reorganized from the then existing Economic Research and
Planning Services and strengthened to enable it to. 1. (i) develop sustainable policies, monitor
their impact and tke the lead in the development of an agricultural sector investment
programme including the direction of donor support for the programme; (ii) review priorities
of MOFA's annua. public expenditure budget; (iii) improve project preparation and monitor
project implementation; (iv) review the impact of tariff changes which will result from the
trade taxation and tariff review scheduled for 1987; and (v) monitor pricing of industrial
crops in accordawice with a methodology to be determined by the Government and the
Association. 2. Refurbishing of PPMED's offices; completion of housing for use by PPMED
staff and purchase of vehicles and equipment for PPMED. it was to be supported by a
UNDP techmical Assistance in the form of long-term personnel and consultants. Staff were
trained in areas such as planning and budgeting, management information system
development, agricultural census and surveys as well as monitoring and evaluation.
Refurbishing of PPMED's offices and completion of houses took place. The project procured
computers, vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles and field equipment.
The objectives of this project component were clear, realistic and consistent with the World
Bank country assistance strategy. Their pursuit resulted in formulation of sustainable policies
under MTADS for agricultural development. The objectives were accomplished within the
project's time. However, some overseas trained staff have not returned to post for the
department to benefit from their trainingj'and exposure.
The turnaround time of PPMED's marketing reports has been considerably reduced from one
year to two months. This has culminated in early dissemination of information for effective
planning. The sample size for agricultural data collection has been increased from 45 to 110
enumeration areas, thereby improving the quality and reliability of field data. Training of
PPMED staff has equipped them to undertake sectoral analyses, project planning and
budgeting, monitoring and evaluation of policies. As part of the decentralisation strategy,
PPMED staff have been attached to all MOFA departments to improve coordination of
programmes and project as well as monitoring of departmental annual public expenditure
budgets. The achievement of objectives was substantial.
The major factors that retarded progress in implementation of PPMED were procurement
delays, difficulties in appointment of key staff, problems relating to selection of consultants
and lengthy process of getting foreign technical assistance in place and cost changes.
The outcome of PPMED's component was satisfactory. However, to retain trained staff
better conditions of service and incentives should be provided and maintained.
Performance indicators to be monitored and evaluated in future include: (i) turn-around time
of marketing reports; (ii) quality and reliability of field data; and (iii) policy formulation in
relation to changing environment. Active follow-up by GOG as part of post-implementation
operation plan is recommended.



2
Agric iltural Research
This component was to cover 1. review of agricultural research services and preparation of
research master plan. 2. funding of research on cotton at Nyankpala Agricultural Experiment
Station (NAES) and rice (irrigated and valley bottom) by Crop Research Institute (CRI). The
project was to fund technical assistance, vehicles, field cquipment renovation of laboratory
facilities and incremental operating costs. The report on the review of agricultural research
system was submitted in December 1989 instead of June 30, 1988. The delay was due to
lengthy process of appointing the consulting agency. The research master plan has been
completed out of which has evolved NARP funded by IDA. The cotton research component
commenced in 1988 at NAES, with outstations at Manga (Upper East Region), Wa (Upper
West Region) and Damongo (Northern Region). The objectives were to introduce, test and
recommend improved cotton varieties, and develop appropriate cultural practices, including
management of soil fertility; economic control measures for cotton insect pests and weeds.
Technical assistance for the National Cotton Development Project began in ---- and ended in
1993, and a report submitted. The renovation of the laboratory has been completed and is
equipped including Spinlab Uster IIVI 900 fibre testing equipment. It is the first of its kind
in the country and when operational will be of great help to the cotton companies in assessing
locally the quality of lint cotton. However, this equipment was not operational during the
last supervision mission in June 1994. Steps are being to rectify the situation. Research on
valley bottom rice started in July 1990, about two years behind schediule, in four (out of six
planned sites) agro-ecological zones, viz, Besease (Semi-deciduous rain forest), Afrarmso
(Forest-Savannah Transition), Godenu (Forest-Savannah Transition) and Tolon (Guinea
Savannah). The objective of the rice research programme was to develop inland valleys for
nice-based sustainable cropping systems, using water, soil and pest management techniques.
Research on cotton and rice is on-going and operational plans to corntinue after project life
exist.
Objectives of the research activities were clear, realistic and were consistent with the Bank's
country assistance strategy. Review of research activities was important because prior to the
project agricultural research activities were uncoordinated.  Though the review  was
accomplished, it was not finished on schedule due to late appointment of consultants.
The research master plan sets out a strategy for the national agricultural research system
(NARS) for the next decade, based on Ghana's developmental goals, as outlined in Medium
Term Agricultural Development Strategies (MTADS). The plan spells out a mechanism for
priority setting, planning and management of agricultural research. A National Agricultural
Research Committee (NARC) was established in August, 1991, as a sub-committee of the
Agricultural Policy Coordinating Committee (APCC), to rationalize use of resources in
agricultural research.
Rice research has identified high yielding varieties, and developed a rotation of rice-ratoon
rice-cowpea for valley bottom cultivation. Farmer's rice yields have increased from an
average of about 0.9 t/ha to 2 tlha; with break-even yield at about 1.5 tlha (appendix 1).
Farmers could obtain yields as high as 4 tlha under improved management. The benefits of
cotton research are yet to reach farmers and cotton companies, although some interesting
results are emerging from on-station work. Results of insecticide resistance management
studies - pyrethroid timing and development of a pest scouting scbedule - have shown that
the number of insecticide application rounds on cotton can be reduced from a maximum ot



3
ten to a cost-saving and effective minimum of four. Yields have ranged from I to 2 tlha.
The potential yield is 4 t/ha under irrigation and good management. It is estimated that the
break-even yield is at about 3.3 t/ha for small-scale farmers. At current market prices, it is
not profitable for small-sca'e cotton farmer to sell output as seed cotton to ginners because
he gets only nine percent of f.o.b value of lint and cotton seed (appendix 2). This
underrmines the sustainability of cotton production from small-scale farmers' perspective.
These results are preliminary and their robustness need to be confirmed on farm.
Delays in procurement, selection of contractors, renovation of cotton laboratory as did the
non-availability of local cotton breeder and the Bank's initial reluctance in approving CRI's
plans to address hydrological aspects of valley bottom rice research and delays in obtaining
no objection in procuring equipment significantly affected project implementation.
In the post-implementation phase, cotton research would be particularly improved by the
services of a plant breeder, who the CRI should make every effort to hire.
There should be a shift in focus from on-station to on-farm research. Training of MOFA
frontline extension staff anL technicians of the private cotton companies on current
technologies should receive high priority.
Cotton and rice research should be followed-up and evaluated by NARP using indicators such
as on-farm benefits/profitability, farmer adoption rate, probability of research success, time
taken to complete research, and cost effectiveness of technologies developed.
Agricultural Extension
The pilot project was to test the effectiveness, feasibility and appropriateness of using the
Training and Visit (T & V) system of extension as the foundation for a national agricultural
extension system for Ghana by focussing on: (i) unification of MOFA's agricultural
extension services including reorganization of such services in selected regions in Ghana; (ii)
provision of related training of agricultural extension staff on a pilot basis in three regions
of Ghana including study visits of MOFA extension staff to projects outside Ghana; (iii)
preparation of an agricultural extension study. The pilot project started in 1988 in eight
districts in four regions: Kasena-Nankani and Bawku in Upper East Region; Wa and Sissala
in Upper West Region; Tono-Kumbungu and Bole in Northern Region; and Sunyani and
Kintampo in Brong-Ahafo Region. Because of the success of the system, the pilot project
was extended to four other districts in 1990: Adansi West in Ashanti Region; Mpohor-Wassa
East in Western Region; Agona in Cental Region; and New Juaben/Kwahu North in Eastern
Region. Several T & V training sessions were conducted for frontline extension staff (FLS)
the frequency of which was reduced from forthnigthly to monthly cycles to reduce travel costs
and staff field allowances. Furthermore, there were no new technological messages that
necessitated frequent training meetings. The agricultural extension study has been completed
out of which has emerged the NAEP.
The objectives of this component were clear and were substantially attained within project
life. The importance of an efficient extension system in Ghana, and for the Bank's country
assistance strategy cannot be overemphasized.



4
The inherent training feature in the T & V system served as a forum not only to upgrade the
skills and the competence of the extension staff, b'ut also as a means of teaching farmers or
farmers associations new innovations and became a forum for discussing issues raised by
them. In the process, a strong extension-farmer linkage was forged. However, the much
desired linkage between research and extension remains weak. Training of FLS, in most
cases, was led by the District Extension Officers who were not subject matter specialists
(SMS). SMS should be obtained from the research institutes and Universities to complement
the expertise available in MOFA and strengthen the research-extension linkage.
The lack of training specialist in DAES to design appropriate and effective training modules
hampered progress in training programmes. Shortage of FLS and provision of counterpart
operating costs also retarded progress. The need to employ training specialist with skills in
training of trainers should be addressed.
The outcome of this component was satisfactory and benefits generated are likely to be
sustained.
Monitoring and evaluation should take place under NAEP using farmer adoption rate,
frequency of training by SMS and extension staff/farmer ratio. Active follow-up by GOG
in the post-project implementation phase is recommended.
irrigation Services
This component implemented by Ghana Irrigation Development Authority (GIDA) focused
on: (i) the development and carrying out of a plan for improved cost recovery to be achieved
over a three-year period, and a plan for staff reductions at GIDA; (ii) the carrying out by
GIDA of small-scale and supplemental valley bottom irrigation schemes, (iiij the conclusion
and carrying out by GIDA of a twinning arrangement (including staff training) with a
competent irrigation authority; (iv) improved irrigation agronomy, and, (v) development of
six small-scale pilot irrigation schemes to test feasibility of pump and low cost gravity
schemes.
To date the large scale irrigation schemes have been able to achieve about 60 % cost recovery
rate, and GIDA has reduced overall staff by about 25 %. The project funded the twinning
arrangement between GIDA and ADC of South Korea. Four long-term. ADC staff were
attached to GIDA and a number of short-term consultants visited the project during
implementation. Three senior and six junior staff were trained overseas in various areas for
one and three months, respectively. A total of 562 man-months of on-the-job-training was
provided to staff locally. Rice and vegetables demonstration farms were set up to get farmers
involved in irrigation water management and adopt improved practices. Only two pilot
irrigation schemes out of planned six were constructed, at Kikam and Sata. The engineering,
technical services in bid specification and evaluation for civil works were provided by GIDA.
Forty out of the planned 56 hectares have been cleared and planted to naize at Sata, while
at Kikam, 27.4 hectares have been cleared but only 75 % of this are planted to rice. The
remaining 25 % have been cleared but bunding and land preparation were not done by the
contractor as has been designed. The canals network were not linod at Kikam at all and at
Sata only about 30 % of the canal lining has been executed. Non-lining of the canals will
render the pilot irrigation projects prone to erosion and siltation, and as a result the flow of



5
water will be impeded. Already there are signs of erosion in the drain canals at Kikam, and
siltation at both sites.
Institutional development and capacity building at GIDA has improved through the
reorganization and provision of logistics including vehicles. Through improved irrigation
agronomic practices, farmers' rice yield increased from about 4 to 6 tlha. However, recent
data collected during the last supervision mission indicate downward trend of yields (3.5
t/ha). The reason being reduced input usage, notably, fertilizer. Achievements have been
partial and may beco,ne negligible if reduction in input use persists, canal network in pilot
irrigation schemes are not maintained by farmers, and if adequate funds are not provided to
meet GIDA's 0 & M expenses.
Delay in signing the twinning agreement at the Attorney General's office due to disagreement
over the cost of technical assistance component resulted in the late start-up of the twinning
arrangement. Communication and cultural barriers with ADC staff also impacted negatively
on the twinning arrangement. Procurement of vehicles and selection of contractors delayed
the implementation of irrigation component nearly a year and half. At Kikam there was a
delay construction works because of inclement weather. The selected contractors seemed not
to have the capacity and experience to undertake the construction of the pilot irrigation
projects. Contract supervision and management fell below expectation.
The outcome of this component is barely satisfactory, given that apart from the objective of
the training programnme which was substantially achieved, benefits from two partially
completed pilot irrigation schemes, out of the six planned, and the improved irrigation
agronomic practices are far below the cost of the twinning programme put at about US$3.9
million. At both Sata and Kikam sites, participating farimers contend that given the way the
canals were constructed, they are not likely to benefit from the schemes in the long term
because of anticipated high labour input in maintaining the canals to facilitate water flow.
The performance indicator of this component will be labour input in maintaining the canals,
profitability of crops cultivated and farmers' patronage of the schemes in the future. Follow-
up should be undertaken by GOG in last quarter of 1994 to ascertain the operationality of the
established systems during the dry season and rectify any design and constructional problems.
Veterinary Services
The project funded improved supply of vaccines and drugs to MOFA's Animal Health and
Production Department (AHPD) including: (i) provision of vehicles, storage facilities and
other logistical support to AHPD, and (ii) the establishment of a revolving fund on a national
basis for AHPD's use with the proceeds to cover its recurrent expenditures. Field and
laboratory equipment, drugs, vaccines, storage facilities and vehicles were procured, and
funds were also provided for training programmes. With improved surveillance,- outbreaks
of major diseases have subsided, although there were 51 outbreaks of foot and mouth disease
in 1990 which caused 106 cattle deaths. Since the launching of operation cowleg in 1988,
the outbreaks of rinderpest have reduced. Consequently, there has been steady increases in
livestock numbers since the project began. For example, cattle and sheep population each
increased by about 7 % while poultry population rose by nearly 37 % between 1987 and 1992
(appendix 3). The impact of drugs and vaccines financed by KFW has been substantial, and



6
Veterinary Services has made progress towards full cost recovery of the revolving fund by
1991 (see appendix 4 for step by step cost recovery schedule).
Only 50 96 of the planned revolving fund level was attained because Veterinary Services
Department could not explain satisfactorily to KFW the utilisation of the financed drugs and
the proceeds from their sale. This resulted in the reduction of the first tranche from DEM
7.2 million to DEM 3.075 million (KFW fax, 24 May, 1994). The major problem facing
the revolving fund is the erosion of its purchasing power due to continual depreciation of the
Cedi. For example, the exchange rate parity at mid-term (1991) was 390 Cedis per US dollar
as against 825 Cedis per US dollar in 1993.
The outcome of privatising veterinary drugs has been satisfactory in the cities, particularly
for domestic pet owners and poultry farmers. Nonetheless, the private sector has not found
it financially rewarding to provide veterinary services in rural areas, where farmers do not
view livestock rearing as a commercial venture. Perhaps the National Livestock Services
Project should have preceded privatisation of drugs and vaccines, in order to demonstrate the
profitability of raising livestock and consequently creating demand situation for private sector
veterinary services. Regular follow-up by GOG is recommended during post project
implementation phase to review prices of vaccines and veterinary services so as to restore the
purchasing power of the revolving fund being eroded over time as a result of the depreciation
of the Cedi.
Privatisation of Fertilizer Operptions and Tractor Hirc Services
The project supported (i) the supply of fertilizer to farmers including removal of all subsidies
and a phased programme for the transfer from MOFA of the importation and distribution of
fertilizers to the private sector; and (ii) the privatisation of tractor hire services and phasing
out of MOFA's tractor hire services by June 30, 1991. The privatisation of tractor hire
services has been successfully completed. All fertilizer subsidies were eliminated by 1990
(appendix 5), though there still exists some indirect subsidies on fertilizer trade. For
instance, MOFA provides transport and occasionally warehouse rental to private traders not
at full cost recovery. MOFA also purchases fertilizer from the dealers to build its strategic
buffer stock. The demand for fertilizer use fell from about 30,000 nutrient tons in 1980-82
to 11,000 nutrient tons in 1988-90 (appendix 6). This is attributable to removal of subsidies,
with resultant price hike, depreciation of the Cedi and inadequate credit for farmers and
private dealers. With the removal of subsidies, fertilizer prices are relatively higher than real
price increases in produce.
The private sector has not been as responsive in fertilizer trade as expected because of
substantial capital outlay required by the private dealers for importing the fertilizers, and for
providing adequate storage facilities. Returns on investments of 4.5 %, 7.5 % and 17.9 %,
respectively, for retailing 500, 600 and 2000 bags of fertilizers were far below the cost of
capital at 28 % in 1991 (ASRP mid-term evaluation report). Only four importers are
presently supplying fertilizers to farmers, thus exposing farmers to possible monopsonistic
market pricing.
The outcome of fertilizer privatization policy itself has been satisfactory, although it has led
to the reduction in fertilizer use for reasons stated above. The policy has led to improved



7
supply of fertilizer to large-scale farmers, particularly cotton companies which contract small-
scale outgrowers to produce seed cotton for them. Consequentdy, the significant increase in
area under cotton production, which was about 2000 hectares before the project started to
about 30000 hectares in 1994, can be partly attributed to the fertilizer privatization policy
among other factors. In comparison, the privatization of MOFA's tractor hiring services was
substantially achieved within the stipulated time frame. Currently, private tractor owners
compete amongst themselves to offer mechanised services to farmers.
Privatisation of SOEs
Shortly after the implementation of ASRP comrenced, the responsibility of privatising
agricultural SOEs was assigned to DIC. Thus no SOE was reformed or privatised with the
support of ASRP.
Fisheries
The scope (if the project was expanded to embrace fisheries sub-sector in 1989. The project
provided funds for vehicles, office equipment, basic field and laboratory equipment and tools,
ove:seas training and local training of staff and private fish farmers, rehabilitation of
hatchery/fish holding tanks, fishing inputs and specialized equipment for the department's
marine research vessels. The fishing and aquaculture inputs were financed by AfDB
(appendix 7). The provision of mobility was an important first step in revitalizing the
fisheries sub-sector, especially in extension and training of farmers at the district level. The
maintenance of hatcheries has resulted in a steady production of tilapia fingerlings for sale
to farmers and for annual restocking of reserviors. The annual rate of fingerlings production
by the department now exceeds one million (5 - 10 g) fish, compared to 250,000 before the
project.
The outcome of this component has been satisfactory and future fisheries activities will be
supported by the proposed National Fisheries Project.
Plant Protection and Regulatory Services
This component was also added to the project in 1989 to surveil locust and variegated
grasshoppers outbreaks from neighbouring countries. Training of staff, vehicles, motocycles
and laboratory equipment were provided by the project. The national seed laboratory has
been equipped for certifying seeds. The procurement of 40 Swing Fog Machines has helped
in controlling leaf minors in oil palm plantations of small and hrge scale farmers. The
department has been equipped to combat pest outbreaks. The objectives of this component
have been substantially realised and the outcome of DPPRS' activities has been satisfactory.
Studies
Several studies were conducted under the ASRP to strengthen the agricultural sector which
will enhance sustained agricultural development in Ghana. The objectives of these studies
have been substantially accomplished. These studies included: the small-scale irrigation
schemes, the pilot programnmes in agricultural extension, preparation of livestock development
strategy, the Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy and the National Agricultural



8
Research Masterplan through which the following IDA-funded projects have been designed
and are either being implemented or are in the pipeline: NARP, NAEP, NLSP, Agricultural
Sector Diversification Project, Agricultural Sector Investment Project and National Fisheries
Project. The on-going studies are: (i) Low-Risk Rice Cultivation Project which is aimed at
investigating simple techniques for harvesling and managing rain water for increasing yields
of paddy rice, and (ii) valley bottom rice research and (iii) cotton improvement research.
These studies need to be funded adequately in the post-operational phase for their full benefits
to be realized.
The PCU was responsible for coordinating project implementation, financial accounting,
procurement and monitoring, including facilitating compliance with Bank policies and
procedures. The unit was not fully staffed and trained until 1989. There were a lot of
staffing delays at the onset of the project; the Project Coordinator and Financial Controller
were appointed in 1987 and 1988, respectively; and training of staff on Bank procurement
and disbursement procedures was not completed until 1989. Initially, PCU staff were
overwhelmed by Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures, and implementing
agencies complained that the procedures were too cumbersome. The initial teething problems
were, however, overcome through the normal learning process and by 1989 the PCU was
judged efficient enough by GOG to be exempt from using the procurement services of the
GSC. The PCU was not sufficiently equipped by the project to discharge its duties, and its
records and other important project files need to be computerised, especially if the PCU is
to service a number of other IDA-assisted projects as planned.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
It is likely that achievements generated under the project would be sustained because of
government's commitment to provide budgetary support to MOFA. The policy environment
is not likely to be any different from the present as the government is positively committed
to the on-going economic reforms. Presently, all on-going donor-supported projects have no
components to support PPMED. Therefore, should government's budgetary allocation fail to
meet capital and recurrent expenditures of the department, the achievements of PPMED will
not be sustained. Research achievements in rice and cotton are likely to be sustained the
NARP. Smaliholder Credit Input and Marketing Project under IFAD funding is likely to
fund the transfer of rice technologies to farmers' fields. To enhance the sustainability of
cotton research, cotton companies should be discouraged from setting up parallel research
units and redirect freed resources to CR1 at Nyankpala for national cotton research. The
linkage between cotton research and industry is weak and should be strengthened.  The
sustainability of the extension component is likely to be maintained under the on-going
NAEP. The sustainability of benefits derived under irrigation component and fertilizer trade
is uncertain because of the factors stated above. It is expected that the benefits from the
refrigeration and field equipment for the veterinary services will be supported by the NLSP.
Over time, the real purchasing power of the revolving fund will be eroded due to the
depreciation of the Cedi if additional funds are not injected.



9
Bak Pcr[prmance
Bank perfonmance in identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision of the project was
satisfactory. But the costing of the pilot irrigation component at a threshold of $5000 /ha,
without price revision, was unrealistic under Ghanaian conditions since fuel price rose by 60
% by the time the project started. Though there were adequate supervision missions to
research sites, the pilot irrigation schemes at Sata and Kikam appeared not to have been
adequately supervised as lapses in contractors' performance were not rectified during
implementation. The Bank was flexible in incorporating other project components, approving
the expansion of the pilot extension projects to other districts, and in extending the closing
date for the credit. The Bank also responded quickly to problems in project's administration
by transferring the task-management of the project to Accra Resident Mission, where it
assigned a staff member for organizing, programming and approving requests for the project.
Government Performance
Governmeat perforrniance was satisfactory.  During project implementation adequate
management staff was provided by the government, except cotton team which lacked cotton
breeder for cotton improvement including seed viability. The government seems committed
to providing an efficient extension system for the agricultural sector. But the recruitment of
training specialist is important for effective planning and nmnagement of DAES. Time was
lost in selecting the six pilot irrigation schemes and in the signing of GIDA/ADC twinning
arrangement. There was no government interference in operational decision, and government
was responsive in exempting the project from using the procurement services of the Ghana
Supply Commission.  The level of counterpart funding was adequate in most cases.
Government compliance with major loan covenants was satisfactory.
Key Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned are: (i) the provision of adequate resources for equipment, logistics, and
manpower training maximizes supply of agricultural services to the public; (ii) the
involvement of personnel from research, Crop Services Department, extension staff and
farmers in developing technologies facilitates the transfer and acceptance of technology by
farmers; (iii) the cost of future small-scale irrigation schemes should be based on prevailing
local economic conditions rather than wholesale importation of cost structures from
elsewhere; (iv) the use of high cost technical assistance in small dollar-value project is not
economically beneficial for the country; (v) the Attorney General's office should be involved
early in project cycle rather than late to facilitate the provision of legal opinions on future
credit agreements; and (vi) as better co-ordination of financing institutions in project
supervision eases the load of implementing agencies, minimizes unwieldness and promotes
cost-effectiveness, it should be explored in future programmes.
Government's Post-implementation Operational Plan
The post-implementation operational plan prepared in June, 1994 as part of the 'Aide
memoire' on the World Bank's rmal supervision mission has been revised. ASRP-inidated
activities such as unification of extension services including reorganization, crop research and
related water-use studies, privatization of the procurement of veterinary drugs and fishery



10
sector activities will need no extension. The above are being supported respectively by IDA-
funded projects, namely, NAEP, NARP, NLSS and the proposed National Fisheries Project.
Government will, however, provide adequate budgetary resources during FY 95 and FY 96
to complete on-going and cost recovery projects with potential economic benefits to
beneficiaries. Such projects include small-scale irrigation schemes at Sata and Kikam where
review of major civil works may be deemed necessary. Training and human resources
development, equipment and logistics to replace old and -unserviceable ones- at MOFA
headquarters including PPMED, PCU as well as sufficient Operational and Maintenance
expenses will be borne by the Government through its annual budgets. Details of FY 95 and
FY 96 budgets are presented in appendix 6



%iN-5708OF$TMO!AAA0' ~ACK7,7n                                                                                                                                          Appendix4gB
-T :                                        :TOTAL 00E3-7001       PE0070A0      : TRAVELLING A&    GENERAL        MAIN?. NEPAl:  070100 NEC.  :                   *10  C001'?               3    :  770E0 .0M. .   :OA'XO4
0?:  ::oYg1~2;7T8o3        :0,001,788,03?:556,752,070 199,700,000                   564,060,000 :107,710,O0O        99,784,000 :I54,4,00$4,716,070 :   3.1,c01,00:6,7211,10  :7,439,007
:00  :C,r.r;1  AduftiniOaOio;4I6200:                               5,2,0            67,0700,000 :  295,678,000:0,000,000             20,000,00.0 :       -        * ,0300: 20,639.000-                  -
:00  :Trai;_r   & ha.;a   aca:;  Cc;..U         705,0J7,03        474,370,00  :   69,70,.0  200,770,000  * 57,410,00  0:   ,600,070 :                                1 0,572"N 330.    0,M,3              ,v: .,,n9 n
00  OvOre       1                                10 , 3 0 0O,3::    4,010,000)                       4,000,070      2,500,000:         --                               -       .       -
05 Ir[;olee011ut ri .:::                                                                                                       :                :,0,0,  93,0,00                         -                 -) 
:0    31:r iLe-: n elpi ert  DoerS:t                                   .                                                                     0,0,0                        
73 :N2305    AirNg;. Cop.upo t):...                                                                                            ..    01701-
07  : :0.320  000104L AM05. C003. 0N:7:   373,2216.0,317:        33,1206,00 :    0,477,000 : 43,700,0100  1I2,I40,000:    61,663,000 :*4,5,7                                         53307
CA0       :271      REG31AL AM717  F!0. LNIT          720j,31,027:    477,613,070         92,127,00D :   45,57,000 :18,772,0.00            58,90000                      0,7770:           l,A3,7
C)?77           :075          AMC66    02. 3. "' 037: 67,767,0'          JAl  45 ,4,,N   0351,2.,0N~       54,721,700 : 1,74,070 :   52,1641,000  :                        5,470,007 :      5,30N,37:
0RU:39   N03133  613.  72."E.  07            3,030.:                    A      177100:538,460,070  :17,931,020:    78,9101,003  :*67,373,30:5M70
.,I :MTlfA~.07                                         775703           600,070,00     116,307,000 :   60,370,002  :13,440,000:    67(44S,00                             1,6630 1           0,0,3
02  93    '.  1C0730 L4A103C. C0E3. 0077:  T 907,462,733      6177,527,070     117,21711030     70,670,000 :20,994,000:    85,96,000:I ,0,00:                                      5,003
U .,..1CJIk...AOAO   Au.&  31. v-'U              ',NIT1          5,1,77,,, , 0    11,99)00,03       52,076,000  :12787,72 7, 000,700"N   :                         5,340N O,j       lJ,00Vu1,v
:Ut 17.05100  0007.             UNIT097   7167,870,003 :    22,5097,000     116,220,000 :   51,022,270:  15,2137,000 :            ,154, ,000  :               6,4,30: 1,707,07
-  :io c r ro:o. a  01.:03675C7:,7,4,0   :1,53!4,79,002  :141,33A .0 :3'4.20'OC 07   0000007:,3,4,0    7730,070,70 "A                                                ,1   3   76   3,707073
1975 72TA2       17034 MA7L    17T70 I610ASE                                      W7I7ISAL 003000407 - 17705 ES7INCEO
A.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ,61,mv.cpl                                    M                               A~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 051000721327100'N-  12.5
E.  17:' 2                 -----             4,537,757,7 7      ,07,40,3760                                                 8 ..  IWO   03 11c      4  (U i Ii;ties                3201
C.  7772                                      ,11777 ------lc   3mr-                         1                              C. ll 003A.7L 00L-0C..,A,. ICC *b.20AC                  6.*R'EI1;
C7i'2 5.2 - ~ 676  I0 08  C I    !3x,070,740,70            mm,21 ,06,7                  40                             0.  043410 67367.  1             I3010   ValeC. IoO.I     7,4307001



APPENDIX C
/       AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
* ir     -          REHABILITATION  PRo,JECT
(A.S.R.P.)
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTLIiHE
P.O. Box JiA.37.
'ii k. N MA/ASRP/02/149/ QO..                                    Accra.
N                                                        .1^ I:, 1 \ ...... ... 1)ace. . 8th March 95
Dear Sir,
CREDIT NO.1801-GH
RE: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT (ASRP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
Your letter addressed to the Hon. Minister for Food and
Agriculture dated 31st January 1995 on the above ICR refers. .
The Report reflects the views of the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture/Government  of  Ghana  on  Project  Implementation
experience,   performance   which   will   guide  MOFA   in  the
implementation of other IDA/World Bank projects.
However the *Ghana Irrigation Development Authority (GIDA)
has made an observation on the Twinning Component of the project
(page 6 para. 15 of the Bank staff's Final Draft, dated January
31, 1995). Please see enclosed GIDA's comment.
Yours faithfully,
PROJECT COORDINATOR, ASRP
(Z. ANDAN)
MR. SURJIT SINGH               L-       ,     i
PRINCIPAL OPERATION OFFICER
THE WORLD BANK                            tncomirgcO.c  . 3 15
AF4AG
1818 H. STREET N.W.
WASHINGTON DC 20433                 Routedto:   1- L.Ad  i >t
THRO'
RESIDENT REPRESENTIVE
WORLD BANK
ACCRA.
CC: HON. MINISTER, MOFA
HON. DEPUTY MINISTER (CR PS)
Afrfcm Irfn. Cf,.
tLF'DIRECTOR, (MOFA)-r
CHIEF EXECUTIVE, GIDA



IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENFT AUTHORITY
In case or rpIy tbe
number and dat, rf this                                                       Head Office
LcZter *hhuld be    .                                                     P. 0. Box M.154
Our RefNoJ !0 '_ a     1X                                                   Accra-Ghana
Your Ref A            '     o ...  . ............. ... RE.C OF GIAN  ... .. 27th.Fabruary. 199s.
THE PRCJECT CO-ORDINATOR, u S   P                           -
MINISTRY OF FOOD e AGRICULTURE,                   s        7 |  Lu.. I VL -
P. 0. BOX M.37,
A C C R A.                                                     IAh  j95
COMMENTS, IF ANY, ON THE IMPLEM4ENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT ON A.S.R.P.
We are writing with reference to your letter No. M/A/ASRP/02/14611
dated 22nd June, 1994 attaching a copy of an Implementation Completion
RepdJrt on the ASRP. We have had occasion to comment on the aide memoire,
and it does not appear to us that our conmnents reflected in the final
report. We have therefore attached another copy.
We however, concur entirely with the conclusion of the report that
combining capacity building and execution of investment activities at
the same time is not the right way to go. This was exactly what happened
in the case of GIDA, where the organisation was being strengthened and
the same time tasked with the establishment of pilot schemes based on
concepts which had not yet been tested.
Our-main commnent on the report refers to paragraph 15 page 6 of the main
report.
a.  It was never anticipated that GIDA will establish the pilot
schrcnes on force account.  It was also never anticipated that the
j,^rners could construct ttese schemes from their own resourocs as
.tazad in the report.
What was planned was that headworks will be done by a contractor
as it did not appear that the farmers will have the capacity to
ao) it and the farmers will carry out in-field activities.
b.  We do not entirely agree that we did not provide technical
guidance during the construction and early stages of operation
and maintenance. On all the two projects, there were resident
engineers throughout the construction period to supervise the
work of the contractors. Again agricultural extension staff
were attached and are still attached to give the necessary
technical advise.
The need for the employment of contractors arose from the following:-
i.  The commencement of the programme had been protracted and
since the funding period for the twinning.progranne was for
three (3) years, it was thought prudent to define activitiea
that could be done very quickly by contractors within the
funding period and those that could be done by the farmers.
This approach was in line with the recommendations of the
Irrigation Sub-Sector study which recommended that construction
activities within the sector should be carried out by private
enterprise. The fact that the wrong contractors eventually got
selected is not GIDA's fault but a lesson for us all.



_    2 2
ii.  It is still doubtful whether farmers can undertake construction
activities on irrigation projects without any advance for food
and other necessities: Any such advance would be included in
the cost of the project and to be recovered from the farmers.
This principle has been demonstrated on all IFAD projects in the North
where f.vd is given to compensate for part of the farmers Labour.
We hope that the above together with our conments on the aide-memoire
will assist to clarify some of the issues raised in the report about
GIDA.
CHIEF  EXECUTIVE
( . K. GYARTENG JNt
stlp.



Aide Memoire
Re - Implementation Completion Report on ASRP
1.0   Our comments are derived from the following pages of the aide memoire.
(i)   Page 2, last paragraph, the following statement has been made:
"As planned the irrigation component represents the largest use of IDA
funds, $6.4 m or 38% of the entire credit, of which $3.9 m or 23%
represents the cost of GIDA technical partnership. Regrettably
irrigation and the twinning arrangement achieved the least possible
results. "
(ii)   Page 10, paragraph 1, last sentence "The benefits from this investment
are likely to be negligible."
2.0   We feel that these conclusions were arrived at without deeper appraisal of the
aim of the twinning arrangement. For ease of refererce we wish to
recapitulate tz;e genesis of the project. The twinning programme had the
following rationale and we quote from the Ghana Irrigation Subsection Review
Report dated December 15th, 1986, page (III), Chapter 10:
"The next decade should be a period of consolidation and learning for
both farmers and GIDA during which a sound base can be established
for a further development of the irrigation sector. Farmers should
actively be involved in the planning process so that they can become
aware of the opportunities and difficulties involved in irrigated fanning.
GIDA will have to play an important role in improving irrigation
efficiency but its organisation and staffing needs review and its
capabilities need strengthening. One way to achieve this would be to
establish a twinning relationship with a similar organisation with a
sound track record in another country."
The aim therefore of the twinning was purely institutional building. Arising
out of the rationale above, the following terms of reference were established
for the twinning arrangement:
2.1   Purpose:
(a)   Bring to the staff of GIDA experiences and skills in the successful
organisation and management of irrigation schemes.
(b)   Transfer those practices which can be successfully adopted by GIDA to
strengthen its Organisation and Management for its role of promoting
the orderly development of economic irrigation systems and organising
or assisting their efficient operation and maintenance.
I



Tons
Transplanted Rice                       8.3
Direct Seeding Rice                     7
Tomatoes                               17.75
Garden Eggs                            39
Pepper                                 17
Onion                                 11
Okro                                    3.5
Groundnut                                1.5
Cowpea                                   1.0
These yields were obtained from farmers plots. The technology of transplant
has now been fully adopted at most of GIDA projects, which previously
practised broadcasting. The fact that yields are deteriorating is not the fault of
the technology but farmers inability to obtain the inputs necessary for high
yields.
(v)   Pilot Schemes
Even though only two pilot schemes out of 6 have been implemented,
for the purpose of selecting the schemes for implementation, 72
locations were identified and 14 of this number were shortlisted and
subjected to feasibility studies. The fourteen schemes were regionally
distributed as follows:
3



REGION            SCHEME             AREA         REMARKS
(HA)        _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _
ASHANTI           Oda-Bekwai         85           Studies completed
Sata              56           Construction completed
BRONG-AHAFO   Nobeko                 65           Studies completed
Pran              60           Studies in progress
CENTRAL           Okyereko           100          Studies completed
(rehabilitation)
EASTERN           Akim-Abodom        24          Studies completed
Akim Swedru       25           Studies completed
VOLTA             Koloe-Dayi         57           Studies completed
Tsawe             38           Studies completed
WESTERN            (ikam             27           Construction completed
Enchi             28           Studies completed
UPPER XX EST      Ladayiri/          44           Studies completed
____ ____ ____ ____ Y eliy iri__   _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Projects for Northern Region, Upper East and rest of Upper West were studied under
Canadian financing and are therefore not shown here.
4.0   From the foregoing we wish to affirm that in general the twinning arrangement
fulfilled the terms of reference entrusted to it and the funds for this forms 61 %
of the revised IDA funds allocated to the irrigated sector ($3.9 million for
twinning and $551,191 for the two pilot schemes).
With regard to the pilot schemes, the following factors determined the low
percentage of implementation.
(i)   It took longer to identify and design projects to the investment
threshold value of $4,000/ha stipulated by the World Bank.
(ii)   The two pilot projects were approved to be built above the threshold to
test
(a)   Economic viability of small scale irrigation projects
(b)   Farmers willingness and ability to take over management of
these schemes
4



(c)    Farmers ability to pay for capital cost of the project within an
agreed time frame
(d)    Enhancement of GIDA's ability at design of such small
schemes.
Because the threshold, later increased to $5,000/ha, was not attained in the
design, no further funds were made available for that aspect of the project
even though Ladayiri and a few others were ready for implementation.
It is therefore rather infortunate for the team to conclude that there is very
little to show implying that the amount for pilot schemes have been spent
without any results, when in fact the funds were re-allocated. It is even more
unfortunate when the two projects have just been completed and none of the
elements to be tested have been tested.
5.0    With regard to Sata, the report makes a judgment based on inadequate
information on the development of such pilot schemes.
(a)    The farmers complaint that the diversion weir will not work is based on
their knowledge of dams. One of the requirements of the pilot scheme
however was that other low cost harnessing of water rather than a dam
be examined, and this is what Sata project seeks to do.
(b)    Only 30% of the canal was lined. This was because during
construction good clayey material suitable for construction of canals
was obtained nearby and this was not known at the time of design. The
cost saved was used to offset the increased cost on the project due to
delays caused by the Contractor's failure to work to schedule due to
liquidity.
(c)    The weir, main canal and laterals ability to pass water has been tested
as is usually done. The actual fields have not been irrigated because at
completion of the infrastructure, the rains had set in. It is planned to
test-irrigate the entire fields during the dry season. It is therefore
unfair to conclude that the system will not pass water because the need
to pass water was not there. In fact if the team had wished, we could
have demonstrated this in the field if we had been requested to do so.
(d)    The canals had also partly silted. This is not due to non-lining. This
is due to the fact that the project is new and all soils are loose. It
needs some few rains to consolidate the soil.
(e)   It was also partially silted because the farmers, having planted their
maize were engaged on their other farms and were not available to
carry out cleaning-up jobs. It is therefore not the fault of non-lining as
only few canals on our irrigation projects are lined and were also the



cause of the high cost of the projects which these pilot schemes seek to
address.
(f)   The farmers talk of holes in the field. The only hole is at the
beginning of the project and that area is even above command. This
depression has been caused by settlement of fill material due to the
heavy rains.
6.0   It is rather unfortunate that the team did not have full dialogue with cross-
section of officials on topics touched upon in the report related to GIDA. It is
obvious that most of the conclusions in the draft aide-memoire have been
based on interviews with people with little background of the project.
7.0   We hope the above will help to clarify the purpose of the twinning
programme, its achievements and difficulties.
We also hope that the necessary adjustments will be made to the report to
reflect the comments stated above.
8.0   We have not yet seen the report on Kikam. We hope that we will be given the
opportunity to comment before that also goes into print as the views collected
only from the farmers may not reflect the purpose of establishing the pilot
schemes.
9.0   In general i:n both Sata and perhaps Kikam even though the team collected
views from farmers there appears to be no comment on the repayment of the
investment. Perhaps if the farmers had been reminded by the team that they
would have to pay back the investment costs, they would be less prone to
demanding extra refinements which had not been put in for the very purpose
of nutting the repayment cost manageable by the farmers.






IBRD 26697
TBU R KINA  FASO                                                                          .auca                                   HN
B'.  ;'111. C    S   AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
Towu       1ongcPER  -AJ /.,                                         REHABILITATION PROJECT
*1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~BOLGATANGA                                                kC*TT%ON RESEARCH
Lowr                              U  P P E R          (PSOJECTS
1, "Opo                           ~       ~      ~~~~~uob  --       Y'-                                     AAGRICULTURAL EXTENS Cr4
ItO~~~~~O                      -        I~~~~~  b,-Co,,baga                                                  LEEMOSTRAT ON POTST
tA  E* s                  Vo  pV .-                 -                                               WATER CONSER'VATION-
Naclo ~       WV                      6.0Sw"                                                                  *        R SK ADAPTIVE
A                                                 Walewo ~~~~                                              P -,VALLY BOTTOM R CE
~  iPROJECTS
N,                                                   *      --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SM"AEL SCALE RRIGATION
WA                                                                                    PRCIJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'    OECTS
PR t,ARY ROADS
Gushiegu5                            CDISTRICT CAP EALS
REGOICN CAP TALS
Sanpa                Yendi   ~~~~~~SOobobf         NATIONALCAPITAL E
Nya,kplo             r-,           ~~~~~~~~~~~INTE R NAT 0 P4AL
.,c                yer,                          B~~~~~~~~~~~~OUND~ARIES
-Dom-go                                                                        "1
t.,    A   Bole 
.2   ~~K,tnioA    BRONG-AHAFO1
' ete
Kwonwe Danso              Korochi
Wench -Ateobubus
/Drcbo
j,e
C.~~~~~~ Do-so
Kenyos9 [Tep                                                                                          'Pon Adn Mmoe 
j dc,,ase 
u     Mc,nkrs                oMa,,po,,te,,
G    ks             NEo,e,su~i5                   ongk
-   [ KUMASI       OajinaseJ_yproesc,Ho'L
K,,ntemse_
Lobes?  C        Y<~~   Monso          Bekwot                EA ST ERN           B
Nkwaonio                        /e
W,-S ~~~~~~~~~~'rmKrobo                                                                                         Aas
wows?               ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  KJ dC                            A           C.           dd-,
N       0       /                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KOFORIDUA  SO~oy
Du,,w- k                                           SA o~aoeu    Akcropong                       'SgVp          )       6
on Of           E TI    D                 Aanoks 70"    Alk-wOdo  a  soamm  ao                                Keio
Asankrangwo                  -Foss  ~~~~~~sa -a                              Tese
WESTERN                     L   iuTs
I           A1uwoko C~~ ACCRA    ACCRA
unk~~~~~~a                               0 ~~~~ 10   20   30   40   50   60
To,kI.                              ba                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
Doocosea       *      ~~SalTpond         The boundaries, colors  den,ominati-onsad  any other,nfrtto
Ass   ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~~~E-eCAPE COAST                              shown on this map do  -ot rePly, oe The port of The World Bank
GrouLp, any judgmen,t on the legal status of any territory, or any
NDI -                    ~~~~~en,dorsement or acceptane of suh b-ouna-S.
Aa'm    Agano           AD IGULF OF GUINEA
FEBRUARY 1995









IMAGING
Report No:       14500
Type: ICR



