                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00003508



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-48400 IBRD-80450)



                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 370MILLION


                                        TO THE

                         PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                         FOR A

              FUJIAN HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT



                                    December 14, 2015




Transport and ICT Global Practice
East Asia and Pacific Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2015)

                         Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB)
                               US$1.00 = RMB6.11

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 – December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADT Average Daily Traffic                      ISP  Institutional Strengthening Program
AF    Additional Financing                     M&E  Monitoring and Evaluation
CNEN China National Expressway Network         NPV  Net Present Value
CPS Country Partnership Strategy               O&M  Operation and Maintenance
EIA Environment Impact Assessment              PAD  Project Appraisal Document
EIRR Economic Internal Rate of Return          PCU  Passenger-Car Units
EMF Environmental Management                   PDO  Project Development Objectives
      Framework                                PMO  Project Management Office
FEC Fujian Expressway Cooperation              RAP  Resettlement Action Plan
FHSIP Fujian Highway Sector Investment         RPF  Resettlement Policy Framework
      Project                                  RRIF Rural Road Implementation
FIRR Financial Internal Rate of Return              Framework
FPCD Fujian Provincial Communications          RRIP Rural Roads Improvement Program
      Department                               SWAp Sector Wide Approach
FPECD Fujian Provincial Expressway             TA   Technical Assistance
      Construction Directorate                 TPRI Transport Planning and Research
GDP Gross Domestic Product                          Institute
GoC Government of China                        VOC Vehicle Operating Cost
HMPP Highway Maintenance Pilot Program         YWE Yong’an – Wuping Expressway
ICR Implementation Completion Report



                 Regional Vice President:    Axel van Trotsenburg, EAPVP
                        Country Director:       Bert Hofman, EACCF
          Senior Global Practice Director:     Pierre Guislain, GTIDR
                        Practice Manager:        Michel Kerf, GTIDR
                    Project Team Leader:         Xiaoke Zhai, GTIDR
                       ICR Team Leader:          Xiaoke Zhai, GTIDR
                    ICR Primary Author:       Antti P. Talvitie, Consultant
                                                 CHINA
                                  Fujian Highway Sector Investment Project


                                                          CONTENTS
Data Sheet	
A. Basic Information ........................................................................................................... ii
B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................... ii
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................... ii
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ........................................................................ ii
H. Restructuring (if any) ..................................................................................................... ii
I. Disbursement Profile ....................................................................................................... ii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 16
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 18
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 20


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 37
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 46
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 47
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Fujian Highway Sector
Country:                China                     Project Name:
                                                                            Investment Project
                                                                            IBRD-48400,IBRD-
Project ID:             P091020                   L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                            80450
ICR Date:               05/05/2015                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:                 CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 320.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 368.88M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 368.88M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Fujian Provincial Communications Department (FPCD)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: NA

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/31/2005      Effectiveness:             11/28/2007        11/28/2007
Appraisal:             04/17/2006      Restructuring(s):                            05/19/2011
Approval:              10/12/2006      Mid-term Review:                             06/21/2010
                                       Closing:                   06/30/2012        06/30/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings           Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:      Satisfactory        Government:         Satisfactory
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
Performance:                                      Performance:




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                     Quality at Entry
Project at any time        No                                                None
                                                     (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                           No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                                99                  99
Sub-national government administration                                  1                       1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  50                  50
Rural services and infrastructure                                       50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                   James W. Adams
Country Director:          Bert Hofman                            David R. Dollar
Practice
                           Michel Kerf                            Jitendra N. Bajpai
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Xiaoke Zhai                            Aurelio Menendez
ICR Team Leader:           Xiaoke Zhai
ICR Primary Author:        Antti Talvitie

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Loan Agreement)
The project development objective of the Fujian Highway Sector Investment Project is to
increase the effective use of the road infrastructure in Fujian Province to support its social
and economic development by: (i) enhancing its rural roads network; (ii) reducing transport
costs; and (iii) facilitating the interconnection across the coastal provinces.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Applicable


                                                 ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                      Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                       Values (from                          Achieved at
  Indicator       Baseline Value                         Revised Target
                                         approval                           Completion or
                                                            Values
                                       documents)                           Target Years
                Freight rate along Yong'an-Wuping Expressway Corridor (RMB/ton*km and
 Indicator 1:
                total RMBs) for sample of three products
                RMB0.37 /ton-km RMB0.55 /ton-km                            RMB0.55 /ton-km
    Value
                 RMB89 (total)        RMB130 (total)                         RMB130 (total)
Date achieved     10-Apr-2006           30-Jun-2012                           31-Dec-2014
 Comments Target achieved. Current freight rates along the Corridor are: cement - RMB0.6
  (incl. %    /ton-km; fruit – RMB0.5 /ton-km; and coal – RMB0.55 /ton-km.
achievement)
              Travel times on rural roads rehabilitated under the Rural Road Improvement
Indicator 2: Program (RRIP, percentage reduction before and 3-months after works
              completion)
   Value                0                   50%                                   79%
Date achieved     10-Apr-2006           30-Jun-2012                           31-Dec-2014
 Comments Target exceeded by 58%.
  (incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3: Direct project beneficiaries
   Value           Not in place                              1,250,000         1,309,000
Date achieved     10-Apr-2006                              11-April-2011      30-Jun-2015
 Comments Direct project beneficiaries are the villagers living along the rural roads
  (incl. %    improved by the project. Target exceeded by 5%.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                     Original Target       Formally Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator   Baseline Value Values (from approval          Revised        at Completion or
                                      documents)        Target Values        Target Years
             Increases in traffic volumes (PCU/day) and passenger services (buses/day) on
Indicator 1: rehabilitated roads, based on sample of roads, comparison between before and 3
             months after.
                      0           15% (traffic volumes)                 171% (traffic volumes)
   Value
                                   30% (pass. services)                  133% (pass. services)
Date achieved 10-Apr-2006             30-Jun-2012                             30-Jun-2015
 Comments Target exceeded. Results are based on a sample of 20 roads.
  (incl. %
achievement)
             Pace of loan disbursements for RRIP component (as percent of loan amount
Indicator 2:
             allocated to this component, including additional financing (AF)
                      0                   100%             100% (AF       100% (AF included)
   Value
                                                           included)
Date achieved 10-Apr-2006             30-Jun-2012       11-April-2011         31-Oct-2015



                                             iii
 Comments Target achieved.
  (incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3: Traffic volumes (PCU/day) on existing highway G205.
             Yong'an-           Yong'an-Liancheng:                       Yong'an-Liancheng:
             Liancheng: 4,605 2,780                                      4,205
             Liancheng-         Liancheng-Shanghang:                     Liancheng-Shanghang:
   Value
             Shanghang: 5,925 3,630                                      5,369
             Shanghan-          Shanghan-Yanquian:                       Shanghan-Yanquian:
             Yanquian: 7,462 4,580                                       6,980
Date achieved 10-Apr-2006             30-Jun-2012                              30-Jun-2015
 Comments Traffic volume reductions on the three segments were 22%, 24%, and 17% of he
  (incl. %   expected reductions. Traffic volume on highway G205 did not divert to the YWE
achievement) as anticipated because of government new policy of requiring a free G205.
Indicator 4: Traffic volumes (PCU/day) on new Yong'an-Wuping Expressway
             Yong'an-           Yong'an-Liancheng:                       Yong'an-Liancheng:
             Liancheng: 0       5,440                                    6,033
             Liancheng-         Liancheng-Shanghang:                     Liancheng-Shanghang:
   Value
             Shanghang: 0       10,100                                   8,795
             Shanghan-          Shanghang-Yanquian:                      Shanghang-Yanquian:
             Yanquian: 0        16,960                                   12,518
Date achieved 10-Apr-2006             30-Jun-2012                              30-Jun-2015
             Target partially achieved. Traffic volume on Yong’an – Liancheng is 11% higher
 Comments
             than the expected target. Traffic volume on Liancheng-Shanghang and
  (incl. %
             Shanghang-Yanquian were 87% and 74% of the target values due to toll policy
achievement)
             change.
             Average travel times (hours) between Yong'an and Wuping on existing G205 and
Indicator 5:
             on YWE (when construction is completed).
             G205: 6.0 hours        G205: 5.7 hours                          G205: 5.7 hours
   Value     YWE: not               YWE: 2.0 hours                           YWE: 2.0 hours
             applicable
Date achieved 10-Apr-2006             30-Jun-2012                              31-Dec-2014
 Comments Target achieved.
  (incl. %
achievement)
             Accident rates (total number of fatalities) on existing Highway G205 and on new
Indicator 6:
             YWE (when construction is completed)
             On G205: 22              On G205: 16                              On G205: 15
   Value     On YWE: not             On YWE: 10                                 On YWE: 5
             applicable
Date achieved 10-Apr-2006             30-Jun-2012                              31-Dec-2014
 Comments Target exceeded by 6% on G205 and 50% on YWE.
  (incl. %
achievement)
             Contract maintenance approaches applied more extensively in Fujian (number of
Indicator 7:
             contracts)
   Value              0                     6                                       9
Date achieved 10-Apr-2006             30-Jun-2012                              30-Jun-2015



                                             iv
  Comments Target exceeded by 50%.
   (incl. %
achievement)
              Percent positive evaluation rate of training and study tour programs (in line with
 Indicator 8:
              agreed evaluation approach)
    Value              0                     70%                                    95%
Date achieved 10-Apr-2006               30-Jun-2012                            31-Dec-2014
  Comments Ratings are based on post-training questionnaires; satisfactory rating exceeded the
   (incl. %   target by 36%.
achievement)
 Indicator 9: Rural roads rehabilitated (kilometers)
    Value              0           3,500 (from AF docs)        5,009               5,402
Date achieved 10-Apr-2006               31-Dec-2010        11-April-2011        30-Jun-2015
  Comments Achievement was 8% over the target.
   (incl. %
achievement)
              Number of km completed non-Bank Financed works with substantial compliance
Indicator 10:
              with RRIF
    Value              0                    1,500              4,244               4,885
Date achieved 10-Apr-2006               30-Jun-2012        11-April-2011        30-Jun-2015
  Comments Target exceeded by 15%.
   (incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 11: Analysis of toll rates in the Province.
                 Not in place        Recommendations                         Recommendations
    Value
                                        Implemented                            Implemented
Date achieved 10-Apr-2006               30-Jun-2012                            31-Dec-2014
  Comments Target achieved.
   (incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 12: Impact analysis/survey adopted as part of RRIP databank.
    Value        Not in place             Adopted                                 Adopted
Date achieved 10-Apr-2006               30-Jun-2012                            31-Dec-2014
  Comments Target achieved. Impact analysis/survey procedures have been adopted as part of
   (incl. %   RRIP databank.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
        Date ISR
No.                              DO                          IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/08/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     01/08/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     06/28/2008           Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            75.00
  4     12/20/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  243.54


                                               v
  5    03/21/2010           Satisfactory        Satisfactory   244.10
  6    10/10/2010           Satisfactory        Satisfactory   302.10
  7    03/19/2011           Satisfactory        Satisfactory   302.58
  8    12/21/2011           Satisfactory        Satisfactory   304.06
  9    12/11/2012           Satisfactory        Satisfactory   320.12
 10    06/18/2013           Satisfactory        Satisfactory   328.12
 11    12/22/2013           Satisfactory        Satisfactory   336.12
 12    06/21/2014           Satisfactory        Satisfactory   359.13
 13    12/17/2014           Satisfactory        Satisfactory   359.13
 14    06/19/2015           Satisfactory        Satisfactory   367.05


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile




                                           vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector context
1.      Fujian province’s 35 million people live on the Taiwan Strait between
Guangdong and Hong Kong SAR, China to the South and Zhejiang and Shanghai
to the North. At appraisal, the province lagged behind the other coastal
provinces in transport infrastructure and that affected social and economic progress:
GDP per capita was 75% to 85% of the neighboring provinces. The density of higher
class roads was less than half of that in Guangdong and Zhejiang, and the percentage of
unclassified and lower class roads (81%) was substantially higher. Fujian’s higher class
roads serve North-South transport in the coastal provinces and provide access to
Fujian’s deep-water ports at Xiamen and Fuzhou for several inland provinces with a
population of over 300 million.
2.     The developed area of Fujian is on the narrow strip along the coast. Seventy
percent of its land westward is mountainous, with large pockets of poor population. Of the
207 poorest villages, 166 are in the project areas. In these villages the unclassified and
lower class roads are often impassable in the rainy season and transport costs are high.
Improved rural road network is a key element for the socio-economic development of
Fujian province.

3.      Support requested for an expressway in Fujian’s interior and rural roads
program. The Government of China (GOC) requested support of the World Bank for the
development of a key expressway in the North-South corridor, from the city of Yong’an to
the Fujian-Guangdong border city Wuping, inland from the coast, and for an extensive
rural roads program to foster rural development in Fujian.

Rationale for Bank Involvement

4.      Support for balanced investment strategy. The Provincial Government and the
Provincial Communications Department (FPCD) have a thoughtful investment strategy to
improve the road network to support Fujian’s social and economic development. Roads
serve a high percentage of passenger (95%) and freight traffic (70%) in Fujian province.
The investment strategy is balanced across all classes of roads: (i) doubling of the
expressway network by 2010, and tripling it by 2017; (ii) upgrading a network of 8,600 km
to Class II or higher standard between cities and counties and integrating them with the
expressway network; and (iii) aggressive improvement of about 35,000 km of non-paved
Class III and IV rural roads as part Rural Roads Improvement Program (RRIP) in 7,500
administrative villages by 2010.

5.     Value added from the Bank’s involvement. The Bank added value to the existing
FPCD programs through improved program delivery, better safeguards and fiduciary
arrangements, poverty alleviation, and the application of the Sector Wide Approach
(SWAp) and its framework. The ambitious road investment plans also required studies and


                                            1
institutional strengthening, with Technical Assistance (TA) and training at FPCD in several
aspects of road asset management and traffic safety and surveillance. RRIP enabled FPCD
to give county agencies technical support in accessibility and network quality management,
and improved administration of road assets.

6.     Additional Financing (AF). On August 30, 2011 the Bank approved an additional
US$50 million loan (Loan No. 8045-CHA) to Fujian Highway Sector Investment Project
(FHSIP) (Loan No. 4840-CHN) to the People’s Republic of China. The AF was consistent
with the original project objective and scaled-up the RRIP and institutional strengthening
components.

Relation to Higher Level Objectives

7.      The project sustained national and provincial goals. The project supported the
central government’s Eleventh Five-Year Plan (2006-2010), including China’s National
Expressway Network (CNEN) and the RMB100 billion initiative for rural roads in the same
period, and the strengthening of road management capacity at county and local levels. The
extensive RRIP is the Provincial Government’s flagship program to improve access and
mobility in villages. The project and its additional financing supported the provincial
government objective for social and economic development of the province.

8.      The original project and AF are aligned with the Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) for 2006-2010, especially its second pillar, to reduce poverty, inequality
and social exclusion, and to improve the competitiveness and investment climate in China’s
regions. It addressed the needs of disadvantaged groups in underdeveloped regions,
promoted balanced urban-rural development, improved rural livelihoods, and expanded
access to basic social services.

9.     The project incorporates elements of the so-called SWAp in the design of RRIP
component. Although the Bank support of RRIP represents only about 20% of the
resources required, its design sought to build upon and improve the existing framework
through employing better practices in social and environmental safeguards, procurement
and fiduciary arrangements, and technical engineering quality among counties, townships,
and villages. The disbursement approach and the monitoring and financial reporting
procedures were designed to apply innovative mechanisms and can be replicated in similar
investment initiatives in China.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

10.     Project Development Objectives. The project development objective of the Fujian
Highway Sector Investment Project was to increase the effective use of the road
infrastructure in Fujian Province to support its social and economic development by: (i)




                                            2
enhancing its rural roads network; (ii) reducing transport costs; and (iii) facilitating the
interconnection across the coastal provinces.1

11.    Key indicators to measure PDO achievement are listed in the Data Sheet. The
outcome indicators quantified the reduction in freight rates on Yong’an-Wuping
Expressway (YWE), and reduction in travel times on rural roads.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

12.    The original PDO was not changed by the Additional Financing (AF), but
outcome indicators were expanded. A new outcome indicator on project beneficiaries
was added. Three intermediate outcome indicators were also augmented: (i) revision of the
km of rehabilitated rural roads (financed by IBRD loan); (ii) pace of loan disbursement
under RRIP; and (iii) km of non-Bank financed rural roads compliant with RRIF.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.     Direct project beneficiaries are road users in the YWE corridor and residents along
the rural roads (1.25 million people). Nearly 70 percent of total YWE benefits will accrue
to car users, 25 percent to truckers and 5 percent to bus passengers; of the total 10 percent
will go to long distance traffic. A large share of rural residents benefiting from rural roads
improvements is likely to be lower income people. Other benefits from the project are an
increase in the income of rural farmers in RRIP areas and increased accessibility to schools
and hospitals. FPCD benefits from institutional development, studies, and training on
tolling, design and management of roads, road safety, and road maintenance. All Fujian
residents benefit indirectly from better, safer and well-maintained roads and transport
services.

1.5 Original Components

14.      The original project had four parts:

         A.     Rural Roads Improvement Program (RRIP). Construction of selected
         road sections of the Rural Roads Improvement Program, including provision of
         technical assistance for the supervision thereof.


1
  There is a difference in the description of the PDO between the Loan Agreement (LA) and the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD), but the intentions are the same. In the ICRR, project objectives are evaluated
with reference to the LA. The PAD elaborates on LA’s PDO: “The project aims to increase the effective use
of the road infrastructure in Fujian Province to support its social and economic development. This objective
seeks to contribute to: (i) improving living conditions in rural areas-particularly those in the areas of the
Province where poverty rates are higher-by enhancing the transport accessibility of the rural communities to
economic opportunities and social services; (ii) stimulating higher economic growth in Fujian Province by
reducing transport costs; and (iii) facilitating the interconnection across the coastal provinces. In this respect,
the project will meet both the provincial government objective to improve the transport network to support
the social and economic development of the province (especially in the economically lagging counties), and
the central government objective to facilitate transport interconnections across Coastal Provinces.”


                                                        3
       B.      Yong’an-Wuping Expressway (YWE). Construction of 195 km long four
       lanes new highway section of the Changchun–Shenzhen expressway between
       Yong’an (Sanming City) and Yanqian in Wuping (Longyan City), including the
       acquisition and installation of electrical and mechanical facilities, the construction
       of buildings and annex areas for service and safety operations, and provision of
       technical assistance for the supervision thereof.

       C.      Highway Maintenance Pilot Program (HMPP). Development and
       implementation on a pilot basis of a program for sourcing out periodic and routine
       highway maintenance in selected sections of Fujian Province highway road
       networks, including staff training and supervision and provision of technical
       assistance thereof.

       D.       Institutional Strengthening Program (ISP). Carrying out of an
       institutional strengthening program for FPCD, including: (i) staff training on
       activities such as road asset management, operational management of roads and
       expressways, construction quality control, road safety, and design and operational
       safety considerations for tunnels; (ii) a comprehensive study on toll rates across
       Fujian Province to evaluate their influence on traffic demand, maximize the use of
       the expressway network and optimize its economic value, and on impact evaluation
       and monitoring to establish a knowledge base of the impacts of the RRIP on rural
       livelihoods to provide an analytical base for the design of future interventions on
       those types of roads across Fujian Province; and (iii) provision of technical
       assistance for the design and implementation of the Highway Maintenance Pilot
       under Part C of the Project.

1.6 Revised Components

15.    In 2011, the project was revised to reflect the additional loan and the re-allocation
of the original loan proceeds to scale up the impact of RRIP supported by following
components:

       Component A. Construction of rural roads selected from the provincial level rural
       road databank, including provision of technical assistance for their supervision.

       Component D. Provision of training activities and study tours for the benefit of the
       local government agencies in the issues concerning (i) environmental design and
       construction of rural roads and (ii) rural road maintenance and management.

1.7 Significant changes

16.    The Additional Financing Project increased the original project costs of
US$1,490 million to US$2045.89 million. Component A of the project added 3,758 km
to road rehabilitation in poor mountainous and coastal regions, with an increase in the
number of project beneficiaries. Both were reflected in the revised PDO indicators. The



                                             4
increased financing in Component D was for technical assistance in environmental design,
construction, and maintenance of rural roads, with focused training in the newly added
counties.

17.    There was a reallocation of US$13.132 million due to a misprocurement of an YWE
contract (para 24) to RRIP. US$1.12 million was cancelled from foreign study tours in
Component D due to a new national policy on government officials’ overseas tours.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

18.     Adequacy of Project Concept and Design. Project design was informed by prior
projects in Fujian (Fujian Highway Project 3681-CHA and Second Fujian Highway Project
4502-CHA). Lessons from past experiences were valuable in framing the project
components. During the past, highway projects in China focused on expressways, which
typically required most financial resources. This project’s greater focus was on direct
poverty reduction, which affected the balance between expressway and rural road
components, combined with a realization that rural areas had great potential for bolstering
growth and buttressing macro-economic gains. Hence, the project’s structure includes a
comparatively large component on rural roads, which are scattered in different counties
and villages. It was hard to pre-define all the road segments to be financed by the project
at the preparation stage and to supervise each of them during implementation. The
implementation framework for RRIP applied SWAp elements (see RRIF in Para. 20)
instead of the conventional ex-ante definition of project activities. In addition to the rural
roads component, the YWE component was selected among several expressway alignment
alternatives in an exceptionally demanding topographical environment, as a link in China’s
National Expressway Network (CNEN) to attain the full benefits of CNEN connectivity by
fostering its integration within the province and with the networks of the neighboring
provinces. FPCD’s experience with Bank policies and practices (in safeguards,
procurement, the environment, financial management, ethnic minorities, and participation),
together with the road data collected in the previous project, were useful in the selection of
the rural road segments and monitoring of progress, and to the incremental introduction of
SWAp for RRIP implementation (para 26).

19.     The project concept and design were appropriate to achieve the PDO. It had
innovative features in road segment selection, report-based disbursement, and
implementation of the entire RRIF (para 20), with over thousand small rural roads scattered
in the 7,500 administrative villages in Fujian. The risks were rightly identified and
mitigation measures were appropriately proposed. The Bank and the implementing entities
had also devised an implementation setup which allowed the Borrower and the Bank to
observe implementation closely and respond quickly, if necessary.

20.    Project Preparation. The Bank formally entered project preparation in January
2006 at the pre-appraisal mission. The project had already been discussed on several earlier
occasions over two-three years and at the time of pre-appraisal project content was well



                                              5
defined. The feasibility study and draft EA were available for the expressway; its technical
standards and quality requirements were defined and the key consultants were on board.
At pre-appraisal, arrangements for environment, procurement and fiduciary responsibilities
were agreed, as were the principal features of supervision, reporting requirements and
implementation arrangements. For RRIP, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA),
Environmental Management Framework (EMP), Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF),
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), and Ethnic Minority issues were brought together under
the Rural Roads Implementation Framework (RRIF).2 RRIF was meticulously prepared
and disclosed, and complied with Chinese laws and Bank policies. Agreements were
reached at pre-appraisal on training in all the issues included in the RRIF. All this was
much aided by the prior experience of FPCD and the Project Management Office (PMO)
with Bank-financed projects, and their hands-on knowledge of Bank policies and processes.
The appraisal followed in May 2006, at which time the project was ready for approval and
implementation.

21.      Adequacy of Risk Assessment. The risk assessment identified the following
important issues: (i) lack of balance between the expressway and rural road components;
(ii) sufficiency of built-in incentives in RRIP for institutional changes; (iii) compliance of
RRIF documentation with Bank standards; (iv) lack of interest in contract maintenance
among local contractors of FPCD; (v) increased costs or delays in YWE construction; (vi)
shortfall in expected demand for YWE use; and (vii) deficient application of social and
economic safeguards in YWE construction and in RRIP. Risk avoidance and mitigation
measures were responsive to the issues, many had experiential basis from prior projects
and were implementable (and were implemented). Other measures dealt with
implementation responsibilities and incentives for increased cost-sharing of eligible
projects; advance training and testing of proposed risk mitigation for their fine-tuning and
early response with follow-up mechanisms in RRIP projects; and use of foreign technical
assistance when no prior experience existed in Fujian (in design reviews and the
maintenance pilot). There was only one risk where advance risk mitigation was
unsuccessful: forecast traffic volume on YWE at opening (rated a low risk). Toll-road
traffic forecasts are notoriously uncertain, but do not portend long-run sustainability. The
ex-ante mitigations – toll rate study, access and connections to the expressway— were
appropriate.

22.      Overall Quality at Entry. Quality at Entry was very good. The project supported
the objectives of the Central Government, the Province and the Bank. Project investments
added value to the Province and to beneficiaries. Rural roads were chosen carefully for
their development impact, using the data bank on rural roads. Risks were identified and
mitigation measures were proposed. Training was started early before the contracts
commenced. Technical Assistance was forward-looking and built on the previous
institutional capacity for data collection, asset management, traffic safety, and overall


2
  The RRIF was the integrated framework for Procurement, Environment, Resettlement, Ethnic Minority,
and Financial Management. It included reporting and evaluation of progress with preset, defined formats,
and the technical and quality control specifications for the rehabilitation of the rural roads, including the
implementation arrangements. Training on all these issues was started early, before the loan approval.


                                                      6
structure of FPCD organization, and responded to the Province’s institutional needs.
Engineering design of YWE was prepared by a recognized Chinese design institute in
compliance with China’s new design standards and material specifications, and was
reviewed by international consultants. Safeguard implications of the expressway and its
alignment, especially resettlement and possible effects on nature preserves (though 20-30
kilometers away), were recognized and taken into account. Affected interests were
identified, informed and consulted. Risk assessments and mitigation measures were
consistent with Bank practices, although in retrospect ex-post mitigation measures could
have contemplated the risk of lower than estimated traffic on YWE. Even so, there was
good preparation on all aspects and issues that could be envisaged in the implementation
of such a complex project were identified and addressed. The approved retroactive
financing of sub-projects was discussed early and these sub-projects were well-prepared.
No exceptions from Bank policies were needed.

2.2 Implementation

23.      Implementation arrangements were complex, decentralized and appropriate.
The PMO for World Bank Project at FPCD was responsible for the overall coordination
and monitoring of implementing agencies, and served as the counterpart to the Bank.
Responsibility for procurement and implementation of the YWE component rested under
the Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate (FPECD), and the Longyan
YWE Company and Sanming YWE Company established with capital from FPECD and
the two municipalities. The two municipalities were in charge of resettlement
implementation. This was a mammoth project: an expressway in a challenging
topographical environment with 117 bridges (36 km), 32 tunnels (29 km), constituting 34%
of its length. Overall responsibility for implementation and monitoring of RRIP rested
with the Planning and Construction Division of FPCD, but the works were decentralized
to the County Communications Bureaus, de-concentrated branches of the FPCD. An
intermediate level entity of the City Communications Bureaus coordinated the monitoring
and flow of funds from the provincial level to the counties. The County Communications
Bureaus supported and monitored the Township and Village (local) road agencies, which
managed the local road networks and implemented roads in RRIP under their jurisdiction.
Technical assistance was divided between different directorates at FPCD as needed.3 For
RRIP, every road’s quality was inspected by FPCD and local Communications and
Highway Bureaus at completion, and only roads that met the standards could receive
provincial subsidy. For those roads eligible for reimbursement from the Bank loan, FPCD
provided the review report for construction quality and compliance with RRIF. The Bank
sampled roads and verified compliance with RRIF.

24.     Implementation Progress. Given the meticulous preparation, the construction of
the complex and costly Expressway was managed well and opened three months ahead of
schedule. Three hiccups merit mention: 1) a 7 month closure of a 300 meter stretch on one
lane in YWE for safety reasons, because the parallel G205 was in danger of a landslide in



3
    The complex institutional framework for implementation is described in detail in PAD Annex 6.


                                                     7
a deep slope cut and a counterweight had to be placed on an YWE lane to stabilize the
slope and to allow consolidation of the G205 embankment; 2) financial difficulties of the
two expressway companies, as the two cities (Longyan and Sanming) paid their share of
funds late, resulting in delayed payments to contractors; and 3) a 30% shortfall in expected
toll revenue due to lower than expected traffic volume on YWE, as a result of the central
government’s policy change to remove all tolls on Class II highways4 . One sub-grade
contract of YWE component was misprocured, because it started without the Bank’s ‘no
objection’5. The canceled funds, US$13.132 million, were transferred to the Rural Roads
component 6 . Implementation of the RRIP was largely uneventful thanks to good
preparation, forward-looking risk mitigation and decentralized supervision of works.
Ninety-five percent of the affected citizens were satisfied with the project (Annex 5).
Implementation of technical assistance and the maintenance pilots were also problem-free.

25.    Additional Financing. Activities under the AF were implemented satisfactorily
without any problems.

26.      SWAp. The SWAp (the first of its kind in China) was implemented successfully
for the RRIP component. RRIP roads were selected from rural roads databank, withdrawal
applications were made by batches after construction was completed, and audit and
inspections were carried out regularly and certified by the implementation agency for
eligibility of Bank financing. This approach was supported by RRIF, supplementary
technical documents, and training for the construction of rural roads. RRIP results confirm
that SWAp, supported by technical training, improved works quality and accelerated
progress, and simplified Bank review and disbursement procedures.

27.     Training was key to successful implementation. Important international training
addressed project management and toll road operations, financing, tunneling, supervision
and new pavement technologies; however, some planned international study tours had to
be canceled because of a change in national policy on overseas study tours. There were
also domestic trainings on cement pavement maintenance technology for rural roads,
bridge maintenance technology and management, and management of rural road
construction. Training enhanced the technical capacity of local road maintenance staff, and
played an important part in sustaining the long term impact of the project. On average, 95%
of participants rated training as satisfactory.




4
  Fujian is one of the first provinces piloting the national guidance on removing tolls on class II roads in
2009, as guided by State Council Directives (2008)[37] and (2009)[10], which resulted that the G205 in
parallel became a free alternative road to YWE.
5
  FPECD awarded the civil works contract to the second lowest bidder without fully responding to the
Bank’s additional clarification requests and the lowest-priced bidder’s complaints in this regard.
6
  The reallocation was authorized in a letter by the Country Director to the Ministry of Finance in July
2010, which also declares the misprocurement decision.


                                                       8
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

28.     M&E design. The M&E design included outcome indicators and intermediate
indicators to measure each aspect of the PDO:
     To enhance the rural roads network is measured by reduced travel times on
        rehabilitated roads and the number of direct beneficiaries, buttressed by
        intermediate indicators of kilometers rehabilitated, increase in traffic volume, and
        completion of TA and training.
     Reduction in transport costs is measured by freight rates on key commodities7,
        buttressed by intermediate indicators on accident reduction, traffic volume, travel
        time, and TA on optimization of toll rates.
     Facilitation of the interconnection across coastal provinces is measured by the
        completion of YWE, a missing link in the national inter-province expressway
        network (CNEN), as well as several intermediate outcome indicators for travel
        times on YWE, accidents, training, toll rates study and contract maintenance
        approaches.

29.    Taken together, M&E indicators helped to monitor implementation progress,
pinpoint problems should they develop, and evaluate the results of the completed project.
The decentralized M&E implementation arrangements were a project design for effective
implementation and risk management (para 23.)

30.     M&E implementation and utilization. Fujian PMO and the implementing agencies
carried out frequent monitoring of indicators and updated them regularly in progress
reports. M&E data was collected and reported on time and helped the PMO to propose
appropriate interventions during implementation. One of the identified risks materialized:
lower than predicted traffic volume on YWE. The mitigation plan included a toll rate study,
which was carried out and put into effect. More traffic could possibly be attracted to the
Expressway by building more interchanges for more frequent access points, but that
remedy was already applied at the design stage. Longyan and Sanming Expressway
Companies responded rationally to the lower traffic counts with effective cost control and
reduced their operating costs by 30 percent.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance


31.     The safeguard issues and compliance were well managed. As Category A
project, three safeguard policies were triggered, namely, OP4.01 Environmental
Assessment, OP4.12 Involuntary Resettlement, and OP4.10 Indigenous Peoples. Issues
that arose with environmental protection, resettlement and compensation, Ethnic
Minorities, and others were addressed promptly. This was possible because of the


7
  The average freight rate per ton for a shipment from Yong’an to Wuping was forecasted based on a
sample of three products (coal, cement and fruits). The freight rate without project interventions was
expected to increase to 0.57/ton-km or RMB 137 in total in Year 4. With the open of YWE, average freight
rate reduced to 0.55/ton-km and RMB 130 in total. This target was achieved.


                                                   9
integrated RRIF (including EMF, RPF, Ethnic Minority Policy Framework) for the RRIP
component, well prepared EMP, EIA and RAP for YWE, and prior experience and
capability of the implementing agencies, the PMO and its safeguard staffs, as well as
training on the safeguards before appraisal. An Ethnic Minority Development Plan was
prepared and implemented for the She Minority Group in Shangshui Village, Ningde City,
in accordance with the Ethnic Minority Policy Framework, when implementing a
township-level road in this village. Distributed sub-project management in numerous
scattered locations was able to provide hands-on assistance. Timely training was provided
when minor shortcomings were observed either by the PMO or Bank missions.

32.     Fiduciary management of the project was in compliance with Bank policy
except for a misprocurement in YWE. Financial management was carried out diligently
during implementation. The audits were timely and unqualified. The report-based
disbursement for RRIP was implemented well in general. Procurement of the rural roads
and YWE was generally done well; however a YWE earthwork contract was declared
misprocured as it was awarded to the second lowest bidder prior to fully responding to the
Bank’s request for additional clarification on the lowest bidder’s complaint (para 24). The
corresponding loan amount of US$13 million) was transferred to RRIP and FPCD used its
own funds to complete the contract on schedule. Minor shortcomings in procuring the over
thousand rural road projects (incomplete or inaccurate bids, contracts inconsistent with the
bid, missing security deposits, incomplete reporting, and technical capacity deficiencies)
were addressed diligently. For local administrative offices with no prior experience in
Bank-supported projects, and for contractors inexperienced with making bids, arranging
security deposits and complying with the other policies governing the rural roads program,
procurement training played an important role to remedy the various shortcomings.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

33.     Fujian has well-functioning maintenance operations. Cities (or Municipalities)
manage maintenance of the national and provincial roads in their jurisdictions (about 8,000
km by the nine Highway Bureaus). Periodic and rehabilitation maintenance works (by
segment not area) are mostly carried out by competitive contracting and routine
maintenance by force account. Competitive pilot maintenance contracts were executed and
accumulated experience for a likely transitioning path. Counties’ Communication Bureaus,
responsible for the county network (about 7,000 km) in their jurisdictions, receive technical
assistance from the cities’ Highway Bureaus. The large rural roads network (about 70,000
km) is maintained by the County Communication Bureaus’ sub-divisional maintenance
stations. Random checks on a sample of rural roads three years after completion showed
that the maintenance organizations functioned well and the roads were in sound condition.

34.     The present project brought five new things into maintenance practices. First,
transition to post-completion operation is occurring smoothly because there was extensive
training for managing low volume roads during project implementation for involved
professionals and firms (para 27). Second, technical assistance and pilot contracts in
maintenance using the Pavement Management System (developed in the previous Bank
operation) provided a good base for improving maintenance management. Third, increased



                                             10
maintenance funding through central government and province subsidy programs to
supplement township and village funds for maintenance and road safety provided
incentives to maintain the newly improved roads well. Fourth, the pilot programs on (area
wide) contract maintenance, both routine and periodic, are being expanded to cover an
increasing share of the network. Finally, active participation of residents in project
selection, funding, and supervision of maintenance will ensure sustainability. What has
been accomplished in the project is to lay a knowledge base for good practices in contract
maintenance.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

35.      Relevance of objectives – High. The project’s development objectives were clear
and concise, and supported the central government strategies of CNEN and rural road
initiatives, the provincial government’s investment strategy, and the Bank’s CPS in 2006
(para 7-9) for improving competitiveness of China’s various regions and reducing poverty,
inequality and social exclusion through the financing of infrastructure in key corridors,
particularly those serving poorer regions and communities. They remained relevant and
consistent with the development priorities of the national government’s 12th FYP (2011-
2015) for: (i) the expansion of road network in the country; (ii) provision of all-weather
roads and passenger services to villages; and (iii) establishment of a modern logistic system
at low cost and high efficiency. At the provincial level the project sustained Fujian’s
intention to build 3,000 km of highways and 20,000 km of rural roads during 12th FYP
period; there is also a strong focus on rural road safety improvement via its “three-year
action” program. The project’s PDO with its additional financing supported the Bank
Group’s CPS (2013-2016) for China and in particular its strategic theme of promoting more
inclusive development, through improving transport connectivity for more balanced
regional development. The PDO was aligned with the country’s road expansion plans and
transport improvement programs for villages, including Fujian’s “action program” for rural
roads and their safety.

36.     Relevance of design and implementation – High. Project design (comprising four
components) and implementation supported the achievement of the PDO, as discussed
below. As discussed in Section 2.3, the Results Framework (including Outcome Indicators
and Intermediate Outcome Indicators) was appropriately designed to measure achievement
of the PDO:

   a. RRIP supports the achievement of the “enhancing rural roads network” element of
      the PDO through upgrading rural roads. It is intended to provide better accessibility
      and mobility in the interior, mountainous region of Fujian. RRIP is also to
      contribute to reduction of transport costs through travel time saving, and improved
      road condition and safety, as well as to poverty reduction, social inclusion, and
      broad distribution of benefits in rural areas.




                                             11
   b. YWE, the 195 km long missing link in CNEN, is to improve transport connection
      among the coastal provinces and enhance more balanced regional development.
      YWE is also designed to contribute to reduction of transport costs by travel time
      savings and improved road condition and safety.

   c. HMPP follows important international trends in maintenance delivery. Benefits
      from contract maintenance include increased competition in maintenance, reduced
      costs, uniform quality of roads by technical classes, and innovation in maintenance
      technology. Because contract maintenance is a complex and lengthy process, its
      introduction through piloting would enable several institutional and technical issues
      to be addressed.

   d. ISP’s four parts (staff training, a study of toll rates, RRIP impact evaluation, and
      design and implementation of HMPP) were designed to contribute to enhancing
      Fujian’s overall capacity for developing and managing its road network, improving
      management efficiency, and reducing transport costs.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Achievement of PDO - Substantial

37.      The Project Development Objectives were achieved. The PDO had three explicit
objectives: (i) enhancing its rural roads network; (ii) reducing transport costs; and (iii)
facilitating the interconnection across the coastal provinces. The values of the PDO
indicators and the intermediate outcome indicators, detailed in the Data sheet, support the
claim of achievement of the PDO.

     a.      Enhancing Rural Roads Network. The project exceeded its output targets for
             rural roads rehabilitated (5,402 km achieved against a target of 5,009 km); in
             addition, the target for rural roads completed without Bank financing in
             substantial compliance with RRIF was also exceeded (4,885 km achieved
             against a target of 4,244 km). In addition, travel time reductions on RRIP
             declined by 79%, exceeding the target of 50%. The target for direct project
             beneficiaries of rural roads was also exceeded by 5%. Increases in traffic
             volumes and passenger services in a sample of 20 rehabilitated roads exceed
             targets by factors in excess of 10 and 4 respectively.
     b.      Reducing Transport Costs. The 195 km long Yong’an - Wuping Expressway
             (YWE) radically reduced travel times and transport costs in Fujian’s interior:
             PDO Indicator 1 targets on freight rates on YWE were met; travel time targets
             on YWE and G205 have been met (Indicator 5). Transport improvements in
             YWE corridor capture the dimension of ‘effective use’ of road infrastructure
             in Fujian, reflected in the preamble to PDO and in the PAD, and reduced
             freight rates, travel times and accidents not only on YWE but also on the
             surrounding rural areas benefiting from access to YWE using roads
             rehabilitated in the RRIP. In addition, travel time reduction targets on rural
             roads were significantly exceeded (Indicator 2).



                                            12
       c.       Facilitating the interconnection across coastal provinces. The completion of
                YWE addressed the missing link in the national expressway network (CNEN)
                in connecting the coastal provinces. Towns and villages in the YWE area of
                influence also benefited from the better accessibility and interconnections in
                Fujian. YWE met its target of reducing average travel time between Yong’an
                and Wuping; travel time on the existing G205 also reduced as envisaged. The
                target for reducing accident rates on YWE was exceeded by 50%, while the
                target for accident rate reduction on G205 was exceeded by 6%.


3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

38.    Ex-post benefit-cost analysis was conducted at project completion using the
appraisal methodology for YWE and RRIP. (Details in Annex 3)

39.    YWE. Three kinds of economic benefits were calculated for YWE and compared
“with” and “without” project cases: (i) vehicle operation cost (VOC) savings, (ii) time cost
savings (VOT), and (iii) reductions in the accident costs. The Economic Internal Rate of
Return (EIRR) and Net Present Value (NPV) are summarized below. The lower EIRR at
completion was the direct result from the lower than forecast traffic volume on YWE and
increased project costs. Traffic in the Yong-an to Liancheng segment has reached the
estimated traffic volume in the last year, but traffic on the other two segments’ is still 21%
lower than forecast at appraisal.8

                          Estimated at Appraisal                       Estimated at Completion
                   EIRR (%)            NPV (12% RMB               EIRR (%)          NPV (12% RMB
                                       million)                                     million)
    YWE            16.6                3210.2                     14.7%             5,745.9

40.     RRIP Ex-post Evaluation. The re-evaluation covered roads rehabilitated with
World Bank loan--1,299 rural roads with a total length of 5,402 km; 137 county roads (553
km) and 1,162 township/village roads (4,852 km) located in Fujian’s coastal and
mountainous areas. The per-km costs in coastal areas were 7% lower for county roads and
47% lower for town/village roads than projected at appraisal. The per-km costs in the
mountainous areas were 115% higher for county roads and 83% higher for town/village
roads than projected. Economic benefits were calculated for “with” and “without” project
cases for VOC and VOT savings (see footnote 8). Benefits from reduced accidents are not
included, although accident rates have declined (about 73% reduction). The aggregate


8
   Reasons for the large change from the ex-ante economic analysis are in the input values. Briefly, traffic
in the early years was much lower than that projected at appraisal, but has been increasing faster. It is now
estimated that the range of traffic increase would be 6.3% -9.3% in 2016-2020, when the appraisal estimate
was 5.3%-6.3%. The benefits in ex-post evaluation are higher than that estimated at appraisal. The hour-
value of travel time savings ranged RMB26.2-31.8 in 2015 based on Fujian’s GDP in 2014. At appraisal,
the value was only RMB1.5. The unit VOC are 30% less than at appraisal. The value and cost of life and
accidents are also higher now than at appraisal. Details are in Annex 3.


                                                     13
EIRR of 25.9%, for all the rural roads (not counting the accident benefits) is somewhat
lower than 34.7% at appraisal. Nonetheless, all rural road projects are economically viable.

41.     An ex-post financial evaluation of YWE. The recalculated financial internal rate of
return (FIRR) of YWE is 8.5% before taxes and 6.2% after taxes; the ex-post FIRR is
higher than estimated at appraisal. While profit margin is low in the early years of YWE
operation, toll revenues provide enough liquidity for loan repayment, and operation and
maintenance in the first years of YWE operation.

42.     Administrative Efficiency. Project implementation was efficient, benefiting from
the PMO’s experiences with previous Bank projects and the application of SWAp in RRIP.
Future efficiency gains can be expected from contract maintenance, as well as from other
road management and institutional strengthening activities carried out under the project.
Efficiency improvements and cost cutting in the two expressway companies, construction
of a demanding expressway in a difficult topography, and completion of small rural roads
in scattered locations (and over 2000 RRIF certified projects, including Fujian financed
roads outside the project) are concrete proofs of high administrative efficiency.
Administrative efficiency had spillover effects in terms of increased rural incomes detailed
in the impact study and in Annex 3. Administrative efficiency would have benefitted from
ex-ante consideration of local governments’ ability to take on loan burden.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

43.     Taking into account the ratings of high for relevance of objectives and relevance of
design, as well the substantial ratings for achievement of objectives and efficiency, project
outcome is rated satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

44.      The YWE is an important link in China’s expressway network (CNEN). YWE
provides a vastly improved facility across Fujian for the coastal provinces, and dependable
access to the cities, towns and settlements in Fujian’s mountain region. YWE has enabled
the transport of agriculture products to markets and delivery of construction materials,
fertilizers and other agricultural supplies to centers of economic growth. It provides an easy
entrance to tourist areas along YWE and other attractions in Fujian and adjacent provinces;
tourist volumes have increased, e.g. in Longyan City annual tourist volume has increased
20% since YWE opened, and annual tourism revenue has increased 15%.

45.    RRIP has improved rural access, mobility and gender fairness. Rural roads
upgraded under the project provide much improved and lower cost access to markets for
both agricultural products and inputs necessary in contemporary farming. Better transport
access and mobility have contributed to modernizing industries in towns and villages,
increased agriculture productivity, and attracted investment and trading. Non-agricultural
female employment has increased significantly to 48.5%, one half of female population in
surveyed villages have changed from heavy farm work to non-agriculture jobs. RRIP has


                                             14
also improved accessibility to health care by reducing the time for going to hospitals.
(Annex 5)

46.      Upgraded roads have provided income earning employment and reduced the
costs of construction materials. Construction of rural roads provided tangible local
employment opportunities, e.g., more than 160 villagers were hired full-time or part-time
for the construction of Bijia-Gaoling road. Increased incomes have improved the quality
of life, e.g., along one RRIP segment about 60% of the housing stock was newly-built or
partially renovated because increased income and reduced cost of construction materials.
Better road conditions and installation of safety measures have improved travel quality and
safety and extended public transport access to more villages. From 2011 to 2014, the
number of traffic accidents on rural roads decreased by 15% annually. (Annex 5 has more
details.)

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

47.     Institutional change occurs slowly, but some changes are already observable.
Traffic safety has improved. The study on toll road rates will help optimize revenues from
Fujian toll roads. Foreign study tours on project management, quality control, tunneling,
safeguard management, and telematics in traffic safety in tunnels has had observable effect.
Training programs on road management to project staff, contractors and supervising
engineers in several Fujian counties will have long lasting benefits. Environment protection
and citizen participation have gained importance (Annex 5 and Annex 7). The two
successful pilot programs on contract maintenance provide a good start; one county has
already entered into a maintenance contract. Network wide transfer to contract
maintenance will, however, take years as indicated by experience from the developed
countries.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

48.     Unintended positive impacts, highlighted by the social impact surveys, include:
restructuring of rural industries; labor force changes; population shifts; and unforeseen but
significant ways in which beneficiaries take advantage of the project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

49.     Social impact surveys conducted among beneficiaries of the RRIP component
identified the following positive impacts to villages (see also Annex 5):

   a. Transport Impacts. Improved rural road conditions resulted in faster, cheaper, and
      safer trips. Rural households experienced significant travel time reductions: 27%
      for work travel; 42% to access health services and markets in towns; and 40% for
      student trips to middle schools. Cost of travel by motorcycles and private vehicles
      reduced more than 50%. Rural passenger services are now available to more than
      80% of Fujian villages, and public transport ridership has increased 24%. Accident
      rates dropped from 7.5 accidents per year before the project to 2 accidents per year
      after works were completed.


                                             15
   b. Economic Benefits. GDP growth in RRIP villages was 64%, while in villages
      without RRIP GDP grew 42%. Profits from agriculture increased 46% in RRIP
      villages; whereas the increase in non-RRIP villages was 30%. Non-agricultural
      proportion of GDP in RRIP villages increased 4% over non-RRIP villages. The
      average household income in RRIP villages increased 81.5%, while in non-RRIP
      villages the increase was 74.9%.

   c. Social Impacts. RRIP created numerous work opportunities in agricultural and non-
      agricultural job, and in road works. Access to and use of social and health services
      improved, and quality of life in general became better in the rural areas. Many
      farmers who had been working outside the villages have come back to farm or work
      in local factories, or started their own businesses. Non-agricultural female
      employment also increased significantly to 48.5%; one half of female villagers
      surveyed moved from heavy farm labor to non-agricultural jobs.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

50.     Risk to Development Outcome is Moderate. YWE is managed by two
expressway companies, which have lowered their cost structure and will be able to fulfill
their road management and financial responsibilities. YWE is part of CNEN, and central
and provincial governments will provide support in the event of the toll-free G205 eroding
YWE toll revenues. Random checks on a sample of rural roads three years after completion
showed that the roads were in sound condition. A well-established management system for
rural roads is in place, and extension service on technical matters from the cities’ Highway
Bureaus is available when needed. Project institutional strengthening programs are already
being utilized and their benefits are observable. Because of the magnitude and geographic
coverage of RRIP and possible inadequate maintenance of rural roads in mountainous areas,
risk to development outcome is rated moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

51.    Bank Performance is rated Satisfactory. Design of this complex project (with rural
roads spread over a large geographic area and an expressway in a challenging topography)
was comprehensive and ambitious (paras 23-24). Engineering design, safeguard policy
frameworks, procurement and fiduciary procedures were established in detail. Training on
all aspects of implementation started after pre-appraisal. Separate and independent
supervision consultants were to be engaged for technical engineering works and for
safeguard compliance. Impact assessment and monitoring systems were included in the
project to create a data base for tracking project progress, performance and social
assessments. Quality at Entry contributed to the overall success of project implementation,



                                            16
its completion on time, and expressions of satisfaction from beneficiaries. The lack of
analysis of the loan’s financial burden on local governments (para 59) was addressed by
the expressway companies reducing operating costs. There is an inconsistency in the
wording of the PDO between the LA and the PAD, although not in substance (footnote 1).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

52.      Quality of supervision is rated Satisfactory. The Bank worked effectively with the
implementing agencies to deliver a complex project with many innovative features on time
and to good quality. Because many procurement staff, supervisors and contractors,
especially for rural roads, had no prior experience with Bank projects, the Bank provided
considerable on-going implementation supports on all aspects of project implementation,
including engineering and compliance with safeguard and fiduciary policies. The Bank
addressed the misprocurement issue appropriately and reallocated relevant loan amount to
the RRIP component. The Bank was diligent in training the implementing agencies in the
effective use of RRIF and SWAp. Bank missions were carried out in a regular and timely
manner, with the appropriate mix of skills represented in missions. Implementation issues
were assessed and resolved in a timely manner and reporting and ratings were candid. An
oversight in supervision was not taking the opportunity of AF preparation to evaluate the
toll policy change’s impact to YWE traffic forecast and adjust target value accordingly.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

53.   Based on the satisfactory ratings for Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
and Quality of Supervision, overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

54.     Government Performance is rated Satisfactory. Governments at all levels showed
strong ownership of the project and provided the requisite leadership and guidance for
project implementation, especially on compliance with safeguard policies. A Central
Government policy to remove tolls on parallel Class II road (G205) made it temporarily
difficult for the lower level governments and the Expressway Companies to fulfill their
financial obligations. A Government policy also reduced foreign study tours, resulting in a
US$1.12 million cancelation from the loan.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                            17
55.    The consolidated performance of the implementing agencies is rated as Satisfactory,
based on the assessment of the performance of the implementing agencies of the project
components, as summarized below:

   a. FPECD, Longyan Expressway Company and Sanming Expressway Company,
      which were the implementing agencies for YWE, completed construction of the
      195 km expressway in a timely manner, to good quality, and in compliance with
      safeguards requirements, despite the challenging topographical environment.
      Procurement of the contracts (by FPECD) was, however, marred by a
      misprocurement and the delayed counterpart funding. The rating for YWE
      implementing agencies is Moderately Satisfactory.

   b. RRIP was implemented by many implementing entities under the guidance of
      FPCD and PMO. The decentralized implementing agencies had a learning curve,
      but were dedicated and produced good results, as detailed earlier and also in Annex
      2. The performance of RRIP implementing agencies is rated Highly Satisfactory.

   c. FPCD implemented the institutional strengthening component. Training programs,
      highway maintenance pilots, as well as toll-road and impact studies were completed
      as planned. The training programs contributed to the timely completion of a
      complex and innovative project on time and to high quality. The successful
      implementation of the contract maintenance pilots have resulted in contract
      maintenance being applied in Fujian for periodical maintenance and rehabilitation
      of highways, as well as for routine maintenance of rural roads. The toll rate study
      has proved useful province wide. The Impact Evaluation and Monitoring of the
      rural roads program has installed a useful data base to track and observe the
      condition and performance of the rural road network. FPCD’s performance in
      implementing the project’s institutional strengthening activities is rated Highly
      Satisfactory.

(C) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

56.    Based on the above ratings for government performance and implementing
agencies’ performance, overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

57.      Early recognition of all project requirements and World Bank and Government
regulations and risks are essential for successful and efficient project implementation. This
was the case in this project and is the most important lesson from this project. The
institutional structure and responsibilities were clearly laid out and the comprehensive
policy framework, RRIF, contained all important parts: EMF, RPF, Financial Management,
Procurement, and Ethnic Minorities. Training on all these issues was started before loan




                                            18
approval. When the loan became effective, everything in this immense, difficult and
complex project was ready to go.

58.     Early recognition of risks needs to be reflected in mitigation measures. Save one
issue (lower than expected traffic volume on YWE, as a result of a government policy
change) this good rule was observed throughout this project (see paras 24). While a non-
tolled alternative is required in most developed countries, it is debatable if the government
policy change requiring the availability of a non-tolled road as an alternative, could have
been anticipated. Perhaps the most important and effective means for ensuring traffic
diversion from G205 would have been enforcement of vehicle weights on G205 (but no
overloading risk was identified in PAD). Truck overloading control requires joint
intergovernmental efforts from multiple entities and needs a solution beyond FPCD. Even
so, the demand deficit on YWE is temporary and causes no risk to development outcome.

59.     Financial burden of loans on local governments. Government fiscal policy evolved
over time. At project preparation, no evaluation of the fiscal capacity of the participating
municipalities was made. However, both YWE cities (Longyan and Sanming) had
difficulty in meeting their counterpart fund obligations in a timely manner. Bank appraisal
should include an evaluation of the project’s fiscal burden on local governments, and
mitigation measures should be included in project design. This is particularly important in
the context in China of the revised Budget Law issued in 2015, requiring accountability
and financial transparency at all levels of government.

60.      Contract maintenance is a long term endeavor. The pilot maintenance contracts
were carried out with positive results. Experience from developing countries shows that
institutionalization and network wide application of maintenance contracting is a complex
undertaking and its adoption requires a long time, much longer than a typical loan period.
The issues are not only technical, but include institutional reform, labor training and
relocation, job security, budget processes, performance indicators for different road classes
and their enforcement, supervision of contractors, and payment procedures. The pilot
applications in maintenance contracting could be followed up to ascertain if their
geographic and possibly technical scope could be expanded, negative technical aspects are
corrected, and the labor, procurement, and supervision issues are dealt with.

61.      Utilize past lessons in institutional strengthening. In Fujian advances were made in
previous projects in road data collection, road management, traffic safety, and
identification of staff training needs. This project’s outcomes are proof of their usefulness.
The road data bank was used to select rural roads for rehabilitation; traffic safety has been
embedded in the provinces’ own “action program” in design and safety audits; and training
programs, international and domestic, on various aspects of road management (tunneling,
tolling, project management, safeguard issues) have been effective to ensure continuity in
institutional development.

62.     The SWAp method of project execution is beneficial. SWAp was welcomed by both
the Borrower and the Bank. It stimulated stronger counterpart ownership and leadership of
the project, and achieved more rational and efficient resource allocation. By focusing on
the large program and applying common fiduciary/safeguards standards, SWAp could


                                             19
scale up benefits, strengthen local capacity and reduce duplicative reporting. For the Bank
SWAp allows results-driven rather than process-focused implementation oversight.
Practices that are not consistent with Bank policies and procedures can be identified in
advance during project preparation. The SWAp experience in this project is an encouraging
sign for its application in other Bank-supported projects.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

63.    Summary of the Borrower’s ICR is in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                            20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

  (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                                        Original Project and Additional
                                   Appraisal Estimate (USD                                                      Total Actual/Latest Estimate        Percentage
                                                                           Financing Estimate (USD
                                          millions)                                                                    (USD millions)                   of
                                                                                   millions)
      Components                                                                                                                                    Additional
                                 Non-                                     Non-                                    Non-         Bank                 Financing
                                          Bank                                          Bank                                                         Estimate
                                 Bank                       Total         Bank                       Total        Bank        Financ      Total
                                        Financed                                      Financed
                               Financed                                 Financed                                Financed        ed
Rural Roads Improvement         403.79        98.26        502.05        850.88        160.77      1,011.65      926.42       160.97    1,086.60       107%
Program (RRIP)
Yong’an Wuping                  515.31       218.55        733.86        528.44        204.62       733.06       960.44       204.21    1,164.65       159%
Expressway (YWE)
Highway Maintenance               0.48         0.18         0.66          0.48           0.18         0.66         1.12        0.22     1.34            203%
Pilot Program (HMPP)
Institutional Strengthening
                                  0.11         3.01         3.12          0.11           3.51         3.62         0.11        2.55     2.66            71%
Program (ISP)
Land Acquisition and
                                106.30           -         106.30        106.30            -        106.30       113.66          -      113.66         107%
Resettlement (only YWE)
Total Baseline Cost            1,025.99      320.00       1,345.99      1,486.21       369.08      1,855.28     2,001.76      367.95    2,368.91       128%
Contingencies                   144.01         -           144.01        189.68           -         189.68       26.02           -      26.02           14%
Total Project Costs            1,170.00      320.00       1,490.00      1,675.89       369.08      2,044.97     2,027.78      367.95    2,394.93       117%
Front-end fee                      -           -              -             -           0.93         0.93           -          0.93     0.93           100%
Total Financing
                               1,170.00      320.00       1,490.00      1,675.89       370.00      2,045.89     2,027.78      368.88    2,395.86       117%
Required
  Data Source and Exchange rate: Appraisal Estimate - PAD (at 1:8.05 exchange rate, May 4, 2006); Additional Financing Estimate: AF Project Paper (at 1:6.62
  exchange rate - January 10, 2011); Actual/Latest Estimates – FPCD (Actual Project Cost calculated at 1:8.05, the same exchange rate as PAD)




                                                                              21
(b) Financing

                                                                                                      Actual/Latest
                                                                            Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
                  Source of Funds                       Type of Cofinancing                             Estimate
                                                                            (AF) (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                                                                     (USD millions)
Borrower                                                                   1,675.89               2,027.78            121.00%
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                      370.00                 368.88              100%




                                                                    22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Appraisal Plan-Fujian Highway            Additional Financing            Actual Accomplishments at ICR and Any Variances
Sector Investment Project (FHSIP)

Component A. Rural Roads Improvement Program (RRIP)
The RRIP component under FHSIP was The AF provided US$49.38              The planned activities for FHSIP were completed in 2008,
designed to improve conditions of the    million to financing more       three years ahead of project closing date. The project
lower class of roads that connect        activities under RRIP           constructed 1,802 rural roads totaling 7,967 km. The IBRD
administrative villages to the main      component. It was designed      loan (US$111.53 million) served to support the
provincial road network. The Bank loan to support the construction of    construction of 973 rural roads totaling 4,223 km. These
supported the overall program and        rural roads, including          roads also includes the 114 rural roads (totaling 413km)
financed rural road investments using    provision of technical          supported by the reallocation of US$13.132 million from
the rural roads implementation           assistance for their            YWE component to RRIP component in 2011. Fujian and
framework (RRIF) agreed upon with        supervision. It will            its local municipalities constructed another 829 rural roads
FPCD. The Bank loan aimed to support rehabilitate or rebuild at least    totaling 3,744 km. The total mileage of rural roads
a subset of at least 3,500 km out of the additional 1,000 km of rural    constructed was 7,967 km.
10,000 km of local road sections         roads in the 61
already identified based on the demand counties/districts of 8 cities    The planned activities of AF were completed. Within the
of counties, townships and villages that in Fujian province to a         three year implementation period, 326 rural roads (1,182
are part of the 35,000 km provincial     standard of Class III/IV all-   km in total) were completed with IBRD loan support. 529
rural roads 2004-2010 program.           weather roads.                  rural roads totaling 1,141 km were completed with
                                                                         counterpart funding.

                                                                         Combining the original project and the AF, 2,657 roads
                                                                         (totaling 10,290 km) were constructed/rehabilitated in
                                                                         Fujian with the support of RRIP component (See Table
                                                                         A2.1 below). The final cost of RRIP is 7% higher than the
                                                                         estimated total project cost with additional financing,
                                                                         mainly because much more mileage of rural roads were



                                                                  23
                                                      constructed by counterpart funds than the targeted value at
                                                      appraisal.


Component B. Yong’an - Wuping Expressway (YWE)
This component supported the                          The construction of YWE was carried out successfully.
construction of 195 km long four-lane                 The full expressway totaling 195 km (39.86 km in
new highway section of the                            Sanming City and 155.09 km in Longyan City) was
Changchun–Shenzhen expressway                         completed and opened to traffic on June 28, 2010. IBRD
between Yong’an (Sanming City) and                    loan financed 33% of the subgrade and pavement of YWE
Yanqian in Wuping (Longyan City),                     except for procurement package A9 (which was
including the acquisition and                         misprocured and the Bank loan savings were reallocated to
installation of electrical and mechanical             RRIP project). The total cost of YWE is US$ 1,565.87
facilities, the construction of buildings             million (including land acquisition).
and annex areas for service and safety
operations, and provision of technical                Construction of YWE involved 11 sub-grade contracts and
assistance for the supervision.                       five pavement contracts (including traffic engineering). All
                                                      these contract packages were large with the highest
                                                      contract value of RMB 892.71 million (A5). These
                                                      attracted big qualified construction companies to bid and
                                                      therefore the implementation progress and work quality
                                                      were ensured.

                                                      Five domestic supervision firms were procured and each
                                                      supervision firm set up one resident engineer’s office with
                                                      responsibility for one pavement contract and the
                                                      corresponding sub-grade contracts. The total numbers of
                                                      supervision engineers/inspectors for the expressway
                                                      reached 420. A joint foreign/ local supervision office was
                                                      set up in Liancheng city. The office consisted of five




                                                 24
                                                              foreign supervision engineers from TROW International
                                                              Ltd, two representatives: one from Sanming City, one from
                                                              Longyan City, and five chief supervision engineers from
                                                              each supervision firm.

                                                              The actual project cost of YWE component (including land
                                                              acquisition, resettlement, environment protection,
                                                              supervision and capacity building) is 32% higher than the
                                                              estimates at appraisal, mainly due to the cost overrun of
                                                              civil works caused by design changes. The quantity of
                                                              earthworks increased 102%, length of bridges constructed
                                                              increased 54%, length of tunnels increased 6.6%. The
                                                              inflation of construction materials also contributed to cost
                                                              overrun – unit cost of steel increased rapidly and the
                                                              maximum variation (with procurement baseline) reached
                                                              168.8% during procurement period.

Component C. Highways Maintenance Pilot Program (HMPP)
This component supported the                                  Contract for periodic maintenance of S203 (from 17k+500
implementation on a pilot basis of a                          to 20k+500, 3 km long) commenced on May 27, 2010 and
program for outsourcing periodic and                          was completed on September 23, 2010 with a two year
routine maintenance in selected                               liability period. The road section for the routine
sections of the Fujian Province                               maintenance contract was 28.66 km on S201 (K236+945-
highway road network.                                         K265+606). The contract period was from October 1, 2011
                                                              to September 30, 2012. It has improved current
                                                              maintenance design and work planning, and increased
                                                              contractor responsibility. Linkage between contractor
                                                              performance and contract payment became clearer.

Component D. Institutional Strengthening Program (ISP)




                                                         25
This component supported studies and        The Additional Financing       (i) Study on Toll Rates. The study was completed in
training activities as part of an           provided another US$ 0.5       August 2008. The study reviewed status of toll rate in
institutional strengthening program for     million for the RRIP           Fujian and policy environment in China and in Fujian
FPCD, including (i) a study on toll         components to support          province, conducted alternative analysis and financial
rates, (ii) the impact evaluation and       training activities            evaluation of toll rate charging options, and arrived at
monitoring for the RRIP, (iii) the          concerning: (i)                policy recommendations which contributed to the
technical assistance for the HMPP, and      environmental design and       setting of toll road rates standard in the province.
(iv) training for staff of the agencies     construction of rural roads
and institutions involved in the project.   and (ii) rural road            (ii) The impact evaluation and monitoring for the RRIP
                                            maintenance and                was completed in January 2011. The study had
                                            management.                    collected data and conducted surveys of the RRIP
                                                                           program of FHSIP, analysis the data and summarized
                                                                           the survey results and social-economic impacts.

                                                                           (iii)The technical assistance on HMPP was completed
                                                                           in 2011. The study has reviewed the institutional setup
                                                                           of road maintenance and provided recommendations
                                                                           for Fujian’s consideration of applying highway
                                                                           maintenance by contract.

                                                                           (iv) To enhance the capacity of rural road maintenance,
                                                                           37 oversea study tours had been carried out, 18
                                                                           domestic training events have been provided to more
                                                                           than 1,400 technical staff of highway and road
                                                                           maintenance.




                                                                      26
                                Table A2.1 Activities Completed under the RRIP Component
            Original Project              AF                          Non-Bank Financed           Total at Completion
                               Cost                        Cost                        Cost       # of                  Cost
            # of      Mileage             # of    Mileage             # of   Mileage                       Mileage
City                           (RMB                        (RMB                        (RMB       Road                  (RMB
            Roads     (KM)                Roads   (KM)                Roads (KM)                           (KM)
                               Million)                    Million)                    Million)   s                     Million)
Fuzhou      121       489.44   307.18     61      243.29   283.29     253    1,024.68 1,032.42    435      1,757.41     1,622.89
Zhangzhou   154       566.95   656.21     45      100.24   140.93     172    579.34    531.41     371      1,246.53     1,328.55
Longyan     313       1,421.22 1,046.25   52      149.83   111.55     273    816.39    714.75     638      2,387.44     1,872.56
Sanming     104       574.08   441.63     52      214.70   186.61     252    834.56    721.10     408      1,623.34     1,349.35
Nanping     144       671.13   458.18     42      168.67   101.78     159    618.77    526.89     345      1,458.57     1,086.86
Ningde      80        265.63   191.21     50      221.82   220.03     197    806.17    714.55     327      1,293.62     1,125.80
Putian      57        234.18   196.76     3       12.35    8.50       19     72.62     66.36      79       319.15       271.62
Quanzhou                                  21      71.05    78.18      33     132.84    152.56     54       203.89       230.74
Total       973       4,222.63 3,297.43   326     1,181.94 1,130.88   1358   4,885.37 4,460.04    2657 10,289.94        8,888.36




                                                            27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      Economic and financial re-evaluations of the Project were carried out at the ICR
stage using similar methodology as that at appraisal. Actual traffic for both the Yong’an –
Wuping Expressway (YWE) and the rural roads were collected and analyzed. Accordingly,
the traffic forecast was adjusted according to the actual traffic and the socioeconomic
development in the project areas. Before the Project, the transport condition of the G205
(existing parallel roads to the YWE) and the rural roads were very poor. Upon completion
and operation of the Project, the vehicles on the YWE and the rural roads could drive at
faster speeds with lower operating costs and less travel time. Economic benefits were
calculated by comparing the “with” and “without” project cases. Economic internal rate of
return (EIRR) was calculated and assessed for the YWE and the rural roads separately. As
the YWE has provision of toll revenue, financial internal rate of return (FIRR) was also
recalculated.

Economic Re-evaluation of the YWE

2.     The YWE is a fully controlled 194.95 km long 4-lane expressway. The project
implementation started in April 2007 and was completed in May 2010. The YWE has 4
service areas and 12 toll plazas (11 entry/exit toll plazas and 1 on road toll plaza at the
Fujian and Guangdong border).

3.      Traffic Analysis and Forecast for the YWE. According to the traffic surveys, the
daily traffic on the YWE averaged 5,882 PCUs in 2010, and increased an average 7.7%
per year and reached 8,530 PCUs per day in 2015 (Table 1). Most of this traffic was
diverted from the parallel local road (G205). Compared to the forecast traffic at appraisal,
the actual traffic level was about 40% lower in 2011–2015, but “catching up” the
projections. Accordingly, the traffic growth rates for future years have been adjusted to
average 7.8% per year in 2016–2020 and 4.3% per year in 2021–2030.9 The traffic forecast
results are in Table 2.

                     Table 1. Actual Traffic on the YWE (PCU per day)
            section             2010         2011         2012        2013         2014         2015
     Yong'an-Liancheng           3,340        4,083        4,502       4,905        5,387        6,033
    Liancheng-Shanghang          6,510        7,185        7,085       7,320        7,996        8,795
     Shanghang-Yanqian           9,220       10,216       10,103      10,415       11,298       12,518
          Average                5,882        6,649        6,741       7,055        7,701        8,530
PCU = passenger car unit; Source: Fujian PMO




9
 At appraisal, the traffic growth rates were projected to be annually average 8.0% in 2005–2011, 6.0% in
2011–2020, and 4.3% in 2020 – 2030.


                                                   28
               Table 2. Traffic Forecast for the YWE (Vehicles, AADT)
        year          Total           Car          Bus        M-Truck        L-Truck
        2016          6,562          3,299         666         1,943           654
        2017          7,068          3,573         728         2,065           701
        2018          7,614          3,870         796         2,196           753
        2019          8,202          4,191         870         2,334           808
        2020          8,837          4,539         950         2,481           867
        2021          9,217          4,734         991         2,588           904
        2022          9,613          4,937        1,034        2,699           943
        2023         10,026          5,150        1,078        2,815           983
        2024         10,457          5,371        1,125        2,936          1,026
        2025         10,907          5,602        1,173        3,062          1,070
        2026         11,376          5,843        1,224        3,194          1,116
        2027         11,865          6,094        1,276        3,331          1,164
        2028         12,375          6,356        1,331        3,474          1,214
        2029         12,908          6,630        1,388        3,624          1,266
        2030         13,463          6,915        1,448        3,780          1,320
    AADT = annual average daily traffic
    Source: Fujian PMO.

4.      Project Costs of the YWE. Upon completion, the total project cost was RMB10,
511.95 million, which includes the costs for civil works, equipment, land acquisition and
resettlement, construction supervision, and related capacity building programs. Compared
to the appraisal estimate, the project costs were about 32% higher, caused mainly by
additional earth works, price escalations for labor and construction materials, and extra
amount of land acquisition and resettlement. The major construction activities were
implemented in 2007–2010, which was faster than anticipated at appraisal. The actual costs
for the operation and current maintenance (O&M) of the YWE was about RMB 0.26
million per km in 2010, comprising about 60% for operation and 40% for routine
maintenance. It was assumed that such O&M costs would increase by 3% per year along
with the traffic growth and service improvement. The periodic maintenance was estimated
at RMB1.06 million per km for medium-term rehabilitations and RMB2.12 million per km
for major rehabilitation. It was scheduled that the rehabilitations of the YWE would take
place in every 7 years at the costs of RMB205.87 million for 2016 and 2017, and
RMB411.74 million for 2023 and 2014. All of these capital and O&M costs were converted
to economic costs by applying an average factor of 0.84 as at appraisal.

5.      Benefit Estimation for the YWE. As at appraisal, three types of economic benefits
were calculated for “with” and “without” project cases: (i) vehicle operation cost (VOC)
saving, (ii) passenger time cost saving, and (iii) accident cost reductions. In the “without”
project case, most of the road traffic in the corridor would use the existing parallel highway




                                             29
of G205 with slower speed, longer distance, and higher accident rate.10 In “with” project
case, the vehicle speeds on the YWE are 80/100 km per hour and on G205 40/50 km per
hour. Substantial VOC and passenger time costs savings accrue. Using the unit VOC at
appraisal with inflation adjustment, the VOC savings were estimated at per vehicle-km
RMB0.27 for cars, RMB1.80 for buses, RMB0.51 for medium trucks, and RMB0.70 for
large trucks. The passenger traveling time costs were estimated using GDP per capita of
Fujian Province with considerations of working days and hours per year, average car and
bus occupancy, percentage of work trips, and time savings by using the YWE or the G20511.
The accident cost reduction was estimated using the accidents rates at appraisal, but with
higher unit cost of RMB12, 000 per accident due to improved economy. In the economic
benefit calculations, 90% of the total YWE traffic was considered as diverted traffic from
the G205.

6.     Economic Internal Rate of Return. Based on above assumptions and the estimations
on the economic costs and benefits, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was
recalculated at 14.7% for the YWE, which is lower than the appraisal figure of 16.6%. The
lower EIRR is mainly caused by higher project investment cost and lower traffic in the
early years of operation. However, the recalculated EIRR is still higher than the World
Bank recommended opportunity cost of capital (12%). Therefore, the YWE continues to
be economic and viable. The sensitivity tests showed that the EIRR is sensitive to the
changes in benefits. Therefore, the YWE operators need to keep the expressway in good
condition and improve its services to attract more traffic and facilitate the efficient traffic
flow.

                             Table 3. Sensitivity Test for the YWE
                                                                       EIRR        ENPV @12%
       Scenarios                                          Test
                                                                        (%)        RMB million
       Base Case                                                       14.7%          5,745.9
       O&M Cost                                         +10%            14.7          5,623.9
                                                        +20%            14.6          5,501.8
                                                         -10%           14.8          5,868.0
                                                         -20%           14.9          5,990.0
       Benefits                                         +10%            15.8          8,217.5
                                                        +20%            16.8         10,689.1
                                                         -10%           13.6          3,274.3
                                                         -20%           12.4           802.7
       O&M Cost Higher & Benefits Lower               +10%,-10%         13.6          3,152.3
                                                      +20%,-20%         12.3           558.6
     EIRR = economic internal rate of return, ENPV = economic net present value
     Source: the World Bank ICR team.




10
  The parallel highway G205 is a Class II road with traffic capacity of 7,000 medium trucks per day.
11
   The hour-value of travel time savings ranged RMB26.2-31.8 in 2015 based on Fujian’s GDP. At
appraisal, the value was only RMB1.5. The unit VOC are 30% less than at appraisal.


                                                   30
Ex-post Economic Evaluation of the Rural Roads

7.      Under the project, the World Bank loan supported rehabilitation of 1,299 rural
roads with total length of 5,405 km, including 137 county roads with total 553 km and
1,162 township/village roads with total 4,852 km. These rural roads are located in the
coastal areas and mountainous areas of Fujian Province. The rehabilitated county roads are
in Class III have the width of 6.5 meter. The town/village roads are in Class III or IV have
the width of 3.5－5.0 meters.

8.      Traffic Analysis and Forecast for the Rural Roads. During implementation, traffic
counts on a sample of roads were carried out. In 2014 (the first full year of operation), the
average daily traffic was 2,832 vehicles on the county roads, and 558 vehicles on the
town/village roads in the coastal areas. In the mountainous areas the respective numbers
were 1,910 vehicles and 379 vehicles. Comparing to the forecasts at appraisal, the actual
traffic was much higher, about 77% for the county roads and 127% for the town/village
roads. Considering the actual traffic and socioeconomic development in the project areas,
the traffic growth rates for future years were adjusted to 5.0–8.0% per year in 2016–2020
and 4.0–5.0% in 2021–2030.12

               Table 4. Actual Traffic on the Rural Roads (AADT, vehicle)
                                      Costal                           Mountain
               year
                             County       Town/village          County     Town/village
               2008           1,997          393                 1,347          267
               2009           2,116          417                 1,427          284
               2010           2,243          442                 1,513          301
               2011           2,378          468                 1,604          319
               2012           2,521          496                 1,700          338
               2013           2,672          526                 1,802          358
               2014           2,832          558                 1,910          379
               2015           3,002          591                 2,025          402
          AADT = annual average daily traffic
          Source: Fujian PMO.

Project Costs of the Rural Roads.

9.      The actual project costs for the rural roads were RMB4,428.32 million, comprising
RMB317.84 million for the county roads and RMB1,764.46 million for the town/village
roads in the coastal areas, and RMB158.08 million for the county roads and RMB2,187.94
million for the town/village roads in the mountainous areas. Compared to the estimates at
appraisal, the actual unit costs per km are different: (i) the unit costs in coastal areas are


12
  At appraisal, the traffic growth rates were estimated at 5% per year in 2005–2010, 4.5% in 2011–2015,
and 4% in 2016–2020.


                                                   31
about 7% for the county roads and 47% for the town/village roads lower; and (ii) the unit
costs in mountainous areas are about 115% for the county roads and 83% for the
town/village roads higher. The routine maintenance costs were estimated at RMB7, 000
per km for the county roads and RMB6, 000 per km for the town/village roads. The periodic
maintenance was scheduled in every 7 years at the costs of RMB0.35 million per km for
the county roads and RMB0.30 million per km for the town/village roads. All above capital
and maintenance costs were converted into economic costs by using the factor of 0.84 as
at appraisal.

Economic Benefit Estimations for the Rural Roads.

10.    Two types of economic benefits were captured for the rural roads by comparing
“with” and “without” project cases: (i) vehicle operation cost (VOC) saving, and (ii)
passenger time cost saving. Before the project, the rural roads were in poor condition, the
average vehicle speeds were only 30–40 km per hour on the county roads and 20–30 km
per hour on the town/village roads. With the project, the vehicles speeds are averaging 40–
50 km per hour on the county roads and 30–40 km per hour on the town/village roads.
Substantial VOC and passenger time costs are accrue. Table 5 shows the unit VOC at
appraisal with adjustment of inflation. It was estimated that the VOC savings were at least
10% for the county roads and 15% for the town/village roads. The passenger travel time
costs were estimated using GDP per capita of Fujian Province with considerations of
working days and hours per year, user groups, average car and bus occupancy, percentage
of work trips, and time savings of before and after the project.

               Table 5: Unit Vehicle Operation Cost (RMB per vehicle-km)
                                          Coastal Area               Mountain Area
                 Vehicle type
                                      County        Town           County      Town
              car                      1.71         1.87            1.87       2.02
              Medium bus               3.21         3.50            3.50       3.80
              Large bus                6.70         7.31            7.31       7.92
              Small truck              2.81         3.07            3.07       3.32
              Medium truck             3.49         3.80            3.80       4.12
              Large truck              4.95         5.40            5.40       5.85
              Tractor                  7.25         7.91            7.91       8.57
            Source: the project PAD

Economic Internal Rate of Returns.

11.    For the rural roads, the EIRRs were recalculated as at appraisal for the project roads
in coastal and mountainous areas separately for county roads and town/village roads.
Compared to the appraisal figures13 the EIRR for the county roads in the coastal areas is


13
  The EIRRs was 37.6% for the county roads and 44.7% for the town/village roads in the coastal areas; and
21.8% for the county roads and 31.9% for the town/village roads in the mountainous areas.


                                                   32
almost the same as at appraisal, and the EIRR for the county roads in the mountainous areas
is much higher mainly due to higher traffic. The EIRRs for the town/village roads in both
coastal and mountainous areas are lower due to lower traffic and higher investment cost
than expected. Overall, the aggregate EIRR for all the rural roads was 25.7%, which is
lower than that at appraisal of 34.7%. Nevertheless, all of the EIRRs are higher than the
World Bank recommended economic cost of capital of 12%. Therefore, all of the rural road
projects are still economic and viable. Table 6 is the summary of the EIRRs and the
comparison with appraisal estimates.

                  Table 6. Summary of the EIRRs for the Rural Roads
                     County Roads               Town/village Roads             Average
                  Completion Appraisal        Completion Appraisal       Completion Appraisal
                                                             20.3%-
Coastal Area         36.8%          21.8%       26.7%
                                                             26.2%
                                                             37.2%-
Mountain Area        41.1%          37.6%       23.3%
                                                             51.4%
   Average                                                                    25.9%           34.7%
Source: Fujian PMO

Ex-post Financial Evaluation of the YWE

12.    The YWE has provision of toll revenue and financial re-evaluation was carried out.
Currently, the YWE is operated 24/7 by Sanming Expressway Management Company and
Longyang Expressway Management Company, which are sub-companies of Fujian
Expressway Corporation (FEC). Toll scheme was proposed by FEC and approved by
Fujiang Provincial Price Bureau. Following table is the current toll level and future
potential adjustment.

                  Table 7. Toll Scheme and Plans (RMB per vehicle-km)
                          Small          Small           Medium        Large          Heavy
         period         Passenger       Freight         Freight and   Freight         Freight
                         Vehicle        Vehicle             Bus       Vehicle         Vehicle
       2010-2015           0.55           1.10             1.54        1.65            1.925
       2016-2020           0.60           1.20             1.68        1.80            2.100
       2021-2025           0.65           1.30             1.82        1.95            2.275
       2026-2029             0.75           1.50           2.10        2.25           2.625
   Source: Fujian PMO

13.      In the financial re-evaluation: (i) PAD’s financial investment costs of project and
estimated O&M cost were used; (ii) the toll revenues were calculated using the actual
traffic in 2010–2015 and with a new traffic forecast for future years; (iii) non-toll revenue
was estimated at 5% of the toll revenue, mainly from advertisements and expressway




                                                   33
services14; and (iv) business tax rate 3.5% of the revenue and corporative income tax rate
25% of net profit were applied. The cash flows cover 24 years, including 4 years for
construction and 20 years for operation.

According to above assumptions and estimations, the financial internal rate of return
(FIRR) of the YWE was recalculated at 8.5% before tax and 6.2% after tax. Such FIRR is
higher than the rate of 1.0% (at the discount rate of 5.02 percent) estimated at appraisal,
and higher than the average lending rate in China (6%). Thus, the YWE project is
financially viable and has sufficient revenues to cover its O&M costs as well as to pay
back the loans.




14
  The YWE has 4 pairs of service areas along the expressway, which have the facilities of restaurants,
shops, garages, hotels, and fuel stations.


                                                    34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
             Names                        Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
                                                               MNSTI -
Michel Bellier            Lead Transport Specialist
                                                                  HIS
                                                               AFTTR -
Wenling Chen              Consultant
                                                                  HIS
Yi Dong                   Sr Financial Management Specialist   GGODR
                                                               LEGLA-
Carlos Ricardo Escudero   Consultant
                                                                  HIS
                                                               EASIN -
Boping Gao                Consultant
                                                                  HIS
Imogene B. Jensen         Consultant                           GSURR
Maria Luisa G. Juico      Program Assistant                     GTIDR
Andres Liebenthal         Consultant                            IEGCC
Aurelio Menendez          Practice Manager                      GTIDR
Aymeric-Albin Meyer       Operations Adviser                    OPSPQ
                                                               EASRE -
Hiroshi Ono               Sr Environmental Spec.
                                                                  HIS
                                                               EASTE -
Wen Pan                   Consultant
                                                                  HIS
Jinan Shi                 Senior Procurement Specialist        GGODR
Supee Teravaninthorn      Practice Manager                      GTIDR
Jacques M. Tollie         Consultant                           EAPDE
                                                               EASEN-
Naoya Tsukamoto           Sr Environmental Engr.
                                                                  HIS
Peishen Wang              Consultant                           GENDR
                                                               EASTS -
Dawei Yang                Consultant
                                                                  HIS
                                                               EASTE -
Han-Kang Yen              Research Analyst
                                                                  HIS
Chaohua Zhang             Lead Social Development Specialist   GSURR
                                                               EASCS -
Youlan Zou                Consultant
                                                                  HIS
Supervision/ICR
                                                             AFTTR -
Wenling Chen              Consultant
                                                               HIS
Junxue Chu                Senior Finance Officer             WFALN
Yi Dong                   Sr Financial Management Specialist GGODR
                                                             EASIN -
Boping Gao                Consultant
                                                               HIS
Yi Geng                   Sr Financial Management Specialist GGODR
Petrus Benjamin Gericke   Lead Transport Specialist          GTIDR
Aurelio Menendez          Practice Manager                   GTIDR
Juan D. Quintero          Consultant                         OPSOR
Yunqing Tian              Program Assistant                  EACCF
Jacques M. Tollie         Consultant                         EAPDE



                                             35
Peishen Wang                  Consultant                          GENDR
                                                                  EASTS -
Dawei Yang                    Consultant
                                                                    HIS
                              Senior Social Development
Songling Yao                                                      GSURR
                              Specialist
                                                                 EASTE -
Han-Kang Yen                  Research Analyst
                                                                   HIS
Chaohua Zhang                 Lead Social Development Specialist GSURR
Antti Talvitie                Consultant                          GTIDR
Shuai Ren                     E T Consultant                      GTIDR

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
             Lending
             FY05                                11.8                       78.31
             FY06                                40.86                      208.92
             FY07                                14.54                       92.86
            Total:                               67.2                       380.09
        Supervision/ICR
             FY08                                14.54                       91.22
             FY09                                8.77                       80.68
             FY10                                7.17                       68.20
             FY11                                6.82                       35.15
             FY12                                9.04                       58.41
             FY13                                 5.9                        22.29
             FY14                                7.95                        41.40
             FY15                                8.02                        45.91
             FY16                                 0.1                       301.12
            Total:                               68.31                      744.38




                                               36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.      The FHSIP project financed a technical assistance study on evaluating the impact
of RRIP component. The surveys were carried out in 2008 and 2009. In 2015, another set
of impact surveys were carried out for rural roads financed by the AF. The results of these
impact evaluations show that construction of rural roads improved investment environment
and living conditions for villagers, created more energetic and competitive environment
for development, and increased the farmers’ income and accelerated balanced development
of rural economy in Fujian.

RRIP Impact Survey for FHSIP

2.      The first impact survey was conducted on the treatment (with RRIP) and
comparison groups (without RRIP) in 2008 and 2009. A total number of 2,336
questionnaires in 72 villages were collected, including the baseline data and results after
construction. Of the 72 villages, 38 were in the treatment group with RRIP projects, and
34 in the comparison group where roads were not being scheduled for rehabilitation. Four
types of impact are studied in detail, including transport impacts, rural economy benefits,
social impacts and environment impacts. The results are summarized below.

3.     Transport Impact — volume, travel time, and rural transport services. The
RRIP program improves the rural road condition of Fujian Province. All the town, village
and community in Fujian Province have got the all-season access roads. The traffic volume
on rural roads increases evidently in treatment group, from 107 pcu/day (before the
construction rural roads) to 329 pcu/day (after the project); The traffic volume of
comparison group roads during the same period only increased 26 pcu/day on
average. .Travel time of the rural households for all trip purposes reduced significantly,
and the level of the transport service radically improved. Daily travel time to the work
reduced by 22 minutes; average travel time to the markets, hospitals, and towns reduced
40 minutes; student trips to school also saved 18-32 minutes. Coverage of rural public
transport services improved significantly to 80% of all villages in the province.

4.       Transport Impact – freight and traffic safety. The quality of rural roads has been
notably improved, obviously reducing the freight transport times and costs. The travel time
of agricultural goods reduced 23 minutes on average, introducing considerable benefit to
the farmers because it allowed them to choose and grow products with higher revenue-
margin but are normally more difficult to keep fresh. In the treatment group with project,
about 54% farmers have to bear more than 30 minutes of travel time when transporting
agricultural product; while in the treatment group, the percentage as high as 90%. Better
road surface quality also increased the profits from farming by reducing the damage and
loss of goods during the transport. Storage costs were less for produce and other farm
products that could not be shipped without dependable road network in the harvest season.
Traffic safety has improved markedly in the rural areas, and the level of the service
reliability of rural roads has improved. Although RRIP has increased the length of rural
road network, the frequency of traffic accidents has shown a decreasing trend. In the




                                            37
treatment group villages a large drop from 7.5 accidents per year to 2 accidents per year
was observed.

5.      Economic Impact – agricultural productivity and rural economy. Productivity
of rural areas has increased with RRIP and caused a rapid growth in the rural economy. In
the treatment group, the agricultural unit yield increased from RMB 1,147 RMB/Mu to
RMB 1,678 RMB/Mu, a growth of 46% while in the comparison group, the growth rate
was 30%. In addition to increases in agricultural productivity, rural roads improved many
sectors of rural economy, including modernization of industries, expansion of markets for
agricultural products, and an increase in the number of the private enterprises (doubled in
the treatment group).

6.       Social Impact – social services and employment. RRIP has greatly improved the
rural life not only because of reduced cost of transport. Implementation of RRIP roads in
the villages, either new-builds or renewals, improved access and mobility to doctors’
offices and social services. Travel expenses for accessing social services declined from
RMB 50-60 to RMB 30. Villages with rural road connections can get medical treatment in
time, which is particularly important for the patients with emergencies. The proportion of
the villagers who want to get the medical services in the hospital or in the clinic reaches
91% in the treatment group, while in the comparison group, only 48% of the residents
considered using medical services more frequently. The improvement of the travel
condition reduces the commuting time of the teachers and the students significantly, thus
promoting the development of education in rural area. RRIP created numerous
opportunities for work and increased the number of the local non-agricultural labor force
significantly. Surveys showed that the proportion of the non-agricultural employment of
farmers in the treatment is 7 percent higher than the proportion in the comparison group.
Many farmers who had been working outside the villages have come back to farming or
other kinds of work, and even set up their own enterprises. Non-agricultural female
employment also increased significantly. Survey results showed that the proportion of non-
agricultural female employment reached 48.5%, the interpretation being that half of the
women have changed work from heavy farm work to non-agriculture work and jobs.

7.      Environment Impact. Rural Road Programs improve the living environment of
rural areas, which upgrade the satisfaction of the air quality to the public. Air quality
satisfaction of villagers of the treatment group rises from 82% (before the program) to 95%
(after the program), whereas air quality satisfaction of villagers of the comparison group
has been barely changed.

RRIP Social Impact Survey for AF funded rural roads.

8.      In 2015, a social impact survey was conducted subsequent to the completion of
rural road construction from Additional Financing, covering 64 villages and 768 villagers.




                                            38
The survey questionnaire focused on transport and economic impact with a before-and-
after comparison of the affected villages.

9.      Improved public transport accessibility and safety. For the 64 villages surveyed,
rural passenger service frequency has increased 24%, and the trip time has reduced 54%
on average. 91% of responders feels the trip is more comfortable. Though traffic volumes
have increased considerably, the accident rate has stayed the same (0.5 accident/year).

10.     Mode Shift. Improved transport access has also changed the mode of travel. Before
the rural roads rehabilitation, about 60% people traveled by bike or walking; after the road
and passenger provision services improved, travel in rural passenger buses increased 32%
(from 6% to 38%), and travel on private vehicles increased 27% (from 4% to 31%).

11.     Better access to education and social services. Improved road conditions reduced
student’s commute time by 26%. 76% fewer students need boarding at school. The travel
mode for students going to school also changed. Before, about 58% went to school by bike
or walking, and 31% by motorcycles. After rural road improvement, about 50% of students
go the school by bus and about 33% by private vehicles. Road condition improvement lead
to better access to health care. About 83% of respondents claim that RRIP and AF helped
reducing the time cost for going to hospitals and other social services. The travel time to
Town level hospitals is on average 25 minutes less, and the travel time to County level
hospitals is on average 20 minutes less.

12.     Economic impact and employment. During project implementation, the average
income has increased. In 2010, 61 people were in the low income group, whereas in 2014
the population of low income group had reduced to 34 people (44%) in the 64 villages. The
average household income had increased 23% and 26% of respondents claimed they have
better jobs after the construction of their rural roads. Overall 95% of the affected people
were satisfied with the project.

13.    The following cases demonstrate the impacts of RRIP on local villages in details.

14.    Case 1: Reduced travel time for villagers.
            The Yushangang village in QingYuan, Shouning County is one of the highest
       villages in high altitude. Before the RRIP roads were built, walking was the only
       way for people to get out of the village. It usually took 3 hours to get to the nearby
       village and more than 8 hours to get to the county town. All the mountain products
       had to be shoulder-carried out by villagers across the mountains. After the
       completion of rural roads in Yushangang, it only takes an hour or less to get from
       the village to the county town by car.
            There is one school for every village in Pucheng County. Attending the school
       would have been impossible if rural roads had not been built. Because of the
       difficulty of walking on the mountain roads, the primary and secondary students in
       Tangkou village had a long difficult path and a long walking time to school before
       the rural roads were built. Now students can ride the bicycle to school in dozens of


                                            39
      minutes or half an hour at most. All people in Xiaozhang village in the county can
      now travel more safely and conveniently.
           The Guanzhuang village in Nanping city has provided rural health insurance
      since 2006. All types of vehicles, including fire engines and ambulances, can get
      into the village within 10 minutes. Previously, it took 3 hours to the doctor’s office,
      and because of inaccessible roads most patients could be rescued only at half way
      to the village. Now it takes less than half an hour to travel to the doctor’s office.
15.   Case 2: Reducing travel cost
           31 villages in Jiangshan County, Xinluo area, Longyan city gain access to rural
      roads with RRIP. The cost of transportation for villagers has reduced a lot. Every
      agricultural vehicle consumes 3 liters of fuel per kilometer before the cement roads
      had been built. And this fuel consumption can be reduced to 2 liters per kilometer
      after cement roads have been built. For one village, fuel cost savings per year could
      be RMB 1,300,000.
         Previously, taking the tricycle from Yangli village to the town in Mingqing
      County takes at least RMB 20. Now the cost is halved at only RMB 10.
          For Zhangji village, Sanming city, the implementation of road condition
      reduced the traveling expenses for seeing a doctor from RMB 50-60 to RMB 30.
16.   Case 3: Stimulating the rural economy- Local industry.
           The sales of Camellia pomelo, Citrus, and mushrooms grown by Bandong
      village, Minqing County, Fuzhou, were limited due to the poor roads. Especially
      the mushrooms, which are time sensitive and perishable, are difficult to preserve.
      People had lost confidence in growing them due to poor roads and access. After the
      rural roads were developed in RRIP the Citrus Industry recovered and a processing
      plant was set up. Township output reached 11,000 tons, and annual income
      increased by 2.2 million Yuan.
           The Wuzhai village in Linfang, Liancheng County, Longyan City has been
      growing mushrooms since 1996. Since the traders’ vehicles could not access the
      village, the farmers had to shoulder-carry the farm products to the market. After the
      roads to the village were constructed and permitted vehicular access of the traders
      and buyers the revenue increase from selling mushrooms was ca. RMB 100,000 /
      year. In general, fresh products have better price and the village gained in reputation.
      Income per capita in the village has risen by more than 30% after roads were built.




                                            40
  A. Before RRIP                           B. After RRIP
Rural Road Conditions Before and After RRIP in Fujian Province


                             41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

NA




                                   42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Introduction

1.      The World Bank received the Borrower’s Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) in August 2015. The borrower’s ICR was prepared by FPCD, covering both the
Fujian Highway Sector Investment Project (FHSIP) and the Additional Financing of the
project. The ICR was prepared in Chinese and generally in good quality. The ICR consist
of 80 pages and contains the following contents: (i) project background, (ii) description of
project implementation, (iii) evaluation of project implementation, (iv) economic
evaluation and financial evaluation, and (v) experience gained and lessons learned. The
ICR provided valuable observations from the Borrower’s perspective, which are
summarized below:

Lessons Learned During Implementation

2.      Top-level design is a pre-requisite for rural road construction. The project
demonstrated that the establishment of a sound, highly efficient institutional framework
and regulations, is vital important to ensure the success of rural road construction and
management. The project document of Framework of Procurement, EMF, RPF and IPPF
of RRIP, and the revised government policies along with the implementation of the project
(Temporary Management Regulation of Fujian Non-expressway Projects, Implementation
Specifications of Fujian Rural Road Construction Management, Proposals for Fujian
Rural Road Construction Monitoring, Fujian Rural Road Technical Standard, Guidance
of Evaluation on Internal Control Policy), have set an example for other rural road projects.
These policy document defined the implementation framework and explicitly regulated the
preparation, planning management, implementation, financial management, auditing,
check, monitoring, and incentive structure for rural road projects. The guidance of
construction policies ensured the rural road implementation according to specifications,
avoided low-level and redundant construction practices, improved construction benefits
and promoted the adjustment and upgrading of rural road network structure.

3.      Innovative project approach of SWAp increased the efficiency and
performance of the project. This project is the first IBRD loan applying “Sector Wide
Approach” in China. Rural road construction is managed in different batches, and the
project adopted the innovative management approach: the RRIP component was approved
based on a databank with many rural roads and projects were selected from the databank,
withdrawal applications were made by batches after construction was completed, and audit
and inspections were carried out randomly from time to time. This approach improved the
works quality and accelerated progress, as well simplified the WB’s prior review and
disbursement procedures. SWAp applied in this project fits very well to China’s local
contexts.

4.      Social participation: openness is the power. The villagers in project areas
participated actively in the project implementation, since the project implementation
directly impacted their livelihoods. The villagers met and set up the "council for road



                                             43
construction", "senior's association" or "association for home construction" voluntarily,
and participated in the overall-process management of funding, supervision and
construction of “their rural road”, which strongly expedited the implementation process.
Beneficiary survey shows that, of all villagers, 86% claim that they knew about World
Bank project, and 67% knew information about construction. 95% of people who knew of
the World Bank project were satisfied with it. About 74% of all villagers had participated
in project construction (24%), management (23%), and consultation (27%).

Recommendations

5.      Databank of the potential projects needs be narrowed down to meet certain
criteria or targets. The criteria and targets would allow the scope of implementation be
reduced appropriately, with emphasis on the promotion of county-to-town and town-to-
town projects. The narrower project scope would help enhance the efficiency and
performance of the rural road network.

6.     Further incentivize local level government. On-lending a portion of the IBRD
loan to county-level government can effectively increase the support by the local
governments and reduce the self-financing pressures of towns and villages.

7.      Adopt softer policy framework for procurement. China’s domestic market
environment has its own characteristics comparing with the international market. Some
facts and practices are proven to be the rational and effective methods for competitive
procurement, but are not be accepted by World Bank. A broader policy perspective is
advised for the Bank to advance cooperation in China’s provinces.




                                           44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

NA




                                    45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.       Hirschman, A. O. 1967 Development Economics Observed, Washington, DC: Brookings
Institution.
2.       ––––– 1970 Exit, Voice and Loyalty: Responses to Decline in Firms, Organizations and
States. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
3.       Project Appraisal Document, September 2006
4.       Additional Financing Project Paper, February 2011
5.       Loan Agreement, Project Agreement
6.       Research Report of Impact Evaluation for the RRIP in Fujian Province
7.       Project Aide-memoires, Implementation Status & Results Reports (ISRs)
8.       Borrower’s implementation completion report (ICR), draft version, September 2015.




                                             46
MAP
CHN34578
CHN34579
CHN34580
CHN34581




           47
