Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 E
Report No. P-2713-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
February 20, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(December 1978)
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA)
US $1.00                     DA 3.90
DA  1.00                     US $0.26
Measures
1 m                          3.28 feet
1 m2                         10.76 square feet
2
1 km                         0.38 square miles
I hectare (ha)               2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Glossary of Abbreviations
CBMIS      Computer-based management information system.
CNI        Centre National d'Informatique (National Data Processing Commission)
ILO        International Labor Organization
INPED      Institut National de la Productivite et du Developpement Industriel
(National Institute for Industrial Productivity and Development)
ITC        Industrial Training Center
MTC        Maintenance Training Center
NIMTA      National Institute for Maintenance Trades Administration
NIMTI      National Institute for Maintenance Trades Instructors
SNLB       Societ6 Nationale des Industries du Li6ge et du Bois (National Cork and
Wood Processing Company)
SNMC       Societe Nationale des Materiaux de Constrution (National Construction
Company)
SN SEMPAC  Soci6t6 Nationale de Semouleries, Meuneries, Fabriques de Pates
Alimentaires et Couscous (National Food Processing Company)
SNERI      Societe Nationale dtEtudes, de Gestion, de R6alisations et d'Exploi-
tations Industrielles (National Industrial Management Firm)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria.
Beneficiaries:       The Ministries of Light Industries and of Higher Education
and Scientific Research.
Amount:              $87 million.
Terms:               Eighteen and one half years with a four year grace period
and interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:         The proposed project would assist Algeria to attain
greater efficiency and productivity of existing and
planned investments in construction, transport and house-
hold equipment and in three key light industries, and to
improve the management of higher education. The project
would introduce pilot programs to train skilled workers
in the repair and maintenance of construction and trans-
port equipment and household appliances and to train
and upgrade semi-skilled and skilled workers for the
national construction company (SNMC), the national cork
and wood processing company (SNLB) and one of the national
food processing companies (SN SEMPAC), and would introduce
a computer system for higher education. The loan would
finance the foreign exchange cost of: (a) architectural
design, construction, furniture and equipment for (i) an
administration center and institute for instructor train-
ing in maintenance trades, (ii) three maintenance training
centers, and (iii) three industrial training centers; (b)
the installation of a computer-based management information
system (CBMIS) in the Ministry of Higher Education and five
universities; (c) 67 man-years of technical assistance for
the start-up of the project institutes and the CBMIS; and
(d) 36 man-years of fellowships to train Algerian staff
abroad for project follow-up. In addition, the Government
would finance a training program for instructors and admin-
istrators for the project's industrial training centers.
Incremental annual output due to the project would be
about 200 maintenance trades instructors, 900 maintenance
personnel and 4,500 skilled and semi-skilled workers for
the three industries. Risks relate to the inexperience of
the Directorates implementing the project institutes with
Bank procedures and difficulties in coordination of the
large technical assistance component.
I This document has a rtrkctod distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                          Local    Foreign    Total
------- US$ Million-------
Administration Center and National Institute of
Instructor Training for Maintenance Trades                3.6        4.5        8.1
Maintenance Training Centers (3)                          12.5       15.1       27.6
Industrial Training Centers (3)                           23.8       31.5       55.3
Computer Installation                                      0.4        3.8        4.2
Technical Assistance                                       1.2        5.1        6.3
Total Base Cost                                           41.5       60.0      101.5
Physical Contingencies                                     3.9        5.6        9.5
Price Contingencies                                       18.7       21.4       40.1
Subtotal                                                  22.6       27.0       49.6
Total                                                     64.1       87.0      151.1
Project costs exclude any identifiable taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                                       -         87.0       87.0
Government Contribution                       64.1          -        64.1
Total                                         64.1        87.0      151.1
Estimated                                    -------------US$ million------------
Disbursements:                         FY    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual                             1.4    24.2    35.4    23.4        2.6
Cumulative                         1.4    25.6    61.0    84.4    87.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 2634-AL of February 11, 1980



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for the equivalent of US$87
million to help finance a fifth education project. The loan would have a term
of 18 1/2 years including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum of the Economic Situation and Pros-
pects of Algeria" (1816-AL) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 17, 1978. Updating economic missions visited Algeria in May 1978 and
in March and December 1979. The main conclusions of the missions are given
in the following paragraphs. An updating Economic Memorandum is under prepara-
tion. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending 1980.
These were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by referendum
in June 1976. In brief, these objectives are (i) to expand and organize the
production base, enabling the economy to reach a stage of self-sustained
growth with full employment; (ii) to achieve economic independence, which
implies that the country would rely first on its own resources for develop-
ment, although international economic relations would be expanded and diversi-
fied; and (iii) to improve income distribution, particularly among regions.
These objectives, and the strategy which has evolved towards their implementa-
tion, take into account the country's physical and socio-economic potential;
the country's leadership is deeply committed to them. Political developments
following the illness and death of President Boumediene have not affected
Algeria's prevailing economic policies. A smooth transfer and wider sharing
of power among political institutions have characterized the transition
leading to the election of President Chadli Bendjedid and the appointment
of a new Government in March 1979. The strategy of the new development plan
is being discussed and the Plan is expected to be approved in the Spring of
1980.
4.        The rapid establishment of a diversified and highly integrated
industrial base, the education and training of all Algerians for the require-
ments of modern tasks, and austerity in consumption are the main elements
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the Bas Cheliff I
Irrigation Project scheduled for Board consideration February 26, 1980.



-2-
of Algeria's long-term development strategy. The National Charter, introduced
in 1976, places emphasis more particularly, however, on the following aspects
of the strategy. Whereas priority goes to hydrocarbon developmeat as a means
of accumulating financial resources, investments in other industries must
henceforth be tailored more closely to the national capacity to prepare and
implement projects, to the availability of financial resources, and to the
rates of development in non-industrial sectors. The National Charter specif-
ically underscores the importance of agriculture for creating jobs, for
increasing incomes and improving their distribution, and for substituting
agricultural imports. Decentralization is to be implemented in all areas of
economic and social life to achieve the country's development objectives
with maximum efficiency, while the principle of central planning of the eco-
nomy will be maintained. Workers' participation in the new management struc-
tures, introduced in 1971, is to be progressively expanded. The control of
people's assemblies over economic planning and management, which was already
effective at local government level, has been introduced at the national level
by the new constitution approved in November 1976. The President and the
new Government have reaffirmed their commitment to the basic principles of
Algeria's long-term development objectives and strategy and the implementa-
tion of the National Charter. Emphasis has been put, in particular, on the
need for better utilization of existing capacities and increased efficiency in
management and production, on the importance of agriculture and training, and
on satisfying the basic material and social needs of the populatioTn, including
housing and education.
5.        Taking into account the improved financial prospects resulting
from increased hydrocarbon prices at the end of 1973, the objectives of the
1974-77 Plan were to: (i) increase the level of iavestment to speed up the
construction of the country's productive base and economic infrastructure and
the expansion of community and social services; (ii) restructure the invest-
ment program in favor of non-industrial sectors and less developed regions
inland of the coastal plains and Northern valleys; and (iii) increase the
number of unskilled jobs and improve individual consumption levels and the
distribution of growth benefits. The Plan also called for vigorous imple-
mentation of measures, introduced by the Government since 1971, aimed at
decentralizing and improving economic management.
6.        Several strong elements emerged from Algeria's economic performance
during the 1974-77 Plan. The growth of fixed investment averaged 15 percent
per year in real terms and its ratio to GDP at current prices rose to 48
percent of GDP in 1977 from 41 percent in 1973. While hydrocarbon production
was uneven during 1974-77, a result of dependence on technical and external
market circumstances, GDP growth accelerated in the non-hydrocarbon sectors,
averaging 8.5 percent per year. A high rate of national savings was achieved,
averaging 39 percent of GDY (Gross Domestic Income) and financing 84 percent
of total investment. The marginal savings rate was 34 percent, due in large
part to the substantial improvement in terms of trade in 1974 which was only
partly eroded thereafter. More than half a million jobs were created in
industry and services in this period. Consumption growth is estimated to have
averaged 9-10 percent per annum, reflecting the increases in Lncne levels,
e-.pec ially for the least-favored groups in rural and urban areas.  Finally,
Algeria's performance in promoting regional development has been impressive
during the Plan (see para. 11).



- 3 -
7.        Developments were not as positive in several other areas.  The
implementation of the Plan generated imbalances, between the high level of
investment and Algeria's financial and human resources and in the distribution
of investment between industry and other sectors. This led to pressures on
the external and domestic financial situation, to increased development lags
in non-industrial sectors and to other constraints on efficiency in industry.
Such constraints included in particular skilled manpower shortages, limited
management capacity, and insufficient intersectoral and intrasectoral coordi-
nation. The external financial situation deteriorated in 1977, following an
improvement in 1976; the current account deficit widened to $2.3 billion
from $0.9 billion in 1976. Despite large disbursements on external loans
committed through 1977, mostly from commercial sources, net foreign reserves
decreased by $300 million to two months of 1977 imports. In spite of the
large surpluses on current operations (budgetary savings) resulting from oil
revenues, the Treasury showed large and growing overall deficits because of
the considerable appropriations for public enterprise investments and to cover
their operating deficits. For the same reasons, credit to the economy and
money supply increased sharply, especially in 1975 and 1976. The growth of
Central Bank advances to the Treasury remained limited, however, because of
the mobilization by the Treasury of savings of public agencies and current
surpluses of Treasury depositors.
8.        Decentralization of economic management has been pursued particularly
in agriculture and industry. Agricultural units of the Socialist and Agrarian
Revolution Sectors are now responsible for their production and investment
plans, under the supervision of the local authorities and the agricultural
credit bank (BNA). These measures have begun to have a beneficial impact on
the output and financial results of these units. In industry, most of the
public enterprises are now under the "socialist management" system, which
should improve efficiency in the long run since it encourages decentraliza-
tion of financial and technical management from the enterprise level to the
more manageable production unit. Decentralization of the financial system
and in other sectors in general, however, requires revision of credit policy
and fiscal management procedures for which initial measures were taken under
the 1976 and 1977 Finance Laws. It also requires increased financial and
accounting discipline in the enterprises, and the mobilization of sufficient
experienced staff to strengthen the banks, which will be a slow and diffi-
cult process. Decentralization and strengthening of the distribution (mar-
keting) system, especially for agricultural products, still require important
measures to be fully efficient.
9.       Social development during the Plan continued rapidly, favoring
particularly the most disadvantaged groups. Policy measures which contribute
to raising the living standards of those groups have included increases in the
guaranteed minimum wages, tax relief measures, increases in producer prices
for agricultural products and subsidies on basic commodities. Further large
salary increases (35 percent) were decided by the Government in 1978. The
disadvantaged groups have also benefited from the creation of non-agricultural
employment, implementation of the Agrarian Revolution, multiplication of
small- and medium-scale enterprises at the regional and local levels, con-
struction of public housing and rapid development of free health care, edu-
cation, training and other social services. Overall, Government current and



- 4 -
capital expenditure directly affecting social development increased to 53
percent of total direct Government expenditure in 1977 from 44 percent in
1973.
10.       According to the 1977 Census, Algeria's resident population was 17.3
million at the end of 1977, and 1 million Algerians were living abroad, mainly
in Europe. Between 1966 and 1977, annual population growth was estimated at
3.2 percent, and the urban population increased from 33 percent to 41 percent
of total resident population. Some 58 percent of the population is now under
20 years of age. Together with a 6 percent rate of urban growth, this factor
is causing an extremely rapid increase in the demand for housing, social
services, urban facilities and employment. Despite the priority given to
modern and capital-intensive industries in the development strategy, employ-
ment creation has been impressive during 1974-77. Considerable efforts to
create employment will be needed in coming years, however, to cope with
existing unemployment and underemployment and absorb the additional labor
force. In agriculture, despite implementation of the Agrarian Revolution,
underemployment has remained very high, affecting some 50 percent of the work
force. This is due to the seasonal nature and low productivity of Algerian
agriculture. The labor surplus in rural areas is being steadily reduced by
large regional development programs and by rural/urban migration. Another
problem facing Algeria is the acute shortage of skilled labor in many sectors.
This shortage is likely to persist for many years in spite of the considerable
training efforts which are pursued, often at very high cost, and the steady
return of skilled workers from abroad.
11.       Algeria has been pursuing an active regional development policy
which aims to provide equal opportunity in education, employment and living
standards in all regions, thus limiting internal migration. Regional decen-
tralization of administrative, economic and financial responsibilities is very
advanced at the wilaya (province) and commune (municipality) levels and is a
major determinant of the country's regional development. In addition to the
systematic location of heavy industrial investments in the interior of the
country under the National Plan, special programs for the least-favored
wilayas, urban development (PMU) and commune development (PCD) programs have
been implemented since 1974 as part of the Four Year Plan to build the eco-
nomic and social infrastructure needed by secondary cities and rural communes.
At the end of the 1974-77 Plan, a total of DA 11 billion had been budgeted for
projects under the PMU and PCD programs, representing 40 percent of Government
direct investment and 10 percent of the country's total fixed investment. The
establishment of local enterprises (PMI) for construction materials and other
small-scale industries and for services has served to create employment, using
local resources, and satisfy local demand. Implementation of the regional
programs suffered initial delays due to insufficient local capacity to
identify, prepare and execute projects, but has accelerated since 1976 in most
of the wilayas.
12.       The Government decided that 1978 and 1979 would be transitional
years devoted to the completion of projects initiated under the 1974-77 Plan;
the introduction of a new multi-annual plan was postponed. Based on prelim-
inary estimates, real GDP growth was about 9 percent in 1978, propelled by



further increases in non-hydrocarbon sector output and an acceleration in
hydrocarbon output growth (8.2 percent). Agricultural production benefitted
from better weather conditions which permitted somewhat larger cereal harvests
than in 1977. Although low capacity utilization continued to plague many
plants, relative improvements in the operating levels of existing plants
and start-up of new plants allowed manufacturing growth to increase (about
12 percent). The construction and public work sector continued to expand
rapidly, reflecting large increases in investment. Total hydrocarbon exports
increased by 8 percent in quantity, thanks to a recovery in refined output
and large increases in liquified gas output following the start-up of LNG1 in
Arzew. The current value of exports increased by only 6.4 percent, however,
as Algerian oil prices diminished in the first half of 1978 because of an
unfavorable market situation for light petroleum. The continuing cause for
concern in 1978 was the size of the investment program and the consequences it
had on the country's financial situation and the imbalances between industry
and other sectors. Total public investment increased by 28 percent in current
terms in 1978. Public investment in industry alone increased by about 35 per-
cent, due to a large extent to the investment requirements of the hydrocarbon
development plan. Investment spending in non-hydrocarbon industry, however,
still increased by some 15 percent in 1978.
13.       The large import requirements of the 1978 investment program caused
a further widening of the current account deficit to $3.5 billion, although
there was drawdown on stocks of capital goods accumulated in 1977 and strict
restrictions on other imports. Despite growing debt amortization obligations
($1 billion), net reserves at the end of 1978 were nonetheless estimated at
some $600 million above their 1977 level, equivalent to 2.4 months of 1978
imports.  This was made possible by large drawings made before the end of the
year on the new loans contracted by Algeria in 1978 to finance its investment
program, especially for gas development. The new loan commitments (about
$5 billion) and disbursements ($5.1 billion) that Algeria made in 1978 in a
favorable international financial market, would have seemed excessive at that
time. Recent developments in world oil supply, however, have considerably
improved Algeria's export prospects and debt servicing capacity. On the
domestic side, because of the large Treasury investment appropriations
to public enterprises ($6.3 billion), the overall Treasury financing needs
from the Central Bank more than doubled from $0.9 billion in 1977 to $2.3
billion in 1978. Money supply increased by 28 percent in 1978, and bank
credit to the economy rose at the same rate. In addition, the large salary
increases effected during the year have exerted further pressures on domestic
prices. The consumer price index for the Algiers area increased by 17 percent
in 1978.
14.       For 1979, the average price of Algerian crude oil was about 45
*        percent above the average price for 1978. This brought substantial additional
financial resources, estimated at $2.6 billion in 1979. The economic situa-
tion has also benefited from the increased Government emphasis on efficiency
in management and production. The postponement in introduction of the new
multi-annual plan permitted the completion of projects and programs undertaken
under the Second Four-Year Plan. The 1979 Government budget and investment
plan for public enterprises provided for a timely slowdown in total capital



- 6 -
expenditure growth. While the emphasis on social sectors, economic infra-
structure and regional development continued, appropriations in industry were
restrained and mainly concerned on-going projects. With the increased revenue
from the hydrocarbon sector and restraint on industrial investment, the
resource gap was reduced to about $1.6 billion from $3.2 billion in 1978. The
current account deficit, despite growing interest payments on external debt,
was estimated at about $2 billion. External capital requirements were thus
substantially reduced in 1979. Because of a large increase in the Government
current account surplus, the overall financing needs of the Treasury were
also considerably reduced in 1979. Domestic inflationary pressures which
developed in 1978 were eased.
15.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects beyond 1979 will be
reflected in the next Plan, which will cover the period 1980-84. The invest-
ment strategy is expected to be approved by a special congress of the National
Party (FLN) in the Spring of 1980. While consonant with Algeria's long-term
objectives, it is expected to mark a shift in investment priorities in favor
of social sectors, particularly housing, agriculture and water development,
and to further emphasize education and training, economic infrastructure
and regional development. In contrast, investment in non-hydrocarbon industry
will probably be moderated and more strictly allocated in order to complete
ongoing projects, achieve forward and backward linkages with existing indus-
tries, and improve utilization of existing capacities. It should, in addition,
be adjusted more closely to the rates of development in non-industrial sectors
and to the availability of financial and human resources. The next Plan will
probably also give special attention to measures and programs aimed at improv-
ing economic and financial management, eliminating sectoral deficiencies and
bottlenecks and, generally, increasing the efficiency of the economic system.
Algeria will continue to count on external technical assistance in its efforts
to relieve existing constraints on efficiency.
16.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects depend on three main
factors: the growth of hydrocarbon exports; the level and composition of the
country's investment; and the pace of improvement in the efficiency of the
economic system. Based on a careful assessment of these factors, Bank staff
projections (see Annex 1) show that a relatively rapid economic growth
in all sectors (about 8 percent yearly) can be maintained during 1980-84.
The growth of gross domestic income, which incorporates the effect of terms
of trade changes, should be above 9 percent during that period because of the
expected rise in both the real price and the relative importance of gas.
During 1985-1989, GDP growth would remain high in non-hydrocarbon sectors,
while it would decelerate in the hydrocarbon sector. The resource gap is
projected to become a significant surplus by 1982 when the large condensate
and gas projects, presently underway or planned, begin to generate increasing
export revenues. Commercial loans and credits with short maturities in
relation to the gestation periods of investments will, however, induce
rapidly increasing debt repayment obligations. The country thus faces
borrowing requirements well into the 1980s.
17.       Based on the above projections, external borrowing requirements
during 1980-84 are projected to average about $3 billion annually in terms



of commitments. The projected commitments are large but would be within
Algeria's debt-carrying capacity, which has been considerably strengthened by
the recent oil price increases. In terms of access to external sources of
financing, these amounts appear manageable since the gas contracts into which
Algeria has entered provide for partial financing of gas treatment and lique-
faction plants, and suppliers' credits should be available to finance other
industrial investments, most of which will probably be implemented by foreign
contractors. Borrowing from official sources would remain relatively small.
These include the African Development Bank, the World Bank, and the EEC;
Algeria signed a financial and trade agreement with the EEC in April 1976.
18.       The projections in Annex I are based on the crude oil price of
$23.5 per barrel set by Algeria in July 1979 and the assumption that this
price would remain constant in real terms beyond 1980. Algeria has further
increased its oil price to $26.3 per barrel in November 1979 and, reportedly,
to $30 in January 1980 following the recent OPEC meeting. 1/ If the projected
hydrocarbon export volumes in the 1980's are maintained, and all other assump-
tions in the projection remain the same, Algeria's external capital require-
ments and debt service ratio would be substantially reduced after 1980.
However, there are indications that, in view of the level now reached by
hydrocarbon prices, Algeria may favor a new policy for conservation of hydro-
carbon resources to retard their depletion and avoid possible balance of
payments pressures in the future. The new approach would be to determine the
optimal level of investment in view of the country's requirements and absorptive
capacity, and simultaneously to project the appropriate levels of hydrocarbon
exports and external borrowing for balancing financing needs while maintaining
the debt burden at approximately its current level. These variables are
expected to be established in the Final Plan document. Thus, despite the rise
in hydrocaibon prices, the financial outlook for the 1980's may not diverge
substantially from the foregoing projections.
19.       At the end of 1977, Algeria's total external debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at $8.2 billion ($13.8 billion including undisbursed),
equivalent to about 42 percent of GDP. It was estimated at $12.2 billion, or
50 percent of GDP, at the end of 1978. The debt service ratio increased from
14 percent in 1975 to 18 percent in 1977, and about 24 percent in 1978. It
decreased to an estimated 21.5 percent in 1979, and based on past and pro-
jected borrowings, it should remain at that level until 1982. Thereafter
debt service should decline in relation to exports when the large condensate
and gas projects come on stream. Bank lending, past and projected, represents
only a small fraction of the country's external financing requirements. At
the end of 1978, the portion of Algeria's total debt outstanding and disbursed
owed to the Bank was estimated at 1.7 percent; this share would rise over the
next years, to some 7 percent by 1984. Algeria's external borrowing needs
will remain large in the next few years, but can be accommodated in view of
the considerably enhanced debt carrying capacity which the country has acquired
1/ This price has not stabilized. A price of $34 was recently announced; it
is too early to make a definite estimate of the average price for 1980.



as a result of the new relationship between the prices of hydrocarbons and
other commodities in world markets, the long-term prospects for gas exports,
and general economic performance. Algeria is creditworthy for continued Bank
lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
20.        After an interval of about nine years, lending to Algeria resumed
in FY1973. Since then, twenty loans (including the $8 million loan for Bas
Cheliff I) have been approved totalling $921 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of November 30, 1979 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. While the physical execution of most projects
is progressing well, disbursements for some loans have been slow. This has
been particularly the case for the loan to the Algerian Development Bank
(BAD), the technical assistance loan for rural development, the third loan for
education and the loan for the port of Jijel. The BAD and rural development
projects are now advancing satisfactorily and disbursements are picking up.
Delays in awarding the main construction contract are the cause for slow
disbursements under the third loan for education (see para. 30). As for the
Jijel Port project, the Government has informed us that it is reassessing the
size and timing for a previously planned steel complex adjacent to the port
in the context of the preparation of the 1980-84 Plan. Reappraisal of the
project may be necessary if there is any substantial departure from initial
plans.
21.        The provision of technical assistance and institution-building
support is a major objective of the Bank's strategy in Algeria, to which the
Government attaches special importance. The aim is to assist the Government
in improving economic, sector and financial management and project preparation
and implementation. Economic efficiency and financial management have been
prominent in our economic dialogue with the Government. At its request, we
are currently engaged in a study of enterprise financing and the role of the
banking system. Previous projects have included technical assistance to
enhance appraisal capability and improve auditing of national companies. A
technical assistance loan for rural development was made in FY75. The SN
Metal technical assistance project approved in November 1979 addresses
one of the most serious problems affecting economic growth in Algeria: the
difficulty of starting up new plants and reaching satisfactory capacity
utilization because of the shortage of necessary management skills and indus-
trial experience. One of the major components of the Algiers sewerage project
is the creation of a water supply and sewerage authority for Greater Algiers
and the provision of technical assistance for its management and operations.
The project proposed in this report, as well as the four previous education
projects, include technical assistance to improve the organization, planning
and management of education and training in Algeria. As in the past, most
projects contemplated for the coming years are expected to have one or more
technical assistance components. Finally, the Bank has been Executing Agency
for several UNDP-financed technical assistance projects including an agricul-
ture sector survey and a telecommunication study.
22.        Bank lending since 1973 has aimed at relieving developmental bottle-
necks in lagging sectors, with the main emphasis on support in education and



- 9 -
infrastructure. Lending for education has accounted for about 21 percent of
Bank commitments in Algeria, and has focused mainly on meeting the urgent
demand for skilled manpower. Loans for transportation (highways, railways,
ports), contributing to the country's economic integration and regional
development objectives, account for about 42 percent of total Bank lending,
and two loans for power, for 10 percent. The balance is accounted for by
industry (three projects, including the loan to BAD), agriculture (two proj-
ects) and water supply and sewerage (two projects).
23.       Our program in Algeria is also extending to sectors which had
formerly received little Bank assistance, notably water supply and sewerage,
agriculture and urban development. Under the first sewerage project for
Algiers, approved last year, studies are included to prepare similar projects
for Bank financing in two other major Algerian cities. The recently approved
loan for a Water Supply Engineering Project provides for the preparations of
a major water supply project for Algiers. In agriculture, a meat industry
project (ONAB) was approved last June. A loan was approved in February 1980
to assist in the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure in the Bas
Cheliff district and to prepare two follow-up projects in the Cheliff basin
focusing on improving irrigated agricultural development and extending the
area under irrigation. An integrated agriculture development project in
Sidi Bel Abbes is being prepared with the assistance of the FAO Cooperative
Program. Finally, project preparation is underway for a first urban develop-
ment project in Annaba, one of the cities where Algeria's acute housing
shortage is most pronounced.
24.       In the remainder of this fiscal year we expect to submit projects
for highways and perhaps telecommunications. Projects are planned for subse-
quent years in agriculture and rural development, education, water supply/
sewerage, industry, highways, and urban development. This lending program, by
stressing objectives going beyond the simple transfer of resources, responds
to Algeria's efforts for rapid socio-economic development and needs for tech-
nical assistance.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
25.       The education and training system in Algeria is expected to fulfill
social, economic and cultural objectives that are crucial to the country's
development strategy. The essential social objectives are to provide a basic
nine-year education for all, leading to directly productive employment or to
further education and training, while increasingly employing Algerian teachers
and using Arabic as the principal language. The main economic objective is
to provide appropriate training to sufficient numbers of workers to satisfy
the country's existing and future manpower needs for all sectors of the econ-
omy, from semi-skilled workers to managers. Finally, fostering Arab-Algerian
cultural values remains a basic goal.
26.       A major structural and qualitative reform was initiated under the
Second Plan (1974-77) to make the education system more responsive to the
country's social and cultural objectives and more relevant to the needs of the



- 10 -
economy. Education at all levels is being reformed to give greater emphasis
to science and technology and to meet the demand for trained manpower required
by industrialization and the rapid growth of the economy. The nine-year
primary and secondary program would provide a universal basic education,
followed at secondary level by either three-year courses in lycees and tech-
nicums (upper-secondary schools with a vocational emphasis) or teacher train-
ing courses. Post-secondary courses are offered in universities, where
expanded enrollments are being reoriented toward science and technology, and
in institutes of technology designed to satisfy the needs for specialized
personnel in various technical fields.  In addition, skilled and semi-skilled
workers and craftsmen for industry and commerce are trained in a network of
vocational training centers. The structural reform, which is still in the
early stages of implementation, would probably be completed by 1990.
27.       The Ministry of Education supervises pre-school education and is
responsible for primary and secondary education, although substantial adminis-
trative authority has been delegated to the country's 31 provinces. The
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research administers at present
only the university system, but will gradually assume responsibility for all
post-secondary education, including the institutes of technology established
since 1970 under several other ministries. The technical ministries such as
Labor and Vocational Training, Heavy Industry, Light Industries)and Energy and
Petrochemicals retain responsibility for vocational training for their own
sectors. A national advisory council on vocational training was set up in
1977 to undertake the rational planning and coordination of this training in
Algeria.
28.       Education has expanded rapidly since independence and particularly
in recent years. Since 1973, primary and secondary enrollments have increased
at an average annual rate of about 6 percent and 17 percent, respectively,
and now represent 86 percent and 31 percent, respectively, of the relevant
age groups. Enrollments at universities have increased by about 20 percent
annually over the same period. Public expenditures on education and training
represented about 9 percent of GDP in 1978, while capital expenditures absorbed
over 25 percent of total public capital expenditures. For the future, total
enrollments are expected to increase by 4 percent annually, from 3.6 million
in 1977/78 to 4.6 million in 1984/85. To finance this expansion, an average
annual increase of about 6 percent (real terms) in total public expenditure
on education, amounting to over 8 percent of projected GDP in 1990, will be
required. Barring any unforeseen events, the Algerian economy seems capable
of meeting this relatively high level of expenditure. While significant
quantitative growth has thus been achieved, improvements are needed in certain
other areas to counter quality shortcomings and continued manpower shortages
and to reduce the high adult illiteracy rate, which at present exceeds 60
percent.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
29.       Bank lending under four education projects since 1973 has focused
mainly on assisting the Government to supply urgent manpower needs from skilled
worker to professional-level staff, to ease sectoral development bottlenecks



- 11 -
and to reduce the country's heavy dependence on costly expatriates. This
support has been provided mainly in new and specialized fields, particularly
in technical and vocational education, while the Government has continued to
invest in more familiar areas. In addition to financial support, the Bank
has provided technical assistance to the Ministries of Education and Higher
Education for institution building, education planning, implementation of
educational reforms and development of adult education and literacy training.
The first two Bank-financed projects focused on the expansion and construction
of facilities for institutes of technology providing training in the fields of
plastics, gas, mining, metallurgy, agriculture, electricity and electronics.
The major component of the third loan is the construction of fifteen out of a
planned network of thirty technicums, a new type of upper secondary school
with a comprehensive curriculum which is to have a key role in the structural
reform (see para. 26). The loan also finances the construction of two pilot
vocational training centers expected to lead to the development of a national
network. The major objective of the fourth loan is to help supply engineers
and higher technicians in mechanical engineering, vocational training in-
structors, and technical/workshop teachers for technicums. Of the eleven
studies financed under the four projects, those on vocational training and
data management under the second project, and on maintenance training under
the fourth project have led to important elements in the fourth and proposed
fifth projects.
30.       The first project was substantially completed in mid-1979 and a
completion report should be available shortly. The second project is proceed-
ing satisfactorily. There has been a delay of over two years in construction
of the technicums and vocational training centers under the third project.
The technicums have fallen behind schedule because of a prolonged bidding
period for these facilities.  A decision on the award of contract is expected
shortly. After an initial delay, the Government decided in March 1979 to
apply ICB procedures for the two training centers. The bidding documents are
expected to be issued shortly. Implementation of the two institutes of
mechanical engineering (NIME/NIMET), the teacher training college (ENSEP), and
the vocational instructor training institutes (IVITs) in Annaba and Setif is
proceeding satisfactorily under the fourth project.
31.       The shortage of skilled manpower remains one of the major constraints
to the development and efficiency of most sectors of the Algerian economy.
The Third Plan (1980-84) is expected to emphasize the development of the
social sectors, particularly housing, education and training, and agriculture
(see para. 15), and to give particular attention to measures and programs
designed to increase the efficiency of the economic system.  This shift in
priorities will require a substantial increase in the number of skilled
workers, including those required to deal with the country's severe housing
shortage and maintenance problems as well as the development of light indus-
tries. Annual requirements of skilled workers for maintenance trades and
light industries to 1990 are estimated at about 50,000; training facilities
for them are minimal at present. The proposed project would provide, on a
pilot basis, maintenance and industrial training centers from which experience
could be gained for the future expansion of the network of training centers.
Following a series of investments in skills' training related largely to



- 12 -
industry, emphasis is likely to be shifted in future Bank education projects
to agriculture, basic education teacher training and rural training/adult
education.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       Investments under the present project are designed to respond to
some of the major objectives of the Government's draft Third Plan, including
increased employment, access to education, and the provision of housing and
basic social services. The project was prepared by the Government, based on
the results of studies financed under Loans 1209-AL and 1595-AL. A Bank
preparation mission assisted the Government in September 1978. Appraisal took
place in March 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington in November 1979.
The Algerian delegation was headed by Mr. Lamoudi, Sous-Directeur in the
Ministry of Finance. The "Staff Appraisal Report, Fifth Education Project,
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria" (No. 2634-AL), dated February 11,,
1980, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and
Project Summary is provided in the beginning of this report; a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet, Annex III, and maps showing the location of project
institutes are also attached.
Objectives and Description
33.       The  proposed project would assist the Government in attaining
greater efficiency and productivity of existing and planned investments. The
location of the project's facilities throughout the country responds to the
Government's policy of promoting regional development by decentralizing access
to education, training and employment. The project would introduce pilot
programs to train skilled workers in the repair and maintenance of construc-
tion and automobile equipment and household appliances, and to train and
upgrade supervisors, skilled, and semi-skilled workers for Algeria's construc-
tion, wood and cork processing and food processing industries. It would also
help to improve the efficiency of education administration through the intro-
duction of a computer-based management information system. The loan would
finance the foreign-exchange cost of: (a) architectural design, construction,
furniture and equipment for (i) an administration center and institute for
instructor training in maintenance trades, (ii) three maintenance training
centers, and (iii) three industrial training centers; (b) the installation of
six small computers in the Ministry of Higher Education and five universities;
(c) 67 man/years of technical assistance related to the start-up of project
institutes; and (d) 36 man/years of fellowships to train Algerian staff abroad
for project follow-up.
Maintenance Training
34.       To meet the country's growing needs for maintenance of housing,
automobiles, trucks, agricultural equipment and household appliances, some
twelve maintenance training centers (MTCs) are expected to be built during the
period of the Third Plan, 1980-84. The final objective is to reach a network



- 13 -
of 31 centers, one per province (wilaya), by about 1990. The administration
and planning for this network of centers, including development of objectives
and curricula and performance evaluation, would be carried out by the National
Institute for Maintenance Trades Administration (NIMTA). This institute would
also ensure coordination of training for maintenance trades (artisanat) among
other ministries and agencies in the country.
35.       Teachers for the network of MTCs would be trained in a two-year
course in the National Institute for Maintenance Trades Instructors (NIMTI).
The NIMTA, NIMTI and one MTC would be located in Souk-el-Haad, about 40 miles
east of Algiers. The curriculum for instructors would consist of about 55
percent teaching practice and general subjects and 45 percent workshop train-
ing. Preference in admission would be given to candidates with prior expe-
rience in industry, maintenance or vocational training. The institute would
have an annual intake of 220 students and an annual output of 200, which would
meet initially the needs of the three project training centers and eventually
the needs of a network of 31 centers. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that adequate facilities would be made available in 1980/81 to train
60 NIMTI instructors before the opening of that institute in 1981/82 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.12(b)).
36.       Three pilot MTCs would be constructed under the project in Souk-el-
Haad, Oran, the major west coast city, and Annaba, an important and growing
port and industrial city on the east coast. Two year full-time and one year
part-time courses for trainees with at least seven years of schooling would
be offered in the installation, repair and maintenance of construction,
automobile and household equipment. About 65 percent of class time would be
devoted to workshop and about 35 percent to general studies. The full-time
curriculum of the three centers would include, respectively, courses in
construction techniques, sanitation, heating/cooling systems and electricity;
auto mechanics, agricultural machinery and diesel engines; and domestic
electricity, welding and small mechanical appliances. Total enrollment per
MTC would include 420 full-time and 120 part-time trainees; the annual output
for the three schools would be 600 full-time and 300 part-time graduates.
This output is far below the estimated annual needs for 1978-90 of 4,000
maintenance personnel, but the creation of further MTCs during the Third Plan,
based on experience gained in the pilot centers, should help gradually to
alleviate the shortage.
Industrial Training
37..      The major constraint to the past and future development of light
industries in Algeria is a shortage of middle level, skilled and semi-skilled
workers. During the period of the Third Plan, an estimated 12 industrial
training centers (ITCs), each designed to meet the specific needs of priority
light industries, are expected to be built throughout the country with a view
to employment creation and to balance the country's industrial development.
The proposed project would finance three pilot centers to train and upgrade
supervisors, skilled and semi-skilled workers for the national construction
(SNMC), cork and wood processing (SNLB) and one of the food processing (SN



- 14 -
SEMPAC, grain and flour milling) companies, located respectively in El Asnam,
Ain-Beida and Djelfa (see maps). These three industries were chosen to corres-
pond with the major investment effort projected for the Third Plan in housing
construction and agriculture.
38.       The project centers would offer eighteen-month, nine-montn and
three-month courses to candidates with at least four years' previous school-
ing. About 55 percent of the curriculum would concern practical work, and
45 percent general subjects. Each center would have a capacity of 1,000, to
enroll 250 trainee supervisors in the eighteen-month course, 250 skilled
worker trainees in the nine-month course and 500 semi-skilled worker trainees
in each of three separate three-month courses over the school year. The
annual output for each center would be 100 supervisors, 225 skilled workers
and 1,200 semi-skilled workers, compared with projected average annual needs
for initial training and retraining in the next decade of over 9,000 for
SNMC, 7,000 for SNLB and 6,000 for SN SEMPAC. The 274 instructors as well as
the instructor trainers and administrative personnel required for the three
pilot ITCs would be trained over a four-year period, starting by mid-1980,
under a program financed by the Government. Assurances were obtained that
adequate facilities would be made available for carrying out the training
program, which will be executed by a national industrial management firm,
SNERI, assisted by expatriate specialists for specific topics (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.12). The proposed training program and personnel needs
have been reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory.
39.       Staff and student housing for all institutes is provided under the
project.  The proposed loan would finance the foreign cost of staff housing
while the Government would finance housing for all students of NIMTI and of
the ITCs, which will be located some distance from urban centers, and for
about half the trainees of the MTCs (the other half would commute daily).
Women are expected to comprise about 10 percent of total enrollments in the
NIMTI, the MTCs and the ITC for SN SEMPAC; few women are expected to enroll
in the ITCs for SNMC and SNLB. Courses in all project institutes would
initially be given in French, with Arabic expected to predominate eventually.
Graduates of the NIMTI would receive a diploma of the Ministry of Light
Industries qualifying them to teach in the MTCs. This Ministry would also
confer certificates on graduates of the ITCs and MTCs; those of the latter
would define the graduate's qualification to work in the specific field in
which he was trained.
40.       The training programs and equipment lists for the project institutes
were prepared largely in preinvestment studies financed under previous educa-
tion loans, and were reviewed and agreed prior to negotiations. To ensure
that the curricula of the project institutes remain relevant to the needs of
Algeria's economy, ad hoc consultative committees would be appointed to the
MTCs and ITCs, not later than three months before the start of classes, to
assist with curricular reform and teaching methods, staff and student recruit-
ment and job placement (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06). Assurances were also
obtained that the relevant national agencies, particularly the Ministries of
Labor and Light Industries, would maintain regular contacts to ensure adequate



- 15 -
coordination of vocational training (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). Systems
of continuous student evaluation, including a tracer system to analyze train-
ing progress, job placement and career development, would be prepared for the
project institutes. The proposed tracer system would be submitted for Bank
review and comments at least three months before the scheduled opening of the
institutes, and the results of tracer studies for the five years following
first outputs of the project institutes would be sent for Bank review at the
end of each school year (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.08 and 3.09).
Data Management
41.       Because of the rapid past and projected expansion of the university
system in Algeria, several studies have been undertaken in recent years
(including a Bank-financed study under the second education project) to
determine a long-term solution to the growing problems related to error-
prone and inappropriate information and lack of sufficient analytical know-
how to improve the management of the system. These studies concluded that a
computer-based management information system (CBMIS), at present widely used
in Algerian industry and for which training for computer engineers, analysts
and programmers is already provided by the Algerian National Data Processing
Commission (CNI), was the most suitable. To introduce this system, six small
computers and related software would be installed in the Ministry of Higher
Education and the universities of Algiers (Social Sciences and the Science and
Technology University), Oran, Constantine and Annaba. The computer system in
the Ministry would be used almost exclusively for data management, whereas
that in the five universities would be used as well for research and instruc-
tion. A middle-management team of five university representatives, a senior
systems analyst and a project director was established in June 1979 to plan
and help implement the introduction and coordination of the system. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that adequate physical facilities
would be provided for the installation and operation of the system (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.12(a)).
Technical Assistance
42.       To ensure that the project institutes are launched with an effective
administrative organization and instruction standards and that the CBMIS will
be effectively utilized, the project includes an important technical assis-
tance component. A program of 66 man-years, for 36 foreign experts, includ-
ing 65 man-years for 33 experts for the MTCs and 1 man-year for 3 visiting
specialists for the ITCs to complement the Government-financed training
program (see para. 38), would provide sufficient initial staffing of the
training institutes. Replacement of these experts would be assured through a
fellowship program of 12 man-years to train 19 Algerians abroad (9 man-years
for 14 Algerians for the MTCs, 3 man-years for 5 Algerians for the ITCs). A
CBMIS expert would be engaged for one man-year for the introduction of the
computer system in the Ministry of Higher Education and five universities,
while a total of 24 man-years of fellowships would be provided to train 36
Algerian senior administrators, systems analysts, senior programmers, systems
engineers and directors of data processing and systems development. There are
sufficient Algerians with the required experience and educational background



- 16 -
to undertake the proposed training abroad. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that this technical assistance program would be implemented as
defined (Loan Agreement, Section 3.10 and Exhibit to Schedule 2).
Project Implementation
43.       The project institutes would be built, furnished and equipped by
October 1982, and the technical assistance component would be completed by
mid-1984. The Directorate of Artisanat (maintenance trades) in the Ministry
of Light Industries, assisted by a project manager and educational and archi-
tectural consultants, would be responsible for implementing the NIMTA/NIMTI
centers and the MTCs. The Directorate of Industrial Relations of the same
Ministry, assisted by the Director of the National Institute for Industrial
Productivity and Development (INPED) and a seven-man team, would be respon-
sible for implementing the ITCs. The Directorate of Planning in the Ministry
of Higher Education, assisted by a team of seven including five management
representatives from the five universities, a project manager and a systems
engineer from the CNI, would be responsible for the implementation of the
computer component. Each Directorate would also be responsible for the
technical assistance related to the relevant component. Project managers and
team members have been appointed. The Project liaison officer in the Ministry
of Finance for the four previous education projects would carry out the same
function for the proposed project. These authorities are sufficiently expe-
rienced in selection and briefing of architects, contract award and supervision
of project execution to ensure effective project implementation in conjunction
with Bank supervision missions.
44.       The sites for all project institutes have been acquired and the Bank
has reviewed and found satisfactory the relevant architectural plans, site
plans, topo-surveys, schematic architectural designs and evaluations of tech-
nical services and required site works. Consultant architects for project
implementation have been appointed on terms satisfactory to the Bank.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
45.       The total project cost is estimated at $151.1 million, of which
about $95 million for investment in the project institutes, $6 million for
technical assistance and about $50 million for physical and price contingen-
cies. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of baseline cost.
Price contingencies have been calculated separately on local and foreign
costs for civil works, furniture and equipment, professional services and
technical assistance. Local contingencies in these categories range from 9
to 14 percent in 1980 and from 7 to 11.5 percent in 1983-84. Foreign contin-
gencies range from 8 to 14 percent in 1980 and from 7 to 8 percent in 1983-84.
Total price increases are estimated at 36 percent of baseline cost plus
physical contingencies. The direct cost of experts services and fellowships
is estimated at $6,900 (fees and per diem allowances) and $1,600 per man-month,
respectively, and an average travel cost of $800 per individual. The proposed
Bank loan of $87 million, representing about 58 percent of total project cost,
would finance the full foreign exchange cost of the project. The balance of
$64.1 million, or about 42 percent of total project cost, would be financed by
the Government. Project costs exclude any identifiable taxes and duties.



- 17 -
Procurement and Disbursements
46.       Civil works contracts, amounting to $104.8 million including contin-
gencies, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. Foreign firms are expected
to be awarded .,l project civil works contracts because of the existing heavy
commitments of the local construction industry. Contracts for equipment and
furniture, estimated at $30.8 million including contingencies, would be
grouped to the extent possible in large packages to permit bulk procurement.
Such contracts in excess of $100,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB.
Small items or groups of items costing less than $100,000, or items of a
specialized nature for which international competitive bidding would not be
practicable, and items which must be compatible with other items procured
under ICB, would be procured under normal Government procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. These items, which would not exceed an aggregate
total of $3.1 million, or 10 percent of the total equipment cost, would
include when possible price quotations from at least three manufacturers or
suppliers (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Section C). Bank approval of draft
bid and bid evaluation documents would be required before award of all civil
works, equipment and furniture contracts under ICB. The bidding documents
would specify that equipment suppliers are required to provide a three-week
training course for key personnel in the use and maintenance of sophisticated
equipment when such equipment is installed (Schedule 4, Section A, paragraph
3(b)). An appropriate equipment maintenance plan for the project institutes
would be prepared and forwarded for Bank review six months prior to school
opening (Loan Agreement, Section 3.11). In the evaluation of bids, local
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of prefer-
ence equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing
imports, or 15 percent of the cif price, whichever is lower.
47.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against 48 percent of total
expenditures for civil works. Furniture and equipment would be covered at 100
percent o-f foreign cost and of local cost ex-factory, and 75 percent of local
cost ex-store. Disbursements for consultants and for fellowships would be
made against 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost, and, for local consul-
tants, against 80 percent of local cost.
Benefits and Risks
48.       The project would make an important contribution to the development
of training for manpower required to fulfill the needs of Algeria's light
industries and maintenance trades by creating pilot training centers for
this purpose. The experience gained from the project centers would be used
to revise and improve curricula and methods, increasing their relevance
to Algeria's specific needs. The computer system to be introduced in the
Ministry of Higher Education and five universities would contribute to improv-
ing the planning, evaluation and implementation capability of these organiza-
tions and the overall management of higher education in the country. Wide
dispersal of project institutes would support the Government's policy of
decentralizing to promote equality of educational opportunity and to support
regional economic development. The project's important technical assistance



- 18 -
component would ensure the introduction of high administrative, technical
and teaching standards in the project institutes and increase the number of
Algerian teaching personnel in the education and training system.
49.       The Bank's experience with the implementation of the first four
projects has been mixed (para. 30). The main cause for delays has been the
inexperience of the implementing agency concerned with Bank procedures combined
with general administrative shortcomings in Algeria. Thus close supervision
of this project will be maintained to ensure that the Directorates in the
Ministry of Light Industries, which have little previous experience with Bank
procedures, carry out their parts of the project effectively. The size of the
technical assistance component for the project institutes likewise indicates
the need for thorough follow-up to avoid delays in recruitment of consultants
and candidates for training abroad.  Close monitoring and evaluation of
performance under the ITC training program (para. 38) should ensure the timely
start-up of these institutes.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed sep-
arately to the Executive Directors.
51.       The draft Loan Agreement conforms to the normal pattern for education
projects. Special features of the draft Agreement are referred to in the text
and listed in Section III of Annex III.
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 20 , 1980
Washington, D.C.



-19 -                                              ANEX 1
page 1 of 6
ALGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
A A?LA  THOUSANDO.   )LGERZA  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
8ND ARA (THOUSAND SQ. Km.)         ALGERIA0- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL.          2381.7                                                   SAME         SAME     NEXT KIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    6455.6                                 MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOMF        INCOME
1960  lb    1970 'b ESTIMAT /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /I
GNP PER CAPITA (UsW)                  470.0       640.0    1260.0           1532.5     1097.'      1942.6
ENERGY CONSUY.PTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     252.0        342.0     729.0           838.1       730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      10.3        13.8      17.2
'JUBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.4        34.0      40.0             49.0       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MlLLIONS)                       34.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         94.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RIACHED                  2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        4.3          5.8       7.2             19.9       44.6        28.2
PER SO. XM. AGRICULTURAL LAND                  30.0      38.0            99.0       140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.0         47.5      48.0            45.6        41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.0         48.8      48.0            51.4        55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.0          3.7       1.0             2.8         3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.3          2.9       3.2              3.0        2.4         1.7
URBAN                              7.2Lj        6.1       6.8              5.2        4.5         3.0
CRUDE A1RTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.0         49.0      46.0             43.7       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.0        16.0       14.0            13.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.5       3.6              3.2        2.2         1.8
FAKILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCNT OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ..            ..         ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
I0EX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         149.7        104.0      81.0            90.8       104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                   73.0         78.0      89.0            99.0       105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          47.0         45.0      57.2            63.6        64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        14.0/h       9.0      13.7             16.0       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY PATE      30.0        21.0      16.0             15.9        8.6         5.1
REALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0         53.0      56.0             53.8       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        142.0        ..               ..       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TI SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULAT ION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      56.0             56.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                               ..           *.      80.0            83.4        75.7        85.1
RURAL                               ..           ..      40.0            34.3        40.0        43.0
ACCESS tO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          9.0      43.0            59.1       46.0         70.1
URBAN                                ,.        13.0      70.0            78.2        46.0        88.3
RURAL                               *-          6.0      25.0            26.4        22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          7930.0/0    7860.0    5590.0           3677.0      2262.4      1343.2
POPL'LATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      2730.0    1560.0          1730.6      1195.4       765.0
POPULATtON PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            280.01h      340.0     370.0           577.0       453.4       197.6
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..      253.1       260.2
RURAL                               ..           ..        .,               .      2732.4      1055.0
AUDMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 380           ..        14.3      18.4            21.8        22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
'OTAL                               ..          ..         ..             5.8         5.3         4.7
BRA31N                              *-           *-         -             5.5         5.2         4.4
RURAL                                                                     6.0         5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
QOTAL                               ..          ..         ..              ,.        1.9          1.1
UR3AN                               ..          2.8/f      ..              ..         1.6         1.2
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..        2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRlClTY (PERCEN7
OF DVELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         34.0/f      ..            45.1        50.0        66.0
UR3AN                                ..          ..        ..            67.9        71.7        85.1
Rt'RAL.                              . .       12.0/f      ..              L. 17.3



20                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMNEX 
page 2 of 6
AI.GZRIA- SOCIAL INDICATORS DA.TA SHEET
RLEFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAkGES
ALGERIA                           -  OS  RECENT ESTIMATE) "
SAME          SXIE      NEXCT HIGHEIR
M0ST U1CEDIT      GEOGRAPHIC       INCOME        124C011E
1960 /b      1970 lb ESTIMATE lb          REGION /c   CROUP /d    CROUP? ,e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED E%WXOLLMEN`T RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                    46.0          75.0       86.0               85.0       102.5         101.7
MALE                    55.0          92.0         ..103.7                      108.6         li0.0
FEMA LE                 37.0          57.    . 0                    66.0        97.1          92.9
SECONDlARY:   TOTAL                     8.0          11.0      31.0                27.6        33.5          51.2
MAL.E                    9.0          15.2                          39.2         38.4         56.4
FIHALE                   6.0           6.0        ..20.8                         30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  29.0               20.0         2.5/1             4.3         11.5          18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
MRIMARY                                38.0         40.0        41.0               32.6        35.8          27.1
SECONDARY                              18.0          21.0       26.0               23.4        22.9          25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            10.0          26.0        35.0              41.4         64.0          86.1
CONSUMPITION
PASSENGER CARS PER TEOUSAID
POPULATION                             17.0          11.0       17.9               16.7        13.5          53.4
RLADIO iRECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             54.0            ..      198.0             147.9        122.7         225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUL.ATION                             5.0           8.0       30.0               36.0        38.3         102.6
KEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENRAL
INTEREST`) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      21t.0         15.0        17.0              17.9         40.0          78.5
CINE!MA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0               6.0         2.7               2.9          3.7           3.6
LABOR FORCE
TMTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          2700.0        3019.0     3820.0
FESIA4LE (PERCENT)                      3.2           4.1        5.0                8.6        25.0          24.5
AGRICU'LTURE  (PERCENT)                66.8          50.0       35.0               43.0        43.5          28.9
VIDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     12.1          14.6       18.0               23.7        21.5          30.6
PARTICIPATION RAT`E (PERCENrr)
TOTAL                                    26.7          22.7        22.3              26.7         33.5          33.8
MALE                                     51.3          4.4.4       43.4              46.4         48.0          51.3
FEMALE                                     1.7          1.8         1.9               5.1         16.8          16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.3           2.6        2.4                1.8         1.4           1.3
INCOME 0ISTRIBUTION
PERCENT 0F PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ...                       .21.4                       20.8
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF {IOGSEHOLDS        ...                       .48.6                       52.1          57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEMiOLDS         S..                                         . 3         3.9           3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ...                       .15.0                       12.6          11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMtATED ABSOLUTE POVRTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ...                       .201.3                     270.0
RURAL                                    ...                       .134.2                     183.3
ESTIMATED RELATEIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAITA)
URBAN                                    ...                       .               88.6       282 5         550.2
RURAL                                    ...                       .170.0                     248.9         '.03.4
ESTIMAT'ED POPU'LATION BELOW ABSOLUTTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                ..           ..          ..             ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~22.9  20.5
RU RAL                                   ...                       .31.2                       35.3
Not available                                                                                                                                        a
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each. indicator are populatioa-s'eighted geometric means. exclucing the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators dependis on availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb   OJnless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between i969
and 1971; and for Mlost Recent Estimate, betw.een 1974 and 1977.
/c    7lorth AfrIca S Middle East;1  /d  Intermediate -iddle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   Ie  upper
Uddle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);    If  1966;   /j  1954-60;   /h  1962;   /1  1963;
'ICertain fields of study previous ly classifie'd under other second level education of a vo.caional
- r techinical nature are no, reported under general educat'on: :terefore data not comparable 4/tn
those of earlier years.
Most Recent EstI.ate of -21? per capita is for 1,978.
August, 1979



-21                                                    'ANNEX 1
DEPCNITTONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                        page   3   of   6
Rote:Athuhthe date s-  dre-  fr-  -ene  g-enrlly judged the act muthoitatie end -innie, in ehosld sian be noted that they my not be Inteen-
tb..   open          enn. o  h  mbo  eta.eddnd definition   end concept. need by diffecat c-utrion In coI-lenta   the data. The data  r,nntees
useful to de...ribs ordero  m,itooe, indicate treds, end cheateise certain  ejor differenc. betwee  -ontrise
he aduted -go   aveage  forenh.indicator  -popuatio-weighted geometric man,  ncludlog the not-e  seloen of the inditoao  end the act pcplted
conrM     ne.h    ,p.   hsto  nckf dets, grop a-ergen of all indictore for CepiteL Rorpios Oil  oporters end of indicat-r  of Aen.ee to Water so  ftcrtet
D1Pisposa, Houing, inom  DI.tetihutiZmen'= jrY for  ther  -outy grouP. ar  populatio-weighted geatric eo without enolo  of the etre   -nI.ns and
the mnt poplated ooutsy.  Sneteoern   f cotien san   the indicator  dancd. on nreilbility of date en  nno   nfom   etton,t he -xrined
In relating avrae  of one inictor to enther   Th..ese evge  ar  met]: ueful a. anenimtion  of eno_t:d"                            _ _unehncmaing the  ie  of one
indiator at a tMe       o the oroWtry end refer-c  gnue..
inS ARMA (thousad sqm.k                                                                   cest   nrt neoe  preto  cnoain      oa,  re,adrr,
Wt~~*~ Total eurface urea compriejog lend area end inland eater..                  Doter of people (total, urhen,t end rural) nerved  i.1-d  bt-yPi 7    tLcreta diepos byltas
Agriultural -   etrct  'etimate of egic-ltur1 are  ueed teer-rily                       percnteges of their reepective poolatiowe. Knorta diepoeni sap include
orpeomnstly for crops, panturee, marte end kitohon gardene or to                    the ocileotion end disposal, nith or  ithout tretmet, of ho-  e--rte
lefallo.                                                                            eed ete-eat-r by ente-home cyote   or the one of pit privies cod e-ilar
GNP PER rAPITA                                  ...... ~  ~~~~~~~~~~iastallatione.
dIP   ~~  JimA  - GNP Per- capita cetiates no curet arhet Prie,                    Fo ttino per Rwioie   - Ppjo1laIo  divided by  -cahe  of pratco  ppiin
Toic-i  b(neoosrio   ehd  sWrl *)                     ta  (9-78bhaie);                 qualified fromaedca  _chool at unl-ivctoy lev-b
i76i, i9lQ  nod 1978 data.                                     Fonol~ati prMNuren  Pern-  - Population divided by cuter of proctociog sale
nintoY COiStrTION PER CAPITOL - A-Iaboooatioof co-erial energy                            en   e egaute nuse, prticall nus,,ed oi.cetnntouroe.
(coa  en-d lignite, petrole, otnura  go end hydr--, nucia  end g-cPnintn   e  Hoepitul Zed_ total, urban, end  -al - P.poltion (total, cr10,
thera  eoteciy) In kilogr-a  of oval1 equivalet Per copito; 1960,                       o    url  dIvie   yterrertr   ue   fhooa   esaaliei
1970, end 1976 data.                                                                    pbhii  end pIvte g"oe",   end spoielieed hoetplta1 end rehabilitati.on ...otro.
tiopitale  -r  cetabi'bobmte permaetiy otaf fed by at beast coo phyoici-n
POPUtATIONf AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                          tetbiih-eto providing principal  cutodial cur  are not  -inclded. Rr-
Total Poc= tI.. Mod-Year (alilliono.  -Ad  of July i; i960, 197i, end                   hoopital, ho-eve, include health end medical  -ter  out per-ntily otaflId
i977 dt,by_a physician (hot by a medical.. aistant, nure,  id-ife, et-. ohib offer
Uehbn  oplaio  (percent of total) - tioni  of urban to ton1 popuiatiu;                  in-patient  -cc-dtio  end proide a  alted roog  of aedical focilotie..
dfeetdefiititono of urban a-enn map affect comarbility of data                Adadocico. per Htcoital ed - Total outer of admiocico  to or discharge, feo.
sang coutries; i960, 1970, and 1975 data.                                             hoe.pitalo divided hy the oute  of beds.
i975 total population by og   n    oed tei  -otolity ed fertility                 AvrgSice of OH-sho1d CP'ren  per h-uEholdl - total, uric, nodrua
rae.Projetion"  percet-rf- or-otlity rates coprise of th,ee                     A hounehold oninto of agoP of inMidoalo oto abov  liciog quarter  end
lvlasuiglife ropeteney otbirch iocreae tg nith coutry'                     their na   -.alu. A boader or lodger say or ny not ho inlided in the
Per capita -non  level, end f.nAle life eopectany stbiliniag at                     hounhold foe etotiotica1 Prp-ne.
7.5 yeses   The parnteru fo  fertility rate also have three 1een                 Avrg-sae   f  ecoprro -E              total, urban, end rura  - Acerge ounbee
anoning decline in fertility  --ocorug to Iesa leve  end past                      of peron  pe  coninal urhn  end rura  -ocpied --eveti-ol doelligc,,
fanily danciing perfor.n-    Eah coutry is tbe- asigned one of thes                 e-pe-tio-ly.  Dheellingo enlde oce-p-ronet  t-uto-ec nod  --soopi$pats
nine -ctiatiun   of   rtality nod fertility tredo foe projeti-o                   A-oe- to Clectri-it  (percnt o  de"Ino    tctal, -rto  nod Irrl.                o
,P.roe.                                                                             -etio-a  deelliogo ntb ectiity in livig qurtr,- no per-etup 
itoti..ary ppolatioc - Io osItatiocay population ther  is no groeth                   total   ,uba, nod rura  d-sfLoOgorapecti-ly.
nioc tthe hieth rate is equal to the death rote, and cisc the ege
otrucur  reaon oon. etat. Thin ,Is  .h-cd only after fertility r-teo           ElICATION
deLioe .to the rePlarect level of unit net repr-duoti onrte, ohe-                Adjunted inruiLm t Pt2ton,
eahgneaIoof .nnorPI-e   tneif courtly.  The stationar y popo-                      Irysho -  toa, sale and fesa1e - Gro.n total, sale nodresal  enrol-
laIooi-e .etiatedo  i   an,o  h  proJected charaterictic-                            mn  o   i aest the peli-y leve  no peretmge  of r-protic  1r:sor
of the poplotioc in the yea  2000, nod the rate of decline of ferftility              echool-age popultic...; norwally includes  hitld,-eeagd (-II pes-  buLt
rate to  elcmetlvl                                                                    auted fordifferen1t lengths of prin-y eduction; foe ococtroon  ith
feroaiona   pulation in  inhed - The yea  hen  stationary population               uivra  edct    enolmet nay exedi0pretotrsa   ulc
nice ha. been reahed.                                                                 ar   eoo   bothe official school age.
Population Denity                                                                       lec-dar  -ho,,l - total, male end femle - Computed no ni, -e, --osony
Per s. he. - Mid-year populntioc p-r equ-  duleter (t00 lectures) of                    education rqIell    at "eIt forprr  of approo-  P-lan  iotr.ot .s
Per so. he   gri-sItaral len   - Conpted ax abov  for agricultural lend                 -sualy of 12 to 17 year,  f age; --r-epood-neore  are --rily
PpoplationAe  pnuue  crc-t) - Childrn  (i-14 yous)   oho-ag                             OVeotionnl. -crL-m t (p:croen-t of e-cdbxp) - Vc-ti ... Io-stit..ti-.o  on hu
(15-. yean)  endlretired (b5 yerad over  an Perntge  of aid-year                        te-hical, industrial  o thcr prorn  which operte iodvp-ode-tlyoro
popultion; 170, 197i, and 1977  dat.dpart-nto  of -eodary  notitutios
PonnIlation Iroeth Rone cpervet - total  A-IAna croeh eaten of total mid-               Pupil-teaher ratio - orbi"ry end  -ecodsr  - Total onudeot,  nolsd
yerpuplanioc  fr.  190h950- 50a-70              197i-77.                                pr   My  n  neconda`, level  dided hr-b               oulr.t-ho-eriothroc-
Population Gr-t Pate  pe--ent- urbn   - Anua g-oeh eaten of urhe                          epondioglels
P.poltiun   for 19150-0, 19b0-70, -o  1970-75.                                        Adult litray rate (percet) - Literate  do1to  able to read  cd seine)a
Crude  irth Pate   er thousend  - ,-,.ual live birt   per thonsad of  id-                 aperoetage of total edult ppulati-o aged 15 Ye-  nod0ev
year.P poult ion; 1IC, 1970, end 1977 data.
Crude Deah  atepr thoaed  - Annua deatho per thounnod of eid-yea                    CON5SUNPTTIC
populatin  1950, 1970, end 1977 data                                                P.n..ng-r Cur Ie- thoonud populatio) - Paeogor  -a  -oprioe not- orcr
dron  eprdution Ante   AV-Ovrge  -nai   of daughtero a nu ill hea                    seating l.on than eight pereon; eolud-o enhl-oe, Mese  end -olitary
on her1 1 o    -nlrPr odutive period if sic  -peri--er  pereot ae
pcficfetilt   ae;usal   ieyaraeae.nin   n16,                                   bdi. neevsper thoocad popultion) - All typeno   eoirofo   ai
1970,Pand 1l975.                                                                      b-ud-ntx to geocra  public per thounnd cf puplation; ec.lden _ioionod
PniPlnig-Aocepto-n  A-.o1 (thoceado) - Annual outer of                         receive    . ro  occonivo ntd in yearnshe  r-giotrot-  of  .dois  eo ni
oePtar  of birth-cotrol de-iec us d-  -uPi... of national  faily                    efet      tAn   o  reetyoesy nt he-W bl oerhie oor sa..t  ocirIn
P=uhn   rorn                                                                          abolished li-eo.lg.
Feelly PlanIng-Ore(ecn ofere                 Poo       - Pretag  cf earied            T'V Re-ler i  per  h.oand populanlo) - To rece-iver  for bronono Itoeco
oenof child-heaingp ag   15-byanoh  use hith--cotr   d-otoe                        publi  petMMo  population; e-old-, uli-eeod TVrciee   t cotr-r
to all maried  Iue   in  an  bge grop.                                                end in yea-  ohI  r-giot-tion of TV sets  nnin effect.
MWM!T1O55  -  per Capita                                      Newspape Circuotis, (per thouc-d oo ,tilel) -  ostll  the ocesocoo taiso
of 'daiy -gnerl   te"eotn-opaper  Idefined on o pee-dno  publ,Iatbco
teen   fdrrduetno          (769-1-150  - tdroooeropinode-ted pr-uily to recording genrea  nen It is -o-iderld to be 'dsily"
enolrd-etion of all foodecdi Pn oduticn e-ohod- ov-d nod                          if it apear- at len   ou  iesaec
(e.g.sugocaneinotnd o  ougr) oich are eJible en-  tti   neet dd-drigth.yarincudn  nmioto,t  die-Icctel sac, no  ec  kte
(.g. coffee nod tea ar 1eclded).  Aggengate podonti-n of each country               utnono-d-11
In hane,d owstion-al avrge producer pence cighto.
Per acia sonlyof olren  prcet of-eci-emen) - Computed from             10A0 FORCE
enrg   eqivalent of net food  Iopplien avilable in oconrypevait               Tol -ytaheFreIhue )-hooial   riepros   nldn   re
poe dp.  Aailale nppie  Iopirdmni           prdcto,  mots  en                  ore  en  uemlyed hut  -oclding hu-rirex,  tnud-nto  etc    fioiton
=npotte, end oh-ngef in  hot   tint   PP expien noolde ena   feed, needs,           in vaiou  -ooutrie  ar  no t comparable.
qunIteusd in fod p-ocig, ed losnin diotrihbtio-  Peqoir-                       Pea      rcn)- F:saIe labor Corne. percetage of total labor force.
ants e-re etisated by fAd basd on physicloinle        .. neds for noenal                               ) - Labor forc  in farming, foentry, hunting end
_rnivitynd health --nid-ring  --srsnn.temertue  body neighta,                       fishinga -percetage of tonal labor force 
age and nec distributions of popult-o, nod .1l.iosi    tO percet for              4pldq7ryJpt pent  - labor foc         mnn,sntuto,snfouignd
en te o  hohold lee--ene   n  cna   ecetg   f oe   abrfre
Fee capita _opo  ofneen (ag-  p-r day) - re-teinconten of ev                        Pripaonat(peret)-Oua  meeen   enl  - P.t-niipaoto o
capita net supply offo  pe 1dy.lit eupply of fued in delitod a.ativity eaten ar  -om tsnd as total, ma"le,dfemal  mice forc  no per-
abase. Pequiemete for all e-tni-n  tentblihed bydiSDt provide for                    -tcnnge  of total, male nd femle populion of all age-, repciey
miinm  llwae  of 6i geem  of itotl protein pee dsW end 20 ge-  of              1960, 1970, end 1975 dato.  These ar  IOtto patio oP.to  eae  reP1flecin
anneal ed pulse protein, of uhich 1i0gren  shold he eni-1..prtein.                  ag-e  strucur  of the poPu,laton, end long ten t-eo.  A fee eti-enie
Thes  etdenldardoare  o-  the  thone of 75 gram  of ntutl Protein  nd              ar  rmntionl  orcs
27 g      f anma  prtin as_ en-veag  for the  -Ied, proposed by TAO               tonmi ilsmoP      y Ratio -Rhti  of population IWde- 15 nod 65 nod -rerto
in the, Third te~ld Food S.-Syj.                                                   inclao  foc  in  age g ou f 15 -61 Years
Per ..pita outen. uspaln from anmal and pulse - Pntrin nupply of fund
deet-e  fro  enimal end pieingnS  pee day.                                             PI2df
Child Cm.s. 1-t) Motalit Rae      "n hu d (- Annual deoths Poe thonoed                            -fWI         I-c  (both in cash end blod) - Rncrived by richest
in age group 1-h yeas,t  elilcr-  in this gK        ru;fo   otd                       5 Peret, rihest 20 percent, pooetb            ecet   c   oret-          ecn
cpig coutries datn derived from life table.. .                                        of h-sseh;ds
HEALTH                                                                                POtIERT! TARCW GROUPS
LIfE, Zontne at Birth  eas- Arerage nab- of year  of life                             Retinted -Aheolsto ilorety Inca  owe IU  owe  isptb:). -uren end rural 
raining at hieth; 1950,199   n   977. data                                           Absolute pneety  nalve  statt alrdhl :hich a minimal
infant mortality Rate nc  tisued(-  Aossl death, of ofsest under-                       nutritionally adequate diet plo. enential ann-fund requi-eets is not
Ancceto  af Dter(pownt f souleio   -  otl.urbe.en  rual-          stimated Rlatie Povert  IncaLee  (UiSt  p eraita) -uban end rurl 
iste   nfpeol  (      ur!ban, ond rual  uth et        he .7     ~ t               Rural relatOs powery inais     i   n-third of  rrge Per -apita
safe eater supply )aluden tenated  afa...wters or entreated hot                       persona   -a  of the   -etry. Urban level ic d-ri-d fro  the rurl Itro.d
umetnsainted enter mab a.that fro  poteted hn..sbnlec,  pings,                        nith adj_soat far high-  me.t nf lIvIng In urbanae.
end eaitry ail) a  peretae  nth Irrspetied  populations, in                         Ictimted Poalatin  Wine Aheb oeP-et  natwl(ecn      ra   n
en metno seen a public foatin or standpot   ea`i notare thea                   rura  - Psenst oFpepuatin (ubn             ralsh.casotepr"
200 meer  fee a h-' eW he asidaed as being mithin -enenble
_eneca  f tht            Deos.i  r_ra  area  r__nnal    -oa  eould ily
that the h .e.s.If. or Sc1ee  of the hoa1asisld do not have tospeed a                                                        omaeed Sunial bin  Dinisi
dispenpatlati-t  part.of the imp in fetuhi.g the fenily.  eter m-a                                                      neml  Analyst. ed PenJetinn  Diepartat-
August 1979



-   22  -                                                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
ALGERIA                                                     ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual           Prelim.           Projected 1/                 Growth Rates                 1977
1973       1975       1977      1978        1979      1984      1989        1974   1978   1980  1985   Share of GDP
1977   1979   1984  1989
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(DA millions: 1974 constant prices)
1.   Gross domestic product                   50,435    54,305    62,665   68,169         74,577   109,750  149,108        5.5    9.1    8.0   6.3         100.0
2.   Gains from terms of trade               -10,766    -3,399    -2,910   -5,348           -149      5,636   11,090        .       .       .               -4.7
3.   Gross domestic income (1+2)              39,669    50,906    59,755   62,821         74,428   115,386  160,198    10.6   11.6    9.2   6.8             95.3
4.   Imports                                  14,500    22,870    25,800   26,956         29,544    38,459   49,527    15.5    7.0    5.4   5.2             41.4
5.   Exports - volume                         21,390    20,226    22,121   23,686         25,655    37,190   37,523        0.9    7.7    7.7   0.2          35.5
6.   Exports - TT adjusted                    10,624    16,827    19,211   18,337         25,507   42,826    48,613    16.0   15.2   10.9   2.6             30.9
7.   Resource gap - TT adjusted (4-6)          3,876      6,043      6,589    8,619        4,037    4,367         914       .       .       .      .        10.6
8.   Total consumption                        25,810    32,466    37,610   40,117         43,484   66,025   103,061        9.9    7.5    8.7   9.3          60.4
Public onsuxmption                 5,720      6,770      7,760    8,476        9,312   15,349    24,013        7.9    9.5   10.5   9.4          12.5
Private consumption               20,090    25,696    29,850   31,641         34,172   50,676    79,048    10.4    7.0    8.2   9.3             47.9
9.   Total investment                         17,735    24,483    28,734   31,323         34,980   44,994    58,051    12.4   10.3    5.2   5.2             45.5
Fixed investment                  15,770    21,153    27,564   31,500         33,600   43,600    57,100    15.0   10.4    5.3   5.6             44.3
10.  National savings                         14,574    18,690    21,610   21,815         29,610   48,005    56,616        9.8   17.1   10.1   3.4          34.1
11.  Domestic savings                         13,859    18,440    22,145   22,704         30,943   49,361    57,137    11.9   18.2    9.8   3.0             34.9
12.  GDP at curr. prices (USS millions)    8,723    14,370    19,737   24,341             32,730   76,276   140,555    22.5   29.0   18.4  13.0
13.  Fixed invest. at curr. pr. (USS M)    3,582          6,219      9,486   12,469       15,115   29,735    51,135    27.0   26.0   14.5  11.5
14.  Fixed investment/GDP (current)             41.1       43.3       48.1      51.2        46.2      39.0       36.4
B. SECTOR OUTPUT
(Distribution in percentages; 1974 constant prices)
1.   Agriculture                                 7.2        9.3        6.4       6.0         5.7        4.6       4.0      2.7    4.0    3.6   3.5
2.   Hydrocarbons                               40.5       34.3       33.2      32.3        32.0       30.6      19.9      0.3    8.3    7.2  -2.4
3.   Other Industry                             20.8       25.2       28.9      29.0        29.2       30.3      34.3    13.9   12.0    8.9   9.0
4.   Services                                   31.5       31.2       32.1      32.7        33.1       34.5      41.7      5.4   12.0    9.0  10.5
5.   Non-hydrocarbon output                     59.5       65.7       66.8      67.7        68.0       69.4      80.1      8.5   11.4    8.6   9.4
c.   PRICES  (1974=100 in US dollars)
1.   Export price index (incl. NFS)             39.6      102.0      121.0    119.9        169.8      286.9    415.3       32.5  18.5   11.1   7.7
2.   Import price index (incl. NFS)             79.7      122.5      139.4    154.9        170.8      249.2    320.6       15.0  10.7    7.9   5.2
3.   Terms of trade index                       49.7       83.3       86.8      77.4        99.4      115.1    129.5       15.2   7.0    3.0   2.4
4.   GDP deflator (in dinars)                   72.4      110.7      130.6    141.6        170.1      269.4    365.4       15.8  14.1    9.6   6.3
Hydrocarbon value added deflator        35.3       94.2      114.3    112.7        163.1      282.1    415.7       34.5  19.5   11.6   8.1
5.   Average exchange rate                       3.959      3.949      4.147    3.966        3.876   -
D.   SELECTED INDICATORS
(Computed at 1974 constant prices)        1974-77   1978-79   1988-84   1985-89
1.   ICOR 2/                                       4.0        4.0        4.7       5.4
1.1   ICOR eon-hydrocarbon economy            5.3        4.4        5.7       5.2
2.   Total import elasticity                       2.82       0.77       0.67      0.82
2.1   Non-capital import elasticity           1.33       0.76       0.70      0.85
3.- Average national savings rate/GDY             38.5       37.5       42.3      38.0
4.   Marginal national savings rate/GDY           33.7       54.5       44.9      19.2
5.   Imports/GDY                                  41.2       41.2       35.1      31.6
6.   Investment/GDY                               45.9       48.3       41.7      37.0
7.   Resource gap/GDY                              6.7        9.2       -2.1      -1.5
E.   PUBLIC FINANCE  (Central Government)                                         Prelim.    Provis.
(as . of GDP at current prices)
1973       1975       1977      1978        1979
1.   Current revenue                              31.9       44.5       43.1      40.0        38.6
1.1 hydrocarbon revenue                      11.9       23.7       22.0      18.0        18.9
2.   Current expenditure                          18.6       22.6       18.7      18.2        16.3
3.   Government savings                           13.3       21.9       24.4      21.8        22.4
4.   Capital expenditure                          10.8       10.0       13.0      13.0        12.9
5.   Loans and advances (net)                     12.1       21.8       24.0      24.7        23.2
6.   Overall treasury balance                      3.7       -7.1       -6.2      -9.3        -6.5
F.   LABOR FORCE (in thousands)
1966       1973       1977 3/
1.   Agricultural, total                          1,270      1,480      1,330
- permanently employed                       (450)      (520)      (570)
- seasonally employed                        (820)      (960)      (760)
- percentage of underemployed                  65         65         57
2.   Non-agricultural, total                      1,180      1,700      2,490
- active                                     (860)    (1,407)   (2,240)
- unemployed                                 (320)      (293)      (250)
- percentage of unemployed                     27         17         10
1/   Staff estimates.                                                                           .  not applicable                                EMENA CPIIB
2/   Computed to GDY with one year lag between investment and output.                          - nil or less than half of unit shown             October   1979.
3/   Based on the 1977 Population Census, preliminary.                                         .. not projected



- 23 -
ALGERIA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Millions of US dollars:  current prices)                                                  ANNEX I
Actual                            Prelim                        Projected 1/
1969      1973      1974      1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1982         1984       1989
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1. Exports (including NFS)                    1,010    2,016    4,935    4,869         5,569    6,331        6,793     10,419  - 13,791      20,218      25,525      37,275
2. Imports (including NFS)                     1,225    2,712    4,477    6,598    6,432    8,475            9,986     12,068     14,625      18,-Z       22,922    37,976
3. Resource Balance                             -215      -696       458   -1,729       -863   -2,144       -3,193    -1,649         -834      1,645       2,603       -701
4. Net factor service income                     -62       112        87        38      -107      -206        -391       -576        -745       -970        -849       -446
1. Interest payments                         -11       -83      -218      -235      -381      -454         -570        837    -1,041      -1,334      -1,213        -821
2. Interest receipts                          25         20      148         72        83        86          53         84        116        220          292        553
3. Direct Investment income                 -241         -          -         1         2         1         -15        -19        -22        -32          -46        -96
4. Workers' remittances                      166       226       202        265       254       246         277        305        332        356          356        356
5. Other factor services (net)                -1       -51       -45       -65       -65       -85         -136       -109       -130       -180        -238       -438
5. Current transfers (net)                        48        89        43        32        41        28          40          50         50         50          50         50
6. Balance on current account                   -229      -495       588   -1,659       -929   -2,322       -3,544    -2,175    -1,529           725       1,804    -1,097
7. Private direct investmoent                     41        51       360        97       179       173         136        15          150        160         180        200
8. Official capital grants                        23       -39      -427         -         -         -           -           6          6          8           8         10
Public M&LT loans
9. Disbursements                                  87    1,597        631    1,705    2,157    2,670          4,705      3,808      4,015      2,430        2,037      4,439
10. Amortization                                  -54      -234      -467     -433       -517      -713      -1,070    -1,389      -2,042    -2,945        -3,072    -3,284
11. Net disbu,sements                              33    1,363        164    2,262      1,640    1,957        3,635      2,419      1,973       -515       -1,035      1,155
16. Short-term capital                              -         -         -         -         -         -           -           -          -          -           -          -
17. Capital transactions n.e.i.                   111      -277     -525         72      -262      -124        -614           -          -          -           -          -
18. Changes in reserves (- = inreases)             21      -603      -160       218      -628       316        -387       -400       -600       -378         -956       -268
19. Net foreign exchange reserves                 476    1,096      1,315     1,066     1,608    1,413        1,800      2,200      2,800      3,882        5,354      7,937
B. GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
1. Official grants                                23         3         -         -         -         -           -
2. Total public MS&LT loans                       ..    2,305       1,453    4,125   2,642    2,543          4,262
2.1  IARD                                       -       25        158         48      151       170         172
2.3  Other multilateral                        ..
2.4  Govermaents                               ..      375         169      244      244        193
2.5  of ahich centrally planned               ..       (4)         (27)    (112)       (1)     (10)           -
2.6  Suppliers                                 ..      290        666    2,116   1,002         925       2,000
2.7  Financial institutions                    ..    1,544        399    1,717   1,245    1,187          2,030
2.8  Bands                                    ..        71         61          -        -       68           60
C.  MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. Grant element of total commitments             ..      6.1        16.8      10.5      6.8       8.4         5.9
2. Average interest (percent)                     ..       8.9        6.7       7.7      8.2       7.8         8.2
3. Average maturity (years)                               14.1       13.1      10.4      9.8       9.3        10.9
I/  Staff Estimates                                                                          -  Nil or less than half of unit shown.
Nat available.
EMENA CPII8
October 1979



ALGERIA                                                   24                                        ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual                                    Prelim.
1969      1973      1974       1975      1976      1977               1978
A. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(millions of US dollars)
1. Total debt outstanding
(DOD; end of period)                   678    2,932    3,304        4,477      5,855  -8,165              11,801
2. Including undisbursed                1,210    4,916    6,002        9,591    11,440  13,785                16,977
3. Public debt service                     65       317       685        668         898   1,167               1,640
1. Interest                             11        83       218        235        381      454                570
B. DEBT BURDEN (percentage)
1. Debt service ratio                    6.4       15.7      13.9       13.7        16.1    18.4                24.1
2. Debt service and direct
investment income ratio               ..      15.7       13.9       13.7       16.1    18.4                24.4
3. Debt service/GDP                      1.6        3.6       5.5        4.6         5.4      6.0                6.7
4. Public debt service/
Government revenue                  5.4        11.4      12.2       10.4       13.9    13.7                I6.8
5. Total DOD/GDP                        16.1       33.7      26.4       31.1        35.5    42.1                48.5
C. TERMS (percentage)
1. Interest on total DOD/
total DOD 1/                        2.3         5.6       7.4        7.1        8.5      7.8                7.0
2. Total debt service/total
DOD 1/                             13.7        21.3      23.4       20.2       20.1    19.9                20.1
D. DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT (%)
1. Gross disbursements/imports
(including NFS)                      7.1      58.9      14.1        25.8       33.5    31.5                 47.1
2. Net transfer/imports
(including NFS)                      1.8      47.2      -1.2        15.7       19.6    15.0                 30.7
3. Net transfer/gross
disbursements                       25.3      80.2      -8.6        60.8       58.4    47.6                 65.1
E. EXPOSURE (percentage)
1. IBRD disbursements/Total
disbursements                          -        -         0.3        2.2        2.6      2.0                  1.5
2. IBRD DOD/Total DOD                     2.7       0.3       0.2        0.8         1.5      1.7                 1.7
3. IBRD debt service/Total
debt service                         5.5        1.2       0.5        1.3        0.8      0.8                 1.2
F. EXTERNAL DEBT (disbursed only)                                Outstandinq, Dec. 31. 1977
(millions of US dollars)                                       Amount          Percent
1. IBRD                                                           138              1.7
2. Other multilateral                                               3               -
3. Goveermnents                                                1,279             15.7
4. Suppliers                                                   2,439             29.9
5. Financial institutions                                      4,102             50.2
6. Bonds                                                          204             2.5
7. Total public M&LT debt                                      8,165            100.0
8. Total public M&LT debt
including undisbursed                                    13,785            168.8
G. DEBT/PROFILE
1. Total debt service 1978-1982/Total DOD end of 1977 (percent): 183
1/ DOD at the end of previous year.          - Nil or less than half of unit shown                          EMENA CPIIB
October 1979



-  25  -                          ANNEX 11
page 1-of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                              US$million
Credit                                                       Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower                   Purpose         Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed and repaid                       80.5
912 AL    1973    The Democratic and    Highways             18.5                  .99
Popular Republic of
Algeria
913 AL    1973    The Democratic and    Education             3.5                1.57
Popuilar Republic of
Algeria
995 AL    1974    The Democratic and    Ports                70.0               20.34
Popujlar Republic of
Algeria
996 AL    1974    RaiLways-SNTF              Railways        49.D                6.85
997 AL    1974    Power-SONELGAZ             Power           38.5                1.33
1158 AL   1975    Banque Algerienne          Industrial    40.0                 25.37
de Developpement        Credit
1159 AL   1975    The Democratic and    Tech.Asst.            8.0                5.49
Popular Republic of   Rural Dev.
Algeria
1185 AL   1976    Societd Nationale          SNMC            46.0               26.85
des Materiaux de        Expansion
Construction
1209 AL   1976    The Democratic and    Education            47.0               42.52
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1293 AL   1976    Power-SONELGAZ             Power           57.5               13.49
137B AL'  1977    The Democratic and    Education            48.5               48.50
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1407 AL   1977      The Democratic and    Highways           41.5               41.02
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1427 AL   1977    The Democratic and    Ports                80.0               79.73
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1545 AL   1978    The Democratic and    Sewerage             82.0               81.70
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1595 AL   1978    The Democratic and    Education            90.0               89.27
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1683 AL   1979    The Democratic and    Highways            126.0              126.00
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1739 AL   1979    Office National des   Pleat Indust.  42.0                     42.00
Aliments du Betail
(ONAB)
S016 ALl/ 1979    Soci6te Nationale          Tech.Assist.  20.0                 20.00
de Constr. Metal.
TOTAL                                           988.521'           673.02
of which has been repaid                  91.76
Total now outstanding                           896.74
Amount sold                        34.81
of which has been repaid 34.81
Total now held by Bank                          896.74
Total undisbursed                                                  673.02
1/ Yet to be signed.
2/  A SS million Loan for a Water Supply Enginee:ing U'an was signed February 14, 1980.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (not a member)



- 26 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 995-AL Port Project: US$70.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date:  February 10, 1975; Closing Date:  (Original) June 30,
197-8; (Current) June 30, 1980.
The project is physically completed. Due to claims still pending,
disbursements are behind schedule but are expected to be completed by mid-1980.
There has been a delay of about 18 months in provision of LNG facilities and
equipment but 2 LNG berths are operational. Total project cost, based on
contracts received, is about $56 million less than the appraisal estimates of
May 1974.
Loan 996-AL Railway Project; US$49.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: November 11, 1974; Closing Date: (Original) December 31,
1978; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The physical execution of the project, which supports the railway's
rehabilitation program, is nearing satisfactory completion and procurement has
proceeded on schedule. Several important studies, however, could not be com-
pleted by December 31, 1978, and the Closing Date has been extended to permit
their completion. About $5 million remains undisbursed and will likely be
reallocated for investment studies related to SNTF's 1980-84 development
program.
Loan 997-AL First Power Project; US$38.5 milion Loan of June 10, 1974; Effec-
tive Date: December 20, 1974; Closing Date: (Original) June 30,
1979; (Current) March 31, 1980.
The project comprises high voltage substations, gas turbine plants,
dispatch facilities, and consulting services for management and engineering
services. All physical facilities have been completed, with the exception of
the dispatch center which is over a year behind schedule. The Closing Date
has thus been extended. SONELGAZ has not yet submitted to the Bank a financial
plan indicating how the financial covenants will be achieved, but appropriate
decisions in this respect are now expected imminently.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Loan 1158-AL Development Finance Company Project; US$40 million Loan to
Banque Algerienne de Developpement of September 4, 1975;
Effective Date:  January 5, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31,
1981.
Because of delays in setting up the Appraisal Unit in BAD, disburse-
ments amount to $10 million compared with an appraisal estimate of $38.5
million. Following several partial and total cancellations of already
approved projects, $3.2 million remain uncommitted. Performance remains
disappointing as regards institutional arrangements for BAD to partici-
pate as a decision-maker in the investment decision process, the improvement
of which was an important project objective. At the request and with the full
cooperation of the Government, the Bank is currently engaged in a study of
the Algerian financial system, the recommendations of which may contribute to
remedy the present situation.
Loan 1159-AL Technical Assistance (Rural Development) Project; US$8.0 million
Loan of September 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The credit subproject has been completed. The extension subproject
is now proceeding satisfactorily following important initial delays. Following
completion of the first phase of studies on the mountain sub-project, the
preparation of the second phase is now starting. Consultants are mobilizing
to start work on the steppe subproject.
Loan 1185-AL SNMC Expansion Project: US$46 million Loan of January 7, 1976;
Effective Date:  April 7, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
Construction of the cement plant is approximately six months behind
schedule but is now proceeding satisfactorily and completion is scheduled for
March 1980.   Arrangements for technical assistance are being made to com-
pensate for delays in recruiting and training staff for plant operations.
Capital costs are expected to be about 20% higher than anticipated but finan-
cing is assured. Important measures have been taken to restore SNMC's
financial viability. The SNC technical assistance program is not running
effectively and the Government has been requested to take appropriate action.
Loan 1209-AL Second Education Project: US$47 million Loan of March 9, 1976;
Effective Date: June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of this project is progressing satisfactorily although
disbursements are behind schedule. Following initial delays in preparation of
construction documents for Phase I due to administrative problems, construction
of INELEC, the National Institute of Electricity and Electronics, started in
December 1979; bidding procedures for Phase II are underway. Equipment
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of the technical
assistance program is also proceeding satisfactorily, although about one year
behind schedule.



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
4 of 5 pages
Loan 1293-AL Second Power Project; US$57.5 million Loan of July 8, 1976;
Effective Date: December 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 30,
1980.
The Project consists of the transmission/substation component of
SONELGAZ's 1976-1980 program comprising about 3,300 km of transmission lines
and 4,000 MVA of substation capacity, and studies of SONELGAZ's organization
and management methods. Overall physical progress is satisfactory. Procure-
ment for substations to be financed from the loan has been approved by the
Bank, but some delays have occurred in construction. SONELGAZ has not yet
submitted to the Bank a financial plan indicating how the financial covenants
agreed upon will be achieved, but appropriate decisions in this respect are
now expected imminently.
Loan 1378-AL Third Education Project: US$48.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project started well but has fallen over 2 years behind sched-
ule due mainly to changes in personnel at the Ministries of Education and
Labor at the end of 1977 and a prolonged bidding period for civil works for
the technicums. A decision on the award of contract is expected shortly.
The Ministry of Labor decided in March 1979 to proceed with implementation of
the two vocational training centers under ICB (also 2 years behind schedule),
and bidding documents are expected to be issued imminently.
Loan 1407-AL Second Highways Project: US$41.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Implementation has been slow, due mainly to an unsuccessful first
round of bidding for the sole construction component. Bid evaluation on the
second round of bidding was completed in October 1979 and the $95 million
contract has now been awarded. Works are expected to start in January 1980,
and be completed by end 1982, about one year and a half later than scheduled
at appraisal. The Government is also negotiating with consultants provision
of technical assistance to help in construction supervision. Training of
maintenance personnel, both in Algeria and abroad, started early in 1979. The
loan is now 95 percent committed.
Loan 1427-AL Jijel Port Project: US$80.0 million, Loan of September 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The project is about two years behind schedule due to delays in
bid evaluation and in the construction of the steel complex which the port is
to serve. The Government has informed the Bank that it is reassessing the
size and timing for the steel complex within the context of the preparation of
the 1980-84 Development Plan. A reappraisal may be necessary if there is a
significant departure from initial plans. Meanwhile, the Bank has advised



ANNEX II
-29-                        Page 5 of 5 pages
the Government to defer the award of contract for port constructing pending
the final decision on the steel complex to ensure that port facilities remain
closely related to future needs.
Loan 1545-AL First Sewerage Project: US$82 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date: November 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project consists of the construction of combined sewer inter-
ceptors, the first stage of a sewage treatment plant, and technical assistance
to the Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger (SEDAL), with a view to
creating a sound institutional basis for its operations and establishing new
water tariffs to enable SEDAL to ensure its financial independence. Project
implementation, after some delay partly due to the changes in Government,
is now underway. Engineering consultants for project construction have been
appointed, and the management consultants to SEDAL have submitted a first
draft report.
Loan 1595-AL Fourth Education Project: US$90 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date:  February 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily for all project
institutes: the mechanical engineering institutes (NIME and NIMET), the
teacher training school for technicums (ENSEP), and the two institutes for
vocational instructor training (IVITs) in Annaba and Setif. Construction on
ENSEP started in October 1979 and for NIME and NIMET is expected to start in
September 1980. Implementation of equipment procurement and the technical
assistance program is fairly satisfactory although somewhat behind schedule.
Loan 1683-AL  Third Highway Project:  US$126 million, Loan of May 16, 1979;
Effective Date: September 13, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is proceeding on schedule. Contract pro-
posals for the maintenance program are expected to be received shortly by the
Bank. Bidding documents for the first tranche of the pavement strengthening
program have been approved and bids are expected in February 1980. Bids for
construction of the La Chiffa-Berrouaghia road section have been received and
construction should start on schedule in early 1980. Training of maintenance
personnel is projected to start in February 1980.
Loan 1739-AL Meat Industry Project: US$42 million, Loan of October 3, 1979;
Effective Date: not yet effecive; Closing Date: April 30, 1984.
The loan is expected to be effective by April/May 1980 when sites
for the three meat complexes will have been selected and approved. Project
implementation is in its early stages but is proceeding satisfactorily.
Tender documents for meat complexes are under preparation. A five-man team
has been appointed for the fattening component.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by Government to prepare          Two and one-half years (October
the project:                                 1976 to March 1979, including
preinvestment studies)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:           Government, Consultants
(c)  Project first identified:                    March 1977
(d)  Bank preparation mission:                    September 1978
(e)  Date of Bank Appraisal Mission:              March 1979
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:          November 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:               July 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
A start-up mission following Loan signing would review with the
authorities responsible for implementation of the project detailed implementa-
tion schedules, architectural plans, equipment lists, technical assistance and
procurement procedures. Bank staff would follow up with frequent short super-
vision missions, especially in the early stages.
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained that:
(i)  adequate facilities would be provided to train 60 instructors for
the National Institute for Maintenance Trades Instructors (NIMTI)
during 1980/81 (para. 35), as well as those required for the
project's three industrial training centers (ITCs); the latter would
be trained by the staff of Algeria's national industrial management
firm (SNERI) in accordance with a training program agreed with the
Bank (para. 38);
(ii)  the composition and functions of the consultative committees
appointed to the project maintenance and industrial training centers
would be communicated to the Bank not later than three months before
the start of classes (para. 40);



- 31 -                     ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(iii) the relevant national agencies, particularly the Ministries of
Labor and of Light Industries, would consult regularly on train-
ing to ensure adequate coordination of vocational training
programs (para. 40);
(iv) an evaluation system would be developed for the project
institutes, the tracer system of which would be forwarded
for Bank review and comment at least three months before
the opening of the institutes; the results of the tracer
studies would be transmitted to the Bank at the end of the
school year for the five years following first outputs of
these institutes (para. 40);
(v) adequate physical facilities would be provided for the
installation and operation of the computer system as and
when required (para. 41);
(vi) the technical assistance program would be implemented as
defined (para. 42); and
(vii) bid documents would specify that equipment suppliers are
required to provide three-week training courses for key
personnel in the care and maintenance of sophisticated
equipment when such equipment is installed (para. 46).






P  ;:                           },  .   ;  ,                                                    ,:, .S.J, ~~~~~~~~P                          4
m I ~  ~             ~ ~ ~ FITHEUA~Q   RJC
B.,di-   ~ ~ ~         V AD MIISRAIO!CNTRANAIShTUE O
; ~ ~    ~    ~      ~~                                                                                      ~                                                                      MANEAC  TRAINING CETR  MTCI_3 W 0,/   sX      3
TL  ( ,d,.\ALGERIA
3errl>                              ~~~~~~~~~~F I FTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ADMINISTRATION CENTER AND INSTITUTE FOR
rgAm 5 fra   (J                                          Ghardala tt                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INSTRUCTION TRAINING FOR MAINTENANCE TRADES
-32 '    MANINENANCE TRtAINING CENTERS (MT)
*    COMPUTER INSTALLATION AT UNIVERSITY
O..NglqC-    MAIN ROADS                                                                 32P
{                1 , , , , |               ,5         150=    SECONDARY ROADS
EIL..TE.SDESERT TRACKS
006  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~--- RIVERS                                                                                                                          oZc
6ft,ts fly odgm00,,to 0"huP tOO nm 00t0  on 1t,e ptir O,Vyd Woq gaSeV fltC,                                                                                                                 C '~-'    INTERMITTENT LAKES                              _
INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIEt                         w _
40                                                                                              80                   DO






IRRD 14738
r                                                              JA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4NEMAfY 198
M E D /TER A N EA N    SEA                                                                                                                T-                                     J A-   -d 
ElA n D.cr                                                                                                               u ln                       c 
26"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l  \\ S ~~~~~~~~~Ae                              Mo f'ssag< 
AN                                                                                                                                 Setif $  .   V   ,   ;   _fi?___,D B   A-   
O~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ar                                                                                                                                                .1                          Oum-EIBauaga               /36By"h  w
Sig                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arrid1
n~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                          .0 )in Beide
Si   V/           /                                                                     \                                                                     ALGERI
Te\chn                   Ma careus                                                                 erln
d-B-                                                                          0                          a         N                                  Bane
2\    M lagkn c                 A  e                           /ehia   Teoche   Trn,n Collegeel 0ESP                                                                    IO EES          
c-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
*  Inhfueof  minandMetelury(Sppleentry  quipen3 Sd EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                       BAN             FI AN          E         INSTTUTE
I BRD P,.1-t ~~~~~                                        ~~I-a
,0pott I  ~~~~E I-D-P p.
Ind EDUCATION PROJECT                                v     .h- Industr.a roimn    Mch-c.l E.q-,i (Eng--her)rNIME)n                                                                                B-ewGrl,rtch d.,fefcr-rmtrs5dnt
I  L,q.,f,.d N.t.,.I G-                 I-t,wt. F., V.-ti-l ~~lnt., Tm-g (IIT                             --g-                                                       K5010                    5             3
0    2                            Madn                       ElCTINPRJC  Baydho-  N--   --(T.                                                                             .--fli   1   ,
*   n,wt.tt of El-ct,-cty and EleroI.&--                    C-Op,e lnstallbt-o at 1.1--,sty                                                                         cpwc lrhbLr,h Glaeo rnftM>tprh  e/ fkm r
0-  4                                                                                    B
k                                                                                -.                                                                                                      (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



