Document of
The World Bank                    IECP
FILE COPny
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2634-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROPOSED FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
February 11, 1980
Education & Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(March 1979)
Official Rate:  US$1.00    =  Algerian Dinar (DA) 3.90
DA 1.00    =  US$0.26
MEASURES
1 m        =   3.28 feet
1 m 2          10.76 square feet
1 km 2         0.38 square mile
1 hectare  =  2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.    THE EDUCATION  SECTOR  .....................................                            1
Socio-Economic  Background  .............................                          1
Development  of the Education  and Training  System  ......                        2
Educational Issues  ....................................                           4
Manpower Requirements  .................................                           7
Educational Finance  ...................................                          10
Bank Strategy and Lending  for Education  ....                     ...........    10
II.    THE  PROJECT  ..............................................                           12
Introduction  ..........................................                          12
Objectives  and  Scope  .......                 ...........................       13
The Project  ...........................................                          14
National Institute for Maintenance Trades
Administration (NIMTA) and Institute for
Instructor Training  for Maintenance Trades  (NIMTI)                           14
Maintenance Training Centers  (MTC)  ....................                         16
Industrial Training Centers  (ITC)  .....................                         17
Relevance  and Evaluation  ..............................                         18
Automation of Data-Processing,  MOHE  ...................                         19
Technical Assistance  ..................................                          20
III.    PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND
DISBURSEMENT  ..........................................                          20
Cost  of the Project  ....................................                        20
Project  Financing  .....................................                         23
Recurrent  Costs  .......................................                         24
Implementation  ........................................                          24
IV.    BENEFIT AND RISKS  ........................................                            27
Benefits  ..............................................                          27
Risks  .................................................                          27
Key Implementation Dates  ..............................                          28
V.    AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...................                          29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.   CHARTS AND TABLES
Chart 1       Structure of the Formal Education
& Training System                                  31
Tables 1.1   Comparative Education Indicators                       32-33
2.1   Technical Assistance Program                          34
3.1   Unit Capital Costs and Areas Per Student              35
3.2   Contingency Allowances                                36
Chart 2(a)   Implementation Schedule, NIMTA/NIMTI Complex           37
(b)   Implementation Schedule, MTCs and ITCs                38
(c)   Implementation Schedule, MOHE Computer                39
Table 3.3    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                    40
2.   RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   General Reports and Studies Relating to Education              41
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project                    41
C.   Selected Working Papers                                        42
MAP                                                                      43



ALGERIA
Basic Data (1977) /1
Area                                                            2,381,700 km
Estimated Population:  In Algeria                                17.3 million
abroad                                    1.0 million
Rate of Population Growth (1976-1977)                             3.2% p.a.
Per Capita GNP (1977) /2                                          US$1,110
Estimated Literacy Rate                                                37%
Primary Enrollments as a Percentage
of Age Group 6-12                                                    86% /3
Secondary Enrollments as a
Percentage of Age Group 13-18                                        31% /3
Higher Education Enrollments as a
Percentage of Age Group 19-23                                         6% /3
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of Total                               26.3% Recurrent
Government Expenditures                                          18.1% Capital
22.8% Total
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of GDP                                     7.4%
/1   See Annex 1 for comparative educational data.
/2   World Bank Atlas.
3/   Gross enrollment ratios.






ALGERIA
Glossary
Ministries
MOLI:     Ministry of Light Industries
MOHI:     Ministry of Heavy Industry
MOE:      Ministry of Education
MOHE:     Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
MOL:      Ministry of Labor and Vocational Training
Project Institutes
NIMTA:    National Institute for Maintenance Trades Administration
NIMTI:    National Institute for Maintenance Trades Instructors
MTC:      Maintenance Training Centers
ITC:      Industrial Training Centers
Education
Basic
Education:   Nine years' schooling (grades 1-9) divided into three
cycles, grades 1-3, 4-6, 7-9 to emphasize basic learning,
introduction of the abstract and orientation, respectively.
Lycee    :  In the reformed system, grades 7-9 of basic education
combined with grades 10-12 offering specialized streams
in Arabic, Humanities, Mathematics and Science (general
lycee) or Industrial Arts, Mathematics, Commerce and
Economics (technical lycee). Successful graduates are
awarded the baccalaureat in various specializations
qualifying them for entry to university.
Technicum:   A new type upper secondary school (grades 10-12) with
strong vocational bias, designed to produce middle level
technicians.



Glossary (Continued)
Education (Continued)
ITE          Institut de Technologie d'Education; teacher training
institute with one and two-year training courses for
grade 10 (instructor) and grades 12 to 14 (standard
(instituteur).
VTC          Vocational Training Center
IVIT         Institute for Vocational Instructor Training offers
two-year post-secondary course to train VTC instructors.
ENSEP         Ecole Normale Superieure de l'Enseignement Polytechnique;
technical teacher training college with three-year grades
13-15 courses.



I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-Economic Background
1.01      Since independence in 1962, Algeria has pursued a policy of rapid
industrialization and structural reforms based upon expansion of oil and gas
production for export. During the Development Program 1967-1969 and the First
Development Plan 1970-1973, emphasis was placed on heavy industries and highly
capital intensive technologies. In the Second Development Plan 1974-1977 1/,
development of mechanical and electrical engineering industries manufacturing
capital goods for various sectors of the economy was fostered, but increasing
emphasis was also placed on light industries producing major consumer goods,
as well as the development of lagging sectors such as agriculture, housing
construction, transportation, telecommunications and urban infrastructure.
This emphasis is expected to be reinforced in the Third Development Plan
1980-1984. Shortages of trained manpower have constantly been a major
hindrance to economic development and efficiency.
1.02      The following three basic goals for long-term national economic and
social development were incorporated in the Second Development Plan 1974-1977;
(a) expansion/reorganization of the country's productive base to reach self-
sustained growth with full employment, (b) economic independence, and (c)
improvement of income distribution among regions; they were reaffirmed in the
National Charter approved by referendum of June 27, 1976 and are expected to
be maintained in the Third Plan. The strategy used for achievement of these
goals may be summarized as follows:
(a) continued build-up of a diversified, integrated and
geographically well-distributed industrial base, which
is viewed as the means of achieving long-term growth and
full employment objectives;
(b) reinforcement of new management structures for the Algerian
economy (central planning, public enterprises, agrarian
revolution, decentralization, workers' participation in the
management of public enterprises) to strengthen Algerian
control and improve efficiency of investments and production;
(c) limited expansion and egalitarian distribution of personal
incomes so as to generate adequate national savings for
investment and avoid excessive resource to external sources;
and
(d) rapid expansion and reform of education and training to
respond quickly to the demand for skilled manpower and to
create a socio-cultural environment conducive to modernization
and development.
1/   The Third Development Plan 1980-1984 currently being finalized; 1978-1979
officially considered transitional with Second Plan actions being
completed.



- 2 -
Development of the Education and Training System
1.03      The education and training system in Algeria plays a key role in
implementing the country's development strategy. Educational development is
aligned, accordingly, to national goals for political, economic and social
development and is based on major structural and educational retirms being
undertaken over the period to 1985; quantitative targets were clefined in
detail for the Education Plan 1974-1977 (aligned to the Second Development
Plan) and in broader terms for the later period; the Education Plan 1980-1984
at present being finalized is not expected to contain significant changes
in educational objectives or strategies. The strategy is based on the follow-
ing main policy objectives:
(a) arabization, which entails the development of a socialist
system within Arabic-Islamic culture and fostering the
Arabic language as the main medium of instruction and
communication;
(b) democratization, which is aimed at reducing inequalities
in allocating resources among levels of education and
regions of the country;
(c) structural reform to provide a compulsory nine years of
basic education followed by three-year upper stage courses
in lycees and technicums, or by teacher training courses;
the reform implies shortening lower stage courses from four
to three years (grades 7-9) and development of basic educa-
tion, phasing out of lower technical and agricultural schools
and rapid build-up of technicums;
(d) curricula reform to render them more relevant to the needs
of the economy and society and to the realities of local
environments;
(e) reform of secondary technical education, whereby the CETs
(Colleges d'Enseignement Technique) are phased out, the
technical lycee courses are continuously updated in line
with the needs of industry and main emphasis is being placed
on a new type of middle-level technician training in a national
network of "technicums" being established extending over grades
10-12 and strongly job-oriented;
(f) development of vocational training for skilled and semi-skilled
workers in a national network of VTCs (Vocational Training
Centers) and other skills training centers administered by the
technical ministries;
(g) reform of higher education, including bias towards science and
technology, improvement of efficiency, modernization of teaching
technologies and gradual incorporation of the Institutes of
Technology in the university system; and



- 3 -
(h)  reduction of adult illiteracy from the existing very high rate
of about 63%.
1.04      These structural and curricular reforms were introduced with the
Education Plan 1974-1977 for completion by 1985, but this target will be
difficult to achieve. The policy objectives and reforms are educationally
sound and in line with the socio-economic goals of the country's development
strategy. However, because of the immense operation required to develop the
education system since independence, including expansion to improve participa-
tion (while keeping pace with an annual population growth of over 3%) and to
meet ever increasing manpower requirements as well as the introduction of
necessary structural, educational and administrative reforms, it is not sur-
prising that many gaps, bottlenecks, inequalities and weaknesses remain.
1.05      Various reforms are underway to meet these problems.  The Ministry
of Education (MOE) during the 1974-77 plan delegated much authority to the
31 wilayate (provinces). The Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research (MOHE) will gradually assume responsibility for all post-secondary
education. The technical ministries, especially the Ministry of Labor and
Vocational Training (MOL) and the Ministries of Heavy Industry (MOHI), of
Light Industries (MOLI) and of Energy and Petrochemicals (MOEP), still retain
responsibility for training large numbers of skilled workers and will receive
guidance from the National Advisory Council on Vocational Training estab-
lished in 1977. Since 1974 primary and secondary education are being reformed
from the traditional French 6-4-3 system to nine years basic education in
grades 1-9 (a unified system aiming to relate education more closely to
training and employment), followed by three-year courses in lycees and tech-
nicums, or by teacher training courses. Curricular reforms are also underway
at all levels.
1.06      The education system has expanded very rapidly, especially in recent
years. Primary enrollment increased by 6% annually during 1973-1978 to 2.8
million or 86% of the 6-12 age-group (1984-85 enrollment projection 3.4 mil-
lion); secondary enrollment increased by over 17% annually during 1973-1978 to
742,000 or 31% of the 13-18 age-group (1984-85 enrollment projection 1.1 mil-
lion); and even greater annual growth of about 20% was recorded in higher
education to 93,000 or 6% of the 19-23 age-group in 1978 (1984-85 enrollment
projection 140,000) 1/. Due to the very rapid growth of enrollments, recur-
rent expenditures on education are estimated to account for a high 26.3% of
total government expenditures in 1978 while capital expenditures on education
account for 18.1% of public capital expenditures, representing together 7.4%
of GDP. However, although significant quantitative growth and a good effort
in supply of urgently needed manpower were achieved, investment in agriculture,
rural training/adult education, teacher training, management and health
training has lagged, results in efforts to reduce illiteracy have been dis-
appointing and quality overall has suffered.
1/   Gross enrollment ratios.



-4-
Educational Issues 1/
1.07      The main educational issues are surmarized in this section under
five headings: (a) Basic and Secondary Education, (b) Higher Education,
(c) Vocational Training, (d) Adult Education, and (e) External Efficiency.
(a) Basic and Secondary Education
1.08      Equity and Quality.  Despite government efforts, inequalities are
still marked both by sex and by province. Nevertheless, girls' enrollments
have increased steadily to a national average of 41% for grades 1-6 and 36%
for secondary general and teacher training students, though girls account
for just 23% of secondary technical enrollments. Overall enrollment rates
and girls' participation vary greatly by province with Djelfa and Adrar in
the South and Mostaganem in the West noticeably weak. The MOE completed a
very satisfactory school mapping study for basic education in 1978 and a
similar study for secondary education financed under Loan 1378-AL, is scheduled
for completion by December 1979; it is expected that generalization of the
results of these studies, together with implementation of the decentralization
policy, will facilitate reduction of inequalities but success will require a
major effort, especially in rural areas.
1.09      With rapid quantitative growth quality has seriously suffered.
Student/teacher ratios remain somewhat high at 38 for grades 1-6 and 28 for
secondary general education, though satisfactory at 14 and 11 for secondary
technical and teacher training, respectively. Qualitative shortcomings are
also due to certain irrelevancies in curricula, faulty teaching methods and
lack of teaching aids as well as home environment conditions including language
problems; the primary inspection system also requires reform. 2/ To improve
quality a major effort in teacher training (especially for basic education) is
required. The Institut Pedagogigue National (IPN) now upgraded and incorpo-
rating the National Center for Science and Equipment and the Norms and Stan-
dards Unit, for which plans for a new building are under consideration and for
which technical assistance is financed under Loan 1209-AL, will also play an
important role in quality improvement. The IPN has 4 directorates, pedagogy,
audio-visual aids, printing and finance, and over 8 million textbooks in
Arabic and French for primary and secondary schools were produced by the
Center in 1978.
1.10      Internal Efficiency.  Repeater and attrition rates, often related
to the weaknesses mentioned above as well as to the traditional role of
women in Algerian society, remain very high. Repeater rates in 1978 ranged
from about 8% to 13% for grades 1-5 but the rate was 22% in grade 6; attrition
rates were about 4% for grades 1-4 but over 16% for grade 5; transition rate
from grade 6 to secondary was about 55%. Repeater rates were not as serious
1/   Data are for 1978 unless otherwise stated.
2/   See Project File:  Robert Melet, Primary Inspection in Algeria, IIEP,
Paris 1976.



- 5 -
at 4% in secondary grades 7, 8, 9, 11 and 12, but high at about 10% and 13%
in grades 10 and 13, the terminal years for middle school and upper secondary,
respectively. Attrition rates were also high in secondary, averaging about
12%. 1/
1.11      Teacher Training.  Further reform in basic education teacher train-
ing is now due, especially that Algerianization is practically achieved for
grades 1-6 (1.3% expatriates). The ITEs (Instituts de Technologie de l'Edu-
cation) established in 1970 to reform teacher training and train primary and
middle school teachers are not having the desired impact. The grade 9 and
10 entry standard for grade 1-6 teachers is inadequate (while acceptable in
the past because of shortages) and pedagogical training seems insufficient in
content and duration. The baccalaureat entry standard for grades 7-9 (middle
school) teachers is adequate but the content and duration of training require
review; in particular the sections added at selected ITEs to train teachers
of practical subjects are insufficient for implementation of the curricular
reforms envisaged in the 1974-77 plan. Further efforts are also required to
replace over 28% of expatriate teachers for grades 7-12; improvement of
physical facilities in the ITEs is also required. Special attention to making
the secondary teaching profession competitive with industry is necessary,
especially for science and technical teacher training which is being supported
under Loan 1595-AL.
1.12      Administration.  The Education Plan 1974-77 was well designed and
has defined well the needs to achieve government policies and programs. There
were many weaknesses in implementation, however, due to faulty administration
at central, regional and institutional levels and, in particular, lack of
inter-directorate and inter-ministerial coordination, which persists. The
government now recognizes the need to establish a system of training in educa-
tional planning and administration. 2/ Very high costs are also problematic.
As annual recurrent costs already absorb about 26% of the government's re-
current budget, a close check must be maintained through improved efficiency
and strict policies on scholarships, boarding and deployment of teachers;
this is particularly necessary in view of the need to make teachers' salaries
more competitive. Cost of construction per student place is extremely high
and control must be exercised through rational location planning and standar-
dized construction. 3/
1/   For further details of attrition in Algeria, see Project File:  Mohamed
Chaibderraine, Educational Wastage at the Primary Level, Linkoping
University Department of Education, Linkoping, 1978.
2/   A UNDP/Unesco project started in 1979 (US$1.0 million) will include study
of means to improve educational planning and administration in the MOE
and MOHE.
3/   The inordinately high construction cost is due to scarcity of trained
manpower in the construction industry, low productivity, high import
taxes on raw materials and management shortcomings, which have affected
virtually all sectors of the economy.



- 6-
(b) Higher Education
1.13      While the government has decided that the MOHE will assume re-
sponsibility for all post-secondary education, coordination oi- efforts on
development based on manpower requirements is lacking among the MOHE and other
concerned ministries, especially the ministries of Agricultur- and Industry.
The MOHE Master Plan 1976-1985 (Programme de Developpement de l'Enseignement
Superieur et de la Recherche Scientifique 1976-1985) does not spell out how
absorption of the Technological Institutes controlled by other ministries will
be achieved. This plan projects university enrollments to increase to 80,000
in 1981 and 140,000 in 1985 (5 to 13 universities) but contains no analytical
justification of this expansion on manpower grounds; nor does it contain
adequate analysis of pedagogical aspects and scientific/technological develop-
ments. 1/ An analysis of the contribution the MOHE should make to the develop-
ment of agriculture and forestry is also missing. Feasibilitv of achieving
these targets (even if justified) is questionable as detailed educational
and architectural briefs for the period to 1980 are not yet available. In
any event, improved planning of enrollment structure, study programs, physical
facilities and staff development (47% expatriate teaching staff in universi-
ties) by the MOHE is required. Meanwhile, some other ministries continue in
an uncoordinated way to plan their own post-secondary expansion. In brief,
updating of a thorough, comprehensive plan for all post-secondary education
based on defined manpower requirements and agreed by the MOHE and the other
concerned ministries is required as a basis for rational development at this
level.
(c) Vocational Training
1.14      From a training system practically confined until recently to that
provided by the national industrial enterprises, a creditable base of 55
VTCs enrolling 25,500 trainees has been built up. Preinvestment studies to
evaluate the needs for the development of vocational training were financed
under Loan 1209-AL and Bank support for training, in accordance with the
findings, is being provided under Loans 1378-AL and 1595-AL. However, an
enormous effort is still required to supply the estimated annlal output of
100,000 skilled workers and the government has incorporated its commitment
to this task in the National Charter 1976. Though considerable training is
undertaken in the technical ministries, especially the MOHI and MOLI, the
MOL has major responsibility for the development of vocational training and
will, in due course, have responsibility for all such training. The National
Advisory Council on Vocational Training, established in the MOL in 1977, must
play an active role in coordinating efforts in training and retraining and
avoid the tendency towards duplication among ministries.
1/   The plan is based, however, on a well prepared document:  ROMCONSULT,
Etude Concernant le Developpement de l'Enseignement Superieur en Algerie
1976-1985, Bucarest, 1975.



-7-
(d) Adult Education and Literacy
1.15      The CNEG (Centre National d'Enseignement Generalise, MOE) has
responsibility for "second chance" education and enrolls about 21,000 students,
mainly (95%) in secondary education. The CNA (Centre National d'Alphabetisa-
tion, MOE) enrolls about 645,000 (4% women) in literacy programs. 1/ The
large national enterprises also play an important role in adult education,
as well as in general and functional literacy for employees and their families.
However, despite a wide-ranging approach (including correspondence courses and
use of the media), adult illiteracy remains about 63%. A target was set in
the 1974-1977 plan to reduce the rate to 50% by 1981, but progress has been
disappointing because of greater emphasis on rapid development of the formal
system, as well as administrative and teaching shortcomings. A much stronger
commitment and definition of a comprehensive strategy with detailed programs
and projects are a prerequisite to substantially reducing by a reasonable date
the present high adult illiteracy rate of 63%.
(e) External Efficiency
1.16      Although commendable advances have been made in the 1970s, the
objective of expanding and gearing the education system to meet the manpower
needs of Algerian economic and social development is far from achieved.
Severe shortages of trained manpower at all levels still constitute severe
constraints to development. These shortages have been alleviated by recruit-
ing expatriates (a temporary and very costly expedient) who comprise up to
40% of professionals and higher technicians in industry and up to 25% of all
engineers as well as the large numbers of expatriate teachers in secondary
and higher education mentioned above. Continued rapid expansion is obviously
necessary to replace these expatriates and meet the manpower needs of the
economy as described in paras 1.17 and 1.18, but care must also be taken to
gearing existing training programs to these needs at all levels but especially
in secondary and higher education. A very special effort is required in
agricultural training as productivity has very seriously lagged in this
critical sector, which will be given greater emphasis in the Third Plan; the
time is ripe too for special attention to health training; assessment of needs
in this regard is necessary. 2/ In addition, emphasis must be placed on man-
agement training in all sectors because of widespread deficiencies.
Manpower Requirements
1.17      The effort required from the education and training system to
achieve the growth targets of the Third Development Plan 1980-84, lay the
foundation for later plans and meet priority manpower needs is summarized
in the following table where Bank support in this regard is also outlined.
1/   Technical assistance for the CNEG and the CNA is financed under Loan
1209-AL.
2/   An Education Sector Survey is planned for FY1980.



- 8 -
Estimated Manpower Requirements 1979-90
Average Annual    Annual   Annual Output Due
Output Reqd.      Output    to Bank Projects
1978-90          1977    Educ. I-IV  Ed. V
(by 1985)
Higher Education graduates           24,600          6,700      4,380          0
of which:
Engineers                        2,400            370        585          0
Higher Technicians               4,830          1,460      3,345          O
Vocational Training
Instructors                    1,370            200        450       200
Middle Technicians
Commercial                      19,700          4,000      1,020          0
Industrial                      16,600          7,500      3,480          0
Skilled Workers                     100,000         25,000        480      5,400
Heavy Industry & Energy
& Other                       51,000 /1      25,00         480         0
Light Industries                45,000 /2        '°            0      4,500 /3
Artisanat                        4,000              O          O        900
Source:  Ministries of Planning and Light Industries and mission calculations.
/1   Includes the seven heavy industry and energy national enterprises
SONATRACH (energy), SONACOME (mechanical engineering), SNS (steel),
SN-METAL (metal), SONELEC (eletricity), SONELGAZ (gas), SONAREH
(minerals).
/2   Including national light industries enterprises to be supported in this
project, SNMC (construction), SNLB (cork and wood), and SN-SEMPAC (food
processing).
/3   Including about 1,000 for re-training initially but increasing to a
higher proportion as demand for first-time training levels off; about 5%
of employee stock would undertake re-training each year.



- 9 -
1.18      The table reflects the results of two pre-investment studies
financed under Loan 1209-AL 1/ and other studies prepared for and by the
government. It shows a wide gap between the estimated annual demand to 1990
of about 25,000 graduates from higher education and supply (now 7,500), but
the system, with implementation of present plans and Bank support under Loans
913-AL, 1209-AL and 1595-AL, should be ready to start progressive replacement
of the large numbers of expatriate professionals and technicians by 1985, and
should have sufficient capacity by 1990 to meet Algeria's manpower require-
ments. Present output of about 12,000 as against an estimated annual demand
to 1990 of 36,000 middle-level technicians, also represents a significant
shortfall. However, establishment of a network of 30 technicums as planned
(15 Bank-financed under Loan 1378-AL) would provide an additional output of
9,000 during the 1980s which together with other expansion of the secondary
system, should practically close the gap by 1990. The government has decided
upon priority action to rapidly expand the network of VTCs (similar to the
2 pilot VTCs financed under Loan 1378-AL), and increase the output of 25,000
skilled workers so as to meet the very large annual output to 1990 of 100,000.
Successful action in this regard is a prerequisite, not only to achieving
the growth objective for agriculture, industry and the services in the Third
Plan, but also to deal effectively with possible underemployment and unemploy-
ment.
1.19      Thus, while many other educational problems remain to be solved and
receive serious attention, such as improving quality in basic and secondary
education, development of teacher training especially for basic education,
and increased emphasis upon agriculture, adult education and literacy train-
ing, management education and health training, nevertheless, the table above
clearly shows that increased supply of skilled workers warrants a high govern-
ment priority. In a country endowed with important natural gas and petroleum
resources, emphasis was initially placed upon heavy capital-intensive energy-
related industries, but has now been changed to more labor-intensive light
industries serving priority needs (para 1.01), and requiring greatly increased
numbers of skilled workers. Following investment in the training of Algerian
professionals and technicians in longer courses to replace the large numbers
of costly expatriates already mentioned, complementary investment in training
the required skilled workers in shorter courses is now appropriate.
1.20      Priority investment in vocational training is justified not only by
manpower needs but also by social objectives and is worthy of Bank support.
The beneficiaries of the training would constitute mainly disadvantaged ele-
ments of the community in greatest need of support. Development of many of
the light industries concerned, such as food processing and construction
l/   See Project File:
MOLI, Etude de preinvestissement pour la creation des Centres de Formation
Professionnelle dans le Secteur des Industries Legeres (ILO), 1978
MOLI, Etude de faisabilite d'un projet d'institut national et de Centres
de Formation Technique pour les matieres de l'artisanat (Battelle), 1979;
table estimates more modest than in the studies.



- 10 -
materials would also help to meet basic needs in food and shelter for a
broader range of the community. Similarly, support is justified for artisanat
training for repair and maintenance of housing, vehicles (including agricul-
tural tractors and lorries) and household equipment. The problem of very
severe housing shortages in Algeria is compounded by lack of maintenance
over a long period, resulting in very poor conditions and over-rowding; up
to 50% of households have neither electricity nor sanitation and there is
an average of about 7 persons per household. With a population growth rate
of 3.2% annually and a projected increase to 3.5 million households in 1985
(2.8 million 1977), enormous housing development and maintenance tasks must
be faced. For lack of skills training in repair and maintenance of agricul-
tural tractors, lorries and other vehicles as well as of household and trade
electrical appliances, costly disruptions are all too frequent.
Educational Finance
1.21      The rapid growth of the Algerian education system in. recent years
(para. 1.06) is reflected in the relatively heavy expenditures made. Recur-
rent and capital expenditures on education (including the MOE and the MOHE)
in 1978 were DA 4,614 million and DA 2,353 million, representing annual
increases of over 21% and over 22%, respectively, since 1973 at current
prices. The 1978 figures constitute 26.3% and 18.1% of central government
recurrent and capital expenditures, respectively. Total central expenditures
on education in 1978 accounted for 7.4% of GDP which is above the average for
developing countries and compares favorably with highly developed countries
(UK 7.1%, USA 5.4%; Annex 1, Table 1.1). Total enrollments are estimated to
increase from 3.7 million in 1977/78 to 5.7 million in 1989/90. To finance
this expansion, an average annual increase of about 6% (1977 prices) in total
public expenditure on education, will be required. Assuming an average annual
real growth rate of GDP of 6% 1977-1990, total public recurrent expenditures
on education in 1990 would be about 6.7% of GDP, and total public expenditures
would be about 8.1% of GDP. This level of expenditure though relatively
high, corresponds to Algeria's past efforts in education; total public expen-
diture in education was 8.2% and 7.5% of GDP in 1973 and 1977, respectively.
Barring unforeseen events in the energy sector, the Algerian economy seems
capable of meeting this level of fairly rapid development of the education
and training system; however, administrative shortcomings and lack of capacity
in the construction industry could prove to be serious obstacles. There is
need, also, to curtail the growth of recurrent costs through improved effi-
ciency and reduction of boarding and scholarship costs. In addition, efforts
should be made to standardize design and construction and to improve school
location planning in order to reduce or stabilize construction costs per
student place.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
1.22      Shortages of professionals, technicians and skilled workers
have been causing major bottlenecks in almost all sectors of the Algerian
economy with a resultant deleterious effect on economic and social develop-
ment; in addition, a large proportion of professionals and technicians are



- il -
expatriates. For this reason and in the perspective of the country's develop-
ment strategy for 1974-85, Bank lending in four education projects in Algeria
has thus far placed main emphasis on development and reform of technical
education and vocational training so as to assist the government in: (a)
meeting urgent manpower needs for management/professional staff and higher
technicians, (b) replacing the large numbers of expatriate professionals
employed, and (c) supplying much needed middle-level technicians and skilled
workers. Alongside this support the Bank has, through financing technical
assistance in these projects, assisted the MOE and the MOHE in institution
building, educational planning, implementation of educational reforms, and
development of adult education and literacy training. The government is
being assisted by four Bank-financed education projects, Loans 913-AL (1973),
1209-AL (1976), 1378-AL (1977) and 1595-AL (1978) of US$6.0, US$47.0, US$48.5,
and US$90.0 million, respectively. The first project was designed to increase
technician outputs from the Algerian Petroleum Institute (API), the Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy (IMMA) and the Institute for Agricultural Technology
(IAT), through equipping the API and IMMA and construction/equipping an
extension to the IAT. The second project is supporting the establishment of
a national Institute for Electricity and Electronics (INELEC) for training
engineers and higher technicians and provides a wide-ranging program of tech-
nical assistance. The third project is assisting the government in implement-
ing a major reform of its education system through establishing a new network
of 30 technicums (15 Bank-financed), expanding the network of VTCs through
financing two pilot centers and developing school mapping. The fourth proj-
ect, through the establishment of training institutes for mechanical engineers
and higher technicians (NIME, NIMET), vocational instructor training college
(IVIT) and extending the technical teacher training college (ENSEP), will
assist in supplying urgently needed highly trained Algerians for industrial
management and technical posts as well as teachers and instructors to train
middle-level technicians and skilled workers. 1/
1.23      Administrative and technical difficulties including changes in
ministries responsibilities, lack of expertise in Bank procedures and espe-
cially the diffuse nature of the IAT item, have caused over three years delay
in implementation of the first education project, reduction in the project
content and postponements to the Closing Date to June 30, 1979. However,
implementation of the second project is progressing satisfactorily; a two-year
delay in implementing the third project resulted from changes in management
together with design and procurement difficulties, but more efficient imple-
mentation seems likely now that these problems are close to solution; the
fourth project became effective on February 28, 1979 and overall satisfactory
progress is being made.
1.24      In addition to INELEC-related technical assistance, the second edu-
cation project contains an important technical assistance program mentioned
in para. 1.22 which is being implemented satisfactorily. Algerians have
already been trained abroad for the MOE in various courses including educa-
tional planning and administration, curriculum development and teaching
1/   Thus, in the four projects the Bank assisted in developing important
new and unfamiliar fields while supporting institution building and
the government continued investing in familiar areas at all levels.



- 12 -
methods, adult education and literacy training methods, and evaluation;
further similar training is underway. In addition, modernization of teaching
technologies and improved educational administration through automation of
data-processing in the MOHE and universities and improved planning of the
development of vocational training in the MOL and MOLI are planned on the
basis of sti..ies financed in the second project. Technical assistance was
also provided in the third and fourth projects for school mapping and the
development of artisan training, respectively.
1.25      The proposed fifth education project would assist the government
in achieving the objectives of the Third Development Plan 1980-84 through
financing vocational training of skilled workers required to develop the
social sector and labor-intensive light industries serving priority needs,
which will now receive increased emphasis. Skilled workers are especially
needed to deal with the problem of severe housing shortages in Algeria (para.
1.20) as well as maintenance of equipment whose malfunction is disruptive 1/
and to develop key light industries such as construction materials and food-
processing. Development of the social sector and such key labor-intensive
light industries is considered an important contribution to the provision
of basic needs for large numbers of disadvantaged people both through employ-
ment and outputs as well as creating the required social environment for
achieving educationaL objectives. Following a series of heavy investments
in skills training, emphasis is likely to be shifted in future projects
to agriculture, basic education/teacher training and rural training/adult
education.
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01      The proposed project was prepared by the Algerian government on the
basis of pre-investment studies financed under Loans 1209-AL and 1595-AL,
and following a preparation/assistance mission of September/October 1978.
The project (loan amount US$87.0 million) was appraised by Messrs. J. McCabe
(senior education planner, mission leader), J. St. Germain (architect),
and D. J. Petry (technical educator) during March 12 - April 5, 1979; Mr.
A. Ellis (computer specialist) joined the mission during March 19-29.
As the mission found the government's commitment to a major immediate effort
to establish all of the maintenance training centers (MTCs) had eased, and
because of related preparation delays, only 3 of the 12 MTCs originally
requested for appraisal are included in the project. However, because of
increased government commitment to expediting the development of key Algerian
light industries and the advanced preparation status of training centers for
light industries (ITCs), three priority ITCS are included.
1/   It is expected that an important secondary effect would be employment of
up to five unskilled workers each by trained entrepreneur/artisans.



- 13 -
Objectives and Scope
2.02      The project is designed to assist the government in establishing, on
a pilot basis:
(a) MTCs for much-needed skills in the installation and maintenance of
equipment for the construction, automobile and household equipment
fields to avoid costly operational disruptions and early write-off
of expensive imported equipment and,
(b)  ITCs for special skills to develop key Algerian light industries 1/
to provide scarce industrial products and generate employment in
regions experiencing unemployment and underemployment in agricul-
ture. Additionally, the project would assist the government with
computerization of data processing in the Ministry of Higher Educa-
tion and five universities to improve the efficiency of educational
administration. The training centers would be located to cater for
regional needp in line with the government's policy of reducing
regional inequalities, and dispersal of skill training opportuni-
ties, stimulation of local employment and regional development (Map
No. 14501).
1/   SNMC, Societe Nationale des Materiaux de Construction (construction
materials);
SNLB, Societe Nationale des Lieges et du Bois (cork and wood); SN-
SEMPAC, Societe Nationale des Semoules et des Pates (food processing).



- 14 -
The Project
2.03      The project would comprise:
(a) architect's fees and construction/equipping for:
New     Annual   Annual
Grades   Places   Intake   Output
Ministry of Light Industries (MOLI)
Administration Center and Insti-
tute for Instructor Training
for Maintenance Trades
(NIMTA/NIMTI)                       13-14       420       220      200
3 Maintenance Training Centers
(MTCs) I/                            7-11    1,380    1,020        900
3 Industrial Training Centers
(ITCs) 2/                            4-9     3,000    5,625    4,500
(b) Ministry of :iigher Education (MOHE)
Installation of small computers
and required software in the
MOHE and 5 universities;
(c) Technical assistance related to the above items.
National Institute for Maintenance Trades Administration (NIMTA) and
Institute for Instructor Training for Maintenance Trades (NIMTI)
2.04      NIMTA would be located close to NIMTI in Souk-el-Haad (57 kms
east of Algiers), in a complex which would also include one MTC. NIMTA,
under the authority of the MOLI Directorate for the Artisanat, would have
responsibility for developing the objectives, planning the expansion and
evaluating the performance of the network of MTCs. This responsibility would
include curricula reform, administration of examinations and certification,
1/   Annual intake includes 660 full-time and 360 part-time students (120
full-time equivalent for places purposes); annual output includes 600
full-time and 300 part-time students; 1,380 places are required--1,260
for full-time and 120 for part-time students.
2/   Annual intake includes 375 for 18-month course (two-year period), 750 for
9 month course (one-year period) and 4,500 for 3 three-month courses per
year; annual output includes 300, 675 and 3,600 for the three courses,
respectively.



- 15 -
research, procurement of equipment and teaching aids, coordinat:ion of MTCs and
personnel recruitment. Having a staff of 43 professionals, NIMTA would also
have responsibility to liaise on artisanat training matters with other minis-
tries and agencies concerned.
2.05      A two-year course would be offered by the NIMTI to selected trainees
having 12 years of schooling and coming from technical lycees or technicums.
Preference would be given to candidates having experience in industry, as
artisan entrepreneurs or in vocational training centers. About 10% of trainees
would be women with further increase expected as intake potential increases.
Hostel accommodation would be financed by the government for practically all
trainees. Total NIMTI enrollment would be 220 in 1981/82 (inputs of 60 in
1980/81 and 160 in 1981/82 and outputs of 55 and 144 in June 1982 and June
1983 respectively) but when in full operation in 1983/84 would be 420 with an
annual output of 200. This output is sufficient to meet the needs of the
three project MTC's and the planned annual addition of a further three MTCs
until a national network of one MTC per wilaya (31) has been established. At
this time, and if no further extension of the number of MTCs is decided, the
NIMTI will be partially converted into another MTC, a small part of it being
kept for the permanent methodological retraining of 60 to 70 instructors. The
government provided an assurance that while awaiting NIMTI opening in school
year 1981/82, training during 1980/81 for 60 trainee instructors would be
provided in accommodations, including workshops and equipment, found satis-
factory by the mission in INPED, Boumerdes (Institut National de la Produc-
tivite et du Developpement Industriel, MOLI). As administrative procedures to
ensure that this accommodation would be available for this important initial
group of instructors could cause delays, the government has confirmed before
Board presentation of the project, that these required facilities will be
available for school year 1980/81. During the initial period of operation of
the NIMTI, teaching will be done by four expatriates during the 1980/81 school
year and fourteen expatriates during the second year 1981/82. Algerian
teachers for NIMTI would be recruited from this institute's first graduating
class and would be given further training from the school year 1982/83.
2.06      The instructor training program would consist of four semesters of
20 weeks each with 35 hours per week having 46% workshop training and 54%
teaching practice and general subjects. Teaching practice would be given in
the second year, half in NIMTI and the remainder in the adjacent MTC. Follow-
ing discussions with the mission, the government provided amendments to the
curricula, furniture and equipment lists with quantities and estimated
costs for NIMTI and the MTCs prepared in the preinvestment study, which were
reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank before negotiations. These would
be continuously reformed and adapted to local needs. The medium of instruc-
tion would be French, but would be Arabic in due course. Graduates would
receive MOLI diplomas qualifying them to teach in MTCs. The government also
informed the Bank before negotiations that a Chef du Projet had been appointed.
When fully operating NIMTI would require about 31 instructor trainers. As no
Algerian instructor trainers will be available at this level, expatriates will
be necessary to launch the project. Therefore, technical assistance of 16 man/
years for experts and 2 man/years for fellowship training would be included for
NIMTA and technical assistance of 38 man/years for experts and 7 man/years for



- 16 -
fellowship training would be included for NIMTI. For NIMTA, four experts
(Coordinator/Co-director, Training, Research and Construction) would be
employed during 1980-84 and six Algerian counterparts would be trained abroad
in short four-month courses: one in 1981, two in 1982 and the fourth one
during February-April 1983. For NIMTI, four expert/instructors would be
recruited fo; the period 1980-84 (16 man/years) and a further 10 for 1981-84
(two for one-year, four for two-year and four for three-year periods--22
man/years); eight Algerians from the first graduating class would be trained
abroad in a one-year course in practical work in their respective specialisms
related to teacher training techniques and management of small enterprises in
1982/83. There are sufficient Algerians of the required standard to undertake
the proposed training abroad. Outputs from NIMTI starting in June 1982, will
be sufficient to supplement the Algerians returned from abroad to complete the
staffing of this institute and supply the needs of the MTCs.
Maintenance Training Centers (MTCs)
2.07      It is expected that 12 MTCs located to reflect priority needs will
be established during the government's Third Plan; the project includes the
first three of these to be located on sites selected in Oran, Souk-el-Haad (57
kms east of Algiers) and Annaba. These MTCs would offer a two-year full-time
course in installation, repair and maintenance for the construction, auto-
mobile and household equipment fields to potential artisans having 7 to 9
years of schooling and minimum age 17 years. Of the 1,260 full-time trainees
(about 10% women), enrolled in the three MTCs, the government would finance
hostel accommodation for 630 and the remainder would commute daily from their
homes; about 360 part-time trainees (existing artisans) would be enrolled in
one-year courses (40 full-time equivalent each MTC). The annual output of 900
includes 600 graduates from the full-time two-year course, and 300 from the
less demanding part-time day and evening courses (including re-training) for
artisans currently operating in the construction, automobile and household
equipment fields. This level of output falls well short of meeting manpower
needs (para. 1.17), but following experience gained with the initial MTCs the
establishment of further similar centers expected in the Third Plan should
greatly alleviate the present serious maintenance problem.
2.08      The full-time MTC training program would consist of four semesters
of 20 weeks with 44 hours per week having 66% workshop training and 34%
general subjects. Specialized training would be provided in the full-time
courses for construction artisans in construction techniques, sanitation,
heating/cooling systems and electricity, for automobile artisans in general
auto-mechanics, agricultural machinery and diesel engines and for household
equipment artisans in domestic electricity, welding and small mechanical
appliances. Curricula for part-time courses have also been amended in accord-
ance with the mission's recommendations (para. 2.06); part-time day and
evening students would specialize in one of the above subjects, spending 2
hours weekly on general aspects and 4 hours on workshop training. The medium
of instruction would be French but would be Arabic in due course. MOLI
certificates would be given to graduating artisans, defining their qualifica-
tion to undertake work involving the specialisms in which they trained; the
qualifications of artisans trained in the full-time courses would obviougly be



- 17 -
much stronger but their prestige must finally rest upon the reputation they
earn from the services they provide. When fully operating in 1983/84, the
three MTCs would require a combined total of about 126 instructors. As some
dependence on expatriates is necessary to launch the centers efficiently, 11
man/years of technical assistance for experts would be required--an advisor
each for the three MTC directors, an assistant each for workshop supervisors
during 1982/84 and a consultant for the installation of equipment; NIMTI
outputs of 55 starting June 1982 will suffice to supply the required MTC
instructors.
Industrial Training Centers (ITCs)
2.09      It is expected that 12 ITCs located to reflect priority needs with
respect to the development of light industries will be established during the
Third Plan; the project includes the first three of these to be located close
to SNMC, SNLB and SN-SEMPAC, light industries in El Asnam, Ain-Beida and
Djelfa, respectively. Each project ITC would have a capacity of 1,000 to
enroll 250 first and second year trainee supervisors in an 18-month course,
250 skilled worker trainees in a 9-month course and 500 semi-skilled worker
trainees in each of three separate three-month courses over the school-year;
the annual output from each center would be about 100, 225 and 1,200 super-
visors, skilled and semi-skilled workers, respectively. Trainees would
normally have 4 to 9 years schooling and minimum age 17 years. The government
would finance hostel accommodation for almost all trainees (10% women in ITC)
for SEMPAC but very few in SNMC and SNLB); site plans and preliminary archi-
tectural plans for the three hostels have been received for Bank review before
Board presentation of the project, in order to ensure their completion simul-
taneously with the three ITCs. The annual output of 1,525 skilled workers per
ITC will constitute a good start for the development of key light industries
but it falls well short of average annual needs 1979-1990, of over 9,000 for
SNMC, 7,000 for SNLB and 6,000 for SN-SEMPAC, including first-time training
and re-training.
2.10      The 18-month ITC training program would consist of formal courses of
44 hours per week, the 9-month program two semesters of 18 weeks each with 44
hours per week and a 3-month program would have 44 hours per week. All three
programs would have practical/theoretical subjects breakdown of 55% to 45%.
The ITC course for SNMC would include training in cement production-furnace
work, cement machines, prefabrication. The course for SNLB training would
include wood transformation, wood techniques, industrial woodworking and
transformation, and industrial use of corks, and the course for SN-SEMPAC
would have training in food processing and food canning machines. Pedagogical
training programs and equipment lists were prepared in the pre-investment
study, financed under Loan 1209-AL; agreed amendments in the program of the
ITC and SNMC, and to equipment lists with quantities and estimated costs were
made for Bank review before negotiations. The medium of instruction would be
French but would be Arabic in due course. MOLI certificates would be given to
successful trainees upon graduation.



- 18 -
2.11      When fully operating in 1983/84, the three ITCs would require 274
instructors. The gbovernment has given an assurance that in accordance with
the schedule, the training program agreed between the MOLI and the Bank for
required instructors, instructor trainees and administrators would be imple-
mented from May 1980 to August 1984. Implementation would require the ser-
vices of 12 specialists during that time for preparation of job specifications
and curricula as well as specialist training. The program will be executed by
SNERI (Societe Nationale d'Etudes, de Gestion, de Realisations et d'Exploita-
tion Industrielles) who have the required qualified staff. They will be
assisted for specific topics by expatriate specialists for which provision is
included under the technical assistance program. The government provided an
assurance that the program would be implemented by SNERI in accommodations,
including workshops and equipment in INPED, Boumerdes, acceptable to the Bank.
This training program would be financed by the government.
Relevance and Evaluation
2.12      To ensure continuous relevance of both the MTC and the ITC programs,
close liaison with the concerned trades associations and industries is re-
quired.  Accordingly, the government has provided an assurance that consulta-
tive committees would be appointed to the project MTCs and ITCs at least 3
months before the start of classes at these centers, whose functions would
include assistance with curricula reform, recruitment of staff and students,
teaching methods and job placement; the Bank would be informed within that
time of the names of the committees' members. As vocational training under
the Ministry of Labor is closely related to MTC and ITC training, the govern-
ment has also provided an assurance that inter-ministerial consultation on
training between the ministries of Labor and Light Industries would be under-
taken not only through the National Advisory Council on Vocational Training
but also through regular meetings between the responsible personnel in the
two ministries and other concerned agencies, to ensure coordination and avoid
duplication. A system of continuous evaluation of students should be devel-
oped and followed in these institutes. The system would include a tracer
system to assist in the fields of educational guidance, vocational orientation
and career evaluation and should prove important especially for realistic
curriculum development. The government has provided an assurance that the
tracer component of such evaluation system would be received for Bank review
sufficiently in advance of the institutes' opening to permit Bank comments
thereon and that results of the tracer studies would be transmitted to the
Bank at the end of the school year for five years following first outputs from
these institutes. The project includes one man/year of technical assistance
for two annual visits of two to three weeks by an expert each in cement
industry, food processing and wood techniques to evaluate the training program
during the period from May 1981-October 1983 and advise the MOLI on progress
and performance. Also included are 2 man/years of fellowship training for
four Algerian training supervisors (building, mechanical, food industry and
woodworking trades) in six-month courses abroad during the period September
1981-February 1983. This level of technical assistance is considered suffi-
cient to supplement the large training program being undertaken by the govern-
ment (para. 2.11).



-_ 19 -
Automation of Data Processing, MOHE
2.13      The present information system in MOHE and the universities is
mainly manual, outmoded and ill-adapted for management of higher education
in Algeria. Enrollments in universilties have more than doubled since 1971
and are projected to more than doublea again by 1985 when a much wider range
of programs, with greater emphasis on science and technology, will have
been introduced. Efficient management in MOHE and the universities is ham-
pered at present by such problems as inadequate and error-prone data, slow
response to enquiries, inefficient use of personnel, insufficient coordination
of information, lack of decision-making data analysis and unwieldy filing
systems. Improved management in the context of the expansion envisaged will
require a more sophisticated approach to data processing to deal with staff/
student growth, budgeting, planning and implementation of required accommoda-
tion, equipment procurement, maintenance of extensive scholarship programs,
direction of curricula, research and evaluation, inspection and general
administration. Seeking a long-term, definitive solution of these problems,
the MOHE undertook a number of studies, analyses, visits and conferences
to explore the applicability of computers to its operation. 1/ In addi-
tion, the Algerian National Data Processing Commission (Centre National
d'Informatique, CNI) conducted its own analysis and a senior CNI computer
specialist studied, over a six-month period, the data management requirements
at the USTA University (Algiers), including data flow, scheduling needs,
reports generation, management control and test scoring analysis. Results of
all these enquiries concluded that proper management of higher education in
Algeria requires the introduction of computer-based management information
systems (CBMIS) as soon as possible in the MOHE and five universities:
Algiers (Social Sciences), Algiers USTA (Science and Technology), Annaba,
Constantine and Oran. The mission agrees with the conclusion that six small
computers should be installed in the MOHE and these universities, respectively.
The universities, in addition to using the CBMIS for management, would also
use these computers for some scientific research and instructional purposes.
2.14      As CBMIS is now used widely in Algerian industry (100 existing
computers increasing to 500 by 1985) and the CNI trains computer engineers,
analysts and programmers of a high standard, no major problem is envisaged
with successful installation of the computers in MOHE and the five universi-
ties but a substantial fellowship training program will be required because
demand in industry exceeds supply of graduates from the CNI. Accordingly, six
senior administrators (one MOHE and five universities) would be trained abroad
in three-month courses during October-December 1980 and 30 other Algerians
(directors data processing, systems analysts, senior programmers, systems
engineers and directors of systems development--five MOHE and 25 universities)
would be trained abroad in nine-month courses during January-September 1981.
However, the problem posed by the introduction of CBMIS is more management
1/   Including the study "Systeme integre de gestion automatisee de l'infor-
mation" prepared for MOHE by GTE-Sylvania, upon which this appraisal was
mainly based (see Project File).



- 20 -
than technically oriented and accordingly, an implementation team of seven
middle-level management personnel led by a MOHE Chef du Projet with repre-
sentatives from the five universities and a senior systems analyst was estab-
lished in June 1979 to plan and assist in implementation in each center and
coordinate efforts for an integrated CBMIS. This team would report progress
periodically ;o the Director of the MOHE Directorate of Planning and its
functions would include orientation of personnel and implementation of the
required training. The government informed the Bank before negotiations, of
the composition of the implementation team already established and provided an
assurance that the required physical facilities for installation of the
computers would be provided in an adequate and timely manner and bid documents
would specify that computer suppliers would install humidity and temperature
control systems. The project would finance the procurement and installation
of the six small computers of the MOHE and five universities respectively,
related equipment and software together with one man/year for a CBMIS expert
during 1980/81 and 24 man/years of fellowship training outlined above, to
ensure efficient introduction of CBMIS in higher education.
Technical Assistance
2.15      To ensure efficient launching of the project, 67 man/years for 37
experts and 36 man/years for 55 Algerians to train abroad to replace them, are
included to assist with setting up a good administrative organization, good
standards for instruction in the MTCs and ITCs as well as an effective intro-
duction of CBMIS in the MOHE (Annex 1, Table 2.1). A very large proportion of
the technical assistance for experts (65 man/years, 97%) and a good proportion
for fellowships (9 man/years, 25%) are allocated for the development of main-
tenance training. However, a large supplementary training program for ITC
instructors is being financed by the government (para. 2.11). One man/year
for an expert to help the MOHE with management of the CBMIS during the transi-
tion period and 24 man/years fellowship to train 36 Algerians are included.
Including the government-financed element, total project-related technical
assistance is very substantial and will require considerable administration
skill to ensure timely recruitment of experts and placement abroad of suitable
Algerians selected for fellowship training. The government has agreed with
the program defined in the Loan Agreement and has provided an assurance that
implementation of technical assistance will be executed, in accordance with
this program.
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Project
3.01      Summary of Project Cost.  The total cost of the project is estimated
at DA 589.3 million or US$151.1 million equivalent. The estimated total cost
and foreign exchange components by main project items are summarized below:



21 -
% of
DA Millions              US$ Millions        Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
NIMTI Complex            14.0    17.7    31.7       3.6      4.5     8.1      8.0
3 Maintenance Train-
ing Centers           48.7    58.8   107.5    12.5    15.1    27.6    27.2
3 Industrial Train-
ing Centers           92.7   122.9   215.6    23.8    31.5    55.3    54.5
Computer Installation
at MOHE and 5
Universities            1.6    14.7    16.3       0.4     3.8      4.2      4.1
Technical Assistance    4.9    19.7    24.6         1.2     5.1      6.3      6.2
Baseline Cost    161.9   233.8   395.7    41.5    60.0   101.5   100.0
Contingencies:
Physical              15.4    21.8    37.2        3.9     5.6      9.5      9.4
Price Increase        72.8    83.6   156.4    18.7    21.4    40.1    39.5
Subtotal           88.2   105.4   193.6    22.6    27.0    49.6    48.9
Total Project Cost    250.1   339.2   589.3    64.1    87.0   151.1
3.02      A breakdown of project costs into local and foreign and by cate-
gories of expenditure is summarized as follows:



- 22 -
% of
DA Millions              US$ Millions        Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Construction:
Academic & Communal
Facilities         130.2   135.5   265.7    33.4    34.7    68.1    67.1
Staff Housing        4.8      4.9      9.7     1.3      1.3      2.6     2.6
Professional
Services            10.0    12.2    22.2       2.6      3.1      5.7     5.6
Subtotal          145.0   152.6   297.6    37.3    39.1    76.4    75.3
Furniture                 6.0     7.3    13.3       1.5     1.9      3.4      3.3
Equipment                 6.0    54.2    60.2       1.5    13.9    15.4    15.2
Subtotal           12.0    61.5    73.5       3.0    15.8    18.8    18.5
Technical Assistance    4.9    19.7    24.6         1.2     5.1      6.3      6.2
Baseline Cost    161.9   233.8   395.7    41.5    60.0   101.5   100.0
Contingencies:
Physical              15.4    21.8    37.2        3.9     5.6      9.5      9.4
Price Increase        72.8    83.6   156.4    18.7    21.4    40.1    39.5
Subtotal           88.2   105.4   193.6    22.6    27.0    49.6    48.9
Total Project Cost    250.1   339.2   589.3    64.1    87.0   151.1
3.03      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Project costs exclude any identifiable
import duties.  Estimated civil works costs for the proposed project are based
on unit prices derived from current contracts and detailed estimates of
other projects of similar character, and were adjusted for regional cost
differences. Furniture and equipment costs are based on current CIF unit
prices and adjusted upward to include local transportation and installation.
In line with recent experience, the estimate of technical assistance is
based upon: (i) average costs per man/month of about US$6,900 for experts
(consisting of fees and per diem allowances) and about US$1,600 for fellow-
ships of which 80% would be foreign costs, and (ii) average travel cost of
about US$800 per individual. Baseline cost estimates were adjusted to reflect
the anticipated price at the scheduled date of negotiations.
3.04      Contingency Allowance.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions equal to 10% of the estimated
cost of civil works, furniture and equipment and 5% of the estimated costs



- 23 -
of technical assistance and consultant architect's fees.  It also includes
price escalation contingencies calculated for the period beginning at the
scheduled date of negotiations and in accordance with an agreed schedule of
implementation (Annex 1, Chart 2). In view of differences in prevailing
rates of price escalation for local and international market prices, escala-
tion contingencies for civil works and professional services were estimated
separately for local and foreign costs (Annex 1, Table 3.2). Prices are
expected to increase during the project implementation period by a weighted
total of about 35% for civil works, 49% for furniture, 49% for equipment, and
34% for technical assistance. Accordingly, aggregated price increases are
estimated at about 36.1% of baseline and unforeseen costs. Total contingen-
cies are estimated to be 48.9% of project cost without contingencies.
3.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange compo-
nent is US$87.0 million equivalent or about 58% of the total project cost.
The calculations of the foreign exchange component are based on the assumption
that (a) all civil works and about one half of all professional services will
be awarded to foreign or mixed firms, (b) all equipment will be directly
imported, and (c) about 50% of the furniture will be awarded to foreign
suppliers. The resulting foreign exchange content of each category of
expenditure is as follows: (i) civil works, 48%; (ii) furniture, 55%; (iii)
equipment, 90%; (iv) consultant architects' fees, 54%; and (v) technical
assistance, 80%.
Project Financing
3.06      The proposed loan of US$87.0 million, would finance 100% of the
total estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. The government would
finance the balance of the total project costs. The proposed financial plan
is summarized as follows:



- 24 -
Government              IBRD                 Total
US$      % of         US$       % of         US$    % of
million  Financing   million  Financing   million  Total
Construction             34.7       49          36.0       51         70.7    46.8
Furniture                 1.5       45           1.9      55           3.4      2.2
Equipment                  1.5      10          13.9       90         15.4    10.2
Consulting Architects    2.6        46           3.1      54           5.7      3.8
Technical Assistance       1.2      20           5.1       80          6.3      4.2
Baseline Cost          41.5       41          60.0      59         101.5    67.2
Contingencies
Physical                3.9       41           5.6      59           9.5      6.3
Price Increase         18.7       47          21.4      53          40.1    26.5
Total Contingencies      22.6       46          27.0       54         49.6    32.8
Total Project Cost       64.1       42          87.0      58         151.1   100.0
Recurrent Costs
3.07      When fully operational, in school-year 1983-84, the project institu-
tions are estimated to require DA 28.8 million annually in recurrent costs,
corresponding to about 0.2% of projected public recurrent expenditure on
education for that year.
Implementation
3.08      The construction, furnishing and equipping of all schools are
scheduled to be completed by October 1982 while the technical assistance
component would be completed by July 1984 (Annex 1, Chart 2). This schedule
is considered to be reasonable and within the capability of the government
and contractors. To allow for an approximate 6 months time lag for submission
of the final withdrawal applications, the Closing Date would be December 30,
1984.
3.09      The government has agreed that the relevant directorates of the
ministries concerned would be responsible for implementation of their minis-
try's project components while the Project Liaison Officer appointed for the
four previous Bank financed education projects would liaise among these
Directorates and the Bank for this project. Responsibility for implementation
of project items would be as follows:



- 25 -
(a)  NIMTA/NIMTI, MTCs and Related Technical Assistance
The Directorate of the MOLI Directorate for the Artisanat,
would be responsible for implementation of these items
including completion of site acquisition procedures,
topo-surveys, preparation of bid documents and awarding
of civil works and furniture/equipment contracts. To
assist him a Chef du Projet was appointed before negotia-
tions. Educational and architectural consultants
would be engaged to assist with educational briefs,
equipment procurement and architectural aspects.
(b) ITCs and Related Technical Assistance
The Director of the MOLI Directorate for Industrial
Relations, would be responsible for implementation of
these items and would be assisted by the Director of
INPED (Institut National de la Productivite et du
Developpement Industriel) and a team of seven already
appointed. Architectural consultants would be engaged
to assist with architectural aspects.
(c) Computerization of MOHE and Related Technical Assistance
The Director of MOHE Directorate for Planning, would
be responsible for implementation of these items and
would be assisted by an implementation team of seven
led by a MOHE Chef de Projet with management repre-
sentatives from the five universities and a Systems
Engineer from the CNI (Centre National d'Informatique),
who were appointed before negotiations.
3.10      The above authorities designated responsibility for implementation
of the project are considered sufficiently experienced in selecting and
briefing architects, awarding the required contracts and supervising execution
of the project. Prototype architectural plans have already been prepared in
the preinvestment studies, and the government has provided for Bank review
confirmation of site acquisition, site plans, topo-surveys with evaluation of
utility services and exceptional site and off-site works, schematic archi-
tectural designs for NIMTA/NIMTI, MTCs and ITCs and draft contracts for
consultant architects. The government has also provided for Bank review
confirmation of appointment of these consultant architects on Bank-agreed
terms.
3.11      Pedagogical training programs and preliminary equipment lists
for the project institutes have been prepared and amended as agreed with the
mission for Bank review (paras 2.06, 2.10). The government has also provided
an assurance that bid documents would specify that equipment suppliers would
be required to provide a three-week training period for key personnel at



- 26 -
installation time in the use and maintenance of sophisticated equipment, and
that an appropriate equipment maintenance plan would be prepared for the MOLI
project training institutes and forwarded for Bank review 6 months prior to
the opening of these institutes.  Suitable sites for all projiect institutes
have been acquired.
3.12      Procurement.  Civil works contracts (amounting to US$104.8 million
including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB).  It is anticipated that due to heavy commitments
of the national construction companies, foreign firms probably would be
awarded 100% of all civil works contracts. Draft bid documents for civil
works, furniture and equipment to be advertised under ICB as well as bid
evaluation documents prepared in accordance with current Bank guidelines
would be presented to the Bank for review and approval prior t:o procurement
and contracts would be awarded in accordance with these guidelines. Furniture
and equipment items (amounting to US$30.8 million including contingencies)
would be grouped, to the extent possible, in large packages to permit bulk
procurement. Small furniture and equipment items or groups of items estimated
to cost less than US$100,000, items of a specialized nature for which ICB
would not be practical, would be procured under normal government procedures
satisfactory to the Bank and would include to the extent possible, quotations
from at least three manufacturers or suppliers; the total value of equipment
so procured would not exceed US$3.l million equivalent which would represent
about 10% of estimated equipment cost including contingency allowances. For
the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB, local manufacturers
of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to
the existing rate of custom duties applicable to competing imports or 15%
of CIF price, whichever is lower.
3.13      Disbursements.  Disbursements (Annex 1, Table 3.3) would be on the
basis of:
(i)  Civil Works 48% of total expenditure;
(ii)  Furniture and Equipment:  100% of foreign expenditures and
of local expenditures ex-factory; 75% of local expenditures
ex-store; and
(iii)  100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships and expatriate
consultants and 80% of local expenditures for local consul-
tants.
These percentages would be adjusted as required to assure continued financing
for each category for the implementation period.



- 27 -
IV. BENEFITS, RISKS AND CRITICAL ACTIVITIES
Benefits
4.01      The main benefits of the project would be:
(i)  experience gained for application in future MTCs, from establishment
on a pilot basis of three MTCs to train artisans in the installation
and maintenance of equipment for the construction, automobile and
household equipment fields together with an annual output of 200
maintenance training instructors and 900 artisans who would support
this initial effort by the government to avoid costly operational
disruptions and early write-off of expensive imported equipment
(para. 2.02);
(ii)  experience gained for application in future ITCs, from establishment
on a pilot basis of three ITCs to train skilled workers for key
light industries (construction materials, cork and wood, food pro-
cessing), together with an annual output of 4,500 skilled workers
to provide scarce industrial products and generate employment in
regions experiencing unemployment and underemployment in agriculture
(para. 2.02);
(iii) dispersal of skills training opportunities, reduction in regional
inequalities and support for local artisanal and industrial devel-
opment through location of NIMTA/NIMTI, MTCs and ITCs in separate
wilayate in line with the government's policy of regional develop-
ment (para. 2.02);
(iv) overall improvement of management in higher education through better
planning, implementation and evaluation following the introduction
of small computers for the automation of data processing in the MOHE
and five universities (para. 2.13); and
(v)  setting high-level, modern standards on administration, technical
and teaching aspects for NIMTA/NIMTI, MTCs and ITCs through initial
use of suitable expatriates and training Algerian counterpart
replacements for them to continue efficient operation of the insti-
tutes (para. 2.15).
Risks
4.02      As this is the first experience with Bank procedures for the two
MOLI Directorates concerned, and as there is no central project implementa-
tion unit in Algeria, thorough follow-up will be required to ensure efficient
implementation of the project. Because efficient launching of the ITCs will
depend on the effectiveness of a substantial training program for required



- 28 -
administrators and instructors to be implemented by SNERI and financed by the
government (para. 2.11), close monitoring of scheduling and performance of
this program will accordingly be necessary. The technical assistance program
included in the project is also substantial and will require efficient manage-
ment to ensure timely recruitment of sufficient and suitable specialists,
together with aprr-opriate synchronisation of selection and placement of fellow-
ship trainees to ensure implementation in accordance with the schedule agreed
with the government (para. 2.15).
Key Implementation Dates
4.03      The government confirmed its intention to implement the project in
accordance with Schedules (a), (b) and (c) of Annex 1 and with the expected
completion dates indicated in the table below, which gives the list of
critical activities in project implementation. Such dates are achievable
with the proposed project management arrangements and will serve as a basis
for project implementation and monitoring. However, administrative short-
comings at central and institutional levels required to coordinate educational
and architectural aspects are such in Algeria that delays in implementation
of civil works are possible; continuous dialogue will be maintained with the
government to assist in overcoming this problem as far as possible. The list
of critical activities is as follows:
List of Critical Activities
ITCs         Computer
NIMTI Complex        MTCs       Installation
Civil Works
Completion of Design               9/1979            1/1980
Development Drawings               10/1979           4/1980
Commencement of Construction        6/1980           2/1981
Completion of Construction         9/1981           10/1982
Equipment and Furniture
Completion of Final Lists
and Specifications               6/1980           10/1980         3/1980
Completion of Installation
of Major Equipment and
Furniture                       10/1981           10/1982        10/1982
Technical Assistance
Receipt of Program for
Bank Review                       1/1980           1/1981         3/1980
Commencement of Programs:
Fellowship Training              2/1981            9/1981        10/1980
Experts                          6/1980            5/1981         6/1980



- 29 -
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following main
points:
(i) adequate facilities including workshops and equipment at
INPED, Boumerdes, would be provided by the government to
train 60 NIMTI trainee instructors during 1980/81 (para.
2.05), and required trainee instructors and administrators for
the three ITCs (para. 2.11); the latter would be trained by SNERI
staff in accordance with the schedule in the training prograr,
agreed with the Bank (para. 2.11);
(ii)  consultative ad hoc committees would be appointed not
later than 3 months prior to the start of the first classes
in the project MTCs and ITCs, whose functions would include
assistance with continuous curriculum reform, recruitment of
staff and students, teaching methods and job placement, and
whose names and functions would be furnished to the Bank
(para. 2.12);
(iii) coordination of vocational training programs would be
ensured through regular consultation among the relevant
national agencies, especially the ministries of Light
Industries and Labor (para. 2.12);
(iv)  the tracer component of the evaluation system to be estab-
lished for NIMTI, the 3 MTCs and the 3 ITCs would be
received for Bank review and comment at least 3 months
before the scheduled opening of these institutes and the
results of these tracer studies would be transmitted to the
Bank at the end of each school year for 5 years following
the entrance of the first graduates into the careers (para.
2.12);
(v)  the required physical facilities for installation and
operation of the MOHE computer-based management system would
be provided in an adequate and timely manner and bid docu-
ments would specify that computer suppliers would install
humidity and temperature control systems (para. 2.14);
(vi)  implementation of the technical assistance program would
be undertaken in accordance with the schedule defined in
the Loan Agreement and legal documents (para. 2.15);
(vii) equipment maintenance plans for the project institutes
would be furnished for Bank review and comment not later
than 6 months before the opening of the project institutes
and bid documents would specify that equipment suppliers



- 30 -
would provide at installation time a minimum of 3 weeks'
training in the use and maintenance of sophisticated equip-
ment for the personnel necessary for the proper operation of
the equipment (para. 3.11).
5.02      Subject to the above agreements, this project is a suita,le basis
for a loan of US$87.0 million to the Democratic and Popular Republic of
Algeria for a term of 18.5 years including a grace period of 4 years.



ALGERIA V
STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
PFE-REPORt SYiSfTEM ês9751                                             Mhidie                           veral Ly{6 1/
}    <   }    <                               Gi                 {li        {i  2 
POST-8EFORM                                                                              ~U,este2
P, IpS>&jJ 53                                                                                                                 LyceeOler nte,*  ,
2.,  TE.. [ostîfos ne Ta rookr~~~~~ie rf'Ess,E T.avoo  Tsttutes ofl echnoeo9
4<  OcrecalLveecoose i cl  pt.o,ts, iiirdustry. Math-natros, Commeroe anrd 5coAonios  ecnea,  Cern ype per
str-oertoV sohel -rin srlng r-fi.hnal )! niasPoig fihonced Py th,. I.B.8.O in third nd.wotion promect.
8, ~ ~    ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           CEAi C.P  Cloo   Ennqceerr8gioeEqhjerrl ePol
Z   T o.,-REOR     fr teenhiciars ahd tino-car o      for  iMer tLefrnicians
8?  E-SoN.$ BPon,e  ormasle Sapdrierc do lEnseignernon t Polymechhierre Toclinmnag revoMi  Ir.Tning CE.)ege. Otan
H}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t iz
Zi ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Wr Bacalaréa                  1                 1          1



-32-
COPAATVE   DCTO    NIAOS4.*6 
Table 1.1
GNP/   % 01N    :  TOTAL:V.  OF PUBLIC                   ~PR!.  AV-Pei                                         :SEC
CAP,TA: OEVOTEto:PU8LIC  ; EOUCATION    :LITER- :PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCIIITEA M PROGRESS-: SEC. ~STU-  HIIIGHER:
*    AT      TO E02.   EXP.   RECURRENT    .ACV          :ENROLL:TION       :OENTS;SALARY iN:ION RATE  :ENROLL.OENTS:ENROLL:
*   MARKET:  (PUBLIC OEVOTEO:EKP ALI.OCATEO:  RATE  RATIO  R:ATESFOR :PER   RETLATION  F RoM PR,- :RATIO  PERC ,RCATIO 
POP.  PRICES:  EXP          TO           TO:        (1 0F  :NET   :PIS1.:T £ACH, TO GNP  ~TO SC.                 NET   -TEA*     ROSS:
YR:MILLS    (USS): ON41VY       EOtU  FPRI1  SEC. 14. AOULTS): (%          CICILEC(%)ER      CAPITA             (      K)   :ER       i.)
AD VANCE80
AUSTRIA         74   7.5G 53.6200.    5.3V    3.5eV   24V  31V   15V   99           98        930      260       2.00      990       510      f90    16.35V
CANADA          75  22.87.2             7.3   106.7      20   27   26       go      99        97       19        2.0        99       90       la    16.00
GERMANY F.ReP.7,,  61.    6.70          50       .       2     64UY 26EV  99        90        96       23EY      - .        99V      34V     22C    20.26Y
,JAPAN          75 1116   4450          43E  20.7E    0V 37UVIYT99                  90        99        5        2O         99       9XV     2C       469
NETHERLANOS    75   13.75.425           9.4    22.40    21   39   25    99          953       95       29        2.0        97       "O       20     12.00
NEW ZEALANO    73    3.104.200G         5.2      -..      9    24   29      99      99        99       26        -.        99g       67       19    21400
NORW4AY         76   4.0  804           7.2    14.4      54   24   15    99         99        99        19       1.5        59E      62       il     11.00
SWEDEN          79   6.2  8.15         -9.      14.0     23   29    12      9   99           991 Il 9..                    9047ao    ESC      13    30.OOC
u K.        75  56.0  2.760         7.    1l3.9      26   41    9 8     99      99        .        24       2.0        -.        6       17     21 OOX
U.S. A.         76 214.8   7,950        5.4    15.8       . 72.  29         99E     99g       99       22      .  .         9        93       19     24.00
EUROPE
GREECE .        76   9 .1  2.590        2.9    10.4      37   26   21       86B     99        820      31      2.0         IoE-      90      2 7     19.00
IRPLAND         7 4 32.1 G2.620G        5.1    1390      43Y  41VY  :4Y   98       108XV     994       33        - .       4A        95KV    19      15.47Y
POTGAL       77   9.7   1.850        3.       5.4     41   2       5    70G       82       60.      19      2.'.         15.      25       12      S.00
9OMANIA         75  21.'2 1.240         4.0     8.       36   19   12    se         1017      . ..     21       -           "a 4     49      22      10.0DO
SPAIN           74  35.8G 2.990G        2.48   15.24    49V  22Y  15V   94A    113KV          . ..     35A      . . .      ..        78,XV    20     17.68V
AFR ICA
ALGERIA         78  l7.2G 1 .1l0H       7. 4    14.3FY  340  260  21        377     96X       45S      35Y       4.0       95        31      27       9.00
BENIN           74   3.20    10G        7.2N  36.0V    470  230    0        110    44X1       70       531     25.09       438       I1KV    398      0.74Y
BOTSWANA        78   0.8       940      6.0   22 .0      52   23    1 4     35      BOX       70       31       3.0        48        1 4     22       2.00
RURUNDI         78   4.1       130*4    2.7   22.lR   46R   33R  2016   26          23X       45       32       9.0        22         2K     61    Il.8
CAMEROON        76 7.7         214      3.7   21.5       33   43   20        - .     0       45        52      4.0         20         90     24.      O. .CY
C~AR.           74    18SF    220F      3.00   17.00     566   196        ...       79X/    25         6Q1      -           la8       3KV    278V   ().217
CH4AO           75   4.0       120      3.0    10.0      78   22  .  .      1       29XEV    30        656V    15.0         a         2XSV   30       a 018V
CONG00(8)       74    123F   5 10F      9.0    19.2    d0   32    21    507    133X           63       63        6 O       48        22K     22       3.40
EGYPT           76  38.2       31        .9N4    . ..    20   32   25       44      76       80        31                  79        45      20       12.00
ETHIOPIA        77  29.0       100      2.4    12.5    44   il 1 14    Io           26        . ..     50       . .         3         8      je8
GABON           74   0.5F 2.540F        5.00  20.60    250   90   110    - . IOO01            25C      46C       5.0        'SA      31V     21C      0.29Y
04*461À         76   0.5       170      3.3    11.3      46   25      8     10      27        90       33       .          9.2       13      25        ..
GHANA4          74   9,9F   590F        . ..   19.7Y   43Y  22Y  2010   ...    60KV           628      30Y                  46       35KV    18cV    l.09V
GUINEA          76    47 -      80F     4.3140 ---       30   31   30       ...    30X       64        45       120. F      86        13K     26       4.00
!VORV TOAST    76     7.0     90        9.8   23.1       3:3  46    13       94     50       se        43       7 O        47        17XY   26        l.84V
KENYA           76  12.8       240      5.9   26.0       67   33   10    40         SO07     607       34       6.0        30        le      27       I O
LESOTIlO    79~~~,   1.2  160      120Fp  23.0      4971 0             4        85       50        5        7.ON4      81.       0       28       1.00
LIBERIA         75      .5     410      2. 4    13.2     27    1    20      73      58        .         5        2.0       .  .      1       26       1.1O
MADAGASCAR      77   8.0       240      4.0   24.0       53   28    19    50        90        33       44       8.0        38        14      23       1.70
MALA.WI         77 56          140      2.2      9.3     40    17   22      25      56K       21       et        5.0        9         5K     21       0.47
"A L.1          7    5'7F       90F     4.2M4  33,0F    45F  37F   18F    10of:    22XF       -        43F     96F         50F        6K     21-
MAURITANIA      71     l13F    320F     4.IV  20.0V.. ..                    104     17Kv      .        22A        -          -        3KV    244
MAURITTUS       76   0.9L-   680        4.7    12.1      50   26      R     SOC     94       99        24       4.5'        90       45      32       1.50
MOROCCO         76  18.2       920      6.3    15.2      398  48R   13R   28        652       33       40         -        33        17X     22       4.00
NIGERIA         74 A750F    340F        4.10Y 24.20Y  23Y   16Y  42Y    . ..    49Xî          ...      340V                . ..      10KV    2OCY   0.4A1
RWAN4OA         73   4. IF   100F       3.2C  28.00       -.        ....    2       52        ...      5I.1        .                  2      13       0.23CV
SENEGAL         77   8.2      420       5.0   22.0       48    34  :20      1 0     32        ..       49      10.c        20        1 0     21       I 5
SIERRA LEONE' 73   3:OF   200F          3.4   23.4       21   36   30       t57     34X      45        32       4 CE       se        13K     21      0.538Y
SOMALIA         78:   3.~6     1 10     5.0    12.0    89    31   21    607         39X       80       27       12.0       76                14      0. 10
SUOAN4          78    5.9      290      4.5   19. 9      48   36    16      20      34       74        23       3.8        23        14      24        1.24
SWAZILAND       78   0.5       560      7.1    12.2      37   23   23    65         92X      49        37       4.0*4      96        32K     20        2.00K
TANZANIA        76  15.1       180      6.6    17.4      42   21    12    66        78X      81        49       3-7        10         4.     19      0.24
TOGO            77   2.4       300      5.5   26.5       20   28 21         18      74       40        58       6.0        52         -      44       2.00
TUNISIA         73   5.7G   800G        6.3   23.4       37   43    lE    55        72       si        41       6.0        31        14      21       3.00
iGANOAV         75  11.6       230      3.40Y 15.70Y  34EV 40EY 22EY  254    53XKY            ...      34EV      .          4         6KCV   21&    0.56V
UPPER VOUA    77   5.          118      3.4   23 .9             6   32       5C     12        23       SI      24.    .   19          2X     25       ;.0
ZAIPE           76  2  6.       "O0     60 220           4     6    2       15      86x      44        4K       2C.C       4g1       1X      27       1.00
ZAMBIA          78    5.1     440       6.8    15.9    34   22      22      39      97X      80        49       7.         21        le      23       1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA AND TH4E CARIEBEAN
RARRADOS        76   0.2   1.620        6.1   22.1       43   31   16       99     106X       99       21        30I       99        945      t7
00S76 RIC       75   2.0    960         5.8 22.76    57E  25          26   99    109KV       es        298       3.0E      sas       52KV    258    17 13V
CUBA            78   9.539. 500         6.0    11.0....-96                          98       g8        22        2.7       98        65      15      15 00
OOMINICAN Rep 72     G490      790G     3.0    13.9      42   24    2       S        0        1 4                3.0       63        14      24       7.00
ELSALVADOR    77   A.1       570      4.0   27.2       64     E67          2      88X       32       39        22        4         23      21       70
GUATEMALA       73   6.2G   700G        1.9    l6.       55   23    14    47        64       28        35        3.0       68         a      25       4.09V
HAITi           76   4.7       200      1.0    8.0O    61   21    il    206         25F       13       56U       3.0       62         4       . ..     0.7
HONDURAS        75   2.9G   400G        4.20   1 G.0     62G  15G  19G   53E    78            30       3~5       2.0       6 8       1Il      17      4.00O
JAMAICA         76    2.1  1.70         9.9    162       37 23      22      86E     91       52        39       4.5        64        8       25.      7.58
MEK Ica         75  59.9   1.050        3.100 12.000  51Y  26Y  12Y   76           112X1      31       46        3.0       6         35KV    23       8.97~EV
NicARAGUA       74   2.30    7000       2.5    14.2      61    1 3   13    57       65        21       37        2.0       93        17      24       7.00
TRINIDAO & T. 77    1.1  2.185          4.5    14.1    48      322   20     95      98        91       30        3.0       49        62      24
SOUTH AMERICA
6OLIV1A          76   3.9      315F     5.0    17,SE.38                              178      290      24        3F         . ..      48      160
BRAZIL           75  il 0.00 1 .300G    5.0    12.4e   42E  20E   37E  54A          86G2       . .     27CV                 . ..     26G      ISCI    6.006
CH-ILE           75  10.30 1.0500       3.66V  12.56    23V   lOT  930V    . ..   IîPex       .. .     351                  . ..     48KV    . ..   16.551
COLOMBIA        74  24.30    6500G    3.30V  l21.y0  -D0y 2201  ''Y   73           l05-"   20          331       4 0       94        36KVY   144      6.671
ECUADOR         75   7.30    7000       2.7D  27.7C......-                 69      '0274      -        393C       -   . .   . .      36KV    l4C' 
GUYANA          74   08:F    510OF      5.8N   14.70   47 325    1 4        834     92X       39       33        6. 7       1 9      62 X    24       1.00O
PARAGUAV        74    2.6 G 650G        1.8    11.0      35       3   2 2   a   81   2        26       30        1.V       es        17       1 2     5.00
PERU            75  16.00    840G       4.20Y 21.70V   40Y  22Y  15V    72         111.1V     38       390V      3.c       70        48XY   230Y  14.4l1
URIUGUAY        75   2.50 1,370G        2.5    195.3     46   34   20       94      92V       ...      24        ..         83       ...      10        -
VENEZUELA       73   1 2.30 2.540G      4.6      9.9     300  28Q  250   7 7A       8S        . ..     a3        2.4        . ..     33      . .    12.63C1



-33-
COMPARAT1VE EDUCATION 17N0[CATORS   C074T0)                                 ANNEX 1  PAGE 2
AUGUST 21. 1979
GNP!   T. GNP  ~% TO7AL:%  0F PUBLIC                    ~PR>.  AV.PRI.                                       SEC
TAPIrA  DEVOTEO PUBLIC :EDUCATION           LITER--  PR>.  COMPLE-  STU-  SCH,TEA*-4 PROGRESS-  SE(3.  STU- :HI10H4ER:
AT      TO EDIJ.   EXP. . RECU9RENT      ACY       ENROLL TION       DENTS.SALARV  !P4:ION RATE  ENROLL:OENTS:ENROLL:
MARKET  (PUBLIC DEVOIEO:EXP ALLOCArED:  RATE ~RATIO  RATE FOR-PER   RELATIOI   FROM PR>..RATIO 'PER    RATIO 
POP.  PRICES: EXP.          TO          Ta   ~ (7 OF    NET   PRI.SCH. TEACH' TO GNP   TO SEC.    NET    TEACH- GR055:
YRsMILLS-  (US$): ONLY)         ECU.  FPR1. SEC. HI. AOUt.TS>: (7.    CYCL.EM%:ER           CAPITA       <7)       (.   :ER .1%
()  (2)    I3)2        (4)          (5)        (6)       ('1      (8)      (9)>   (I 10        III)    .112>   :(13) :(14>
ASIA ANC OCEANIA
AFITI-ANISTAN    77M 14.3     180G      1 B    11.6     47   <R   75    12         297      69       27        2.00       62        ex     17      1.00
BANGLAOESH      73  80.40      900      I 2   20.2      44Y  22Y  21V   230        567               480       ...       ...       23X0    28       .
CHINA(TAIWANI 73  16.2G 1.050G    2.2    14.0    28   41   22    82                9BC      94       40       ¶4 O       84       810C    26      20.OOC
INDI'A          75 620.4G    1400      2.8VY.                             298     85X4      . ..     434                 ...      29X'4   2064    2.34EY
INOONESIA       76 130.9G   280G       2.0   il O    26   32   15    BOB          79EX    43E        30E      2.0        52E-    79EX    t4E    2.00
IRAN            73  33.6G 2.060G    2.2    12.8         506   18B  128   50       77        746      32       5.08       BOA      24       31      4.32CY
IRAO            79  Il 50 7,390G       6.7C   ¶6.30R._.... .. 25C                 93xy    .. .       212      .          .. .-    35x4    26C      8.477
uODRON          77   2.2    997        4.5K   7.IK   25R  $09    IR   70          97X       si       22        2 7       91       se       22    10.60
KOREA           78  27.0   1.242        2 B   17.5    35   29   26    93          '02.x     94       49        2.4       97       60       45     18.00
LEBANON         72   2.20 1.070G       2 S    18.0      39   do   >0    68         86       es       19        2.0       63       26U      25     23.00
MtALAISIA       76  12.8    Seo        6.7   28.0       42   24   15    60C        95       93       32        3.7       78       48       28      2.00
NEPAL           76   12.6F    170F      I ¶   10.0    29   20   41    19           59       28       31        2 2       64        14      24      O B
OMAN            72   08SF 2.200F        1 7N   3.8      96     -   -      20       24X      99       27F       7.0       . ..     0.44      9      ..
PAKISTAN        75  71.3G    1800       1.6   16.2    48   25   78    21          47X       50       29        2 O       . ..     17X      18      6.00
PAPUA NOG.      75   2.8G   450G    5.6   16.1    28   16   24    22              57?       73P      31       il 0       90        12X7    24      0.907
PHILIPPINES    74  43.20    420G    2.5    14.9    73   15   12    87             1041      ...      34       15.0       ..       461             21.00
SINGAPORE       74   2.3G 2.580G    2.7Y   9.27    29V  29F  177    75A    10917            72A      31V       . .       99A      44XY   24        7.688
SYRIA           75   7.6G   830G    3.6    8.9          29   25   26    53        89        70       35       2.0        92       45       21     12.00
TUAILANO        77  44.1    410        4.OV  20.0       55   20   15    84F       83        20       25       5.OU       70       28       25      2.00
TURKEY          73  40.9G 1.010G    5.GCY 20.6CY....              ...-... .                          34Y       . ..      . ..     24Y    270V    5.832V
YIMENI          73   5.4G   200G    0.5        4.0      45F  21F  23P   10         I5X      la       36       5.0        753       2X      19      0.0587
eEMEN FO~R.   76    1.7    280         6.6      ...    57   28    a    20         89X       48       30       5.0        94       21X      24     0.10
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNATRIES.
NUJMBER 0F COUNTRIES:                  94    90        68   88   85    87        95        74       95          88      77       94      97        84
RANGE:                              >0.5-  <2.8-  125-  5-  72-   (3-          (74-    (13-       (19-      (I 9    i7-         .~4-    (9-      (.01-
12.0 ) 33.0)   96 I 47)  41>   98)          1327>    99       69        25.0      99>      80  )  39)   23.0)
QUARTILES.UPPER                      5.7    21.2     54   32   22    72         94        76       48          7       83       36      25       7.0
MEOIAN:                  2.9   16.2    45   23   l8    50           78        55       36          4       83       17       23      2.3
t.OWER                   3.0   12.4    28   la   12    20           53        30       32          2       43        9      20        .9
SYM80LS: . .. DATUN UNAVAILABLE               Â*1970 OR BEFORE            M-CURRENT PRICES                         -L)RCES:
-MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 6.197t                           N-GDP
7  QUESTIONABLE                     C71972                      P-INCLUOING FOREIGN AID                   -OLUMNS:l ANC 2 WORLO BANK ATLAS
INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0.1973                          0-CENT9AL GOVT. 0H17                                         oR 1880 MISSIONS
COMBINED WITU PRIMARY           E.1974                      R-MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                  3 TO 14 I8RD MISSIONS
UNDER REVIEW                    F.1975                      S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                   ANC/OR UNESCO
Gw1976. T-EXCLUOING CENTRAL GOVT.                                                       STATISTICAL
HU1977                     U'PUBLIC 0N1Y                                                YEARBOO(<
K. 1978                    V-INCLUOING PRIVAFE EXPEN.OITURE
X-INCLUOING OVERAGEO STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE ECUCATION DATA ARE JSEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS ANO ANALYSIS Or ;ELATIVE STAGES 0F EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPNENT 8ETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER,ON THE BASIS 0F TH-E PRESENT OATA.CROSS-NATIONAL COMP.49IS0N SUCULD SE APPRCACUED WiITH
GREAT CAUTION. 0ATA PRESENTEO 1N THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY 8Y THE BANK8 MISSIONS FQOM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINOER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR 0DA7A FROM UNESCO. E-FORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANOAROIZE BEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS. TO CHECK TUE
ACCUPACY 0F THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS.SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFEC IN1 SEVERAL RESPECTS ANC THE BANKE 1. WCRKING TO 1IMPROVE THEN
P40018ESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION 0F 17S OPERArIONAL WORIE. 1H THE USE 0F THES5E DATA. THE FOLLOWING.0UAL:~tCATIONS SHCULO BE BORNE IN
M INO.
f 7)IDUCATION' AS OEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUOES ALL EOUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL ANC NON-FOFM L
(2(FPRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONODARYT ECUCATION REFER: 7.' ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONOARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS 0F TYPE (E.G. GENERAL. TECUNICAL. AGRICULTURALI 
(3)'LITfERACY RATES'ICOL.S) ARE OFTEN O8TAINEO FROM COUN7IkY CENSUSES. III W4NYCOUNTRIES T41EY ARE ~"JLY APPROXIMATIONS ANC 1T IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION 0F 'LITERIATE" HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY:
(4)'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE 1N EDUCATION'(COLS.à.4 A710 51 REFER TO ALL CAPITAL ANC RECURRENT EXPENJDITURES DEVOTEO) TO ECUCATION 8Y
PUBLIC AND QUASI -PUBLIC AGENCIES;
>5)'ENROLLMENT RATIOS'(COLS 7. 12 ANC 14) REFER TO SCHCOL YEAR ANO MEAN4 TUE PERCENTAGE OF ELtGOIIE CHILDREN ENRCLLEO FUIL-TIME
1H TUiE APPROPRIATE SCHUOL. PUBLIC ANO PRIVATE 8y LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUB.JECT TO A AIDE MAR-IN OFER899R EN THE DEVEI.OPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION 1H THE ACCURACY 0F BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND0 EROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREOUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN TUE NUMB3ER 0F STUDENTS ACTUALLY 1H SCHDOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHO F INCLUSION 15 INOICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



-34-                                    Annex 1
Table 2.1
ALGERIA V
Technical Assistance
for Experts and Fellowships ai
Experts                Fellowships
Number    Man/years      Number    Man/years
NIMTA                                      4           16            6           2
NIMTI                                     22           38            8           7
3 MTCs                                     7           il           -            -
3 ITCs (MOLI Directorate for
Industrial Relations) ./         3            1            5            3
Computerization MOHE and
5 universities                           1            1          36           24
37          67           55           36
NIMTA ex'perts will include a coordinator/co-director and three specialists
in training, construction, organization of artisans (research) and fellowship
training will be provided for their replacement. NIMTI experts .will include a
coordinator, seventeen specialist teachers and four visiting specialists on equipment;
fellowship training will be provided for teachers of priority specialisms. MTC
experts will include assistants for management in the three centers and a visiting
consultant on equipment. ITC experts will include three visiting consultants on
wood, construction and food processing and fellowship training for one administrator
and four training supervisors. For MOHE, an expert for management information
systems is included and fellowship training on data processing.
a/  Details with schedule for recruitment of experts and fellowship training are
defined in Supplemental Letter No.3 to the Loan Agreement.



-35-                            ANNEX 1
Table 3.1
ALGERIA V
Unit Costs a/ and Area per Student-place
Type of facilities           Area/Student    Buildings        Furniture    Equipment
m2  b/      & Sitework                    CIF  d/
US$--- -----                  
NIMTI Complex c/                  13.8              8.800        900          2,590
MTCs                              16.7             10,800        900          2,200
El Asnam ITC (SNMC)               17.6             11,300        500          2,000
Ain-Beida ITC (SNLB)              17.3             11,100        500          2,000
Dielfa ITC (SN-SEMPAC)            18.3             14,800        600          2,000
a/ Excluding professional fees and contingencies.
b/ Excluding covered galleries (about 10% of gross areas), the cost of which is
included in the cost estimate.
ci Excludes offices of NIMTA (National Institute for Maintenance Trades
Administration).
d/ Includes kitchen equipment.



ALC.F1R[ ~V
CTlNSlNOENCY AILLWANCES
CIVIL OvOR)S                 FURNITURE                      23UIlrMENT                 _ROF,SERVICES                   FCLLOW5Iiir s,oeRTS                                         TOTAL PVOJCC7 cçs
Local     iCXrelon          Local    lootItu,             Local    Etrorlo              Lccl   Forelen              Local      F.risa             Local      Foroto-             Lc.1oc    Forci  - -Z.1
Coctbra.ncl., (a. %. o! prajeot 00.1):
t,!ooosooo                                  10lO.0   25.0                10o.0    10.i                10.0    to.                  5.0       5.0                7.0        5.0                5.0       5.0
Polo. lac.î.ttor,                           * 42.7   27.6               48.5      48.1                48.5    48.5                12.0      10.0               33.6       33.6               33.6      33.6
7.01000 ~oat (altho,ut oatlamn.encl.>:
10irl s ->                                 134.9   140.4                 6.0       7.3                 6.0    54.2                10.1      12.2               0.6         2.3               4,3       17.4                 161.9      233.8       395,7
<Ct0,, <Cls                                 34.6    36.0                 1.5       1.9                 1.6    13.9                 2.6       3.1               0.1         0.6               1.1        4.5                  41.5       60.0       101.5
%. Fooe1etr  F.ocl.np                                                             55.0                          90.0                        54.8                          80.0                         80.0                              59.1
Coo8io-ci-  <frAooot.):
Vafo (rr o o00
:i2') O. î^                             13.5    14.1                  0.6      0.7                  0.6      5.4               0.5       0.6                0.0        0.1                0.2       0.9                  13.4        21.8        37.2
(r''!r o) a _SIS                          3.4      3.6                0.2      0.2                  0.1      1.4               0.1       0.2                0.0         0.0               0.1       0.2                   3.9        356          9.3
Prtoe fooala2loe
.^n! @  re                        63.4    42,6                  3.2      3.9                 3.2    28.9                 1.2       1.2                0.2        0.9                1.6       6.1                  72.e        83.6      156.&
U,;; ) - L^5                    16.3    10.9                 0.8       2.0                 0.8      7.4                0.3       0.3               0.1         0.2               0.4        1.6                  28.7       21.4        402.1
rl-U rIA                       76.9    56.7                  3.8      4.6                  3.8    34.3                 1.7       1,8               0.2         1.0                1.8       7.0                  88.2      210.4       19.61
l 'Y)- a5; 219.7                                  14.5                1.0       1.2                 0.9      8.8               0.4       0.5                0.1        0.2                0.5        1.8                  22.6       27.0        409.6
t re1tp  Ecohacge                                    42.4                         55.0                          90.0                        51.6                          80.0                         80.0                              5'.4
Total Frolect Coot lolth £ont1nn1.a>:
VTT A rL                                211.8   197,1                 9.8     11.9                  9.8    88.5               11.8       14.0               0.8         3.3               6.1       24.4                 250.1      33?.2       589.3
<o'0) L Lss                             54.3    50.5                  2.5      3.1                  2.5    22.7                 3.0       3.6               0.2         0.8               1.6        6.3                  64.1       87.0       151.1
2 Fo-oîgn toch.og.                                   49.0                         55.0                          90.0                        54.                           80.0                         80.0                              57.6
T.AL CMTINCENCIES: Ae 1 o  total prao1et o-t  32.9  *. 2 of p-oJeot -st vitho_t oaoîinporlaa  48.9
Coobsola 0.to: ussi.00 - DA 3.9
]J/ Prîre. q.o.ioa  a.çta.Id an basia of fol-a.1o8 *aaul pe                    in-.. .tn e!               1919        1980       1081        190l2      158F        1984
I. r    L      r    i.    F    L    t    V                  F
CItIl Wk F                         IS      13    7            I Z  1'   | 7   11.5   7   21,5  7
rsernite n                        n10  10   14   14    12  12   10   10   8               a 8    8
EalOpm-nt                        10  10   14   l4    12  t2   10   10               8    8    8
Fr o(r,.lo.al Sarvices           10   9    9    6        9   7    7    7
Tolhnicel Aa.lntan.e              7   7   10   IC        9   9    8    8   7         7    7    7
17'
QZ 
L,Ns



ALGERIA V
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Ministryof Lpght Industries-M.O.L.I.                1979                  1980                   1981                    1982                   1983                   1984
NIMTI Complex                               1    2  1 3    4        1    2    3    4       1    2    3      4     1    2    3    4        1    2    3    4       1    2    3      4
a) Design and Construction
1. Site Selected                                          Loan Signing
2. Sites Acquired                            R
3. Preliminary Drawings
4. Design Development Drawirngs                     R
5. Bid Documents                                         RF
6. Final Drawings and Cost Estimates                            R
7. Advertise and Issue Documents
-. Receive, Analyse Bids, Awards                                                                                                                  i
9  Building Construction                                                    R
h) Furniture                                                                    ri
1. Preliminary Lists
2. Final Lists                                        R
3. Specifications and Cost Estimates                             R
4. Bid Documents                                                            R
5. Advertise, Analyse Bids, Awards
6. Manufacture, Deliver and Install                                                     R
c) Equipment
1. Preliminary Lists
2. Final ListsR
3. Specifications and Cost Estimates                            R
4. Bid Documents                                                           R
5. Advertise, Analyse Bids, Awards                                          R
6. Manufacture, Deliver and Ins-tal,                                                    R
d) Technical Assistance                                                                      - t
R -- Indicates Bank approval and/or review and bar includes about one month for receipt                                                  rt
of documents and transmission of Bank comments thereon.                                                                              P1J
World Bank-21087



ALGERIA V
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Ministry of Light Industries M0.OL.I.                 1979                    1980                   1981                    1982                    1983                    1984
Maintenance Training Centers (MTCs)            _                                                    _                                                                       _
Industrial Training Centers (ITCs)             1    2    3    4       1     2      3    4     1    2    3       4    1    2    3        4     1     2    3      4     1     2    3      4
a> Design and Construction                                       Loan Signing
1. Sites Selected
2. Sites Acquired                                       R
3. Preliminary Drawings                                       F
4. Design Development Drawings                                      R
5. Bid Documents                                                        R        _
6. Final Drawings and Cost Estimates                                              R
7. Advertise and Issue Documents
8. Receive, Analyse Bids, Awards
9. Building Construction                                                                     R
b> Furniture
1. Preliminary Lists
2. Final Lists
3. Specifications and Cost Estimates                                                   R
4. Bid Documents                                                                                      R
5. Advertise, Analyse Bids, Awards                                                                     R
6. Manufacture, Deliver and Instail                                                                                   R
c) Equipment
1. Preliminary Lists
2. Final ListsR
3. Specifications and Cost Estimates                                        R
4. Bid Documents
5. Advertise, Analyse Bids, Awards                                                                                      R'
6. Manufacture, Deliver and Install
d) Technical Assistance                                            .                             -                      _                  1f#- 1                  l
R -Indicates Bank approval and/or review and bar includes about one month for receipt                                                                  rt X
of documents and transmission of Bank comments thereon.                                                                                            <
VVorld Bank -21088



ALGERIA V
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Ministry of Higher Education-M.O.H.E.               1979                  1980                  1981                    1982                   1983                   1984          J
Computer Installation                       1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4          1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3            4    1
a) Equipment                                                 Loan Signing
1 .Preliminary Lists
2. Final Lists                                        R
3. Specificationsand Cost Estimates
4. Bid Documents
5. Advertise, Analyse Bids, Awards
6. Manufacture, Deliver and Install                                                R                            _ -
b) Technical Assistance
R -Indicates Bank approval and/or review and bar includes about one month for receipt                                             i 9
of documents and transmission of Bank comments thereon.
World Bank - 21089



-40-                         ANNEX 1
Table 3.3
ALGERIA V
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Accumulated        Undisbursed
Calendar                        Disbursements       Disbursements       Balance
Year       FY: Senester 1/   Am.ounts      %      Amount       %      Amount    %
1/7/80      81
12/31/80              1                                                   87.0    100.0
_           1.4        1.6       1.4     1.6       85.6     98.4
1/7/81      82
12/31/81             1            9.6       11.0     11.0    12.6        76.0     87.4
2          14.6       16.8     25.6    29.4.       61.4     70.6
1/7/82      83
12/31/82             1           16.2       18.6     41.8    48.0       15.2      52.0
2          19.2       22.1     61.0    70.1        26.0     29.9
1/7/83      84
12/31/83             1           18.3       21.0     79.3    91.1        7.7       8.9
2           5.1        5.9     84.4    97.0         2.6      3.0
1/7/84      85
12/31/84             1            2.0        2.3     86.4    99.3        0.6       0.7
2           0.6        0.7    .87.0   100.0         0.0      0.0
17 Beginning from the Loan Agreement Date (anticipated January 1980).



-41-                               ANNEX 2
ALGERIA V
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.  Reports and Studies Relating to Education   1/
1. Informations Statistiques, 1976/77 and 1977/78,
Ministère de l'Education, 1978
2. Bulletin Statistique, 1977/78, Ministère de l'Enseignement
Supérieur et de la Recherche Scientifique, 1978
3. Memorandum on the Economic Situation and Prospects of Algeria
(No. 1816-AL), IBRD, February, 17, 1978 (with update of
September 15, 1978)
4. Recensement général de la population et de l'habitat 1977
(Données abrégées), Commissariat National aux Recensements
et Enquêtes Statistiques, Alger
5. Les résultats de l'enquête emploi et salaires de 1977,
Direction des Statistiques et de la Comptabilité Nationale,
Alger, juin 1978
6. Robert Malet, Primary Inspection in Algeria,
IIEP, Paris, 1976
7.  Mohamed Chaibderraine, Educational Wastage at the Primary Level,
Link8ping University, Department of Education, Link8ping, 1978
B. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1. Etude de faisibilité d'un projet d'institut national et de centres
de formation technique pour les matières de l'artisanat, Battelle
(Geneva) for the Ministry of Light Industries, Algiers, 1979
(3 volumes)
2. Etude de preinvestissement pour la création de centres de formation
professionnelle dans le secteur des industries légères, ILO (Geneva)
for the Ministry of Light Industries, Algiers, 1978 (3 volumes)
1/ See also reports and studies in Project File for Fourth Education Project
listed in SAR  1831-AL of May 26, 1978  Annex 2.



-42-                              ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
3.  Formation ouvrière professionnelle pour les industries légères,
SODETEG (France) for the Ministry of Light Industries,
Algiers,1977 (3 volumes)
4.  Système intégré de gestion automatisée de l'information,
GTE-Sylvania (USA) for the Ministry of Higher Education,
Algiers,1979 (3 volumes)
5.  Allan Ellis, Recommendations Concerning the Algerian Computerization
Project, (Consultant's report for the appraisal mission of
March/April 1979)
C.  Selected Working Papers
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, Fifth Education Project
Working Papers (Educational and Architectural), August, 1979.



ME 91TEf f A NrA/v    Sf A                                                     T7-_                                             hA  -k-Hd
D.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
R F    /Moh-m adis 7tReli -Ene   t   J        %t                     \               (~       ArTsridi  J   A    t `)            f        \g_ALG ER I/36A
>   /                                                    Berrian                                         ~~~~~~~F I FTH EDUCATION PROJECT
/                                           t    ADM ~~~~~~~~~~~~NtSTRUCTIONTAICNINO FOR MAINTENANCE TRACES
X  '?Am Sefra   {_                                        Ghardala $>                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V MAINTENANCE TRAINING CENTERS IMTCI
-32°   .   /                                                                         t_ _                                                       W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ INDUSTRIALTdAINIG CENTERSIIC
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dd
OuFrgI0o                     ___    MAIN ROADS                                     32°
C I    , | E 50                                                         __F  =   SECONCARy ROACC
Ths map has hesa propared dv Ihe WorZd dans s Sla CAD INISTRTION CENTER ANKILOMETERS     _NSTRTTRACFO
To,  ph0 eaer t th0 pul uweO3d,W,o,OriCo,,SSÊIhf   a(omnthfoOsuea Ih -                                                                                                                       IVERS                  Gz-
pfAvraIso Tlv  o odsmonl on the !,va oT a1e1s of AV 1P>ré10/t Dr .wNV endorseneenl cs                                                                                         '  ?   INTERMITTENT LAIKES                              B IA
C UINTERNATIONALBTOUNCARIES    ERSIT
40~~~                                                                                          ~        ~~ ..  Ho QMI RAS  2
50~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                         5                       5



