C  LOAN NUMBER 1803 AL
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Education Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALCERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1803 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       9O.LC        Lk      , 1980, between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ITC" means Industrial Training Centers (Centres de
formation ouvriere or CFO), agencies of MOLI;
(b) "MTC" means Maintenance Training Centers (Centres
de formation technique pour les metiers de l'artisanat or CFTA);
(c) "NIMTI" means National Institute for Maintenance Trade
Instructors (Centre pilote de formation de formateurs pour
l'artisanat or CPFF), an agency of MOLI;
(d) "NIMTA" means National Institute for Maintenance Trades
Administration (Institut national des metiers or INM), an agency
of MOLI;
(e) "M13HE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Higher Education
and Scientific Research (Ministere de l'enseignement sup6rieur
et de la recherche scientifique or MESRS);
(f) "MOLI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Light Industries
(Ministere des industries l'geres or MIL); and


﻿-2-
(g) "MOL" means the Borrower's Ministry of Labor and
Vocational Training (Ministere du travail et de la formation
professionnelle or MTFP).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighty-seven million dollars ($87,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of.the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOLI and MOHE with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and construction
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in equipment
procurement, architecture and educational briefs, and the imple-
mentation of the technical assistance program described in Part E
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ architectural and educa-
tional experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-4-
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) As soon as possible after completion of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construc-
tion and operation of the facilities included in the Project and
shall furnish to the Bank, as soon as possible after such acqui-
sition, documents certifying that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than three months
prior to the start of the first class, appoint to the CFTA
at Oran, Souk-El-Haad and Annaba, respectively, and to the CFO
at El Asnam, Ain-Beida and Djelfa, respectively, ad hoc com-
mittees whose functions shall include assistance with continuous
curriculum reform, recruitment of teaching staff and of students,
teaching methods and job placement, and whose members' names and
functions shall be furnished to the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall through the relevant
national agencies undertake regular consultations to ensure
coordination of vocational training programs.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comments, at least three months before the scheduled
opening of the institutes included in Parts A (ii), B and C of the


﻿-5-
Project, the tracer studies component of an evaluation system to
be developed for such institutes analyzing training progress, job
placement and career development, and shall consider any comments
made by the Bank on such tracer studies component.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank at the
end of each school year for five years following the entrance into
professional life of the first graduates, from the institutes
included in Parts A (ii), B and C of the Project the results of
the tracer studies referred to in Section 3.08.
Section 3.10. Part E of the Project shall be implemented
in accordance with the schedule set forth in the Exhibit to
Schedule 2 to this Loan Agreement.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall furnish the Bank for its
review and comments not later than six months before the opening
of the institutes included in Parts A, B, C and D of the Project,
equipment maintenance plans for said institutes.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall provide:
(a) in an adequate and timely manner, the required physical
facilities for the installation and operation of the computer-
based management system included in Part D of the Project;
(b) adequate facilities including workshops and equipment
at the Institut National de la Productivite et du D6veloppement
Industriel at Boumerdes and, if necessary, also in other edu-
cational institutes of the MOLI to train (i) sixty NIMTI training
instructors during the 1980/1981 school year, and (ii) administra-
tors and instructors for the ITC as agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank; and
(c) through the Societe Nationale d'Etudes, de Gestion,
de Rgalisations et d'Exploitations Industrielles, technical ex-
perts in such numbers, for such minimum periods, and in such
specialties as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank for the
training of administrators and instructors and the start-up of the
ITC.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, except
as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, no lien shall
be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as


﻿-6-
security for any external debt, which will or might result in a
priority for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in
the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any subdivision thereof and of
any entity owned or controlled by the Borrower or any such
subdivision.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
ARTICLE V
Terminatio
Section 5.01. The date        P, 1980,
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Palais du Gouvernement
Alger
Alg&rie


﻿-7-
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINPLAN                             52062
Alger
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                          - IS  "O
aykM 04   Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works (ex-            46,900,000       48%
cluding student
housing)
(2) Furniture and               24,200,000       100% of foreign
equipment                                   expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
and 75% of local
expenditures
(ex-store)
(3) Experts'                     9,500,000
services:
(a) foreign                                 100% of foreign
experts                                expenditures
(b) local                                   100% of foreign
experts                                expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(4) Fellowships                    800,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Unallocated                  5,600,000
TOTAL                 87,000,000


﻿-9-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 10 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Design, construction and equipping at Souk-El-Haad of:
(i) the NIMTA;
(ii) the NIMTI; and
(iii) staff and student housing.
Part B:
Design, construction and equipping at Oran, Souk-El-Haad and
Annaba of:
(i) three MTC; and
(ii) staff and student housing.
Part C:
Design, construction and equipping at El Asnam, Ain-Beida and
Djelfa of:
(i) three ITC; and
(ii) staff and student housing.
Part D:
Installation of a computer-based management information
system in MOHE and at the Universities at Algiers (Social
Sciences), USTA (Science and Technology), Annaba, Constantine
and Oran.
Part E:
Setting up of an administrative and pedagogical organization,
in accordance with international standards, at the NIKTI, the MTC,


﻿- 12 -
and the ITC, and introduction of the computer-based management
information system in MOHE through 36 man-years of fellow-
ships for 55 students and 67 man-years of consultants for 37
experts as set forth in the Exhibit to this Schedule, and through
other technical assistance as agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 13 -
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
Experts' Services and Fellowships
Experts            Fellowships
Number   Man-Years   Number   Man-Years
NIMTA                       4        16          6         2
NIMTI                      22        38          8         7
MTC included                7        11          -         -
in Part B of
the Project
ITC included                3         1          5         3
in Part C of
the Project
Part D of                   1         1         36        24
the Project
37        67         55        36
NIMTA experts will include a coordinator/co-director and
three specialists in training, artisan organization (studies and
research), and construction, and fellowship training will be
provided for their replacement. NIMTI experts will include a
coordinator, seventeen specialist teachers and four visiting
specialists on equipment; fellowship training will be provided for
teachers of priority specialisms. MTC experts will include advi-
sors to directors and assistants to workshop supervisors in the
three centers and a visiting consultant on equipment installation.
ITC experts will include three visiting consultants on metal and
wood, construction materials and food processing; fellowship
training for one administrator and four training supervisors. For
Part D of the Project, an expert for management information
systems is included and fellowship training on data processing.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1984
through   July 1, 1998                      3,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             2.60%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than fourteen years
before maturity                             6.10%
More than fourteen years but not
more than seventeen years
before maturity                             7.40%
More than seventeen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.
3.   (a) Furniture and equipment shall be grouped to the extent
possible so as to permit bulk procurement.
(b) Bid documents shall specify that equipment suppliers
shall be required to provide a minimum of three weeks of training
for the personnel necessary for the proper operation of the
equipment, at or around the installation time, in the use and
maintenance of the equipment, and that suppliers of the computer-
based management information system included in Part D of the
Project shall install or cause to be installed humidity and
temperature control systems.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the shelf price of other
goods offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other


﻿- 17 -
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria (hereinafter called
for the purposes of this Schedule "Algeria") may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Algeria if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Algeria equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 18 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Small furniture and equipment items or groups of items
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, and items of a
specialized nature for which international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines would not be practical, may
be procured according to procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Bank, including but not limited to the solicitation of quota-
tions from at least three reliable manufacturers or suppliers;
provided, however, that the total value of all furniture and
equipment so provided shall not exceed $3,100,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, furniture
and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 19 -
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the experts referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said experts and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or ptequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this J,   U   day of JV A&  , 191.
FOR SECRETARY


