Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report NIL P-5308-STP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 7.5 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
JUNE 5, 1990
1hi docunt has a restricted distibuon and may be used by recpIents only In the performac of
their offkic  dutis Its conhtnts may not otberwbe be JWosd without Word Bank auntriatin



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dobra (Db) 11
1987      1988       1989      1990 (Ist Quarter)
US$ 1.00 m       55        87        124       140
DESCRIPTIVE GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
ADF            African Development Fund
BNSTP          Banco Necional de Sao Tome e Principe
CAL            Cocoa Association of London
ECONEX         Empresa de Comercio Externo
ECOMIN         Empresa de Comercio Interno
EEC            European Economic Community
EIAE           Empresa de Agua e Electricidade
E1AG           Empresa de Artes Graficas
EHAVE          Empresa Avicula
ENCO           ETpresa de Combustiveis
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IDA            International Development Associatien
IMP            International Monetary Fund
HEP            Ministry of Economy and Finance
MJPA           Ministry of Justice Public Administration
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
ROSEMA         Fabrica de Cervejas e Refrigerantes
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF            Structural Adjustment Facility
SAP            Structural Adjustment Program
SIF            Social and Infrastructure Fund
STP            Sao Tome and Principe
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
WFP            World Food Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
11 Annual Average



FOR OMCIUL Use ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TONS AND PRINCIPE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paste No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . . . .
PART I - THE ECONOMY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
A. Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
B. Progress Under the First Phase of the
Structural Adjustment Program, 1987-1989  . . . . . . . . . .      2
PART II - THE SECOND PHASE OF THE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (1990-19)2) . . . . . . .      6
A.  Macroeconomic Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6
B.  Structural Policies . . . . .  . . . . * . . .  * . .  . * .  . .  8
C.  Public Investment Program . . . . . a . . . *  . . . . . . . .    11
0.  Public Sector Reform  . . . . . . .. . . .........                12
E.  Financial Sector Reform . . . . . . . . . . .........             13
F. External Debt Policy and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
PART III - PROGRM IMPLICATIONS. . . .......... . .. .                 14
A. Growth  . . . .  .  ...  ....  ...  ......  ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  .....  14
B. External Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      15
C.  Foreign Financing Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
D.  Social Impact . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .   . . . .  . . . .   . .  16
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT ..DT.................   .               17
A. overview  ................................                         17
B.  Monitoring and Tranche Release Conditions . . . . . . . . . .     18
C.  Credit Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     20
D.  Benefits and Risks  ....  .  .   .  .  .  .    .................. .  21
PART V-- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS  ....  .  .   .  .    ..........  ......  22
PART VI - THE ROLE OF THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS  . . . . . . . . .     23
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION.. ............... ...                       23
ANNEXES
I Social Indicators
II Economic Indicators
III Supplemmntary Credit Data Sheet
IV Letter of Development Policy
V Matrix of Policy Action
VI Status of Bank Group Operations
I This document has a restdcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the prformance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authodization.



D(OCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMAIT
Borrowers           Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
mount:               SDR 7.5 million (US$9.75 million equivalent)
Termst              Standard IDA terms, vith 40 years maturity
CofinancinL          African Development Fund: UOA 10.0 million (US$12
million equivalent).
The IMF is expected to contribute SDR 2.0 million
(US$2.6 million equivalent) under the second and third
annual SAP.
Financing package is expected to total approximately
US$24 million.
Proaram
Descriptions        The proposed IDA Credit would support ohase two of the
Government's structural adjustment progrem for the
period 1990-1992. The thrust of this phase is: (a) to
consolidate progress in exchange rate, fiscal, and
monetary policy; (b) to stimulate economic growth
through appropriate trade and pricing policies, and
land redistribution; (c) to rationalize the public
investment programs (d) to improve the administrative
capacity of the public sector through public
enterprise and civil service reform; (e) to improve
the functioning of the financial systems and (f) to
mnage the external debt burden with the view to
freeing up resources for econohic growth. The program
will continue to focus on improved incentives for
production of traded goods within a stable
macroeconomic framework. In addition, the Structural
Adjustment Credit II (SAC It) would include a
technical assistance component primarily geared to
support institutional reform.
Estimated
Disbursements:      The credit would be disbursed in three tranches of SDR
2.5 million (US$3.25 million equivalent) each. The
first tranche would be available upon effectiveness of
the credit and the second and third tranches following
performance reviews to determine satisfactory
implementation of the program. Estimated period of
disbursementst July 1990 - July 1992. Retroactive
financing has been included for up to twenty percent
of the credit, for eligible goods and services
procured up to four months prior to credit signing.



- il -
Benefits
and Risket           The proposed second phase of the structural adjustment
program is expected to Improve the growth prospects of
the economy through a stable macroeconomic framework,
better incentives, adequate supplies of producer and
consumer goods, more efficient allocation of scarce
resources, rationalization of the investment program,
improvements in the allocation of financial resources
and foreign exchange management. Also, it would help
to create an environment favorable to private
initiative and investment.
One important risk lies in the inadequate
administrative capacity in the country, which may
delay the implementation of the second phase of the
adjustment program. This risk is being minimized by
the progressive withdrawal of the State from
commercial activities, and by technical assistance
from multilateral and bilateral institutions to assist
the Government in implementing the program. Much of
this assistance is already in place and working well.
To counter the risks associated with the removal of
distortions and the increase in public sector
unemployment, the Government has introduced programs
to alleviate the impact of the adjustment on
vulnerable groups.
Economic Rate
of Returns          Not applicable.



REPORT AND RECOMhENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 7.5 million (US$9.75 million equivalent), on
standard International Development Association (IDA) terms with 40 years
maturity to the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe (STP) to
support phase twvo of the Government's structural adjustment program (SAP)
for the period 1990-1992. Financing is also expected to be provided by the
African Development Fund (ADF) in the amount of US$12 million equivalent.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is expected to provide US$2.6 million
equivalent, representing the second and third annual contributions under
its Structural Adjustment Facility (SAP) covering the period 1989-1992.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.        Economic developments in STP have been described in the
President's Report (Report No. P-4586-STP) to the Executive Directors on
the First Structural Adjustment Credit, June 1987, and the Policy Framework
Paper (Report No. SecM89-539), dated May 1989. The following section
summarizes developments described in these reports and updates STP's
performance under the first phase of the SAP. Annexes I and II contain
selective social and economic indicators.
A.   Background
3.        At independence in 1975, STP emerged from five centuries of
Portuguese colonization with an economy overwhelmingly oriented toward the
production of a single crop, cocoa. Under colonial rule, cocoa was
produced on estates covering virtually all the country's arable land.
Almost no room was left for smallholders. This production structure
resulted in a heavy dependence on imported goods, which consumption
patterns contir.e to reflect.
4.        Following independence, the new Government was faced with an
aging production base and a critical lack of skilled manpower. It
responded with an economic policy based on central planning and priority
programs in health and education. Cocoa state enterprises, regrouped into
15 state enterprises, performed poorly, and cocoa production fell from
approximately 10,000 tons in 1975 to 3,900 tons in 1987. Poor management,
aging cocoa trees, technical factors and volatile international cocoa
prices were major factors, aggravated by inappropriate exchange rate and
credit policies. Initial decreases in cocoa production led to large
operating deficits for the agriculture state enterprises, which the
Government financed through expansionary credit policies. This fueled
inflation. With a fixed exchange rate policy, there was an appreciation of
the real exchange rate and a decline in real producer prices, further
increasing the operating deficits of cocoa plantations and spiraling
production downward.



- 2 -
S.        Meanwhile, between 1975 and 1985, In efforts to diversify the
economy, the Government undertook an ambitious public investment program
outside of agriculture, largely financed by external capital. Rowever,
these investments failed by and large to contribute to economic growth, and
real per capita income actually declined over the period. Moreover, they
gave rise to heavy recurrent costs, even as they denied agriculture, the
traditional source of export revenues, the finance necessary to maintain
existing levels of production. External outstanding and disbursed debt,
excluding arrears, increased from about US$0.3 million in 1975 to about
US$80 million in 1987, while at the same time the economy's abil!-:y to
service its external debt had been seriously compromised, as export
receipts only increased from US$7 million to US$10 million per annum.
6.        The growing losses of both the cocoa plantations and the
majority of the non-agricultural public enterprises, together with rising
debt service obligations, led to large fiscal deficits, as current
expenditures exceeded revenues by a substantial margin. The current fiscal
Jeficit on a comitment basis averaged the equivalent of 20 percent of
total current expenditure during the period 1975-86. As a result, credit
to the economy, particularly to the Government and public enterprises,
increased sharply over this period. This infur-on of liquidity into the
economy and the stagnation in the rate of econ sic growth over most of the
period contributed to high domestic inflation. Coupled with the fixed
exchange rate regime, these were major factors until 1987 in the erosion of
profitability in the export sector.
7.        From independence to 1980, STP did not have a serious balance of
payments problem. With exports and official transfers failing to keep pace
with the growth of imports and debt service obligations, STP's balance of
payments significantly deteriorated over the period 1980 to 1986. *7se
current account balance shifted from a surplus of US$7 million in I g0 to a
US$10 million deficit in 1986. Over this period, export values J   eased
at an average annual rate of 8 percent, even as import values gr6. t an
average annual rate of 10 percent. In addition, decreasing official
transfers and rising debt obligations further contributed to the :errent
account deterioration. These deficits were financed through drawing down
international reserves, short-term borrowing, debt rescheduling, and the
accumulation of arrears, the latter amounted to US$24 million at the end of
1986, more than twice the value of exports.
B.   Proaress under the First Phase of the Structural Adiustment Program.
1987-1989.
8.        Faced with large internal and external imbalances, and a rapidly
rising external debt service, the Government adopted a comprehensive
structural adjustment program in mid-1987, supported by a Structural
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1825-STP) from IDA and funds from the Special
Facility for Africa (A-29-STP). The AfDB and more recently the fMF,
France, and Sweden have also supported STP's adjustment program. The first
phase of the Government's adjustment program, covering the period 1987-
1989, has concentrated ons (a) correcting the most critical macroeconomic
distortions, via.. high inflation and an overvalued exchange rate fueled by
excessive fiscal deficits and monetary expansion; (b) restoring the



- 3 -
profitabillty of agrlculture, particularly cocoa production; and (c)
reforming civil service administration and public enterprises. The first
phase of the program has been broadly successful to date, and over the
three-year period ST' has moved from a centrally planned to an open
economy, with an overall market orientation. As described in more detail
below, the Government has adopted, and sustained, c. broad ran8e of
stabilization and adjustment measures, including successive substantial
exchange rate devaluations and liberaliLation of most domestic pricos.
There has olso been considerable progress on instltution-building.
a.   Correcting Macroeconomic Distortions
9.        During the first phase of the program the Governant has
focussed mainly on stabilization measures to correct macroeconomic
distortions, and the initial stabilization measures led to credit
effectiveness in early 1988. Notwithstanding key changes in the
Government's economic team in early 1988 and again in January *989 that
delayed implementation of the macro program, a serLes of measures
Introduced in mld-1988 and reinforced in 1989 have kept the overall program
on track, despite a sharp decline in the internatLonal cocoa price. As a
result, the Government has successfully reduced the overvaluation of the
domestic currency through a more flexible exchange rate pollcy. It has
also achieved some progress in controlling the flscal defieLt, which has
contributed to slowing down credit expansion and to improving price
stability in the economy.
10.       Exchange Rate Policy.  A central element In the program has been
the establishment of a realistic market value for tha dobra. In July 1987
an exchange rate adjustment of 101 percent was designed to secure
profitability of cocoa production. However, excess demand for foreign
exchange continued. Consequently, in January 1988, the Government
introduced a 30 percent across-the-board import surcharge, replaced in July
1988 by a 33 percent exchange rate devaluation. In February 1989, there
was a further devaluation of 20 percent. Moreover, the Government has
continued to adjust the official exchange rate to changes in the parallel
market rate, devaluing by 8 percent in October 1989, 9 percent in November
1989 and a further 7 percent in May 1990. These actions reduced the gap
between the official and parallel exchange rates from about 85 percent in
July 1987 to about 25 percent in May 1990. They also effected a 75 percent
devaluation of the dobra in real terms vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar since the
start of the program. Notwithstanding the intervening fall in world cocoa
prices, the more efficient cocoa estates are now profitable.
11.       Fiscal Policy.  Some progress has been achieved on the fiscal
front as corrective actions, including devaluation, expenditure restraint,
and increased sales taxes and fees have been successful In reducing the
deficit. For 1987 and 1988, the fiscal deficlt on a commitment basis vas
reduced to about 8 percent of GDP, from 10 percent in 1986. With the
objective of further reducing the deficit, the Government implemented
additional fiscal measures in February 1989, including price Increases for
six strategic food imports, as well as petroleum products, electricity, and
telecommunications, and a fifty percent tax increase on alcoholic beverages
and tobacco. In mid-1989, the Government eliminated price subsidies on



- 4 -
beans, cooking oil and rice; this action reduced subsidy expenditures.  At
end-1989 the Government eliminated subsidies on the remaining essential
goods--milk. sugar and wheat flour. However, the Government did not
achieve the program's fiscal target for 1989. On a commitments basis, the
fiscal deficit is estimnted to have been about 8 percent of GDP, compared
with a target of at-out 5 percent. Expenditures remained within the program
target, but revenues were 20 percent l- s than expected. This reflects
lower than projected earvings due tot %a) the sharp fall in cocoa prices:
(b) lower than expected kmports due to poor management of external
resourcest (c) serious weaknesses in tax administration, compounded by the
authorities' failure to adjust fully specific import taxes as well as some
administered prices in line with exchange rate adjustments; and (d) lower-
than-programed profit transfers from public enterprises.
12.       Monetarv Polici.   During the program period, as a result of
fiscal and monetary restraint, the Government has substantially reduced the
need for fiscal deficit financing through domestic credit. Although it did
not achieve the credit benchmarks agreed in the context of the Structural
Adjustment Facility, the Government followed a fairly stringent credit
policy in 1988 and 1989, with net domestic credit expanding by 12 percent,
and broad money by 6 percent, on average. While there is no reliable price
index for STP, it is estimated that prices, as measured by the official
consumer price index, increased by an average of 25 percent in 1987, 40
percent in 1988 and 36 percent in 1989; based on movements in market
prices, rather than changes in official prices, the rates of inflation for
1988 and 1989 were n.ach lower.
b.   Restoring the Profitability of Aariculture
13.       The basic thrust of the first phase of the Government's
adjustment program has been to restore agricultural output. The strategy
has been to improve efficiency and productivity of the cocoa producing
sector, livorsify into other export crops (e.g., fish, coffee, and pepper),
increase food self-sufficiency, explore prospects for agro-allied
investments (e.g., cocoa processing) and for tourism. In turn, these have
been supported by an appropriate trade liberalization and producer pricing
policy framework, improved production and management technology, increased
worker incentives, and more timely imported inputs, thereby avoiding
disruption In the agricultural production and marketing process. The
program's macroeconomic framework has been fully consistent with these
objectives. However, the sustained fall in cocoa prices since the
adjustment program began has increased the magnitude of the adjustment
required, and thus STP will take longer than originally planned to complete
the stabilization and adjustment process.
c.   Institutional Reforms
14.       To lmprove the efficiency of the public sector, the Government
embarked on a comprehensive series of institutional reforms in 1987,
covering the civil service, public enterprises, and the cocoa export tax
system.



- 5 -
(a) on cLvil service reform, the Governments M1) introduced a freeze
on new hires; (ii) completed a census to identify Aumbers,
positions, and qualifications of civil servants; (ii) enacted
legislation to implement administrative reform and early
retirement; (iv) appointed an administration expert, funded by
UNDP, to help with implementation of the reform program; and (v)
adopted an action plan for the next stage of reforms, to be
implemented during phase two of the adjustment programt
(b) on public enterprise (PE) reform, the Government initiated a
phased action program to restructure, privatize or close public
enterprises; to settle cross debts; and to set up a new tariff
structure for fuels, electricity and water. The first phase is
concentrating on privatizing the beer company (ROSEMA),
liquidating the chicken farm (EMAVE), and restructuring the
printing company (EMUG). In addition, the Government has
privatized the brick factory (EMCERA II) and transformed the
fishing enterprise (EMPESCA) into a joint-venture with foreign
partners and management--with the Government contributing its
two fishing trawlers in exchange for 47 percent of the capital
of the new company; and
(c) on cocoa export taxes, the Government is implementing an action
program to reform the cocoa export tax system, and to reduce the
level and number of cocoa export taxes. In this context it
consolidated a number of taxes and reduced the level from about
20 to 17 percent in 1989.
d.   Program Results
15.       GDP is estimated to have grown by between 2 and 2.5 percent
during 1988 And 1989, compared with a 4 percent decline in 1987. On the
supply side, this was due mainly to the impact on agricultural production
of improved management and incentives. Cocoa production expanded from
about 3,900 tons in 1987 to about 4,300 tons in 1988 and 5,000 tons 1989.
Coffee, vegetables, fish, chicken, pork and goat production have also
contributed to the expansion of supply. Construc, on, mainly housing, and
services, including tourism, have also grown. On he demand side,
following declines of 4 percent in 1987 and 1988, consumption grew by about
6 percent in 1989. Total investment grew by abvut 15 percent in 1988 and
by 70 percent in 1989, compared with 6 percent in 1987; this reflected
mainly substantial investments in agriculture, infrastructure, health and
education. These investments are expected to yield results in the 1990s.
16.       The current account deficit amounted to US$26 million in 1989
--about 44 percent of GDP--compared with US$15 million each in 1987 and
1988--about 24 percent of GDP. For 1989, exports of goods and services
amounted to US$11 million, compared with about US$15 million in 1988 and
US$10 million in 1987. Reflecting investments in housing, imports of goods
increased substantially to US$27 million in 1989, from US$20 million in
1988 and US$17 million in 1987. The scheduled debt service ratio was over
100 percent in 1987, 60 percent in 1988 and about 80 percent in 1989,
reflecting rescheduling agreements and higher export earnings in 1988, but



lower export earnings and higher service payments In 1989. Official
transfers amounted to  bOUt US$10 million In 1989 including about US$6
million of food aid, caopared tlth about US$7 million in 1988 and US$9
million in 1987. The current account deficit was financed by rescheduling
of debt services, net foreign conceesional inflows, short-term commercial
inflows and an accumulation of debt service arrears.
17.       In the absonce of the Government's adjustment efforts, and the
associated foreign financing, GDP and living standards wculd have continued
to decline, and the shift In incomes In favor of the rural sector would
have been delayed. Bence, the turnaround in the economy and response of
agriculture provide grounds for optimism about the prospects for future
economic growth. However, while the overall Impact of the program on GDP
and living standards has been positive, the Government still needs to
address emerging social problems In the urban sector caused by unemployment
and the removal of subsidies on basic foodstuffs, as urban public sector
wages did not keep pace with rising food prices.
PART II. THE SECOND PHUSE OF THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMEPS PROGRAM (1990-1992)
18.       Sao Tome and Principe has started on a long and difficult path
to establishing the conditions for self-sustained growth. Recognizing
this, the Government has decided to embark on a second phase of its
adjustment program, covering the period 1990-1992. The thrust of this
phase iss (a) to consolidate progress in exchange rate, fiscal and monetary
policy; (b) to stimulate economic growth through appropriate trade and
pricing policies, private investment and diversification, cocoa sector
development and land redistribution; (c) to rationalize the public
investment program; (d) to improve the administrative capacity of the
public sector through public enterprise and civil service reforms; (e) to
improve the functioning of the financial system; and tf) to manage the
external debt burden with the view to freeing up resources for economic
growth. The broad thrust of the program continues to be on improved
incentives for increasing the production of traded goods within a stable
macroeconomic framework. During this phase of the program, the economy of
STP is expected to experience real economic growth, including an increase
in production of traded goods. At the same time, the Government's
adjustment strategy is aimed at increasing private investment and defining
the basis for self-sustained economic growth over the longer term.
A.  Macroeconomic Framework
19.       Exchanae rate 2olicv. A central element of the adjustment
prograa has been the establishment of a realistic exchange rate for the
domestic currency, to restructure demand away from imports and to encourage
the expansion of exports. The Goveroment intends to continue managing the
exchange rate In a flexible manner during the program period, with a view
to unifying the foreign exchange market in the longer term. To this end,
the official exchange rate will continue to be adjusted progressively to
reduce the differential with the parallel rate to 15 percent by the end of
1990. This target has been agreed with IDA as well as the IMF.
Thereafter, management of the official exchange rate will continue to be



- 7..
guided by movements In the paral'tel rate so that the differential will not
exceed 15 percent. Other supporting indicators, including developments in
domestic inflation and world cocoa prices. will also be used to implement a
flexible, market-based, exchange rate policy.
20.       fiscal nolicy.  An $mportant asp'ct of the adjustment program is
the strengthening of public finance to ensure that domestic resources will
be sufficient in the longer term to cover recurrent costs, as well as a
growing share of public investment expenditure. The target is to achleve a
current fiscal deficit of about 4.5 percent of GDP by 1992 and to eliminate
the deficit by 1995. Taking into account the current structure of
expenditures, especially the dominan.c of interest on the external debt and
of imported goods and services, the current fiscal deficit, in absolute
terms, is expected to widen over most of the three-year program period, in
large part because of the negative impact of the expected exchange rate
depreciation on external debt service obligations. Excluding scheduled
interest on the external debt, the Government intends to reduce the
underlying current fiscal balance from a deficit equal to some 1.8 of GDP
in 1989, to a deficit equal to about 0.7 nercent of GDP in 1990, and to
achieve a surplus of about 3 percent of GDP in 1992. To achieve these
objectives, the Government intends to mobilize additional domestic revenues
and to maintain strict control over current expenditures.
21.       The required growth in revenue hinges primarily on the timely
implementation of a comprehensive tax reform, aimed mainly at raising the
level of taxation and broadening the tax base. With technical assistance
from the IMP, the first phase of the reform is under implementation. It
consists oft (a) raising administered prices and specific tax rates on
Imports so that the revenue effects of domestic currency devaluations are
passed through fully to the Treasurvs and (b) conversion of specific import
taxes to ad valorem rates. Additional ravenue will be gentrated through a
significant reduction in tax exemptions. Subsequent phases of the reform
program will focus on: (i) further simplificat on of the tax system; (ii)
strengthening customs and tax administration; (iii) the appropriate level
and structure of taxes on imports and exports; and (iv) the size and
duration of tax holidays under the Investment Code.
22.       During the program period, the Government intends to curtail the
growth in current expenditures. It intends to reduce outlays in foreign
currency terms on official travel and embassies, and to bring personnel
expenditures under tighter control. To offset in part increases in the
cost of living in 1989, average civil service salaries were increased by
about 20 percent in 1990. During the program period, the Government
intends to review proposed general salary increases with IDA to ensure that
any such increases are compatible with the objectives of the SAI.
According to the civil service census, the number of civil servants
--including temporary workers--on the payroll in 1989 amounted to 4,056.
Given the size of STP, and the changing role of the Government, this number
of civil servants appears high and will be reduced over the program period.
The savings derived from reducing the numbers of civil servants will be
used for increases in real average salaries. The Government also intends
to undertake periodic public expenditure reviews with IDA to ensure that,



within the current budgetary constraints, adequate resources are allocated
to priority sectors and projects.
23.       Monetary golicy.  The Government intends to maintain prudent
monetary and credit policies to achieve the targeted reduction in inflation
and to relieve pressure on the exchange rate, while providing an adequate
supply of credit to the productive sectors. Credit policy, including the
credit operations of the Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIP), supported by
IDA, will continue to be implemented through direct ceilings on total
domestic credit and on net credit to the Government. For 1990, as a
percentage of money and quasi-money at the beginning of the period,
domestic credit and broad money respectively are projected to grow by 28
percent and 15 percent. An important feature of monetary policy will also
be the sterilization of domestic counterpart funds generated from balance
of payments support. These funds will continue to be deposited in blocked
accounts at the National Bank (BNSTP) and will be used only for reimbursing
government debt to the BNSTP.
24.       With the projected accumulation of counterpart funds, the
Government is expected to establish a net creditor position vis-a-vis the
National Bank in 1990, th_s making adequate credit available for the public
enterprises aL--' -e private sector. However, credit will finance only
productivt activities and trade. The monetary authorities, with external
technical assistance, intend to strengthen the management of the credit
portfolios of BNSTP and the Caixa Popular (CP), especially seasonal crop
credit to the agricultural public enterprises, to ensure proper utilization
of bank credit and to prevent sustained bank financing of operating
deficits. Moreover, additional credit facilities may be needed to assist
in bringing redistributed lands into mrre efficient production; these loan
decisions will be made strictly in accordance with sound economic and
financial criteria.
25.       To foster domestic financial savings and their efficient use,
the Government intends to establish interest rates that are positive in
real terms by end-1991. Although the inflation rate is expected to decline
progressively during the program period, as the initial impact of achieving
a realistic exchange rate and pricing policies is worked through the
economy, a further increase in nominal rates will be made in 1990;
thereafter, these rates will be reviewed semi-annually in the light of
inflationary trends and developments in the parallel market exchange rate.
To help implement the monetary program, a senior advisor to the Governor of
the BNSTP is expected to take up his post by July 1990, financed by the
IM?.
B.  Structural Policies
26.       Trade policy.  Private and public enterprises are now permitted
to export and import in competition with ECOMEX, the State's international
trading firm. On the export sidie, ECOMEX's role has already noticeably
diminished, with cocoa producers and private traders handling an increasing
share of total cocoa exports. These firms are allowed to export directly
as long as their prices are at least equal to the price obtained by ECOMEX.
With regard to imports, private traders now import with foreign exchange



- 9 -
from the parallel market and are allocated residual amounts of foreign
exchange from the official pool on the basis of approved import licenses.
27.       During the program period, the Government intends to further
liberalize the international trade system. By end-June 1990, private
traders will be formally authorized to import, in competition with ECONEX,
the six strategic food commodities (beans, cooking oil, milk, rice, sugar
and wheat flour). Export procedures will be further simplified and, with
the attainment of a market-based exchange rate by the end of 1990, an
automatic import licensing system will be implemented by end-March 1991.
By that time, private traders will handle all imports, except for official
commodity grants and petroleum products, and all exports, except for those
shipped under the two existing bilateral trade agreements. Although
nominal export prices presently obtained under these bilateral agreements
are substantially higher than current world prices, the Government intends
to reevaluate the relative merits of these agreements. They will not be
renewed if greater net gains could be obtained from exporting cocoa
directly for foreign exchange, diversifying suppliers of imported goods,
and rescheduling bilateral debt now being serviced under these agreements.
28.       Cocoa marketing.  The Government has identified a number of
inefficiencies in the cocoa marketing system that increase transaction
costs and thus prevent STP from receiving the maximum return for the cocoa
exported. These include: (a) lack of cocoa market information in STP; (b)
erratic quality control of cocoa exports; tc) complexity of export
documentation for cocoa; (d) prior government approval of export contracts;
and le) poor port facilities.
29.       To reduce these inefficiencies, the Government intends to (a)
improve information on cocoa prices by receipt of daily international cocoa
price information from Reuters and Marche Tropicaux, among others, by
September 1990; (b) establish quality standards and define a corresponding
grading certification scheme by mid-1991; (c) eliminate fixed export fees,
consolidate existing taxes and adopt an ad valorem export tax system
(within the framework of the tax reform) by end-December 1990; (d) reduce
cocoa export tax rates in 1991; (e) introduce an alternative system for
approving cocoa export contracts by end-December 1990; and (f) upgrade the
existing port facilities, by accelerating implementation of the Port
Rehabilitation Project with EEC assistance. These measures are expected to
reduce marketing costs and complement efforts to reduce cocoa production
costs through the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project.
30.       Pricing policy.  To remove price distortions and to provide
adequate incentives for domestic food production, the Government has taken
significant steps toward dismantling what was once an extensive system of
price controls and has eliminated all subsidies on imported foodstuffs. In
early 1990, as a transitional mezsure, direct price controls on six
strategic goods were replaced by a system of maximum profit margins, aimed
at ensuring full import-parity pricing, while protecting consumers from
volatile prices during a period in which imports may be erratic and the
domestic supply response limited. It is envisaged that these temporary
controls on profit margins will be eliminated for beans, cooking oil and
sugar by the end of 1990, and those for rice, milk and wheat flour by the



- 10 -
end of 1991. The Government is also committed to keeping the retail prices
(after taxes) of petroleum products at levels which would generate sizable
transfers to the budget. Electricity, water, public transportation and
telecommunications tariffs also will be set at levels that would ensure
full recovery of the costs generated in the provision of these services.
31.       Private investment and diversification.  While recognizing that
diversification of the economy from cocoa will require a long time, the
Government intends to continue encouraging production of foodstuffs and
cash crops for import tubstitution and export expansion, based on private
smallholder agriculture. To this end, the Government intends to strengthen
credit facilities and rural infrastructure, and maintain adequate price
incentives. It is expected that the production of coffee, vegetables,
pepper, flowers, tubers, fish, chicken, and pork will continue to expand
over the program period.
32.       One of the most promising sources of future economic growth is
tourism, based on exploitation of STP's natural resources, especially its
tropical island setting, and rare fauna and flora. Development of this
sector will be aimed primarily at an up-scale, adventure-oriented
clientele, rather than the mass-tourism market. The Government intends to
take only a regulatory and promotional role, providing support mainly
through the development and rehabilitation of the country's infrastructure,
including airport and roads. In addition to the existing hotels, there are
four additional tourist complexes planned or under construction with
foreign or joint-venture ownership. These would substantially expand STP's
capacity to accoumodate an increasing tourism demand.
33.       A fundamental aspect of the Government's development strategy is
the opening of the economy to direct private investment--both foreign and
local. However, to ensure that the terms and conditions of these
investment contracts take into account public resource constraints,
projects will be approved only in conformity with the provisions set out in
the Investment Code. The Government intends to revise the Investment Code
with a view to providing sufficient incentives, while safeguarding the
interests of the State, especially an adequate flow of tax revenues to the
Treasury. The Government is presently looking for technical assistance to
review the terms of existing investment contracts and to propose guidelines
and standards for future contracts between the Government and foreign and
domestic private partners.
34.       Cocoa sector development.  Five of the fifteen state-owned cocoa
enterprises--Bela Vista, Uba Budo, Santa Margarida, Agua Ize and Monte
Cafe--are being rehabilitated under foreign management contracts.
Investment in these enterprises has grown considerably in the last two
years, resulting in the rehabilitating and replanting of some 3,500
hectares of cocoa trees, and the upgrading of drying and other facilities.
The Government intends to continue with this effort, with results expected
after the normal gestation period of about 5 years for cocoa trees.
35.       The Government intends to review alternatives for development of
the agricultural estates. Based on this review and with the expectation
that world commodity prices, mainly cocoa, will gradually recover, a



- 11 -
strategy for development of at least fout addltLonal state-owned
enterprlses will be adopted by end-l990.   The Government is presently
evaluating proposals from local and foreign interests regarding these
estates. It is possible that they will be rehabilitated through
joint-ventures with foreign investors, rather than through management
contracts. This would allow the Government to contribute the plantations
as lts stake in the joint-ventures. Options also Include long-term leasing
or sale of the estates. During the program period, the Government will
also decide whether the remaining six estates will be rehabilitated or
redistributed for other agricultural purposes.
36.       Land redistrlbution.  During the program, the Government intends
to intensify lts efforts to promote prlvate involvement in agrlculture
through the dlstribution of land to qualified applicants for the productlon
of llvestock, food and cash crops. Some 39,600 ha, 45 percent of arable
land, is currentl*' under cultlvation, almost all under the control of the
flfteen exlsting state owned cocoa enterprlses. An inLtLal 8,000 ha of
land was already dlstributed on a pllot basls between 1985 and 1988, but
because, among other factors, the supporting infrastructure and technical
assistance were not in place, and as there were no sanctions for unused
land, plots were explolted ineffLcLently or not at all. Consequently, the
Government intends to proceed slowly and systematlcally with the next stage
of the land dlstrlbutlon program. The Government is implementing a pilot
land distrLbution scheme, with appropriate extension, credlt and other
support services. Based on the experience with this pllot scheme, the
Government intendst (a) to enact appropriate land legislation by end 1990;
and (b) to implement a broad-based land distributlon scheme and revLse its
land tenure arrangements by June 1991. Criteria for dlstributlon will
include STP residency and lnterest '.n working In the agricultural sector.
Progress in implementation of this actlon plan is a major new element for
the second phase of the adjustment program.
C.  Public Investment Proaram
37.       The Government has prepared a three-year investment program
covering the perlod 1990-92 totalling about US$68 aillion. The capltal
expendlture will focus on the rehabilitation of existing economic and
social infrastructure. The strategy is to lmprove the productlvity of
agriculture and fisheries by direct interventions in these sectors, and to
reduce production and marketing costs and help diversification into other
crops and into other sectors of the economy by investments ln related
infrastructure, such as roads, electrlcity, water, fuel storage facilities,
as well as support services for smallholders.
38.       The 1990 investment program, revlewed by IDA and the African
Development Bank (AfDB), amounts to about US$20 million, with an expected
executlon rate of between 60 and 70 percent. It is concentrated on
agriculture (48 percent), infrastructure, lncluding housing (24 percent),
social sectors (22 percent), and industry and energy (6 percent), with
financing from external grants, concesdonal loans, and local currency
contribution from the Government. The Government Intends not to contract
any additional counercial loans to finance its public investment program.
Within the agreed public investment program, the SIP will finance high



- 12 -
priority projects related to construction or rehabilitation of water supply
systems, sanitary and storm drainage. solid waste management, roads, and
housing. Identified SIP sub-projects also include the distribution of text
books and a malaria control program.
39.       Only those projects that support STP's development strategy and
meet acceptable economic rate of return criteria--10 percent minimum or
cost effectiveness where a rate of return cannot be calculated, and that
are sustainable in the context of a constrained recurrent budget--will be
included in the PIP. All projects will be evaluated by the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MEF) before approval by the Council of Ministers. To
help the Government improve efficiency in planning, implementing and
evaluating the PIP, an advisor, financed by AfDB, has been assisting NEF.
The annual investment programs will continue to be reviewed by IDA and the
AfDB. The Government also intends to seek the views of these institutions
before starting any project whose overall cost exceeds US$500,000.
D. Public Sector Reform
40.       Public Enterprise Reform.  The Government intends to reduce its
direct role in the economy and to improve the efficiency of the public
enterprise sector by privatizing those enterprises that have the potential
for becoming commercially viable, liquidating those that are clearly
nonviable, and restructuring those that provide essential goods and
services, but with little prospect for privatization. During 1988-89,
diagnostic studies were conducted on the eleven main public enterprises.
On the basis of these studies, an action program, including a two-phase
implementation strategy and timetable, was agreed with IDA and a working
group established in 1989 in MEF to implement this program.
41.        By end-July 1990, the Government intends to decide on a variety
of proposals from foreign interests regarding the privatization of the
brewery (ROSEMA). The Government is also actively seeking external
financing to restructure the printing office (EMAG); however, if financing
on highly concessional terms cannot be found by end-1990, this enterprise
will be liquidated or privatized. Of critical importance is the
rehabilitation of the water and electricity authority (EMAE)--negotiations
on a management contract with a foreign utility company, the cost of which
is expected to be financed with concessional external assistance, are
underway. With the liberalization of the exchange and trade regimes, and
the resulting expansion of the private sector in trade transactions, the
state-owned trading enterprises (ECOMEX and ECOMIN) will lose much of their
relevance. Therefore, by end-1990, the Government intends to merge ECOMEX
and ECOMIN into a single scaled-down enterprise with operations limited to
the management of official food aid and of exports of cocoa under bilateral
trade arrangements. The prospects for privatizing the public transport
enterprise (TRANSCOLMAR TERRESTRE) and the construction enterprise
(CONSTRUCTORA) will be evaluated before end-July 1990.
42.       Admlinistrative reform.  So far, the Government has made limited
progress in restructuring and streamlining the public administration to
reflect its changing role from one characterized by central planning,
direct intervention and extensive controls, towards one that promotes and



- is -
regulates private economic activity. During the program, the Government
intends to accelerate the process of improving the efficiency of the public
administration and strengthening its capacity to implement structural
reforms. The recent civil service census indicates that the size of the
civil service should be reduced, and the savings generated used to reward
increased productivity of a leaner, more efficient civil service. To
facilitate this process, in early 1990, the Government adopted a revised
social security legislation that offers greater incentives for retirement.
It intends to strengthen the centralized personnel management unit to
better control the level of government employment. Also, by end-1990, the
Government intends to reassess the overall administrative reform objectives
and redefine the action program to achieve these objectives.
E.   Financial Sector Reform
43.       To improve the allocative efficiency and resource mobilization
of the financial system, the Government, with technical assistance from the
AfDB, IDA and IMF, intends to separate the commercial and central banking
activities of the BNSTP. This will involve the implementation of a new
accounting system, and the establishment of a new BNSTP charter, by end-
1990. Under this charter, BNSTP is expected to: (a) act as a bank of
issue; (b) formulate and implement credit and monetary policies, including
interest rate policies; (c) manage exchange rate operations, including
foreign exchange reserves; (d) act as the State's bank; (e) regulate and
supervise the operations of financial institutions; and (f) supervise
development lending operations.
44.       The Government has decided that commercial banking activities in
STP should be privatized, and majority foreign private ownership will be
allowed. It is currently holding discussions with foreign bankers in this
regard. At the same time, it intends to improve the operations of the
BNSTP and the Caiza Popular (a savings and housing loans institution)--by
strengthening their portfolio and risk assessment departments with
technical assistance from AfDB and IDA. This assessment is a necessary
first step to improving credit collection and selling the commercial
portfolio to the private sector. In addition, it complements the ongoing
efforts to reform public enterprises, which accounted for about 75 percent
of BNSTP's outstanding commercial loans as of end-1989. the Government
also intends to improve CP's liquidity position by intensifying efforts to
increase collection rates on outstanding loans.
P.   External Debt Policy and Management
45.       The Government recognizes that a successful resolution of STP's
relatively large debt obligations is critical to the achievement of
external viability. At end-1989, the stock of outstanding debt, including
arrears, amounted to about US$146 million, some 1,300 percent of exports of
goods and nonfactor services. Scheduled debt service obligations--
interest and amortization--will reach the equivalent of some 80 percent of
projected exports of goods and nonfactor services in 1990; debt service
obligations are projected to remain at about 140 percent of exports of
goods and nonfactor services during 1991-92, reflecting large short-term
suppliers' credits falling due. During the 1987-89, Government officials



_ 14 -
contracted substantial amounts of short-tenn debt on comercial terms under
bilateral insurance.
46.       To address this onerous debt burden, to normalize relations with
creditors and suppliers, and to help ensure that established debt
contracting policy and procedures arc followed, during the period of the
program the Government intendst
(a) to contract or guarantee only concessional loans (i.e., defined
to have a grant element of 50 percent or more). the only
exception will be the contracting of normal commrcial trade
financing, totally self-liquidating within a period of less than
one year;
(b) to service on schedule its debt obligations to multilateral
institutions, and request debt relief from all other creditors,
including for arrears and current maturities, so as to reduce
debt service and the debt stock, and to avoid any further
accumulation of external payments arrears during the program
period. To this end, the Government has formally requested
eight major bilateral creditors--Algeria, Angola, China. East
Germany, Italy, Portugal, the Soviet Union, and Yugoslavia--to
cancel debt or, as a minimum, reschedule obligations on highly
concessional terms. As a consequence, the Government is
assuming no payments of interest or principal over the program
period. The Government is also exploring the prospects for
buying back, at a discount, some of its debt to commercial banks
through the recently established IDA-financed debt reduction
scheme for the least developed countries; and
(c) to reinforce structures, guidelines and procedures to ensure
that the debt strategy outlined above is followed. In this
regard, the Government has recently reinforced the application
of guidelines vesting in the Mlinister of Economy and Finance the
sole authority to contract or guarantee loan agreements on
behalf of the Government, which must subsequently be ratified by
the Council of Ministers.
PART III, PROGRAM IMPLICATIONS
A.  Growth
47.       The Government intends to continue promoting efficient
production of foodstuffs and to encourage cash crop production for import
substitution and export expansion, based on smallholder agriculture, by
building up support services, e.g., credit facilities, rural
infrastructure, and the maintenance of appropriate pricing and marketing
policies. Reflecting these efforts, the econcmy of STP is expected to grow
under the second phase of the SAP. Real output is forecast to increase by
more than 2.8 percent a year between 1990 and 1992 and then rise to about 3
to 3.5 percent a year between 1993 and 1995, as investments in the cocoa
sector and other cash crops bear fruit. Annual food crop production is



- 1S -
forecast to increase by about 3 percent per year over the 1990-92 period.
During 1993-95, growth in agriculture would be further induced by the
entering into production of extensive acreage of food crops and crop
diversification as a result of the Government's land distribution policy.
Food crop production is expected to grow at 3.5 percent per year between
1993 and 1995. Cash crop production. e.g., pepper and coffee, is also
expected to increase by 3 percent annually over the same period. During
1990-95, non-agricultural sectors are expected to grow by 3 percent
annually and there is potential for increased value added, due to
efficiency gains, from the restructuring of public enterprises, appropriate
pricing policies and the improved availability of foreign exchange,
particularly in the fishing, mnuufacturing, and energy sectors. It is
expected that these sectors will grow by more than 3 percent a year over
the 1993-95 period. Other non-agricultural sectors, including services and
tourism, are expected to contribute to STP's economlc growth by responding
to the Government's new incentive policies.
48.       As a result of the Government's adjustment policy, there is
expected to be a significant shift of resources toward the private sector.
Continued contraction of public consumption, improved public sector
resource allocation and investments, along with improved incentives for the
private sector, would imply increased private savings and investments.
Private consumption will also increase by approximately 3.3 percent a year
over the 1990-95 period. Private investment is expected to grow by more
than 15 percent per year over the 1990-95 period. This is expected to
complement the PIP oriented toward the rehabilitatiou of existing social
and economic infrastructure. The PIP is forecast to grow at about 6
percent per year in real terms between 1991 and 1995.
B. External Imnact
49.       The more depreciated value of the real exchange rate should help
to improve the trade balance deficit over the 1990-1995 period, from US$16
million in 1990 to US$9 million in 1995. STP's current account deficit is
expected to improve, from about US$21 million in 1990--about 32 percent of
GD--to about US$17 million in 1995--about 18 percent of GDP. The current
account deficit, excluding official grants, should likewise improve, from
about US$31 million in 1990 to about US$27 million in 1995. Barring
further adverse movement in the market prices of major exports, it is
expected that the export of goods will continue to expand. Export earnings
are expected to amount to about US$10.5 million in 1990 and to rise at an
annual rate of 9 percent thereafter, reaching approximately US$12 million
in 1992. By then the results of cocoa plantings should begin to
materialize, with export earnings rising to US$16 million by 1995. Imports
of producer and basic consumer goods are projected to be restored at levels
adequate for the functioning of the economy. Imports of goods are
projected to stabilize at about US$21 million over the 1990-1995 period.
The rate of growth of food imports should, however, fall as domestic
production responds to the incentive measures, and intermediate goods
should assume a larger share of total imports.



- 16 -
C.   Foreign Financing Requirement
50.       The adjustment effort of the Government will continue to require
substantial external assistance over the next three years. Total financing
requirements, including arrears, are projected to be about US$174 million
for 1990-1992. Exports of goods and services for the three-year period are
expected to be about US$34 million, while disbursements from existing and
expected commitments could amount to about US$79 million. Thus, the total
expected financing, including exports of goods and services, and transfers,
would amount to about US$113 million, implying a financiag gap, before
rescheduling, of about US$61 million.
51.       This gap could be financed by a combination of additional
assistance, debt relief, and rescheduling. Assuming debt relief
(rescheduling and/or forgiveness) of all consolidated arrears and debt
service due during 1990-92 to bilateral creditors, including short-term
debt, a non-financed gap of about US$10 million would remain. As was
indicated at the March 1989 Round Table Conference in Geneva, it is
expected that financing for a gap of this magnitude can be mobilized. In
addition, over the 1993-1995 period, foreign financial assistance will be
required to pay for the necessary imports of capital goods. Under this
scenario, the projected levels of investment will help ensure STP's
adjustment with growth. Annex 1I (Table 4) summarizes STP's financial
requirements.
D.   Social ImRact
52.       The adjustment process requires a reduction in government
spending and employment, particularly in the public enterprise sector.
Although public sector incomes will not regain all of the real income lost
in the past three years, the incentive policies should Improve the economic
environment and are expected to offset the negative impact on public sector
employment. The shift in the internal terms of trade in favor of the rural
sector should also be accompanied by substantial increases in the incomes
of rural households, the majority of the population. The cocoa estate
policy wage, price and trade liberalization, and land distribution should
directly benefit about 10,000 workers and 5,000 smallholders. On balance,
adverse social consequences are expected to be limited, and outweighed by
the gains in terms of growth and efficiency.
53.       To protect the most vulnerable groups, the Government has
adopted the following strategys
(a) to explore with World Food Program (WVP) ways to monetize food
aid and to target food-for-work opportunities. The Government
intends to exchange food-for-work at import parity prices by
end-1990. In addition, WFP is expected to continue to
distribute free lunches to approximately 20,000 school children;
(b) to assure adequate budgetary allocations to health and education
programs and redesign with external partners programs and
delivery systems to maximize their impact;



- 17 -
(c)  with the assistance of IDA and other donors, establishned the SIP
in order to mitigate possible adverse short-term effects of the
economic reform program on the poor, particularly in urban
areas. This fund will finance projects such as the Malaria
Control Program (MCP), which would contribute to increasing the
productivity of the work force;
(d) to monitor the social impact of the program through a Social
Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) Project, with the assistance from
IDA, with the objective ofs (i) developing and maintaining an
adequate data base on the social dimension of structural adjust-
ment; (ii) carrying out economic and social studies on the
implications of this adjustment; and (iii) identifying and
implementing poverty alleviation projects and programs;
(e) to enhance access to new opportunities by the distribution of
unused land. This will permit the development of a new category
of smallholders and will contribute to the diversification of
production, to an improved supply of foodstuffs on the internal
market, and to an increase in exports; and
(f) to provide for an orderly trarnsfer of laid-off workers to other
sectors of the economy, the Government has budgeted a
redeployment fund. Redundant employees will receive training
oriented toward specific projects (such as road maintenance),
for a period of two years. The employees concerned consist of
an estimated 1,000 workers from the civil service and various
public enterprises. The budgeted fund will amount to Db 60
million per year, to be financed by counterpart funds of food
aid and concessional loans. The workers benefiting from the
redeployment fund will receive the equivalent of the minimum
annual salary of Db 32,040.
PART IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.  Overview
54.       The proposed SAC IT would support the second phase of the
structural adjustment program (1990-1992) as described in Part II above.
In addition, SAC II would include a technical assistance component to
support institutional reform, including civil service, public enterprises
and financial system reforms. The technical assistance component will
amount to US$0.5 million equivalent, representing some 5 percent of the
proposed SAC II, and will finance exclusively foreign exchange components.
The IMP will continue to take the lead in the promotion of macroeconomic
stability.  'hile a stable macroeconomic framework remains a sine aua non
of SAC TT, our efforts will increasingly focus on structural issues to
promote economic growth, including appropriate valuation of the real
exchange rate, trade and pricing policies, land distribution, the public
investment program, and institutional reforms, includir.g reform of the
financial system.



- 18 -
D.   Monitorkit and Tranche Release Conditions
55.       The second phase of the 6overnment's structural adjustment
program will be supported by a proposed IDA credit of SDR 7.5 million
(US$9.75 million equivalent). Support is also envisaged from AfDB of
US$12 million equivalent. The IMF is expected .o provide US$2.6 million
equivalent, representing the second and third annual contributions under
the SAF. The proposed financing package is expected to total the
equivalent of about US$24 million.
56.       SAC II would be disbursed in three tranches as followss
(a) a first tranche of SDR 2.5 million (US$3.25 million equivalent)
would be available immediately following effectiveness;
(b) a second tranche of SDR 2.5 million (US$3.25 million equivalent)
would be available after a rev4ew of performance to determine
satisfactory implementation of the program; and
(c) a third tranche of SDR 2.5 million (US$3.25 million equivalent)
would be available after a review of performance to determine
satisfactory implementation of the program.
57.       The Government would be expected to take the following measures:
I.   For the Durpose of the release of the Second Tranche
(a) ensure that the macro-economic framework is consistent with the
objectives of the program;
(b) achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of measures
to liberalize trade and prices and improve the incentive
framework for traded goods, including (i) the introduction of an
automatic import licensing system satisfactory to IDA; (i1) the
elimination of any restriction on imports of consumption goods
and exports, including beans, cooking oil, milk, rice, sugar,
and wheat flour; (iii) the elimination of price controls,
including profit margin controls on beans, cooking oil, and
sugar; (iv) the reduction to at least 16 percent and
simplification of cocoa export tax; and (v) the adoption of an
action plan to improve the quality of cocoa and the cocoa
marketing system;
(c) achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of the land
distribution program, including (i) enactment of land
distribution legislation; (ii) enactment of regulations,
decrees, to carry out the land distribution; and (iii) adoptian
of an action plan for the reorganization of the cadastral office
and land registration procedures;
(d) adopt the PIP for the 1991-93 period, as determined in agreement
with IDA, and have implemented the 1990 PIP, as agreed with IDA;



- 19 -
(e) achieve satisfactory progress on measures to reform PEs.
includings (i) completion of actions concerning either the
liquidation of ENAVE, the rehabilitation of EMAG or the
privatization of ROSEMK  and (11) adoption of action plans with
timetables for the remaining PEs under reform;
(f) adopt an action plan, as determined in agreement with ITA, for
the subsequent phase of civil service reform program;
(g) achieve satisfactory progress in the Implementation of measures
to develop the financial sector, includings Ci) satisfactory
progress fcr enactment of banking legislation; (ii) appointment
of an external auditor of BNSTP's loan portfolio; and (ii)
improvement to 50 percent of recoverable commercial loan
collection rates by BNSTP;
(h) provide actual and forecasted quarterly foreign exchange cash
flow of BNSTP for 1990-1991; and
II. For the purpose of the release of the Third Tranche.
(a) ensure that the macro-economic framework is consistent with the
objectives of the program;
(b) achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of measures
to liberalize trade and prices and improve the incentive
framework for traded goods, includingt (i) the elimination of
price controls, including profit margin controls on milk, rice
and wheat flour; and (ii) the initiation of the actior plan to
Improve the quality of cocoa and the cocoa marketing system;
(c) achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of the land
distribution program, including completion of cadastre and land
registration;
(d) adopt the PIP for the 1992-1994 period, as determined in
agreement with IDA, and have implemented the 1991 PIP, as agreed
with IDA;
(e) achieve satisfactory progress on measurss to reform PEs,
includings (1) the completion of all actions for the
liquidatlon of EMAVE, the rehabilitation of EMUG and the
privatization of ROSIKA; and (ii) the implementation of the
action plans for remaining enterprises under reform, in
accordance with timetables;
(f) achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of measures
included in the action plan for the subsequent phase of civil
service reform;
(g) ensure that BNSTP's operations have been performed in accardanae
with the new banking legislation, providing for the sepatration



- 20 -
of its commercial and central banking functions, and that
further progress, to 75 percent, has been achieved by BNSTP in
the improvement of its recoverable commercial loan collection
rates; and
(h) provide actual and forecasted quarterly foreign exchange cash
flow of BNSTP for 1991-1992.
C.   Credit Administration
58.       Procurement.  IDA funds would be used exclusively to finance the
foreign exchange cost of eligible imports of goods and services procured
from Bank member countries, as well as Switzerland and Taiwan, China.
Except for a specific list of excluded items, such as military, para-
military, environmentally hazardous materials and luxury items, all imports
from these countries would be eligible.
59.       Imports and distribution of goods would be handled by normal
commercial channels selected by the importer. Public or private sector
purchases for US$500,000 equivalent and above would be procured according
to modified international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures as defined
in the World Bank's Guidelines on Procurement, dated May 1985, and will be
subject to prior approval by IDA. Public sector purchases valued below the
ICB threshold of US$500,000 may be procured following standard procedures
of the purchasing institution which have been found acceptable to IDA.
Private sector purchases valued below the ICB threshold of US$500,000 may
follow established commercial practices, i.e. wherever possible, quotations
from eligible suppliers from at least two countries should be requested,
except where direct contracting is allowed. Purchases costing less than
US$50,000 but more than US$5,000 would be procured by direct contracting.
60.       Disbursements.  The Minister of Economy and Finance or his
authorized representative would administer the credit funds on behalf of
STP and the disbursement of these funds would be administered through the
BNSTP, as under SAC I, which was found satisfactory to IDA. BNSTP would
maintain separate accounting records for disbursements of foreign exchange
and repayments in counterpart funds. These accounts would be audited on an
annual basis by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. BNSTP, through the
Minister of Economy and Finance, would submit certified copies of the
relevant audited accounts at regular intervals, within four months of the
end of each fiscal year.
61.       Payment for  ll imports under the program would be effected
either through a special account held in an acceptable commercial bank,
through requests for special commitments directly from IDA for contracts of
US$50,000 equivalent and above, or by requests for direct payment for
contracts valued in amounts not less than US$20,000.
62.       Not more than US$2.5 million equivalent, or 26 percent of the
proceeds of the IDA credit, would be used for imports of foodstuffs and not
more than US$1.9 million equivalent, or about 20 percent of the proceeds of
the IDA, credit, would be used for imports of petroleum products.
Furthermore, as it is essential to maintain the flow of incentive and



- 21 -
productive goods into STP to support the adjustment program, up to US$1
million equivalent, or about 20 percent of the IDA credit, may be used to
finance etroactively expenditures made up to four months prior to credit
signing and for which documentary evidence acceptable to the Association is
available. The closing date for the credit is December 31, 1993.
63.       Special Account.  A Special Account with an initial deposit of
US$1.3 million equivalent will be established in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA. Applications for replenishment to the Special Account
will be submitted on a monthly basis accompanied by a bank statement and by
supporting documents in respect of payments against contracts of US$50,000
and above. Reimbursements for amounts below US$50,000 will be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs), certified by the Minister of
Economy and Finance or his authorized representative, with supporting
documents retained for review by visiting missions. The annual audit
reports will include a separate audit of amounts withdrawn on the basis of
SOEs, and on the Special Account.
D.   Benefits and Risks
64.       The Government's far-reaching economic reform program, under
implementation since 1987, is expected to lead to real growth in per capita
incomes over the next five years and create the basis for more rapid growth
thereafter. Furthermore, such income growth should be achieved with
greater efficiency and equity. The realignment of relative prices will
benefit in the first instance the rural population, who are the majority in
STP. In addition, increases in domestic labor demand in the context of the
Multi-Sector Project should ease the transitional costs as terms of trade
shift away from the urban sector. The efficiency gains in the public
sector expected from civil service and public enterprise reforms should
improve the responsiveness of the public sector and thereby enhance the
productivity of private sector investments.
65.       The Government's program is subject to three main risks.  The
principal risk is that inadequate administrative capacity may prevent the
Government from implementing the program in a timely fashion. To minimize
this, the program has been designed to assist in improving efficiency in;
macroeconomic management; the public investment program; external debt
management; public sector reform; particularly reform of public enterprises
and civil service; and banking. Technical assistance for many of these
posts is already in place, and working well. In this connection, IDA and
other donors (AfDB, IMP, UNDP, as well as bilateral donors) will fund
several advisors and technical experts. The emphasis will be on developing
a critical mass of local experts, and accordingly, ensuring that there are
local counterparts to understudy the foreign experts would be an integral
part of the SAP. A second risk is that, due to price and trade
liberalization and reductions in civil service numbers, opposition to the
prograz, may grow, especially in urban areas. To counter this second risk,
the Government has prepared a related Multi-Sector Project, comprising the
Social and Infrastructure Fund. Finally, there is a risk that the debt
overhang or further adverse movements in the terms of trade will overshadow
the program's economic gains. This may take the form of a greater than
programmed decline in export prices, andlor larger than progravmmd



- 22 -
increases in the price of imports, and/or inability to mobilize the
necessary concessional aid and debt relief on a timely basis. and will call
for flexibility in the pace of the adjustment process. The Government is
also encouraging diversification in agriculture, fishing. and tourism to
reduce STP's exposure to possible terms-of-trade deterioration.
PART V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
66.       Although STP joined the Bank and IDA in 1977, it did not become
a borrower until 1985, when a Us$5.0 million equivalent line of credit (Cr.
1590-STP) was approved. This line of credit supported a series of
institutional reforms and covered the foreign exchange costs of small
investments in agriculture, transport and energy. It also financed
technical assistance to help the Government prepare and implement its first
adjustment program. In 1987, IDA approved an SDR 3.1 million (US$4.0
million equivalent) Structural Adjustment Credit, together with SDR 2.3
million (US$3.0 million equivalent) from the Special African Facility to
support the first phase of the government's adjustment program, covering
the period 1987-89.
67.       As further support to the adjustment program, and to secure the
supply response from cocoa, IDA also approved an SDR 6.1 million (US$7.9
million equivalent) Cocoa Rehabilitation project in 1987. Under this
project, (a) about 3,500 ha of cocoa plantation are being upgraded; and (b)
assistance is being provided for expansion of cocoa production, and
diversification into food and cash crops, including forestry. To
complement the effects of the adjustment program by targeting special
vulnerable groups, mainly urban and rural poor and redundant civil
servants, IDA approved in June 1989 a SDR 3.9 million (US$5 million
equivalent) Multi-sector Project. The project is financing sub-projects in
infrastructure, health and education, and environment protection, in
addition to private sector activities.
68.       Because of the country's small size, the Association will
continue to pursue a selective approach to lending in STP. Our continued
support for the country's structural adjustment is strongly linked to the
authorities' responsiveness in taking needed policy measures. During FY90-
92, we propose this follow-up adjustment operation (SAC II)--it includes a
technical assistance component to assist in strengthening public sector
institutions and public enterprise reform. In addition, we are currently
helping the agriculture and power sectors and, depending on the needs and
availability of alternative financing, we may finance follow-up projects in
those sectors also. Total lending over the FY90-92 period is forecast at
US$15.5 million equivalent.
69.       IDA has played a key role in supporting STP's economic recovery.
Given the size of the country and the dearth of qualified and experience
manpower, IDA is in a good position to help the country steer its
adjustment program and to be able to respond more quickly and effectively
to changes. Continued inflows of external resources from donors are
necessary for the program's success, and these are unlikely to be
forthcoming to the extent required without a strong IDA involvement. Since



- 23 -
the problems confronting STP are deep-rooted, the proposed second SAC
should be seen as the second in a series of operations to remove existing
distortions, to strengthen vital economic institutions and to Improve the
efficiency of resource allocations that otherwise would impede self-
sustained economic growth in the long term.  Annex rV contains a summary
statement of Bank Group Operations.
PART VI. THE ROLE OF THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
70.       The IMF's SAF arrangement amounts to US$3.6 million equivalent,
70 percent of quota. In June 1989, the IMP approved a first-year SAP
program, and IDA and the IMP approved the first PFP covering the period
1989-1991.   However, because of slippages in meeting performance targets
during 1989, the second-year SAF has been delayed and a shadow program
agreed for 1990. Based on performance under the shadow program, the second
year SAF would likely be in place by January 1991. The IMP is expected to
continue to provide technical assistance to the authorities in
macroeconomic policy--in particular, on exchange rate, balance of payments,
monetary and banking, and fiscal policies, including taxation policy
reforms.
71.       Sao Tome and Principe has had generous amounts of donor support
since it embarked on its economic recovery program in 1987. In addition to
project lending, assistance to meet the country's minimum import
requirements has been provided by several countries, notably France,
Portugal, Spain and Sweden. Disbursement of such aid averaged US$4.6
million annually in 1987-89. In addition, food aid disbursements averaged
US$3.8 million annually in 1987-89, principally from the EEC, World Food
Programme, Japan, The Netherlands and the Soviet Union. The UNDP plays an
active role in STP, and organized a first Round Table in 1985. Jointly with
AFDB, it held another Round Table in March 1989. More effective
coordination of external aid would substantially enhance STP's performance,
and IDA, the IMP, AfDB and UNDP are assisting the authorities in this area.
PART VII. RECOMMENDATION
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 5, 1990



- 24                                                 AnneX I
Page  1 of 2
S. Tow nd PrIp.
Social Indicators
=3C   40   Jo   7t   St   L    t~~~Md                      mf
Aged_0 ~  ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~g                        age      (.                   a          , :r  4
NOUN R..L.RCES                                                                            ..
S"VIn o,bwoufteIpepu"am
TOWI                                      ox~~~~~~~~~00  0.09  0.12                28           2
1544~~                                                             ~~~~~ ..     602 0     57.4
A*qWom                                                                                                      37 4n*s  .  z t
pag  edmis     m iosve                                                                           0.66      0.74
oercuuae an u*bm awe                             LU       2  0       40.0 6               34.2 
Fanils pq  100 =ajn
RualZ,-                                                             .. ..          ..        ..
P= ft smwtbmw                           O' ~~~~t3.1                               2.         22
Ti gcawte                                 b                                                      14323
F_le                          @~~~~dffu         ,.0                 6..       4.1      36.2       31.5
Crwade bobdU) zm
t                           _er ~ ~~~~ ..                .          .         .          .         .
T*W fa       ram                   *dtw      o           ..       43.147                         344       31.5
To~~~~~f~~~~                                                                 '5 ~1               r4.08
Chald (0.-4)1  ii  14)ms
Ut=a                                Pr 100 'mm                      ..
Rural                                                    ..         ..        ..
dNM                                                ..                 3t       Hi   t3.4 
pwdoLlll                                   sd          olmen
LabotwaIS.                                                                              6
Lf  M   a g1                                                                                     6 
ao                                                                                                          22 '      19
FoWn per toonWo                                                   sto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8.  36.0  31.2
Uerban r Omb                                              .          ..
p=aumamaU      era:yll                daofg                .          ..                          49.2       3,
Eduaaaloal aafunkm   wug                                                             08        34.9      239.5
Sdiod yam emphsa. ovulam.                                            . 
Arm                                                                096                 2242     36_997     17.083
A      maiy                                                         33       A                     361       3136
Fg:r4ad wood"       VW*  ~ ~~~234                            30.3                            94
Defow*mume g(ogn)                      S     F.0.3                                                          34079
Awm to a& man                                                                42544
Ciba                                ..        ..      34.9       ~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 73.4
a                m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
S                                                                    IS~~~~~~~~~  ri"sb    "omn



- 25 -                                                  Annex  I
Page 2 of 2
Sb Tom6s Phpe
r      sX Sib.                 hag
Unk of  Y=      YWV    *eaim.    SMom           Lo%w.     Ac~r
_w.            q          or (O (MO)            -       amm        ,O
INCOMEAND FOV
barn.
GPpsca (mn   u9s7                                           .        410       230        320       310       1.270
Sbto tbopmm I   faug*-
Sba to baum 201 d b                                       ..        .. b..                           ..
POW"
AbsapOvway =m:                        USsrpw                          ..        .....
P~ .ahaut pvy~mb             So~pp..    ..                           ..          .          ..
w.im in                                 S  *b p a p.                  ..        ..
PMV*ig  d  amti *d  ..           _        of _p tra
Ma; fid    ,mm,-  'W t
Camal uaamp                         ibm. mm sums            6         4          ?      1252      27,738     36.712
POadaid mamAs                                                          2                 3736      7123       781R
Food ~~~ib&c~~~os sia~~~~  1~~9~~~0                1j         O'Z 44              11664   ~ 70
x,4ca1axs          8                 mlii. p     m       2w          }                              330        160 3&  33.0  8
U-  ~~~                                                 2.)f2.12,7f
3o                                      SofOD               ..        ..         ..         .          ..
A=veb          sind t              pmpwb=nbs                ..    ..             4_.
Cib                                                       ..         .,         ..        .          ..
u.d   * kmiq                            %daID_              .. _..              ..
Fadampow                                saoDp               ..        ..         ..
uioIds        Asr                    4 dkg of  .ai_       4.0       702       1216       10-3      3237       863
Tua_ws sd  _mmiA                        S of 009            ..        ..         ..         .          ..
PqaalauaapmspmuasuSari 85                                             51        49          ..        ..        27
p      p tdqb                                               ..        ..         ..        ..                   16
I!iVESTW   IN HUMAN CAUAL
M edlIe                                 SofOD?              ..        ..         ..         .          ..
Pqpr p b,d                       py                ..      1,1g                            14 6      1,547
Aco  to h                               S dpa.
Imamad (mass 12.inl2wSd ;).- m                                                                      4 g  431.3   6.
OmlRdmim W=(mdsrS)                      Sofam               4.         _         0        1.4       21.6       282
KiummUs                                 Sofd,W*_. ..                             ..        ..
_i.umy l usaJ                     Sd~uuI.q.guy             _.        ..        ..       78.0       "83      106.8
67.6   51.8      101.3
Tamd  am/mmii                       Sod_Uy _am          - .            ..    _ ..
ifto:_                     pwbpwodwr              ....                29        40         10         28
= 1uaio~                                    21         13         19        3S         19         18
~~~~~81.0
SAAS f315)              -          ...                64         6.         2
f% :=* Sid*'                                                   *-       426       53.4       43.3      262
N-w  s                                 p m  *-                                              2       20.4       79.3



-26-                                                        kanu.
Pt". I of a
Tabl 1. 1:SD TOM NDO RD4CV6s 1EV ~SXCOO POCATVO. 1/
1964    1965    136    1947    1Q66    1969    1990    1991    1992    it93    1994    3995
6.9tMioa Accounts 2/                            (real chdange fEe. arO.;ove jee  Inerent)
UP ot Sark*t erig"                _4.3      3.3     1.0   43.6      2.0     2.3      2.0     2.9     3.2     5.3      3.4     3.5
MY 3/                     -3~~~~.4  2.3    0.5    -4.4     0.9   -0.7       3.2     4.1      4.5     4.5     4.6     3.4
my/aeit  a/                       -5.5    -0.1I   -1.0    -71    -2.0    48.5       0.3     1.2     1.6      1.6     1.7     2.4
Private owm. a.tiaI                -6.7     9.1    46.6    -0.4   -4.7    .5.        3.7     3.1     3.4     3.S      5.5     6.0
EGerte" GOas  & Ws6               27.6  .10.2    24.5   -26.6    43.6   -16.4        5.0     6.0     6.4     3.4      5 a     5.6
Ia.rAs Oam" a&WI                  42.4   .13.5   -17.8   -14.0      2.9    29.0   -1,3.4     2.7     3.1     2.9     2.9      2.7
1'a.t Oasis vetssiet              M4.A.    N4.A.    M4.A.   3.9     1.3     1.7      1.5     1.2     1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0
Grows nfv.ateent/   (rest)         69.2    3.1      3.7     9.6    10.5    13.    12.0    13.7    14.4    14.3    15.1    15.4
1t&a.tia  Sov*egS/7 (essl)         -3.7   -15.1   .14.8   -131.2   -10.0   -17.6  .46.0   -IS.0   410.4    4.1I    -.4.      -4.0
AAbi ia 1etmotsl Ieeteant   14.4.   N4.A.    N4.A.    N4.A.    N.A.    96.2    93.3    93.0    92.3    91.9    91.2    96.4
Oawrv.rn  pies**"* 4/                                   Vft vrew's of UoP)
bieefteru mosvems                  =.O    26.6    24.5    20.5    19.6    16.5    17.3    17.3    17.6    17.6   23.0    13.0
curve" a,enit...g                 39.2    36.9    34.9    26.6    27.6    26.6    26.3    92.7    0214    21.1    29.1    16.6
Curra.t 0f.fict                    -7.2   -U.s   -10.4    48.1    -7.6    4.10   -7.0    43.2    -4.0    4.64   -2.1    -0.6
%#suse of Psgesnt.                                     (in im x sIt in)
tsP. of Goas,s VWd fervIce         13.9    10.3    13.4     9.3    14.6    10.9    WA.    11.4    12.3    13.4    14.7   1s.2a
tom. of cOdas ..d Srveitee        -36.4   -34.0   43.0   -29.5S  -35.3   -461.7   46.1I   49.6    49.7   46.3   49.3   49.1I
ago" VWd Serelee 6.1...           -21.5   -26.7   .19.6   -20.0   -13.0   45.0   427.3   -269.4   -27.6  -46.1I   44.6   -92.
area"t (officoll)                   6.6    - 5.2    14.7    9.0      7.2    10.0    10.0    10.      10.1    10.1   310.1I   10.1
cr,est Asesuet blase.             -13.3   -13.5    49.4   -14.9   -15.1S  -26.0   -20.5   -92.2   -21.6   .19.0   -13.1   -13.6
wovre1) Oats...                     6.0    46.5   -11.9    46.0    48.9    49.7   -10.0   -13.7   -17.0   .13.6   -4.7    -4.9
(in percent of CM~
6.e-too tlease 4/                 -20.1   -92.9   -26.1   -26.   -26.6   -56.8   -36.6   411.5   -26.6   -26.4   42.0   -17.3
Oasis sad Irels Olaten" 4/        -43.7   4311.2   -28.4   -29.3   -29.    46.6   -45.6   -41.6   47.$   -=.2   -26.8   -24.0
Cm# eat damn"selblae. 4/          -=6.S   -29.0  -.13.3   -21.9   -26.2  ..44.0   -.4.    4 -2.0,  -29.6   -43. 0   411.1   -13.1
Term .f T1 r"d Zeiss               N4.A.    N4.A.   130.0    91.4   46.3    31.3    66.7    72.6    77.4    7.6    60.9    61.7
0.9 and 0.ht 6.u.i.5 S/                                 (in us6 0*1111w,)
OUP                                57.     9S.2    73.9    73.9    64.3   191.5   111.4   113.6   127.    131.    146.9  3160.6
Msiva,lg  %essts, Own 3             3.0     3.2     6.3     5.7      5.2     3.6     5.6     6.5      6.7     6.6     5.5     6.5
later*" at Paeto Du. 3/             1.0     1.9     3.7     3.0      3.6     3.3     4.0     6.0      6.0     4.0     3.3     8.6
0.69 gsu.,l@/E  (Is S)             26.6    49.3    74.4   101.2    60.1    36.2    90.7   109.9   1620.    60.6    56.6    6.6
0.e" 1ervie.l   (2*6)               6.3     3.2    14.5    14.3    14.1    25.3    15.2   10.4    17.4    13.7    11.3    11.1
U0/lM (two)                       415.5   374.6   550.1   692.3   373.6   929.3  1I5.6  1046.2  3.1106.21  1026.7  1014.2   993.0
0ODP (in 3)                       12.2    93.3   107.4   113.0   134.7   171.9  1i7.2   175.1   174.6   174.    174.0  1I3.
3.raoum  "neito" of baeg a PInes... Ibtessl Cmh 015s50 To" VWd PrIneip. WAd IM O"olstom ad .rojastloo..
I/ Owmiteo esso imp esoto the defte baa. In 6. Tea. e Priscip "einen cseh. Theeforwe. the aboe" Indicators wobsld be Istsrsvted wIfth caat,in.
2/ bIoai A eeteI  e.ta.tboa aetb1,O& mm cbaa,d tn 1966. therefore oWstites fteor grei.. yeare Oor not aa.arb Be.
3/@   a (P gdueste  fosr howa,e In the term 01 trade.
4/ Celeelte  Ire. Or-oat erie. data.
s/ &*Iodine .. 3". eeOn sated.
3/ Lteolueds arresre.



- 27 -
4UAA
Table 2: SAO    M ADtICIP: BANCS OF PA'ES
(Ci. illi.i. of U.S. deollrs)
165     10       1016    1r    100         106     1tO      I00     102    to"        1e       *5
se5.    *r@j.  e*vo.    51j*.   5 tei -   .*j    *'0J.
A,Crrn AceSov                               4-8   --          -tJ.4   .14.0   -IS. -t   .    -U.l -X;t.2 dll.O   -"10.    -21J            e -UStot 6
trede iblnal                          -11.    .12.6   -4.0   -10.7      4.    -10.*   -15.6  -.14.-    1U.0   -t2.0   -11.4    4.0
Igme.f..b.                          11.9      7.0     0.o      *.0    10.6      0.0      0.4      7.1     7.0      6.7     0.6    10 
Ideatve.f.e.b.                     48.0   -it 0   -I8.8   -26.7   -10.1   -26.0    ZI.3    -l1.5   -21.4   -21.8   -21 0   -10.6
Srv;g (, )                             11.0   -11.1   -t4.4   -12.5   -U1.0   -4.9  4-.2   -18.1   -28.7   -17.7   47.5   -4 
tng_"                                     -1.0 1       4.7    -8.0   -4.0        4.        .0     -4.0     4.0    .4.0      4.o   -. -0
"tL 6*  a"  or                      -1.1    -1.0      4.4    -2.7    -8.2    -8.0    -2.8    -2.0    -14.    -1.2    404           .0- 
WT d*_  .4.                          0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    .1.4    -0.6      4.0      .U2     -1.0    -2.2
tna,at  on i*edaled Osl              0.0      0 0     0.0      0        .0 0.0  00      4.3    40.4    4.0        4.6    40.7    -1.0
ta.afn" OR a                                         -seOe 4.8  -.U    40.4    -0.t     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
*eieMt sa  I.e....                    -4.4      -.4.8$    -.S    -S,             4.5    -5.0       S       4.  4. 4 -       4.0 - 7.$ t  4
1011ev tav;ia0l                       -0.5    -5.0    -7.4      4.5    -4.5    -0.0    4.2    .t.6         4.0    -7.8    -7.4 a      t.0
_e.syfe (agg)                           6.6      5.3    18.8      5.5     7.1      0.7    10.2       0.*    1o.6    10.7    10.0    10.0
Offc;Sii  0reetw                       0.0      5.2    14.7      9.0     7.2    10.0    R0.0    10.1    10.1    10.1    1.1    10.1
Private T7vgaov                        0.0      0.0    -I.2     4.7      -.'     4.        0.  0    .8 s    0.8      0.     0.0     0.4
0. Cae.tsl A..m.S                            121.0    6.0    -2..2      .0      4.0      5.2     7.1      *.       4.6     6.1    U.4    U.0
M.T  Oi __0am                          26.0      0.2     4.1    11.7    10.6   U1.         U2.7    14.0   18        18.9    17.t    U8.4
A;t.ifAwa                             -4.0      -.2    -4.       -4.7     4.7     -i8.    -4.0   -10.5   -10.7   -.0   -4.8    4.5
C. other ti los  (I.. 9s.. 0G)                0.0      6.0    4.8       8.0     :.      10.0      8.6     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
of whi.ch: d..-4. Ca;t,l (le .0*5)                                                tO.0      5.6
0. Overall 3hl.s, (A4aC)                      0.0     4.5   -11.0   -4.0        4.0    -0.7   -10.0   -18.7   -17.0   -18.0   -4.7          -.0
C. CageJi Debt*9erviom Ai.sap  (Om)                            4.4      2.6     4.1      6.3   -t2.0
. Totel                                       6.0     4.5    -7.5   -4.4    -4.0   -4.e   -3.0   -1u.7   -17.0   .15.              4.7    -4.0
G. Piaeaiag                                  4.0      r.o      7.5      8.4     4.0      S.5    26.0     1.7    17.0       U.0      o.7     4.0
Oa    i i.    (- 1     a                4.0       1.0      1.0     0.4    4.4      -1.4    -1.0    -1.0    .1.0    -1.0    -2.5   -4.*
iu  of PFod C ut (lit)                  0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      1.0      0.0      1.6     1.t      0.0     0.0      0.0
otis. i-                                4.0      1.0     1.#      0.4    -.4    -2.4    -1.0    .2.8    -3.1    -1.0    -1.0    -1.0
iR1   eare (- derssa)                             5.0     5.0      1.3     5.0      4.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Rea.el  8*5                                               0.0      0.6     2.4      0.0      0.6    18.0      5.1      8.0      .0      0.4
PieFausi  Go                                              0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      2.4     4.7      2.6      0.7     0.0      0.0
_mliasl Eaeba  Sate Olb.aA0                  47.9    40.0    0.0       U.3    6.2    I.O    In.0    10           17.1    10. 3tT.S   3117-.0
Cu'reen AsamaS eaeldl' Ouses               -26 .    -0.?   -36.1  -.2.0   -2.5   46.            -0   -.8   -41.7          3.7.-  .35.3    26.0
aEser  of _age  & 0.-f er awe..              14.0      0.0    18.4      0.8    14.4    tO.6    10.4   1t.          2.7    14.1    18.0    17.4
saare of W(Savias VW5)t
Remove" Isle..                                                   AS. -.15  -3.01  -. -.00   4    6..o    41.16   -9n.0   -5.0   4-2.0  -17.0
To*e  zalseast Pame.                         .2.3.s   -8.15   -5.45   -4.45    -5.0      4.1a    4.0    4.0    4.S6        -.1 t    4.0      4 is
Carvat  &man**  bleae.                      4.2.    S-3.0   -18.0  -21.0   -.as.    -4.06   46.5   -0.0   -5.0  .364.0  -3.151  .10.33
lm,g.: olli,eq*g of _ap _   wAP2..... Isiamell         of at  rte , Tm   D ad 1   Me" astimls sd er4 o..tIsM .



- 28 -
*U8
F.  S at5
Thbi' 3: 54 TOW. 40 fPCM- VOl4SQIC DOIWATS
ioa;                 _Mau  rasIb vro te) as e tUi%  *#-ad s1n
r;}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o     -_1  - ;- -. --- ----------.--
t1W                     1Mg4   to  iw   l6      t1       t_9    l0    1o"       1992    103    1t9 :"
Or.. 0gmti_l <r         247.7              4.8      .0     1.0 41.6        2.0     2.$     2.0    2.9  S.2    8.3    3.4   83 
AeorimStur'           63.2            -17.0    4.4    -2.0   -0.0       3.0     8.6     4.2     4.2    4.6    4.*        4.6     s 
SDI&O                   0.0           -12.0   27 I      1.1     0.0   O.       *.0     1.2     I.0    2.0      2.2    2.3    2.8
serylam               6.4               0.8     2.1     1.8    4.0       1.0    2.0     2.2    8.0       -.1     3.8    3.6     3.6
"i ret" UROD           $2.0           -1U.S     B.-   14.    4. 7    31.0   14.7   IS.7         2.9     8-.    8-.    3.4       3.6
C.AROMW$ia              2.4               .4.8    12.6     72 a    .9.    -4.7      .2     1.6     1.4     2.1     *.6    2.S    2.S
pVbI;Q                729.4            -2.6    M.O      3.6   -12.0   -0.5    -1.0   -4.0   -6.0    4.0    4.0    -2.0    0.0
Atiwr;               21016.0           .6.2     3.4     9.4   -4.4    -4.7    0.8    3.7         8.1    8.4      1.8     8.8    3.0
ram                      218.6            89.6   -11.6    18.0     6.1    14.9    f6.0   4.2    13.2    *.8    8.8    8.8    8.6
018fl.                218.1            89.6   -12.6   1U.0    6.1       u.    76.0   -.13.      11.6    6.0      4.7     4.7    '.6
Priwst              N.A.                N.A.   N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    6.4.      8.0    20.0   1S.0      8.0    181.0  1u.0
aoe- of on t.                             27.6  -30.1   12.8   -.8    46.6   -1S.4         S.0     8.0      .4    8.4      6.s     S 6
tner  o                 1014.0            42.4  -26.6    1.6  -14.0       8.9    29.0   -18.4     2.7    8.1      2.0     2.      2.7
Shae of CM Ms pr,Te 0t.()
(*S fte_fs Pei*e
--_ oame"; prade                         100.0   10.0   10.0  u1-0  t10.0  t1o.0   t0o-.   10-.0   100.0   t00.0  t00.0   la's
A27ieuItura                            ".0 .    10.8    26.0    24.1   24.3    24.6    24.0    10.2    1.8      0.9   10.2  21.5
4w4                                     Ws.0   61.0   36.7    40.1      6.5    3.0      3.4    66.0      7.    87.2    3.0   33.5
ls_l.V .                               8U.0    8.6    31.4    3.6       W.      33.1    33.0    t.0    3.       0.2     l.2    36.2
Uailcw-  19W                            6.1     2.      2.1    3.2      3.6     4.3     4.6      4.6    4.6      4.6    4.5      4.6
C&O"_fti                                 1M.9   tt.0,  U4.J   tU8.2    Ut1.t  t20.?   ll0.7   Itt.01  Utt.1   10o.o    W.*   tOS.4
Pt1811                                  UA0     e.4    34.0   21.1    1.0    24.8  21.2   I1.4   10.1   19.1    l8.1t    1.S
privea.                                 77.0     3.6    7.4    a'. U.1   104.4   97.8    94.2   91.4  0e.ri7 3.6   66.e
0.p.. iW.6ms                              U2.8    L1.2    6.7      9.6    12.8   210.      16.1    18.0    18.4    U8.4   t1.      14.4
Pub# If                                 12.8   11.8     6.7      9.6    12.8   24.4   14.1    1.4   14.2         4.2    18.7   13.1
Peiv*Ow                                N.4.    N.4.    6.A.    N.A.    N.A.      1.0     1.0     1.1     1.1     1.t2    1.      1.4
l.66494   am                              3.0    10.4    19.       1.0    10.0    18.0    16.4   1t.9   17.4   17.6    18.$   18.7
Sf aw.0    61.4    42.0    89.0    46.0   72.6    33.2    46.0    4.                                              43.0    40.2   36.0
MP tf            t_ CiSs                  6.4.      .A.   100.0   16e.0   116.0   291.8   334.0   410.6   SO.     83.6    W7.0  66.0



'-vb!*o*fe" -w  m^sU   ag',   1 !Pe e-v!ad PMS -     f US  Roo ism!"" '-obtj Pe       _  P        " tIS-S
5      Sf *-U    tOP    t-P    isD     gs6         s-es SW     Sl      SW                                        SU  Pao"&
S*1 t    s *-S         eta    si r        -u    et    g m      *-t    S-u                                   
i-u    c's    s -s     -s-     i-s    s-s    s*         *-ee    . 5    * tG
5-:    eg t    ** t    s-s     se      ge      s-s    8-,s    ve       S-s                                      oge -smsdl 451
SW     06    fl5g    I've    Slog    1569   55?n    *4    els          65                                                     seMi
00d1   0 *t    505   0t0       0t    *00i   0IM    00 0t 5-i   s,t                                                               -UZ
L'     %'A    SIn t-    ,tA    *It      '      rt C-t          Olt 0-" &O- t *" 6-
5     IS      allS    '2S     95t    all    f-l    W'O        0,t    S0                                                    00#00
* S    -S     St       P'S    St      S'S    iSt    O-S    *-t    O-           -*
J',0    O-O5t   OScot   5O-    515t   O-COt   S'ct  0'M  oS           O'ct   oeot   wonam
1                              t t 5t SW "  "el    S   t -I    _-       t      t      mot
,-;;    6-"    S'A-    VW      -i      Al"             elt *"   .-to   Wo-t   *-tOt   0-"                          _-M OPI-^ 10
09"    st-     es"    &-,      I'm    t-Ott           c-t S-Ottt   e-l                                                *e.w'm *t) _
a 0'   0       all       D      4      %'Mi   cii   0-        O- 005    @00    f*ti @05_
_-s   ,so       et    S,*    t,i        'ts   Olt     Al"   ASST    mt    US-                              0-1
LW     SO t-           SAL 5-          55 O    W S5 O-t              c-si   s-o    rc                            '.05   -P
t*W    -st   555    t-O        gUt   vets   Stitt    t  5? e-o  O        Ot 5w          @1            C-0         "Ws.'Z ad"
0 t    t-Z    @-1   *TIC    *-S  ." 0    rl      $le't                                                       "aofOt  t
-t    o 2  e-    ~O's    o-os   Woto  Vot    o-"9   *,0                                        t-O
o'S    Ot      Olt    Olt       ' s     t     O-OS    0-5     0-                                      O-0 
i  's    e's        '        O's    O's       o "- oo    0l-                                       -
.     1-s t 0't     *l g      Os-s    0-            l-*     VtO                                     t'o
o5     S-St    e-              3i       t     c-c     o'      D-es                                    s-                -     sled
05     55    *i        S'      #5      5-     s-c    tat    05                                        0l-               mast PUS*  
nOt    cs      e.      c-      c-ct    ct      _ -t  0-bt 00                                           Ot*
"~~~~~sf `111001SW
S   55  S~~t  B@S    c-s_    c-s  OS    *5    0_                                        55
0 ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    '!z    e.so e.g    c-  gaX s-s    c-s         on~ s-  .msc*'.a
VMI 55    5551    Wb        bb MI tet  ai    et    "Ms     MT5   ssi    east    out-5
me an  set t t)
(b5  woue    _56  a- 6Z  -
C ASS eSag ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 6



-30-
P.e S ef 6
Table 4: W  TOM AM FRDECI: Ofi AL 1`iCPIG  ARESSff
(Ia            UNli   o    )
192     16       190    1991    1992    19          1094     1998
1. Paqu;rea_nta                                      -21.5    42.6   -49.4   -4.4   -4.S   -41.5   47.0   -87.9
Current Account (<ac. off. transtere)             -.8   -80.0    40.8    42.8   431.7   -2A.7   -20.2   -26.9
of which: Interest                              -4.6   -4.t    -4.0    -6.0    -S.0    -4.0    -3.8    43.0
of which: Intereet to Suti leterls            -0.7    -0.7    -0.6    -0.8    -0.8    -0.0    -0.6    -0.9
of which: IDA                                .0.1    -0.1    -0.1    -0.1    -0.1    -0.2    -0.2    -0.2
AmortimatSon                                       4.7     4.0      -5.6   -10.8   -10.7   -10.6       4.8      -6.8
of which: Amortiatinsn to multileteral.          -2.2    -2.2    -2.2    -2.8    -2.4    -2.8    -2.5    -2.5
of whicksMA                                      -       -        -        -                --       -
IncreaS  in Reermoe                              -4.4    .2.4    -1.0    -2.6    -2.1    -1.0    -5.J    -4.5
Changes in Debt Arr"re                             9.9    11.2   -12.0        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
of wh*ch: Mad. & long-term                       4.1       6.2     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
oTPlabort-ters                          6.0      8.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      00       0.0
11. Dibur ex_nts
Existin4 and Expactd Cmnmitmts                  19.1    82.6    26.5    26.7    2S.8    27.0    26.0    SsB.8
Granta (Official Traftefer)                        7.2    10.0    10.0    10.1    10.1    10.1    10.1    10.1
bittl. a eilat. Los"                              10.6    12.8    12.7    18.6    16.4    18.9    17.9    18.4
of which: DA                                     4.4      8.9      8.8      4.0      4.0     4.8      4.0      4.0
of which: IDA MP                                8.3     4.9      2.0      2.5      2.8     2.S       2.0     2.8
Other Capital Plee                                 1.8    10.0       8.8       -        -       -        -        -
of which: bort-ters (Italian Debt)                 -      10.0     J8.       -        -        -       -        -
III. Residual Financing ca Befbre                     -2.4      0.0   -22.9   -19.7   -18.0   -14.6    -9.0    -0.4
Reacbedul ino
IV. Debt Reachedul in  1/                              2.4      0.0    20.6    18.0   1.2    18.8          9.0      9.4
V. Residual Financing ap
After Reachedulins (III-IV)                     0.0      0.0      2.8      4.7      2.8     0.7      0.0      0.0
1/ For 18089. rescheduled debt. For 199S0-9. IS Includes 100 of pritacpal and arrears on
msdium-. long-  nd asort-term debt to *1I bilateral areitor.
Sources:  ISF  eft  -atiate  and projoctin.



- 31 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Section Is Timetable for Key Events
(a) Tine taken to prepare projects 11 months
(b) Departure of Appraisal Hission: OctoberlNovember 1989
(c) Completion of Negotiations: May 1990
(d) Planned Date of Effectivenesss September 1990
Section II2 Special Conditions
(1) Condition for Effectiveness: None
(2) Conditions for Release of Second Tranche
(a) ensure that the macro-economic framework is consistent
with the objectives of the program;
(b) achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of
measures to liberalize trade and prices and improve
the incentive framework for traded goods, including
ti) the introduction of an automatic import licensing
system satisfactory to IDA; (ii) the elimination cf if
any restriction on imports of consumption goods and
exports, including beans, cooking oil, milk, rice,
sugar. and wheat flour; (iii) the elimination of price
controls, including profit margin controls on beans,
cooking oil and sugar; (iv) the reduction to at least
16 percent and simplification of cocoa export tax; and
(v) the adoption of an action plan to improve the
quality of cocoa and the cocoa marketing system;
(c) achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of
the land distribution program, including (i) enactment
of land distribution legislation; (ii) enactment of
regulations, decrees, to carry out the land
distribution! and (iii) adoption of an action plan for
the reorganization of the cadastral office and land
registration procedures;
(d) adopt the PIP for the 1991-93 period, as determined in
agreement with IDA, and have implemented the 1990 PIP,
as agreed with IDA;



- 32 -                             ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(e) achieve satisfactory progress on measures to reform
PEs, including (4) completion of actions concerning
either the liquidation of EKAVE, the rehabilitation of
EK&G or the privatization of ROSEKA; and (ii) adoption
of action plans with timetables for the remaining PEs
under reform;
Cf) adopt an action plan, as determined in agreement with
IDA, for the subsequent phase of civil service reform
program;
tg) achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of
measures to develop the financial sector, including
(i) satisfactory progress for enactment of banking
legislation; (ii) appointment of an extermal auditor
of BESTP's loan portfolio; and (ii) improvement to 50
percent of recoverable commercial loan collection
rates by BNSTP;
Ch) provide actual and forecasted quarterly foreign
exchange cash flow of BNSTP for 1990-1991.
(2) Conditions for Release of the Third Tranche
(a) ensute that the macro-economic framework is consistent
with the objectives of the program;
(b) achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of
measures to liberalize trade and prices and improve
the incentive framework for traded goods, including
(i) the elimination of price controls, including
profit martin controls on milk, rice and wheat flour;
and (ii) the initiation of the action plan to improve
the quality of cocoa and the cocoa marketing system;
(c) achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of
the land distribution program, including completion of
cadastre and land registration;
(d) adopt the PIP for the 1992-94 period, as determined in
agreement with IDA, and have implemented the 1991 PIP,
as agreed with IDA;
te) achieve satisfactory progress in measures to reform
PEs, includings (i) the completion of all actions for
the liquidation of EMAVE, the rehabilitation of EMAG
and the privatization of ROSEMA; and (ii) the
implementation of the action plans for remaining
enterprises under reform, in accordance with
timetables;



-33-                               AVNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(f) achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation of
measures included in the action plan for the
subsequent phase of civil service reforms
(g) ensure the BNSTP's operations have been performed in
accordance with the new banking legislation, providing
for the separation of its co mmrcial and central
banking functions, and that further progress, to 75
percent, has been achieved by BNSTP in the improvement
of its recoverable cosuercial loan collection rates;
and
(h) provide actual and forecasted quarterly foreign
exchange cash flow of BNSTP for 1991-1992.



- 34 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 17
Office of the ionourabe Miiter
Minstry of Ectnomy and Fhance
Pk.O Box 187
Sao Tome, Sao Tome and Pric%pe
TeL 22372
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC
Dear Mr. Conable:
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM: PHASE II
1.        In May 1987, the Government of Sao Tome and Principe adopted a
Structural Adjustment Program covering the period 1987-89, aimed at
removing macroeconomic distortions, stimulating growth by restoring the
profitability of agriculture, and improving the efficiency of the public
sector. Our program received external support from the International
Development Association (IDA), the African Development Bank (APDB) and,
more recently, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the European Economic
Community (EEC), and others.
I. THE ECONOMY
2.        Because of the deep-rooted nature of the problems confronting
the economy of STP, and notwithstanding progress to date in in.tiating
economic reform, the Government of STP has decided to extend its adjustment
program by a further three years covering the period 1990-92. During this
period the Government intends to maintain the stabilization measures and to
deepen many of the structural measures already initiated during the first
phase of the reform program.
A.   Background
3.        At independence in 1975, STP emerged from five centuries of
Portuguese colonization with an economy overwhelmingly oriented toward the
production of a single crop, cocoa. Under colonial rule, cocoa was
produced on estates covering most of all the country's arable land. Almost
no room was left for smallholders. This production structure resulted in a
heavy dependence on imported goods, and consumption patterns today still
reflect this dependence.
4.        Following independence, our Government was faced with an aging
production base and a critical lack of skilled manpower. It responded with
an economic policy based on central planning and priority programs in



-35                                ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 17
health and education. It nationalized the cocoa estates, which were
regrouped into fifteen state enterprises, and established state trading
monopolies. In retrospect, however, we did not invest sufficiently in
agriculture, particularly cocoa, and this, combined with aging trees, poor
management techniques, and the absence of price incentives contributed to
low productivity. As a consequence, cocoa production declined from
approximately 10,000 tons annually at independence to a low of 3,900 tons
in 1987. Sharp declines in world cocoa prices in the 1980s, combined with
a progressively overvalued exchange rate and declining output, led to
growing operating deficits of the cocoa enterprises, which were financed
through transfers from the treasury, that in turn were financed by central
bank credit. This fueled inflation, and, given the fixed exchange rate,
further eroded the profitability of the export sector.
5.        Meanwhile, in efforts to diversify the economy, we undertook an
ambitious public investment program outside of agriculture, largely
financed by external capital. By and large, these investments failed to
contribute to economic growth, and per capita income declined over the
1975-85 period. Moreover, they gave rise to heavy recurrent costs, even as
they denied agriculture, the traditional source of export revenues, the
finance necessary to maintain existing levels of production. While our
external debt increased from about US$0.3 million in 1975 to US$80 million
in 1987, export receipts only increased from US$7 million to US$10 million.
B. Phase I of the Structural Adiustment Proaram 1987-89
6.        Faced with these fiscal and external imbalances, our Government
embarked on a comprehensive Structural Adjustment Program in mid-1987.
This first phase of the program has concentrated ons (a) reducing inflation
and correcting the most critical macroeconomic distortions, viz., an
overvalued exchange rate fueled by excessive fiscal deficits and monetary
expansion; (b) restoring the profitability of agriculture, particularly
cc,coa production; and tc) reforming the administration of the civil service
and public enterprises. We have also initiated a cocoa export tar reform.
The program to date has been broadly successful, and over three years we
have made substantial progress from a centrally planned economy towards an
economy with an overall market orientation. We adopted, and sustained, a
broad range of stabilization and adjustment measures, including successive
substantial exchange rate devaluations and liberalization of most domestic
prices. Although clearly much more remains to be done, we have made a good
start on institution-building.
a.  Correcting Macroeconomic Distortions
7.        While the Initial adjustment measures were taken in mid-1987, in
late January 1988 and again in January 1989 several key changes in our
economic oeam delayed fu ther implementation of the fiscal and monetary
program until mid-1988. In addition, the economy had to cope with a sharp
decline in the international cocoa price. Notwithstanding these setbacks,
the measures introduced in mid-1988 and reinforced during 1989 have
increased stability In the economy. Thus, we have successfully reduced the
overvaluation of the domestic currency through a more flexible exchange



- 36 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 17
rate policy. We have also achieved some progress in controlling the fiscal
deficit, which slowed down credit expansion, and the rate of change in
domestic prices.
8.        Exchange Rate Policy.  A central element in the program has been
to establish a realistic market value for the dobra. In July 1987 an
exchange rate adjustment of 101 percent in domestic currency terms was
designed to secure profitability of cocoa production. However, excess
demand for foreign exchange continued. Consequently, in January 1988, the
Government introduced a 30 percent across the board import surcharge, which
was subsequently lifted in July 1988, when the Government devalued by 33
percent. In February 1989, there was a further devaluation of 20 percent.
Moreover, we continued to adjust the exchange rate during 1989 -- 8.0
percent in October, 8.9 percent in November, and a further 7 percent in May
1990. These actions reduced the gap between the official and parallel
exchange rates from about 85 percent in July 1987 to about 24 percent in
December 1989. They also resulted in about a 75 percent devaluation of the
dobra in real terms vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar since the start of the
program. Notwithstanding the intervening fall in world cocoa prices, this
helped to improve economic returns of the more efficient cocoa estates.
9.        Fiscal Policy.  We have achieved some progress on the fiscal
front as corrective actions, including devaluation, expenditure restraint,
and increased sales taxes and fees were successful in reducing the deficit.
For 1987 and 1988, the fiscal deficit on a commitment basis was reduced to
about 8 percent of GDP, from 10 percent in 1986. With the objective of
further reducing the fiscal deficic, we implemented additional fiscal
measures in February 1989, including price increases for six strategic food
imports, as well as petroleum products, electricity, and
telecommunications, and a fifty percent tax increase on alcoholic beverages
and tobacco. In mid-1989, we also eliminated price subsidies on three
essential commodities -- beans, cooking oil and rice -- which contributed
to reducing subsidy expenditures. In addition, at end-1989 we eliminated
subsidies on remaining essential goods -- milk, sugar and wheat flour.
However, due largely to a shortfall in revenues -- about 20 percent -- we
did not achieve the program's fiscal target for 1989. On a commitment
basis, the fiscal deficit was about 8 percent of GDP, compared with a
target of about 5 percent. Expenditures remained within the program
target, but revenue performance was less favorable than expected. This
mainly reflects: (a) lower than expected earnings due to the sharp fall in
cocoa prices; (b) lower than expected imports due to poor management of
external resources; (c) serious weaknesses in our tax administration
system, compourded by the authorities' failure to fully adjust specific
import taxes aud some administered prices in line with the exchange rate
adjustments; and (d) lower profit transfers from public enterprises.
10.       Monetary Policy.   During the program period, as a result of
fiscal and monetary measures, we have reduced the need for fiscal deficit
financing through domestic credit. Although we did not achieve the credit
benchmarks, we followed a prudent monetary policy since mid-1987, with net
domestic credit expanding in 1988 and 1989 by 12 percent, and broad money
by 6 percent, on average. It is estimated that prices, as measured by the



-37-                              MANNEX IV
Page 4 of 17
official consumer price index, have increased by an average of 25 percent
in 1987, 40 percent in 1988, and 36 percent in 1989. To implement the
monetary program, we vill continue to require technical assistance,
including a senior advisor to the Governor of the National Bank.
b.   Restoring the Profitabilit, of Agriculture
11.       The basic thrust of the first phase of our adjustment program in
the real economy has been to restore agricultural output. The strategy has
been to improve efficiency and productivity of the cocoa producing sector,
diversify into other export crop3, e.g., fish, coffee, and pepper, increase
food self-sufficiency, e.g. vegetables, pork, chicken, amn-g other domestic
products, as well as explore prospects for agro-allied investments, e.g.,
cocoa processing and tourism. In turn, these have been supported by an
appropriate pricing policy framework, improved production and management
technology, increased worker incentives, and more timely imported inputs,
thereby avoiding disruption in the agricultural production and marketing
process. The program's macroeconomic framework has been consistent with
these objectives. However, tile sustained fell in cocoa prices since the
adjustment program began has .ncreased the magnitude of the adjustment
required. Thus, our economy will require further stabilization and
adjustment measures to achieve the program's objectives.
c. Institutional Reforms
12.       To improve the efficiency of the public sector, we embarked on a
comprehensive series of institutional reforms in 1987, covering the civil
service, public enterprises, and the cocoa export tax system.
(a) on civil service reform, we haves 1i) introduced a freeze on new
hires; (ii) completed a census to identify numbers, positions,
and qualifications of civil servants; (iii) enacted legislation
to implement administrative reform and early retirement; (iv)
appointed an administration expert, funded by UNDP, to help with
implementation of the reform program; and (v) adopted an action
plan for the next stage of reforms;
(b) on public enterprlse (PE) reform, we have initiated a phased
action program to restructure, privatize or close public
enterprises; to settle cross debts; and to set up a new tariff
structure for fuels, electricity, and water. The first phase,
already underway, concentrates on privatizing the beer company
(ROSEMA), liquidating *' chicken fanm (EKAVE), and
restructuring the printing company (EMAG). In addition, we have
privatized the brick factory (EMCERA II) and transformed the
fishing enterprise (EMPESCA) into a joint-venture with foreign
partners and management, contributing two fishing trawlers in
exchange for 47 percent of the new company; and



- 38 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 17
(c) on cocoa export taxes, we are implementing an action program to
reform the cocoa export tax system. in this context in 1989, we
have consolidated a number of taxes and reduced the level from
about 20 to 17 percent.
d.   Program Results
13.       GDP is estimated to have grown by between 2 and 2.5 percent
during 1988 and 1989, compared with a 4 percent decline in 1987. On the
supply-side, this was due to the impact on agricultural production of
improved management and incentives. Cocoa production expanded from about
3,900 tons in 1987 to about 4,300 tons in 1988 and 5,000 tons in 1989. We
have also observed a supply response in other crops -- vegetables, fish,
chicken, pork and goat production. Construction, mainly housing, and
services, including tourism, have also grown. On the demand-side, following
declines of about 4 percent in 1987 and in 1988, consumption grew by about
6 percent in 1989. Total investment grew by about 15 percent in 1988 and
by more than 70 percent in 1989. This compares with 6 percent in 1987,
reflecting our policy to increase investments in agriculture,
infrastructure, health and education. These investments by and large are
expected to yield results in the 1990s.
14.       The current account deficit amounted to about US$26 million in
1989, compared with US$15 million in 1987 and in 1988. Lower export
revenues, a function principally of the sharp fall in the international
price of cocoa, and the significant increase in the investment program are
the main reasons for the deterioration in the current account. In 1989,
exports of goods and services amounted to about US$11 million, compared to
about US$15 million in 1988 and US$10 million in 1987. Imports of goods
increased substantially to about US$27 million in 1989, from US$20 million
in 1988 and about US$17 million in 1987. The debt service ratio was over
100 percent in 1987, about 60 percent in 1988, and 80 percent in 1989.
These large swings are a reflection of the changes in export earnings over
the last three years, as well as the impact of rescheduling agreements.
Official transfers amounted to about US$10 million in 1989, including about
US$6 million of food aid. This compared with about US$7 million in 1988
and US$9 million In 1987 of official transfers. The current account
deficit was financed by net foreign concessional inflows, short-term
commercial Inflows, and an accumulation of debt service arrears.
15.       In the absence of our adjustment efforts, and the associated
foreign financing, GDP and living standards would have continued to
decline, and the shift in income in favor of the rural sector would have
been delayed. Hence, the turnaround in the economy and response of
agriculture, as well as in other sectors, provide grounds for our optimism
about the prospects for future economic growth. However, while the overall
impact of the program on GDP and living standards has been positive, we
still need to address emerging social problems in the urban sector caused
by unemployment and the removal of subsidies on basic f'3odstuffs, as urban



- 39 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 17
public sector real wages deteriorated during this first phase of the
adjustment program.
II. PHASE IX OF THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (1990-1992)
16.       Setting the basis for progress notwithstanding, Sao Tome and
Principe still has a long way to go to attain self-sustaining growth over
the longer term. Recognizing this, we have decided to embark on the second
phase of the adjustment program, covering the period 1990-1992. The thrust
of this phase is: (a) to consolidate progress in exchange rate, fiscal and
monetary policy; (b) to stimulate growth through appropriate trade and
pricing policies, private investment, cocoa sector development and land
redistribution; (c) to rationalize the public investment program; (d) to
improve the administrative capacity of the public sector through public
enterprise and civil service reforms; (e) to improve the functioning of the
financial system; and (f) to manage the external debt burden with the view
of freeing up resources for economic growth. The broad thrust of the
program continues to be on improved incentives for increasing the
production of traded goods within a stable macroeconomic framework. At the
same tine, our strategy is aimed at increasing private sector %. ielopment,
including private investment, and defining the basis for self-sustained
economic growth.
A.   Macroeconomic Framework
17.       Exchange rate policy.  A central element of the structural
adjustment program has been the establishment of a realistic exchange rate
for the dobra in order to restructure demand away from imports and to
encourage the expansion of exports. We intend to continue managing the
exchange rate in a flexible manner during the period of the program, with
a view to unifying the foreign exchange market. To this end, the official
exchange rate will continue to be adjusted to a level that would
progressively reduce the differential with the parallel rate to 15 percent
by the end of 1990. Thereafter, the management of the official exchange
rate will continue to be guided by movements in the parallel rate so that
the differential will not exceed 15 percent. Other indicators, including
domestic inflation and world cocoa prices, will also be used to implement a
flexible, market-based, exchange rate policy.
I8.       Fiscal policy and tax reform.  An important aspect of the
adjustment program is the strengthening of public finances to ensure that
domestic resources will be sufficient in the longer term to cover recurrent
costs, as well as a growing share of public investment expenditure. Our
overall target is to achieve a current fiscal deficit of about 4.5 percent
of GDP by 1992 and to eliminate the deficit by 1995. Taking into account
the current structure of expenditures, especially the large share of
interest on the external debt and of imported goods and services, the
current fiscal deficit, in absolute terms, is expected to widen over most
of the three-year program period, in part because of negative impact of the
expected exchange rate depreciation on external debt service obligations.
However, excluding scheduled interest on the external debt, we intend to



- 40 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 17
reduce the underlying current fiscal balance from a deficit equal to some
DblO2 million in 1989 -- about 1.8 percent of GDP and 8 percent of revenue
-- to a deficit equal to about Db6O million in 1990 -- about 0.7 percent of
GDP and 3.7 percent of revenue, and to a surplus of about 3 percent of GDP
-- about 20 percent of revenue in 1992. To achieve this objective, we
intend to mobilize additional domestic revenues and to strictly control
current expenditures.
19.       The required growth in revenue hinges primarily on the timely
implementation of a comprehensive tax reform, aimed mainly at raising the
level of taxation and broadening the tax base. With technical assistance
from the International Monetary Fund, the first phase of the reform, under
implementation, consists largely oft (a) raising specific tax rates on
imports to ensure that the revenue effects of the cumulative devaluation of
the national currency are fully passed through to the Treasury; and (b) the
conversion of specific import taxes, including the consumption tax levies,
to ad valorem rates. In a subsequent phase, under preparation, additional
revenue will be generated through a significant reduction in tax
exemptions. It is envisaged that the reduction in tax exemptions will
result in a curtailment in the duration of tax holidays granted under
investment contracts and therefore a higher level of taxation of
project-related imports'. The reform will also focus on simplification of
the tax system and a strengthening of customs and tax administration. and
will also address such policy issues as (a) the appropriate level and
structure of taxes on imports and exports, and (b) the size and duration of
tax holidays under the Investment Code.
20.       During the program period, we intend to strictly curtail the
growth in current expenditure. We also intend to reduce outlays (in
foreign currency terms) on official travel and embassies abroad, and to
bring personnel expenditures under tighter control. To partially offset
the increase in the cost of living in 1989, average civil service salaries
were increased by about 20 percent in 1990.  During the program period, we
intend to review general salary increases with IDA before decisions are
taken, to ensure that such increases are compatible with the objectives of
the structural adjustment program. According to the civil service census,
the number of civil servants --including temporary workers-- on the payroll
in 1989 amounted to 4,056. Given the size of Sao Tome and Principe, the
changing role of our goverrment, and the need to attract and retain
qualified staff, the number of civil servants appears to be high and will
be reduced over the program period. The savings derived from reducing the
numbers of civil servants will be used for increases in real average
salaries. We also intend to undertake periodic public expenditure reviews
with the International Development Association to ensure that, within the
current budgetary constraints, adequate resources are allocated to priority
sectors.
21.       Monetary policy.  We intend to maintain prudent monetary and
credit policies to achieve the targeted reduction in inflation and to
relieve pressure on the exchaAge rate, while providing an adequate supply
of credit to the productive sectors. Credit policy, including the credit
operations of the Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIP), supported by the



-41 -                                ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 17
International Development Association, will continue to be implemented
through direct ceilings on total domestic credit and on net credit to the
Government. An important feature of this policy will be the sterilization
of domestic counterpart funds generated from balance of payments support.
These funds will continue to be deposited in blocked accounts at the
National Bank and will be used only for reimbursing government debt to the
National Bank.
22.       With the projected accumulation of counterpart funds, we expect
to establish a net creditor position vis-a-vis the National Bank in 1990,
thus maki4.g adequate credit available for the public enterprises and the
private sector. However, credit will finance only productive activities
and trade. We, with external technical assistance, intend to strengthen
the management of the credit portfolios of the National Bank and the Caixa
Popular, especially seasonal crop credit to the agricultural public
enterprises, to ensure proper utilization of bank credit and to prevent
sustained bank financing of operating deficits. Moreover, additional
credit facilities wvii be developed to assist in bringing redistributed
land into production; however, these loan decisions will be made strictly
in accordance with sound economic and financial criteria.
23.       To foster domestic financial savings and their efficient use, we
intend to establish interest rates that are positive in real terms by end-
1991. Although the inflation rate is expected to decline progressively
during the program period, as the initial impact of achieving a realistic
exchange rate and pricing policies is worked through the economy, a further
increase in nominal rates will be made in 1990; thereafter, these rates
vwil be revieved semi-annually in the light of inflationary trends and
developments in the parallel market exchange rate.
B.   Structural Policies
24.       Trade policy.  Private and public enterprises are now permitted
to export and import in competition with ECOMEX, the State's international
trading firm. On the export side, ECOMEX's role has already noticeably
diminished, with cocoa producers and private traders handling an increasing
share of total cocoa exports. These firms are allowed to export directly
as long as their prices are at least equal to the price obtained by ECOMEX.
With regard to Imports, private traders now import with foreign exchange
obtained from the parallel market and are allocated residual amounts of
foreign exchange from the official pool on the basis of approved import
licenses.
25.       During the program period, we intend to liberalize further the
external trade system. We intend to formally authorize, by end-June 1990,
private traders to import, in competition with ECOMEX, the six strategic
food commodities (beans, cooking oil, milk, rice, sugar and wheat flour).
Export procedures will be simplified and, with the attainment of a more
market-based exchange rate by the end of 1990, an automatic import
licensing system will be implemlnted by end-March 1991. By that time,
private traders will handle all imports, except for official commodity
grants and petroleum products, and all exports, except for those shipped



- 42 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 17
under the two existing bilateral trade agreements. Although nominal export
prices presently obtained under these bilateral agreements are
substanti, '1y higher than current world prices, we intend to evaluate the
relative merits of these agreements. We intend not to renew them if
greater net gains could be obtained from exporting cocoa directly for
foreign exchange, diversifying suppliers of imported goods, and
rescheduling bilateral debt now being serviced under these agreements.
26.       Cocoa marketing.  We have identified a number of inefficiencies
in the cocoa marketing system that increase transaction costs and thus
prevent STP from receiving the maimum return for the cocoa exported.
These include: (a) lack of cocoa market information in STP; (b) erratic
quality control of cocoa exports; (c) complexity of export documentation
for cocoa; (d) prior government approval of export contracts; and (e) poor
port facilities.
27.       To reduce these inefficiencies, we intend to (a) improve
information on cocoa prices by receipt of daily international cocoa price
information from Reuters and Marche Tropicaux, among others, by September
1990; (b) establish quality standards and define a corresponding grading
certification scheme by mid-1991; (c) (i) eliminate fixed export fees,
consolidate existing taxes and adopt an ad valorem export tax system
(within the framework of the tax reform) by end-December 1990; (ii) reduce
cocoa export tax rates in 1991; (d) introduce an alternative system for
approving cocoa export contracts by end-December 1990; and (e) upgrade the
existing port facilities by accelerating implementation of the Port
Rehabilitation Project with EEC assistance. These measures are expected to
reduce marketing costs and complement efforts to reduce cocoa production
costs through the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project.
28.       Pricing policy.  To remove price distortions and to provide
adequate incentives for domestic food production, we have taken significant
steps toward dismantling what was once an extensive system of price
controls. We have also eliminated all subsidies on imported foodstuffs.
In early 1990, as a transitional measure, the direct price uontrols on the
six essential goods were replaced by a system of maximum profit margins,
aimed at ensuring full Import-parity pricing, while protecting consumers
from volatile prices during a period In which imports may be erratic and
the domestic supply response limited. It is envlsaged that these temporary
controls on profit margins will be eliminated for beans, cooking oil and
sugar by the end of 1990, and those for rice, milk and wheat flour, by the
end of 1991. We are also comitted to keeping the retail prices (after
taxes) of petroleum products at levels which would generate sizable
transfers to the budget. Electricity, water, public transportation and
telecommunications tarlffs also will be set at levels that would ensure
full recovery of the costs generated in the provision of these services.
29.       Prlvate investment and diversification.  While recognizing that
diversification of the economy from cocoa will require a long time, we
Intend to continue encouraging private smallholder production of foodstuffs
and cash crops for iport substitution and export expansion. To this end.
the Government is strengthening credit facilities and rural infrastructure,



- 43 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 17
and will maintain adequate price incentives. It is expected that the
production of coffee, vegetables, pepper, flowers, tubers, fish, chicken,
and pork will continue to expand over the program period.
30.       One of the most promising sources of future economic growth is
tourism, based on the exploitation of Sao Tome and Principe's natural
resources, especially its tropical island setting, and rare fauna and
flora. The development of this sector will be aimed primarily at an
up-scale, adventure-oriented clientele, rather than the mass-tourism
market. We intend to take only a regulatory and promotional role in this
sector and to provide support mainly through the development and
rehabilitation of the country's infrastructure. In addition to existing
hotels, there are four additional hotels or tourist complexes planned or
under construction with foreign or joint-venture ownership. These would
expand our capacity to accommodate an increasing tourism demand.
31.       A fundamental aspect of our development strategy is the opening
of the economy to direct private investment, both foreign and local.
However, to ensure that the terms and conditions of these investment
contracts take into account public resource constra'cats, projects will be
approved only in conformity with the provisions set out in the Investment
Code. We intend to revise the Investment Code wit. a view to providing
sufficient incentives, while safeguarding the interests of the State,
especially an adequate flow of tax revenues to the budget. We are
presently looking for technical assistance to review the terms of existing
investment contracts, and to propose guidelines and standards for future
contracts between the Government and private partners.
32.       Cocoa sector development.  Five of the fifteen state-owned cocoa
enterprises --Bela Vista, Uba Budo, Santa Margarida, Agua Ize, and Monte
Cafe-- are being rehabilitated under foreign management contracts.
Investment in these enterprises has grown considerably in the last two
years, resulting in the rehabilitating and replanting of some 3,500
hectares of cocoa trees, and the upgrading of drying and other facilities.
The results of this effort are expected to be forthcoming after the normal
gestation period of about five years for cocoa trees.
33.       We intend to review alternatives for development of the
agricultural estates. Based on this review and with the expectation that
world commodity prices, mainly cocoa, will gradually recover, a strategy
for development of at least four additional state-owned enterprises will be
adopted by end 1990. We are presently evaluating proposals from local and
foreign interests regarding these estates, and it is possible that most of
them will be rehabilitated through joint-ventures with foreign investors,
rather than through management contracts. This would allow the Government
to contribute the plantations as its stake in the joint-ventures. Options
also include long-term leasing or contract management. During the program
period, we intend to decide whether the remaining six estates will be
rehabilitated or redistributed for other agricultural purposes.
34.       Land redistribution.  During the program, we intend to intensify
our efforts to promote private involvement in agriculture through the



- 44-                               ANNEX IV
Page 31 of 17
distribution of land to qualified applicants for the production of food and
export crops. Some 39,600 ha, 45 percent of arable land, is currently
under cultivation, almost all under the control of the fifteen existing
state-owned cocoa enterprises. An initial 8,000 ha of land was already
distributed on a pilot basis between 1985 and 1988, but because the
supporting infrastructure and technical assistance were not in place, and
there were no sanctions for unused land, most plots were exploited
inefficiently or not at all. Consequently, we intend to proceed slowly and
systematically with the next stage of the land distribution program.
Before the end of 1990, drawing on work carried out with IDA assistance. we
intend to enact the legislation of the land redistribution program. We
also are implementing a pilot land distribution scheme, with appropriate
extension, credit and other support services. Based on the experience with
this pilot scheme, we intend to implement a broad-based land distribution
scheme and revise the land tenure arrangements by June 1991. Criteria for
distribution will include STP residents and interest in working in the
agricultural sector. Progress in implementation of this action plan will
form one of the major new elements for the second phase of our adjustment
program.
C.   Public Investment Program
35.       We have prepared a three-year investment program covering the
period 1990-92, totalling about US$68 million. Capital expenditure will
focus on the rehabilitation of existing economic and social infrastructure.
The strategy is to improve efficiency and productivity of agriculture and
fisheries. In addition, investments in infrastructure, such as roads,
electricity, water, fuel storage facilities, as well as support services
for smallholders, are expected to reduce production and marketing costs and
help diversification into other crops and in other economic sectors.
36.       The 1990 program, which has been revieved by the International
Development Association and the African Development Bank amounts to US$20
million. The investment program for 1990 is concentrated on agriculture.
forestry and fisheries (48 percent), infrastructure, including housing (24
percent), social sectors (22 percent), and industry and energy (6 percent).
The financing of this program is projected to come from external grants,
concessional loans and local currency contribution from the Government. We
intend not to contract any commercial loans to finance the public
investment program. Within the public investment program, the SIP will
finance high priority projects related to construction or rehabilitation of
water supply systems, sanitary and storm drainage, solid waste management,
roads, and housing. Identified SIP sub-projects also include the
distribution of text books and a malaria control program.
37.       Only those projects that support our development strategy and
meet acceptable economic rate of return criteria--10 percent minimum or
cost effectiveness where a rate of return cannot be calculated. and
sustainable in the context of a constrained recurrent budget--will be
included in the PIP. All projects will be evaluated by the Ministry of
Economy and Pinance before approval by the Council of Ministers. To help
the Government improve efficiency in planning, implementing and evaluating



-45 _ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 17
the public investment program, an advisor, financed by the AfDB, has been
assisting the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The annual investment
programs will continue to be reviewed by the International Development
Association and the African Development Bank. We also intend to seek the
views of these institutions before starting any project whose overall cost
exceeds US$500,000.
D.   Public Sector Reform
38.       Public Enterprise Reform.  We intend to reduce the Government's
direct role in the economy and to improve the efficiency of public
enterprises by privatizing those that have the potential for becoming
commercially viable, liquidating those that are clearly nonviable, and
restructuring those that provide essential goods and services, but with
little prospect for privatization. During 1988-89, diagnostic studies were
conducted on the eleven main public enterprises. On the basis of these
studies, an action program, including a two--phase implementation strategy
and timetable, was agreed with the International Development Association
and a working group established in 1989 in the Ministry of Economy and
Finance to implement this plan.
39.       By end-July 1990, we intend to decide on a proposals from
foreign interests regarding the privatization of the brewery (ROSEMA). We
are also actively seeking external financing to restructure the printing
office (EHAG); however, if financing on highly concessional terms cannot be
found by end-1990, this enterprise will be liquidated or privatized. Of
critical importance is the rehabilitation of the water and electricity
authority (EKAE). Negotiations on a management contract with a foreign
utility company, which is expected to be financed with concessional
external assistance, are underway. With the liberalization of the exchange
and trade regimes and the resulting expansion of the private sector in
trade transactions, the state-owned trade distribution enterprises (ECOMEX
and ECOMIN) will lose much of their relevance. Therefore, by end 1990, we
intend to merge ECONEX and ECOMIN into a single scaled-down enterprise with
operations limited to the management of official food aid and of exports of
cocoa under bilateral trade arrangements. The prospects for privatizing
the public transport enterprise (TRANSCOLMAR TERRESTRE) and the
construction enterprise (CONSTRUCTORA) will be evaluated before end-July
1990.
40.       Administrative reform.  So far, we have made very little
progress in restructuring and streamlining the public administration to
reflect its changing role from one characterized by central planning,
direct intervention and extensive controls, towards one that promotes and
regulates private economic activity. We intend to accelerate the process
of improving the efficiency of the public administration and strengthening
our capacity to Implement structural reforms. The civil service census
indicates that the size of the civil service appears to be high and should
be reduced. The savings generated will be used to reward increased
productivity of a leaner, more efficient civil service. To facilitate this
process, in early 1990, we have adopted a revised social security



- 46 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 17
legislation that offers greater incentives for retirement. We intend to
strengthen the centralized personnel management unit of the Government to
be better able to control government employment levels. Also, by end-
1990. we intend to reassess the overall administrative reform objectives
and redefine the action program to achieve these objectives.
E.   Financial Sector Reform
41.       To improve the allocative efficiency and resource mobilization
of the financial system, we intend to separate the coimercial and central
banking activities of the BNSTP with technical assistance from the AfDB,
IDA and IDM. This will involve the implementation of a new accounting
system in 1990, and the establishment of a new BNSTP charter, by end 1990.
Under this charter, BNSTP is expected to: (a) act as a bank of issue; (b)
formulate and implement credit and monetary policies, including interest
rate policies; (c) manage exchange rate operations, including foreign
exchange reserves; (d) act as the State's bank; (e) regulate and supervise
the operations of financial institutions; and (f) supervise development
lending operations.
42.       We have decided that comercial banking activities In STP should
be privatized, and majority foreign private ownership will be allowed. We
are presently holding discussions with foreign bankers in this regard. At
the same time, we intend to improve the operations of the BNSTP and Caiza
Popular (CP) by strengthening their portfolio and risk assessment
departments with technical assistance from AfDB and IDA. This assessment
is a necessary first step: (a) to increase credit collection; and (b)
eventually, to sell the commercial portfolio to the private sector. In
addition, it complements the ongoing efforts to reform public enterprises,
which account for about 75 percent of BNSTP's outstanding commercial loans
as of end-1989. We also intend to improve CP's liquidity position by
intensifying efforts to increase collection rates on outstanding loans.
F.   External Debt Policy and ManaRement
43.       We recognize that a successful resolution of Sao Tome and
Principe's relatively large debt obligations is critical to the achievement
of external viability. At end-1989, the stock of outstanding debt,
including arrears, amounted to about US$146 million, some 1,300 percent of
exports of goods and nonfactor services. Scheduled debt service
obligations (interest and amortization) will reach the equivalent of some
80 percent of projected exports of goods and nonfactor services in 1990;
debt service obligations are projected to remain at about 140 percent of
exports of goods and nonfactor services during 1991-92, reflecting large
short-term suppliers' credits falling due.
44.       To address this onerous debt burden and to normalize relations
with creditors and suppliers, during the period of the program, we intends



- 47 -                              ANuX TV
Page 14 of 17
(a) to contract or guarantee only concessional loans (i.e., defined
to bavy a grant element of 50 percent or more). The only
exception will be the contracting of normal commercial trade
financing, totally self-liquidating within a period of less than
one year;
(b) to service on schedule debt obligations to multilateral
institutions, and request debt relief from all other creditors.
including for arrears and current maturities, so as to reduce
debt vervice and the debt stock, and to avoid any further
accumulation of external payments arrears during the program
period. To this end, we have formally requested eight major
bilateral creditors -- Algeria, Angola. China, East Germany,
Italy, Portugal, The Soviet Union and Yugoslavia -- to cancel
debt or. as a minimum, reschedule obligations on highly
concessional terms. As a consequence, we are assuming no
payments of interest or principal to bilateral creditors over
the program period. We are also exploring the prospects for
buying back, at a discount, some of the debt to commercial banks
through the newly established IDA-financed debt reduction scheme
for the least developed countries; and
(c) to put in place adequate structures, guidelines, and procedures
to ensure that the debt strategy outlined above is followed. In
this regard, the Government reinforced the application of
guidelines vesting in the M&aister of Economy and Finance the
sole authority to contract or guarantee loan agreements on
behalf of the Government, followed by rstification by the
Council of Ministers.
PART III.  PROGRAM  MPLICATIONS
A.  Growth
45.       We Intend to continue promoting efficient production of
foodstuffs and encourage cash crop production for import substitution and
export expansion, based on smallholder agriculture, by building up support
services, e.g., credit facilities, rural infrastructure, and the
maintenance of appropriate pricing and marketing policies. As a result, we
expect that the economy of Sao Tome and Principe will continue to grow
under the second phase of the SAP. Real output is forecast to increase by
more than 2.8 percent a year between 1990 and 1992. This will rise to
about 3 to 3.5 percent a year between 1993 and 1995, mainly as investment
in the cocoa sector and other crops bear fruit. Annual food crop
production is forecast to increase by about 3 percent per year over the
1990-92 period. During 1993-95, growth in agriculture would be further
increased as a result of the land distribution policy. Food crop
production is thus expected to grow at 3.5 percent per year between 1993
and 1995. Over the same period, cash crop production, e.g., pepper and
coffee, among others, is expected to increase by 3 percent annually.
During 1990-1995, non-agricultural sectors are expected to grow at 3



- 48 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 17
percent per year and there is potential for increased value added, due to
efficiency gains, from the restructuring of public enterprises, appropriate
pricing policies and the improved availability of foreign exchange,
particularly in the fishing, manufacturing, and energy sectors. It is
expected that these sectors will grow by more than 3 percent a year over
the 1993-95 period. In addition, other sectors, such as services and
tourism, are expected to contribute to STP's economic growth by responding
to new incentive policies.
46.       As a result of our adjustment program, there is expected to be a
significant shift of resources toward the private sector. Private
consumption would increase, translating into a rise in private consumption
of approximately 3.3 percent a year over the 1990-95 period. Continued
contraction of public consumption, improved public-sector resource
allocation and investments, along with growth incentives for the private
sector, would imply increased private savings and investments. Private
investment is expected to grow by more than 15 percent per year over the
1990-95 period. This is expected to complement the public investment
program oriented toward the rehabilitation of existing social and economic
infrastructure. The PIP is foricast to grow at about 6 percent in real
terms between 1991 and 1995.
B.  External Impact
47.       The more depreciated value of the exchange rate in real terms
should help to improve the trade balance deficit, from about US$16 million
in 1990 to US$9 million in 1995. In addition, we expect that the current
account deficit will decline from about US$21 million in 1990 to about
US$17 million in 1995. Furthermore, the current account deficit excluding
official grants should also decline over the 1990-1995 period. Barring
further adverse movement in the market price of major exports, it is
expected that exports of goods will continue to expand. Export earnings
are expected to amount to about US$10.5 million in 1990 and to rise at an
annual rate of 9 percent thereafter, reaching approximately US$12.0 mil-
lion in 1992. By then the results of cocoa plantings should begin to
materialize, with export earnings rising to about US$16 million by 1995.
Imports of producer and basic consumer goods need to be restored to levels
adequate to facilitate the functioning of the economy. Imports of goods
are projected to stabilize at about US$21 million over 1990-1995 period.
The rate of growth of food imports should, however, fall as domestic
production responds to the incentive measures, and intermediate goods
should assume a larger share of total imports.
C.   Forelmn Financing Requirement
48.       Our adjustment efforts will continue to require external
assistance over the next three years. Total financing requirements,
including arrears, are projected to be about US$174 million for 1990-1992.
Exports of goods and services for the three-year period are expected to be
about US$34 million while disbursements from existing and expected
conmitments could account for about US$79 million. Thus, the total
expected financing, including exports of goods and services, and transfers.



-49 -                                ANX IV
Page 16 of 17
would amount to about US$113 million. This would imply a financing gap,
before rescheduling, of about US$61 million.
49.       We are confident that this gap could be financed by a
combination of additional assistance, debt relief, and rescheduling. Under
our debt strategy, assuming debt relief (rescheduling, refinancing and/or
forgiveness) of all consolidated arrears and debt service due during 1990-
92 to bilateral creditors, including short-term debt, a non-financed gap of
about US$10 million would remain. As was indicated at the March 1989 Round
Table Conference in Geneva, organized by UNDP, we believe that concessional
financing for a gap of this magnitude can be mobilized. In addition, over
the 1993-1995 period, we will continue to require foreign financial
assistance to assure a steady level of imports of capital goods. Under
this scenario, the projected level of investment will ensure STP's
adjustment with growth.
D.   Social Impact
50.       The adjustment process requires a reduction in government
spending and employment, particularly in the public enterprise sector.
Although public sector incomes will not regain all of the real income lost
in the past three years, the incentive policies should improve the economic
environment and are e pected to offset the negative impact on public sector
employment. The shift in the internal terms of trade in favor of the rural
sector should also be accompanied by substantial increases in the incomes
of rural households, the majority of the population. The cocoa estate wage
policy, price and trade liberalization, and land distribution should
directly benefit about 10,000 workers and 5,000 smallholders. On balance,
adverse social consequences are expected to be limited, and outweighed by
the gains in terms of growth and efficiency.
51.       To protect the most vulnerable groups, we have adopted the
following interim strategyt
(a) to explore with WFP ways to monetize food aid and to target
food-for-work opportunities. We also intend to exchange food-
for-work at import-parity prices by mic-1990. In addition, WFP
is expected to continue to distribute free lunches to
approximately 20,000 school children;
(b) to assure adequate budgetary allocations to health and education
programs and redesign with external partners programs and
delivery systems to maximize their impact;
(c) with the assistance of IDA and other donors, to establish the
SIF in order to mitigate possible adverse short-term effects of
the economic reform program on the poor, particularly ln urban
areas. This fund will finance projects such as the Malaria
Control Program (MCP), whilch would contribute to increasing the
productivity of the work forces



- 50 _                               ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 17
(d) to monitor the social impact of the program through a Social
Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) Project, with assistance from
IDA, with the objective of: (i) developing and maintaining an
adequate data base on the social dimensions of structural
adjustment; (ii) carrying out studies on the social implica-
tions of this adjustment; and (iii) identifying and implementing
poverty alleviation projects and programs;
Ce) to enhance access to new opportunities by the distribution of
unused land. This will permit the development of a new category
of smallholders and will contribute to the diversification of
production, to an improved supply of foodstuffs on the internal
market, and to an increase in exports; and
(f) to provide for an orderly transfer of laid-off workers to other
sectors of the economy, we have budgeted a redeployment fund.
Redundant employees will receive training for specific projects
Csuch as road maintenance), for a period of two years. The
employees concerned consist of an estimated 1,000 workers from
the civil service and various public enterprises. The budgeted
fund will amount to Db 60 million per year, to be financed by
counterpart funds of food aid and concessional loans. The
workers benefiting from the redeployment fund will receive the
equivalent of the minimum annual salary of Db 32,040.
52.       This far-reaching economic reform program, under implementation
since 1987, is expected to lead to real growth in income for the people of
Sao Tome and Principe over the next five years and create the institutional
basis for more rapid growth thereafter. Furthermore, more of our people
should benefit from this increased economic activity. The realignment of
relative prices should benefit in the first instance our rural population,
who are in the majority in STP. In addition, increases in domestic labor
demand in the context of the Multi-Sector Project should ease the
transitional costs as terms of trade shift away from the urban sector. The
efficiency gains in the public sector expected from civil service and
public enterprise reforms should improve the responsiveness of the public
sector and thereby enhance the productivity of private sector investments.
25 May 1990                          Agapito Mendes Dias
Dated:  ________               Signed:   _______________
Minister of Economy and Finance
Sao Tome and Princlpe
Attachments Statement of Development Policys
Matrix of Policy Actions



- 51 -                                              ANNEX V
- 51 - ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ Pu     o 
SAO TOE AND PRINCIPE
SECOMD STRUCTURAL AJUSTMENT CREDIT
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY: MATRIX Of POLICY ACTIONS
I. MACROECONOMIC STA8UILZATION
(PFrer t-10; 17-21)
Objectivo: Maintain * stable macroeconmic framork.
Peforme nce under SAC I            SAC II Action Prgram                Monitorabl. Action
Impications for SAC II                                                  nd Schedule
1.  Fiscal Polcy and Tax           1.1 Agree annually n quarterly    1. Conditln  for
Reter__   uiYTTrT l       fec      a"nd annual flcal deficit         effectivenoes:   onen
percent of CDP ln 1980 to 8      benchmark.
pe rcnt In 102C, but               ongsin4iturn                       2   tonditions for *cond
dtleroted In 1          m0 o to me) re   4wcaNcivil                                      ensvie  tr n h  rel  s   ure macro-
than 8 percent. bvernment              numbers -- temporary  nd       economic fraework is
needs to improve revenues and          permnennt;                     consistent with objectlve  of
maintain tight lid on current      (b)  dopt future public sector      the prograo.
spending.  Tax system outdeted        9wae awards consistent with
and excessively complictetd for        progrm'_s fisel                 S. Condition  for third
a weak tax administration              objectives                     trench, release: ensure mcro-
cecity.                            (c) reduce officael travel         economic frmework le
expendItur e; and              consistent with obJectives of
2. Non te"    Pol.e. Draatic    (d) redue  overn_  t                  the program.
redulin i rave 6i growth of            consumption of petrolew,
credit from 28 percent in 1937         ttlecom_unicatlone
to 12 percent In 1911 and about         ntertainmet *xpen    end
10 percent In 10.                      adopt mesure to reduce
co sumtion of electricity.
S.  Inflation.  Measured           On revenues:
sfn l,on moved from 28 percent   to) JoJuss sp  cile Imprt and
In 1987 to 40 percent In 1a83          onsumptlon tax  ates aOnd
nd approximately U8 percent In         adminisetrd pes, In
189.                                   llne with exchange r,te
adjustments; 
4.  Exehne  Rate Polic             (b) ellainato gr dl 1y bport
&ucconeiwTWiti to   ot the             tax *xempt?ono and
SIP debr  cou led with Icprve      (c) increase petroleum prodbct
price atabilI ed to rel                prlceo.
depreeltion of about 75
percent b en id-198S  and          1.2. (a) Adopt a coprehnsive
*nd-&19  .                         tax reform program by end 1090;
(b) sImpllty and rationalee
. Macroeconolmc Manaement.         tx sys       Inter *llo, to
inereae  svaiu *  illny or         Inereae fIscal revenue  end to  '
economic data, includng CP         e    ra   pivae  Investment:
balance of pey  vnt  nd pric       (c) tapiament ad-  lorm syst
index, contelr  td to Imroe       by end 1990s and td)  trengthen
conoeic l    gone _It    t         tax *dmInitrtion.
admlnistrative apecity  emIn
wak. Need to firther Irove         2. () Maintain moentary
price and natlonal account         di cplinei (b) agre annually
statitles  nd Othr                on quarterly and annual
statistical Indc ator              monetary target; and tC)
including production  b lnce       modify 1atereut ra*t  structure
ot payments, fisca, Ioad           to  chevlew end saintaln
monetary statistics,               positive rel rates during
program period.
3. Limit growth In total
credit to achlo Inflation
target of 25 percent In 1000
and to reduce It further
thereafter.
4.  A t a flexible axchang
rate pae Icy to narro the
spread beten te teofial and
the pera llol market exchange
rates to a  aximu  of 16
en n  td  1W30 and
of tt r*mintain It below 15
percent during prorm period.
S. Through appropeliate
technical aslotance and
training continue t4 Improve
statletical base.



ANNEX V
- 52 -                                         Pg 2 of 7
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECON STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMWENT CREDIT
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POUCY: MATRIX OF POMICY ACTIONS
II.  REAL ECONOMIC  OWTH-UPPCTINO   STRUCTURAL POLICIES
Objoctive: Stimulate real economic growth through appropriate trede and Prlcinj policles, promoting
private investmnt, land redl triet on and agricultural credit * support services.
Performance under SAC I            SAC It Action Progrm              Monitorabl, Actions
Implications for SAC 1                                              and Schedul-
1. Conditions for
Tr 1a() Adept and Implmeont an                                       eff etiv nose:  none.
*IsI-nno Ulu   c Inportutomtic trade licening
monopoly *xcept for aIx bIc        sytem by end-rch 191               2. Conditions for econd
cemodities. Import licening        except for short negativ          trench. relesex: (a)
syste  dIterIn  forIgn             Impot lItst; (b) eVlt              *satisfactory progress In
exchange ecc    end bilateral      mrote of existing  arr            mint laini  trade and price
barter arrangeento continue,       arrn nt; (c) do not                liberalization, Including:
contrat any new errs       to      (i) Introduction of on
2. Pricin  Polic. Government    during program period if there        autic Import licensing
oliJnW     n pr1ie pua idles tor   Is no ecomomic advantag; an        system;  1i) elimination of any
all essntial coemodities.          (d) allow prvate sewtor to         restricton on imports of
compet with ECOMEX, Including     consption goods and export,
8. Private Investment.             six essential goods by mid-        including beans, cooking oil,
Oovern_nts _oop~ee measures to     Ig90                               mllk, rice  *usar. and wheat
- on   p   r   oIvcfour; (iTt) elimination of
Incouage priva  inv etm               Ca) Abolish price controls,    pries controls, Including
Iter liamtion  end isport tax     including proitr mrgin               rei t mar in controls on
iptlon   to nveimport  controls, on six  sTe _.              no  c  ing oil, and sugar;
avilabilit                         C i) ensuro tariff struurs         (Iv) reucion to at leat 16
code nees stre    ning  to         for eloctrielty, water,            percent and simplification of
protect Goalnst too gerou          transport  and                     cocoa export tax  and (v)
contracts nd to  nsur              tel communicatons cover           aoption o  action plan to
transfers to Government.           operatinog cost; and (c) ensure    iprov  coco  quaity and
do.lc potrolu  product            marktng; and (b) atisfatory
4.   oeon ctor      lament.        retall prices cover                Implmntation of land
Coco  xpore  x eyroun              International lmort perity        distribution progr    including
export tax level dielocentiv       pries distriulon cost,              l)  cnt of ln
for cocoa pruction                 includilng taxes.                 dltbution lglation; (11)
particulorly Iwth delining                                           en a nt of regulations to
tred In coco  world mare           S. (a) Rationalize Investment      corry out lend distribution;
price. It also point  to           code  and (b) revisewrpleoe       and (II) adoption of on actlon
jor fla  in mr  tin,  to b         ex ing manoamt contracts           plan for the reorganization of
addressed in SAC II.               to incrose accountability and      cdaotril office and land
ensure ree nue trne t rs to        rogistration procedures.
6.  L ndDltrlbuton.                Governmet.
GovePrmEri aOtii    iis   about                                       8. Conditions for third
oisht thousand ha. between         4. (a) Decrwa  overall l1el        trancho release: satisfactory
1|48, orve  half of which          of coeo taxation; (b) *Implify           anro dt Ina (liealztain,
becam  sl lIholder plots. For    Cocoa export taxes, move to  a -    prce *nd        lir 14tion
several reasons  including lack    valorm tax ond analyze the         includin  ()  lination of
of ouNort oorvicls many of         possibility of Introducing a       p     control      ludin
these plots remain Idle.           grut          taspyo; o1 (e)                     controls on milk,
adopt action plan to Improve       rice and whe  flour; and (It)
6. Moon  of EEA. Five              qu ty of coco  and streamline    Initiation of actlon plan to
of e i        o actions under _arhetinm ng proce.                       prov   oco  quallty and
foreign *rn_  enrkI etl insa nd (b) tlotictory
*al                  gtth df  r  sn  6  (a) Formulote land            proeres on   Itpletation o
obliptions. Mjority o  th          distributlon strategy and          lnd dietritlon program,
contracts were  ot       on        timetable, involvin   eit  nd    including  opletion o
profit mximiznog principle         othr support services; and (b)    reorganizaton of cadastrial
bowl eontre        p  ify ha       aopt land distribution             office and land registration
oItlon   Iha.   If   ge             egston by end logo,               procedures.
thes  manement compane to          including property ownership
reduce unit costs.                 ripgts.
S. Standarldie manaogemnt
contracts for existing EEAs
based on profit maxsiaing
principles. Exame  options
nd adopt decileas for
developing rening EAS
bosed on satisor ERR.
Adopt decislon b e-IO   on
proposals for t  et four
enterprises.



- 53 -                                       pAEX V
SO TOME m  PINCE
SECOND SINUCTU1AL ADJUSNT CeDT
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPVEN POLICY: 1AT11V OF POUICY ACTIONS
W!.  99APITL aUMOTN  MM"C  Am *3 PLC IVESTMeNT P~Row
t-rara. b.-agJ
Objective: R attioneli the public investat progrm.
Performn  unde  SAC I            SAC 1 Action Progrm              bonltorable Action.
Iplications for SAC It                                            and Schedule
1. pbtio Investme  Prey..    1. Revie  public Investment          1. Conllons for
SIXe                                     an Cnonle  prora  annually VW only carry   effeti vene: non
back, but project. continu* to    ot tho   proj  ju
e pprov    t     estabi           ccepable on beas of             2. Condition f*or seon
PIP proes, or withou             fllosing crieral:                trance role..: satifary
aufficesftlelldtSi led codt      (a) *Ini   10 pr     rel          reaon ot  pbic
be  Iy lo.1       Tere ie ot rern; (b) co                                     prora  for 1991-
urgen ned toImrove both          effectivens an *Inlmu            1098 and_ iplentton reie
_veluation and oonitering of     impact on rwecrrnt bud&.t an    of publ Ine          progra
the PP           as ffsgal  ancy  (c) financing only on tor 190.
of public  _resourc ustIliation.   concssional oels.r
8. Condition for third
2. Proe. Centraili  the          2. (a) e_sre all proposed        tren.    l            ftory
pion"a n tractn, and             plic sector InvOe nts            peper st  of pub
m   er sT g of i tmt, and    sevluatod by PIP unit on                        progr tor 192-
provide on a1d off the job       Goveneent - currently            1l94 and iw_l       on r wie
tranng In the   areas toe the    Dir ctorat of Econoy and d" pubic invsOmnt program
central a1d setor l              Statistics. Fuhe s g             for  91.
ministries,                      this  nlt, particularly In
onitoring PIP ezecutIon; (b)
sure monhly r         Of
lIrget highe slority.
proes n         to.



- 54 -
SAO TOME AD PRINCE
SECMO STRUCTIMAL ADJUSTME CRUEIT
STATEME   OF DEVELOPMENT POLIC:  MTRI  OF POLICY ACTION
IV. PIMUC SECTOR tEFORM
trara. u-,
Objective:  Improve the ettici.c  of the public sector, throug  public entrprise reform; and civil
service retoer.
Pertormc under SAC I               SAC II Actton Program   -nitorable Actions
mpleations for SAC IT                                                W  Schedule
-    ~       ~~                                         -      bl  
Public Enterortb  Rotor           PubiIC Entrurrise Prooram             Public Ent-orrise Retorm
1. Govornment has taken           1.(a) Flin e studies  to           1. Conditions of effectiveness3
following actions:                Include dta led action plans       None.
(a) Initiated phaosd action       for liquidation, rehabtlitation
program to rnfor. pubitc          and privatization of PE*;          2. Conditions tr seond
enterpriss and adopted            (b) carry out thes action          trnche rel ase ta) cowplet
recoem_setions on (I)                      ac ns In acordance oith agreed    action  te acco   1dm any ot:
privatsing th  beer and brick          niiq                                          o          or
companios; f ii) restructuring    lc, Conclude stud     trest of     JillgflOy or
thes pubitsh ng coupeny; and         lgsisation, lnstitu   l *nd      Itl)                t I   t   ROSEUUt
I)lqutiIpoultry            r ulatory  nvironment;             and    updatinof
co"panyl                          {d *Jes  octnl ttp ^ ot the    ILX             isct41 top rton 
(b) created Public Enterprise                           a dr proropt  te re  ining ent rpises.
R form Unit to implement          action program to allovtate
studios' reommendations:          main advrw r fttecte, Including   S. Condittons tor third
(e) adopted action pl n *or       mobilization of resoure; and    tranche rele         Ca) coplete
next phase ot retorm progrm.      () adopt nd mloplement progra      all a ctions to 2. (a) ft2
to modernlzo accounting syste     2 (4)   I*Iand 2.(a .(lii  and
tor public enterprie..            fb)1i *          Pr"
Civil Service Rotors.             Civil Service Redeors.             rep ini ogl e under referee.
2. Government has: (a) taken      2.(a) Undrtake and monttor         Civil   rvic Roores:
Initial measures In preparation   masures to restrict increas
for civil service rform,           In civil servant numbers,         1. Conditions of
Including adoptlon ot             monitor civil servnts             eftectiven_   so mno.
Adminitnrative Refors             movement and institutionalia
Commission with approprieate      cntr l personnel mnagmnt;          2. Conditions for Second
functions and the estabisment   (b) initiat  system ot               Tranche Reles aoptIon ot an
of a technteal oscretariat; (b)   selective productiity-bed          action plan tor *ubeequst
stabilized civil sevc       c      o     sn                          phac of civil service retors.
statftIng numbers                 servane;
(c) liunhehd UNDW-ponsored        Cc) agr  on action for             8. Conditions tor Third
technical assistance projew       subsequnt phas of the              Tranche Releas: satisfactory
(preparetory phae to              *d in   tretiv  rotors program     progrss in impleomn4tton ot
strengthen the Adialstrative      by end-IWO.                        *o  ures included In the agreed
Retor Progrm: and (d)                                                action plan.
completed civil *srWoe censu,
to provide esential dtbase
and firet stop In lproving
monitoring of eivil  service.



- 55 - r
SA TOME n lRINCFE
SECO, STRUCttRAL ADAISTIN  CRaTT
STATET OF DEELOPMDIT PLCY. MATRIX W POUCY ACTINS
V. JOIN  REFM  mO
lFrara: oi-axj
Objectivet Establish viable financial systes.
P@WorS5no   undor SAC I           SAC It Action Progrom            VMeitorable Actlons
1 cpatione for SAC It                                              and Sehdwle
1.  mT finciael  SnO    .         1.(a) Amend Banking Low           1. Conditon of Effectiveness:
ContrFT one orca. saink  g       fLaw(uocre  U)i to                none.
oration  are centrlited.       Ine se_aration of
to no effective, oe          ommerciatl Vnd central bankin    2. Condition for Secead
framework for r lo q tion and     operations and pertt ponIal   Tranche Reloae: satisfactory
suporvtnton ofthe fISn sl         gvate foroin o  eoh r   po f                         f"lo  Inanietl
SatOm                             b) estbi I am effetive ysteme   satisfactor  progroes  for
S. SNSW function                and              and fregtution    enactment of ti
acounWeof cetral banking          of thdo finacial * ;  nd          l      tolaton; (ii)    otnt
comweral banins are               () as CP    uS                    o     otor        t or
cminod. Whre To thus no           co_mreil loan colloctions   Io po loan Pr
upervislon of commrcial           rates Improve, nro                () i              o      rort
actiit7y. Credit oxpanion         iterest deposit rate  ot  recovoralo _rillIo.n
critorta havo recntly bon           prov    viYe oobiliation        collcton         by    I.
def I    but the manpower         VW repitll.
ru rod or                                                           S. Conitton  for Third
smlmntaon  s aci. Te 2.() Seprate th, functions                     Trnwcho Releas: stist ftory
lity oth  loan port ol                t  accounts of NSIF nto       prr I  Peoe             of
and tho rato of loan recovery     ce_merctl and cetral bnking      Pl's operations in
are vYry Io  e        seilly for  cmpodnne:                            erdnce with nm_ baning
pubic etezerprises.  hbil oth     (b) intns iy efforts to clean     lIs qlation and further
proportton of          Isd dbts ie  up BMTP loan portfol It,        improvment, to 75 percent, of
relatively higp, virtually no     es_ cially *thb rspet so          itO recovorableo c_emito loan
provisions have be se *t aIde,   pubic etferprtios; and             collection rates.
nor hao syste  of                           strist credit
provieioIng b   adopted.          elation and collectton
practites, Including
S. Collectlons of _ mrcial Ioan
LendTijii CtlI1Ui 0imitedX        by enforcIng collateral and
by los rate of savings            le      n  r1ltn  o 
mobilization, by the low  level m for bed
=---tts tto, byh  Io Iz    NW dou b*tful loon.
of eapittlIztlton, and te poor
loan recovery rate S.  These have   S.) Streng. t n    _manaement of
undrineiod the revolving nature   C: and (b) improva CP'o Ioans
of its crditS bseo. The (leel   collecStons by enforeing
of) provisions that has blOn      eollateral a incrast e
made for bed debts itogrossly    provisoning for   a and
inadequae  If adequate            doubtful loans.
provisions would ho md  CPt'
not worth wouldi be negatve.      4. Maintatn SIF as xeustive
Meanwhile collections need to     sourc of NW 4.VOIOPnat
ho improved, even If rocosree     lending ouCtsde E tIs , that
to loeI remedies is required.    shouldi eventualy Ibcome
Forgive n lending ratee,          integ"rated into the honking
improved ctlh l    c ii wou
Its  ldngosso  heW 
eow   a *eX hgher dipositS
dc_oit, mobilization.
*. 8IF. Th   oenmen
osaiToe  tim Social en
rnfrastrnucture Fund.



- 56 -                                              ANNEX V
SAO TOME AND PRINCtPE
SECO   STRUCTNURAL ADJUSENTMU    CREDIT
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY: MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
VI. FOREICR EXCJUANOE AN  DEBT MANAGEMENT
Obiectivet:  Dwprove wsyste  for foreign exchange allocation and budgeting and rduce Sao To. and
Prilcipo's external debt burden to manageblo proportiono.
Perormance under SAC I             SAC II Action Program              Monitorable Actions
Implications for SAC II                                               and Schedule
1. Forel l xchs   buxhntin *   1. Prepare and update quarterly    1. Conditions of
it nSIUM  I W    D*na9E   Is       Forex budget with intention of      Effectiveneea: None.
ensure stedy and eustainable       systeetizing *nd regulaoriing
supply of goods to SIP and to      toreign exchng  *ales               2. Conditions for Second
enur prmp peyment of                                                   Trmnche Release: provision of
oblig tion   ccording to           2 (a) Improv- system of debt        quarterly foroign exchange cash
priority and availae               and debt service record             vlow of NSTP for 1990-91.
reources,                          k   Ing. Short-term and MLt
debt should be managed by soa      8. Conditions for Second
2. External Debt Managemnt         unit, within Forex Dept. of         Tranche Release: provision of
Under   . Ls External 4   t cot    Notional Bank;                      guorterly foreign exchange cash
ws Incorrect and Incomplete        (b) adopt comprehensive debt         low of BNSTP for 1 01-92.
Although som  r esh  dulng          trategy to renegotiate
took placet the Government did     outstanding debt, Including
not corry out a     robhn-         debt reduction based on
sive/systeMatic dbt strategy.      voluntar  agre_mnt; and
SAC It will support                (a) ni ithr contract nor
improvemnts in debt date base    guarante  any loans (excluding
definition of a comprehensive      ioport financing that lu self-
~ t  tr tos   tncludtagliquidating within one year)
*ditloal tinnclol  nflo    ith n maturity of up to anda
roecedulg ngs  and debt relief     including one yer  nor any
STP neds Oo Lorro  only on         non-eonession l lons of over
highy conession I ter              one year.  Concessionality Is
defined to aoon loans with a
grant *elment of 60 percent or
mere.



- 57                                              AENE  V
SA0 TOME AND PRINCIE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY: MATRIX OF POLICY ACONS
VIZ. SOCIAL IIUACt
(Pope: 50-5)
Objectivo: Polielos to aillhato  ngatlve lmpact of the structurl djustmont program.
Actions already taken by           Structura IAdjustment Credit It    Monitorable Actions
Gbverneen                          Action Program                    and Sehedule
1. Recolved and targeted food    1.( )e*xplore with WFP ways to    1. None.
oad for work opportunitie.        fut  r monetize food aid and
define turther targeta of food
2. Prpared a Multi-Sector         for work opportunitieos and
Priority Project.                 al l    o       hath  ndg
*locttons to h"lth *t1
8.(a) Supported an IDA mission,   education programs
whi'h tidetifled a Social
Dimnsions of Adjustment (SDA)    2. Estblish a Social and
Projoct to dte  n *nd impont   Infrastrucure Fund (SIP) to
a redeloyment fund to transfer   Initiate projects to alleviate
loid-off workers,  a1l poverty    posible adver   hort_ter
alleviation projects, and          ftf   adjstmnt progr
programs to mon tor soeo-         on the poor, particularl  in
econoic conditions of  ost        urbn   r    U  the SIF to
vuinersbl- groups during          finance projects towards
adjustment proces                 eradication of malaria.
(b requested an 16A mission to
appraise the SDA, tncluding a     S.(s) Establish Institutional
Country Assessment Paper to       arrangemens to implement SDA
lOenttf  *nd cuontity groups      project;
likely *ouf'er from               (b) mobiize resources from
adjuto_nt process  and Cc)        donors and NO1  to implemnt
proidget    redeployment fund to   SD
provide safety nt for             Ic) Lnltoreociol ict of
redundant workrs.                  tructurat Adjustmnt Progra
by developing and mait ntaing
data bas on the social
dimensions of adjustmnt and
carrying out economc *nd
socifl studies on ipic tions
of polIces and projets
proposed uner th WA; and
M ) continue to buge and
mplemnat redploymnt fund to
provide for orderly lay-off of
pubitc srvants
IN



- 58 -
Table V
Poo 1 of 1
TME STAIU OF BAM  R    ORTIO  IN SAO TOME AN PINCPE
STATEN Of IDA CRDIm  1
(A* ot Mearh $1, 1990)
Amunt tn USS Million
Loan or                                                                           (low canellation)  2/
Credit        plecl
Nuber          Year            Borroer                      Purpo.                    IDA   Undiebrrod
a credit closed
Cr. 1691        06      Sae Tom and Principe       Modernisation Line                5.0            0.72
* Cr. A29         07      Sao Tome *nd Principe      SAC I                             8.0            0.32
Cr. 1025          7      Seo Tom and Principe       SAC S                             4.00           0.37
Cr. low         a       Soo Tome *nd Principe      Cooa Rabhb Iitatlon               7.90           2.69
Cr. 2038        s       Sao Tome and Principe      multi Swter                       5.00           5.15
TOt l                                                  24.90           9.71
of which has bee  paid                                  0.00
Total now outetandtng                                  24.90
Asmnt sold
of which has beon repaid                                0.00
Total now held by IDA                                  24.00
Total Undiabu red                                                      9.71
1/ There are no tFC tnvestenta In Seo Tom  and Principe
2/ IDA Crdit. ofter 19  a*nd Special Fund Crdite are denominated In Special Drawing Rights. U.S.
dollar a_eunte ti table are calculated uing exchange rates prfvai ing at time of credit
ngOtatlee.. Includee the exchag  rate adjustmnt.
o Structurel Adjustmnt Credit



