Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16638
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC II)
(CREDIT 2165-STP)
JUNE 4, 1997
Country Department 15
Western Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dobra (Db)
US$1.00 = DbI337.6 (at closing, December 31, 1996)
US$1.00 = Db 140 (at appraisal, 1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
ADF          African Development Fund
EC           European Community
EU           European Union
GNFS         Goods and Non-Factor Services
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
STP          Sao Tom6 and Principe
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SFA          Special Facility for Africa
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP          Structural Adjustment Program
SIDA         Swedish International Development Agency
SEK          Swedish Kroner
Vice Presidents                Callisto Madavo and Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director                       Hasan Tuliy
Technical Manager              Peter Harrold
Staff Member                 : Jeunnifer Edwards



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ................................................i
Evaluation Summary ...............................................                                                           ii
PART I - PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Identity .1
B. Background .1
C. Program Objectives                                                          .3
D.  Achievement of Program Objectives                                                     .4
E.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Program                                          .7
F. Program Sustainability                                                        .8
G. Bank Performance                                                           .8
H. Borrower Performance                                                          .8
I. Assessment of Outcome                                                          .9
J. Future Operations                                                          .9
K. Key Lessons Learned .10
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table  1: Summary of Assessments ................................................11
Table  2: Related IDA  Credits ...............................................                                               12
Table  3: Project Timetable ................................................                                                 13
Table  4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual ................................................ 13
Table  5: Key Indicators for Program  Implementation ...............................................                     14-17
Table  6: Studies Included in the Program ...............................................                                    18
Table  7: Program  Financing ...............................................                                                 18
Table  8: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................... 19-20
Table  9: IDA  Resources: Staff Inputs ................................................                                      21
Table 1O: IDA  Resources: Missions ...............................................                                           21
APPENDIXES
A. Aide-Memoire of the Implementation Completion Mission ...............................................                    22-23
B. Borrower's Assessment of SAC II Implementation ...............................................                        24-29
C. Map of Sao Tome and Principe
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCUPE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC HI)
(CREDIT 2165-STP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit, for which Credit 2165-STP in the amount of SDR 7.0 million (US$ 9.75
million equivalent) was approved on June 26, 1990. The credit was made effective only on
September 11, 1991, in light of the multi-party elections that were held in early 1991.
2.    The credit was closed on December 31, 1996, compared with the original closing date of
July 31, 1992. The first tranche was released upon effectiveness on September 11, 1991;
subsequent tranches were released on December 3, 1992 and February 20, 1996, respectively.
The credit was fully disbursed on December 16, 1996. Cofinancing in the amount of SEK 15
million (about US$1.9 million equivalent) was provided by the Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA).
3.    The ICR was prepared by Jennifer Edwards of the Institutional and Social Policy
Department, Africa Region, and Agapito Mendes Dias (consultant), and reviewed by Mr. Hasan
Tuluy, Country Director, AFC15. The Borrower provided comments that are included in the
ICR. The cofinancier had no comments on the ICR.
4.    Preparation of the ICR was begun in December 1996. It is based on documentation in the
project files, including the President's Report, the Letter of Development Policy, the Development
Credit Agreement, supervision reports, progress reviews on the occasion of tranche releases,
audit reports and interviews with IDA staff and Government officials who were involved in the
operation. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own
assessment of SAC II implementation which is attached as Appendix 2.



ii
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRiNCIPE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC 11)
(CREDIT 2165-STP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background to IDA's Involvement
1.    On gaining independence in 1975, Sao Tome and Principe inherited an economy based
exclusively on agriculture and geared to the production and export of a single crop, cocoa. Early
efforts to revive the economy did not achieve the hoped-for results and cocoa production, which had
been declining for some time, continued to fall. This, coupled with an increasingly overvalued
exchange rate led to deficits for the now state-owned cocoa enterprises which were financed by
transfers from the Treasury, covered by borrowing from the Central Bank.  Soon the central
government budget fell into deficit. A diminishing supply of foreign exchange, uneconomic public
investments and a rising public debt obliged the Government to embark on a comprehensive Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP) in mid-1987.
2.    This first phase of the SAP focused on correcting macroeconomic imbalances, stimulating
economic growth and improving the efficiency of the public sector. It was supported by an IDA-
financed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) of US$4.0 million equivalent from IDA and US$3.0
million equivalent from the Special Facility for Africa. Parallel financing was provided by the lIMF
and other development partners of Sao Tome and Principe. SAC I implementation was broadly
satisfactory and the economy responded well. A realistic market rate for the Dobra was established, a
prudent monetary policy was followed and the overall fiscal deficit reduced. GDP grew at between 2
and 3.5 percent during 1988 and 1989 compared with a 4 percent decline in 1987. Progress was also
registered in liberalizing trade and pricing regimes. Nevertheless, stabilization remained elusive and
self-sustaining growth was not attained. Recognizing this, the Government embarked on a second
phase of the SAP to deepen the adjustment effort which was supported by the IDA-financed Second
Structural Adjustment Credit, approved on June 26, 1990 in the amount of US$9.75 million
equivalent. Cofinancing of US$1.9 million equivalent was provided by Sweden and parallel financing
of US$12 million equivalent was provided by the African Development Fund.
Program Objectives
3.    The objectives of SAC II were to (i) consolidate progress in exchange rate, fiscal and monetary
policy; (ii) stimulate economic growth by further liberalizing trade and prices, improving investment
incentives, supporting the cocoa sector and implementing a broad-based land redistribution scheme;
(iii) rationalize the public investment program; (iv) strengthen the administrative capacity of the public
sector through public enterprise and civil service reforms; (v) improve the functioning of the financial
system; and (vi) improve external debt management. The objectives were appropriate to the country's
development needs and consistent with the goal of sustained long-term growth within a stable
macroeconomic framework.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    SAC II was approved in June 1990 but only became effective in September 1991, 14 months
later. The main reasons for this delay were the political developments related to the transition to a
multiparty system, following successful elections in early 1991. This tended to inhibit or postpone
government action which in turn led to delays in the release of the Credit tranches and as a result the
Credit took five years to disburse instead of the two originally planned.



iii
5.    Despite the unsettled political climate, which lasted throughout SAC H implementation period
and continues to this day, the objectives of SAC II were substantially met on the structural front.
Liberalization of the economy through pricing and exchange rate reforms, improved investment
incentives and banking and trade reforms were completed. The land distribution program was
implemented successfully and reforms in the non-agricultural public enterprise sector are expected to
be completed in 1997. The Public Investment Program (PIP) was rationalized. However, while the
measures taken were broadly positive, they were insufficient given the depth of the adjustment effort
necessary.
6.    The Bank's and the Borrower's performances were, on balance, considered satisfactory even
though the frequent ministerial and government changes' subsequently led to uneven program
implementation and long delays in effectiveness and tranches releases. Although SAC n was identified
in a timely manner, to ensure continuation of the adjustment effort started under SAC I, program
design underestimated the extent to which (i) structural rigidities, coupled with the historical decline in
cocoa prices, and (ii) weak institutional and political capacity, would hamper efforts to move away
from a monoculture (cocoa), diversify the economy and pave the way for new areas of economic
growth.
Summary of findings, future operations and key lessons learned
7.    Despite continuing macroeconomic imbalances and an unsettled political environment, progress
in achieving macroeconomic and structural conditions was sufficient to allow release of all tranches,
albeit with significant delays. Nevertheless, the outcome of SAC Il is rated unsatisfactory because,
although the impact of structural reforms undertaken was positive, these were not enough to deepen
the adjustment and stabilize the economy. In addition, the supply response of the economy to these
reforms has been weak and macroeconomic imbalances persist. Yet, without the financial support of
SAC II, the increasing pressure on the country's scarce foreign exchange reserves, leading to larger
fiscal deficits, would have deepened poverty and made the ensuing adjustment all the more painful.
8.    The following lessons may be drawn from the implementation of SAC II. (i) Political stability
and sustained government commitment are essential. The "stop-go" approach in the implementation
of SAC II and the resulting delays can be clearly linked to the prevailing political climate combined
with weak human resources. (ii) Flexibility in program implementation is necessary to respond to
evolving, fragile situations, performance criteria should be tailored to suit country-specific conditions
with close Bank supervision. (iii) Reliance on a single commodity for economic growth can impair
longer-term stability, even with temporary adjustment aided by donors. (iv) Structural measures in the
absence of macroeconomic stability are unlikely to have a significant impact. The experience of SAC
II illustrates clearly the dependence between a sound macroeconomic framework and the response to
structural measures, even when appropriately designed and implemented. In such cases, even when
specific conditionalities are met, careful thought should be given to invoking the general conditionality
related to macroeconomic performance. (v) Given the country's extreme dependence on external aid
($200 per capita, one of the highest in the world) and the Government's weak capacity to cope with
complex and multiple donor procedures, effective donor coordination is fundamental to improve the
efficiency and efficacy of external assistance. However, the important lesson of SAC II must be that
for small, isolated island economies to achieve longer-term viability, conventional adjustment measures
are unlikely to succeed. The Government and the donor community need to find new, innovative ways
to stabilize the macroeconomic situation and promote broad-based economic growth.
Three Governments and six Ministers of Finance during SAC 11 implementation






DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC II)
(CREDIT 2165-STP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   PROJECT IDENTITY
Name:                    Second Structural Adjustment Credit
Credit Number:           Cr. 2165-STP of SDR 7.0 million
RVP Unit:                Africa Region
Country:                 Sao Tome and Principe
Sector:                  Macroeconomics
Date approved:           June 26, 1990
Date effective:          September 11, 1991
Date closed:             December 31, 1996
B.  BACKGROUND
1.    Early Developments: Upon attaining independence in 1975, Sao Tome and Principe
inherited an economy based exclusively on agriculture, and geared to the production and export
of a single crop, cocoa. This economic structure explains in large measure the country's
pattems of consumption, which are highly dependent on imports.
2.    Despite early efforts to revive the economy, cocoa production fell from some 10,000
tons per year before independence to about 3,800 tons in 1987. This drop in output, combined
with an increasingly over-valued exchange rate, led to a series of financial deficits for the cocoa-
producing enterprises. Deficits were financed by transfers from the Treasury and covered by
credits from the Central Bank. The effect of this was to provoke inflation and the general state
budget fell into deficit in 1981. The Government thus had constantly diminishing supplies of
foreign exchange available for the purchase of both capital and consumer goods, a factor which
led to a general decline in output for the economy as a whole. Between 1981 and 1986, GDP
fell at an annual rate of 4.2 percent. Attempts to diversify the economy through public
investments contributed little to economic growth, while imposing heavy recurrent costs and a
rising public debt. The debt service ratio in 1987 stood at 60.5 percent.
3.    Structural Adjustment Program (SAP): In mid-1987, the Government, faced with
large current account imbalances and a rapidly rising extemal debt service, adopted  a
comprehensive program of structural reforms which were aimed at correcting macroeconomic
distortions, stimulating economic growth and improving the efficiency of the public sector. The
first phase of the adjustment program, covering the period 1987 to 1989, was supported by a
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) of US$4.0 million equivalent from IDA and US$3.0
million equivalent from the Special Facility for Africa) (Credit 1825-STP/A-29-STP, 1987) and
by a Cocoa Rehabilitation Credit of US$7.9 million equivalent (Credit 1830-STP, 1987).
Parallel financing was provided by other development partners of Sao Tome and Principe. In
June 1989, a three-year SAF for SDR2.8 million equivalent was approved by the IMF.



2
4.    The first phase of the program was broadly successful. A market-based economy
swiftly replaced the centrally-planned economy. Several stabilization and adjustment measures
were undertaken (including successive and sizable devaluations of the exchange rate and the
liberalization of most domestic prices). These measures helped to reduce the gap between the
official exchange rate and the parallel market rate from about 85 percent in July 1987 to about
24 percent in December 1989. With the devaluation, restraint in current expenditure and
increased taxes, the current account deficit (excluding interest payments) was reduced. During
this phase of the program, the Government succeeded in substantially reducing the need to
resort to domestic credit to finance its fiscal deficit. The average net growth of domestic credit
was 12 percent, and the growth of broad money supply was 6 percent.
5.    In terms of the real economy, attention focused on enhancing  the efficiency and
productivity of the cocoa sector, diversifying exports and increasing the country's self-
sufficiency in food. It is estimated that GDP grew by an average of 1.5 percent between 1987
and 1989, compared to a fall of 4 percent in 1987. This was due in large part to the impact of
better management practices in the cocoa estates and more attractive incentives.  Cocoa
production increased from about 3,900 tons in 1987 to 5,000 tons in 1989. There was also a
supply-side response in other products (vegetables, fish and poultry, pork and goat production).
Growth was recorded in construction, especially in housing, and in services, including tourism.
Measures were also taken to liberalize trade.
6.    With a view to enhancing the efficiency of the public sector, the Government in 1987
undertook a series of institutional reforms covering the civil service, public enterprises and the
cocoa export tax system. It began implementation of a program to restructure, privatize or close
down public enterprises, to settle cross debts and to establish a new rates structure for fuel,
electricity and water.  The Government also improved the cocoa export tax system by
consolidating a series of levies and reducing their combined level from about 20 percent to 17
percent, with further reductions following annually thereafter.
7.    Despite some positive results, SAP objectives were not fully achieved during the first
phase of adjustment. GDP growth, at 4 percent, was below forecast, and in real terms (1.5
percent) it was not sufficient to keep pace with population growth. The current account deficit
grew from US$ 15 million in 1987 to US$ 26 million in 1989, caused by the sharp fall in the
international price of cocoa, while demand generated by the public investment program was
rising significantly.
8.    In addition, the Government was confronted with social problems brought about by
rising unemployment and the removal of subsidies on basic foodstuffs, at a time when real wages
in the urban public sector were shrinking. These problems posed a threat to the viability of the
structural adjustment effort. There was still a long way to go in establishing the conditions for
sustained long-term growth. The Government therefore decided to move on to the second
phase of the program, which was to cover the period 1990-1992. The second phase was
supported by an IDA-financed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II) (Credit 2165-
STP), approved on June 26, 1990, in an amount of SDR7.5 million (US$9.75 million
equivalent). Cofinancing was provided by SIDA in an amount of SEK 15 million (about US$
1.9 million, equivalent). The African Development Fund also provided parallel financing of
approximately US$12 million.



3
C.    PROGRAM OBJECTIVES:
9.    The objectives of SAC II were to contribute to the goal of sustained long-term growth
within a stable macroeconomic framework and focused on:
*  (a) consolidating progress in exchange rate, fiscal and monetary policy;
*  (b) stimulating economic growth by further liberalizing trade and prices, improving
investment incentives, supporting the cocoa sector and implementing a broad-based land
redistribution scheme;
*  (c) rationalizing the public investment program;
*  (d) strengthening the administrative capacity of the public sector through public enterprise
and civil service reforms;
*  (e) improving the functioning of the financial system; and
*  (f) improving external debt management.
10.   Assessment of Program Objectives: The objectives of SAC II were appropriate to the
country's development needs and compatible with the evaluation of the economic situation at
the time. However, in program design, the need for political and institutional stability necessary
to carry out the measures needed to implement the reform program was underestimated. The
political reforms initiated in 1990 with a view to introducing a multiparty system tended to
inhibit or postpone government action, while weak  institutional capacity   delayed
implementation of the planned reforms. These factors led to the delayed release of the Credit
tranches which took five years to disburse, instead of the two years originally planned.
11.   Risks: The risk assessment made during appraisal in 1990 did not take account of the
political instability inherent in an emerging multiparty environment; neither was there full
appreciation of the difficulties that the Government would face in managing macroeconomic
reforms in such circumstances. Political instability foiled any attempts at planning, and, with the
lead-up to elections, meant that the Government was reluctant to attempt the implementation of
the program.
12.   Three main risks were correctly identified. The first, inadequate administrative capacity
was considered a risk that might delay program implementation. However, the technical
assistance provided under SAC II was not effective because little thought had been given to
translating the results of this work into workable recommendations to the Government. The
second risk was the negative social impact of some macroeconomic reforms, such as
retrenchment of civil servants and public enterprise reform. To mitigate these possible adverse
short-term effects, a Social and Infrastructure Fund was established under an IDA-financed First
Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP), approved in early 1990. This fund financed, among other
things, small public infrastructure works which generated employment especially for lower-
income people. The third risk was that the debt overhang (or further adverse movements in the
terms of trade) would overshadow the program's economic gains.
13.   Another risk not fully identified during program  design is related to the Public
Investment Program (PIP). Although project selection criteria and evaluation mechanisms were
put in place and annual reviews of the PIP were carried out and the next year's PIP agreed to



4
with IDA, insufficient attention was paid to ensuring that the many relatively large investments
financed by external aid would, on project completion, be able to generate adequate returns to
cover the cost of servicing the debt incurred and of the recurrent costs of operation,
maintenance and replacement inherent in such investments.
D.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
14.   The Program's objectives were to be achieved through the introduction of a series of
stabilization policies and other measures of a structural nature. On the stabilization front, the
priority instruments were the budget deficit, control of the money supply and the exchange rate.
The Program anticipated that exchange rate adjustments would enhance the profitability of the
cocoa sector, reduce imports and strengthen the balance of payments in response to a
deterioration in the terms of trade. The quantitative stabilization objectives which were to be
realized with support of SAC II were not attained Macroeconomic imbalances continue to the
present and there is little prospect of improvement if these continue.
15.  (a) Fiscal and Monetary Policy. The fiscal goal of ensuring a continued primary surplus
(excluding grants, extemal financing for capital expenditures and debt service) was achievable
but there was no discernible progress towards its attainment, due to weak public resource
management. The coverage of current spending (excluding debt interest) by current revenues
was 80, 66 and 45 percent in 1990, 1994 and 1996 respectively. The ratio of revenues to GDP,
which averaged 19 percent during 1989-92, fell to 15 percent over the period 1992-96.
16.  Inadequate performance in mobilizing domestic resources may be explained primarily by
the sluggish pace of tax reform. Indeed, a great deal of effort was devoted to fiscal reform,
supported by a full-time IMF TA, but after five years, results are still negligible as none of the
governments had the necessary political support to implement these reforms. The expectations
created by introduction of the SYDONIA system in Customs have been equally frustrated.
17.   The outcome of spending and revenue trends has been that the current and overall fiscal
deficits have remained almost constant as a percentage of GDP throughout the period 1990-95.
The average current and overall fiscal deficits as a share of GDP for this period were 2 percent
and 45 percent, respectively. In 1995, these indicators reached 10 percent and 70 percent. The
deficits have been financed through external borrowing, grants and the accumulation of debt
service arrears.
18.   Since the fiscal objectives were not achieved, annual credit volumes exceeded the
programmed targets and have contributed to continued expansion of the money supply. The
objective of monetary stabilization, as a means for stabilizing the exchange rate and reducing
inflation, has not been attained. The money supply grew by 35 percent in 1995 and 65 percent
in 1996. The explanation of this 100 percent increase lies essentially in the continued expansion
of credit to the Government. In 1990, credit to the Government as a percentage of total credit
was 64 percent; in 1995 this rose to 70 percent. Additionally, in 1995, credit to the Government
grew by about 100 percent, i.e. from about 10 million to about 21 million Dobras. in the event,
the target of zero net credit by 1996 was not achieved. The granting by the Central Bank of an
unplanned credit of 13.5 million Dobras and the low level of revenues mobilized meant that
there was a significant slippage in monetary policy in 1996.



5
19.   As a result of the failure to meet fiscal and monetary goals, the annual inflation targets
were also missed. Since the beginning of the program, inflation has never been below 20
percent. The trend of the exchange rate also reflects high levels of inflation. The devaluation of
the Dobra in 1996 was at least 50 percent. The Dobra continued to fall faster than anticipated in
the annual projections. Over the period 1990 to 1996, the Dobra was devalued by 1100 percent.
The target of reducing the spread between the official and the parallel market exchange rates to
5% for 1995 was, however, achieved.
20.   Private consumption as a percentage of GDP rose from 119 to 121 percent between
1990 and 1995. The trade balance worsened by almost 90 percent. In 1990, the deficit was
US$ 17.4 million, while in 1995 it stood at US$ 33.2 million. High debt service will continue to
represent an obstacle to the country's development efforts. Debt service as a percentage of
exports of non-factor goods and services rose from 75 percent in 1990 to 126 percent in 1995.
The total external debt of Sao Tome and Principe grew from US$ 173 million in 1990 (463
percent of GDP) to US$ 280 million in December 1995 (663 percent of GDP).
Notwithstanding these severe imbalances, it must be recognized that significant advances took
place in other areas.   Their longer-term  sustainability is unlikely, however, as the
macroecoonomic situation continues off track.
21.   (b) Stimulation of Growth. Trade liberalization and the reform of pricing policies was
satisfactorily completed. The Government eliminated all subsidies on imported products. SAC
II provided technical assistance to design a food aid management system. Only for fuel, water
and electricity are prices still administered. Export procedures were simplified and the import
licensing system places no restrictions on access to foreign currency. The existence of a market-
determined exchange rate, positive real interest rates and lower taxes on exports (down to 8
percent in 1995 from 17 percent in 1990) have all produced significant gains for the economy.
The process of land redistribution was started and continues to be implemented  with
considerable success. This is one of the areas of the program in which the greatest progress has
been made.
22.   The Government further fulfilled its commitment to reduce its direct role in the economy
and to promote the participation of the private sector. It prepared and approved a new
investment code, which provides incentives for foreign investment, and granted credits for the
start-up of small and medium-sized enterprises. Furthermore, of a total of 21 non-agricultural
public enterprises, 13 were either liquidated, privatized or restructured during the SAC II
implementation period, assisted by technical assistance also financed under SAC II.
23.   (c) Rationalizing the Public Investment Program (PIP). APIP (1993-95) was prepared
and reviewed with IDA (the first three-year PIP prepared in Sao Tome). Agreement was
reached with the authorities on more realistic projected implementation levels, rigorous criteria
for project selection, appropriate sectoral allocations and a financing plan. Although project
selection criteria and evaluation mechanisms were put in place, with annual reviews agreed to
with IDA, the efficiency of the relatively large investments remains doubtful and it is unlikely
that, on project completion, sufficient returns will be generated to cover the cost of servicing the
debt incurred and of covering the recurrent costs of operation, maintenance and replacement
inherent in such investments.



6
24.   (d)  Administrative Capacity of the Public Sector.  The efficiency of the public
administration is a key factor for implementing the Government's policies. A planned Social
Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) project, which was supposed to deal with the social impact of
adjustment policies, never materialized.  Thus, successive governments hesitated to take
measures to rationalize and modernize the civil service. As a result, the public administration
continues to be burdened with bad practices of the past, and is now virtually paralyzed.
Recently the National Assembly approved a new salary scale to be accompanied by a voluntary
departure and compulsory retirement plan. The Government is conscious of the need to
integrate its administrative reform into the overall reform agenda. To this end, among other
activities to be undertaken, the preparation of sectoral strategies, currently underway, will help
to better define the role and size of the public administration.
25.   (e)  Improving the Financial System.  A further component of the SAP was the
transformation of the banking system. The objectives of the reform were basically twofold: 1)
create an independent Central Bank, capable of implementing monetary policy and of
supervising the activities of the commercial banks; and 2) create viable banking institutions that
could meet the financing needs of the emerging private sector. The first objective was partially
achieved with the separation of central banking functions from commercial functions of the
former National Bank (BNSTP) and a new Central Bank (BCSTP) was established in August
1992. However, the Central Bank's capacity to implement monetary policy and supervise the
activities of the commercial banking sector needs to be further strengthened and the question of
a separate currency in such a small economy remains unanswered. In regard the second
objective, again, this was also partially achieved in that the commercial activities of the former
National Bank were assumed by a new commercial bank (Banco Internacional de Sdo Tome e
Principe - BISTP), created as a joint venture between the Government and two Portuguese
banks BISTP started operations in March 1993. However, currently only short-term trade
credit is made available to the private sector. The process of partially privatizing the Caixa
Popular (Savings and Loan) has been launched and is expected to proceed during 1997.
26.   Although the progress described in the preceding paragraphs has helped to improve the
environment for economic growth, there has been little diversification of the economy due to
structural rigidities, coupled with the historical decline in cocoa prices and continued fall in
cocoa production (Table 1) and related drop in export earnings of goods and services, contrary
to projections made at the outset of SAC II (i.e. export earnings estimated at $10.5 million in
1990, rising to $16 million by 1995, in fact stood at $10.6 million in end 1996).
Table 1: Production of Cocoa
B0
40~
10    __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ _ A__ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _
60i ............. ............................... ....................
43o ; .        ; ;.....................
13e13 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19
94 98 02 06 10 14 18 22 26 30 34 38 42 4 50 U4 58 62 66 70 74 78 82 83 90 94



7
27.   (f) Improving external debt management. SAC II had as one of its objectives the
improvement of the country's external debt management and its reduction to manageable
proportions. The Government actively sought ways of achieving external debt reduction. A
Debt Buyback operation which cleared all of Sao Tome and Principe's non-guaranteed
commercial bank and supplier debt (US$10.6 million) was completed in August 1995, financed
by a US$1.5 million Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-only countries2.  Additionally, an
agreement with the Government of Angola eliminated arrears of US$1.3 million on medium and
long-term debt. A further US$27 million of official bilateral debt was rescheduled by the
Portuguese Government in March 1995. A rescheduling agreement was also reached with Cape
Verde. However, at the end of 1996, the stock of debt was estimated at around US$325
million, about three times the level of 1987.
Table 2
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE: EVOLUTION OF
EXTERNAL DEBT (1976-1996) -in USS million-
400
100-=_
0
28.   The present value of Sao Tome and Principe's debt is US$173 million. This represents
approximately 17.4 times exports of GNFS which places the country as the second most
indebted country in Africa and the third in the world. In 1997, debt service, to the World Bank
and the AfDB alone, will represent almost 20 percent of exports.
29.   Considering that prospects for increasing receipts from exports do not look promising
for the future, Sao Tome and Principe's external debt burden will continue to be unsustainable
until such time as the macroeconomic situation has stabilized sufficiently for the country to
benefit from debt reduction initiatives such as HIPC.
E.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD and MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROGRAM
30.   SAC II implementation  was adversely affected by two main factors under the
Government's control: SAP coordination and human resources and SAP ownership.
* SAP coordination and human resources. The structure responsible for coordination and
monitoring implementation of the SAP had only a single official assigned to it. This person's
efforts to organize the structure were, not surprisingly, unsuccessful, even though regulations
2 Debt Reduction Facility (IDA/R94-115, July 1994)



8
for this purpose had been appreved. As Finance Ministers came and went, so the effectiveness
of this structure waxed or waned.
* Program ownership. The SAP was perceived essentially as a Ministry of Finance initiative,
and not as a "national" program. This meant that there was never full commitment to its
success, either on the part of the Government as a whole, or by other institutions.
31.   The principal factors not under government control which, after all, played as big a part
in whether the SAP was successfully implemented or not, was (i) the advent of a multiparty
system of government after 400 years of colonialism and 16 years of one-party rule, and (ii) the
ensuing political instability. The most important factor holding back implementation of the
program was instability in the government. During the term of SAC 11 (1991-96), the country
had six Ministers of Finance and three governments. These frequent changes meant that no one
was prepared to assume responsibility for implementing the SAP. These problems associated
with carrying out difficult macroeconomic policy reforms in an embryonic parliamentary
environment continue to hinder effective government to this day.
F.    PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
32.   Several of the structural reforms undertaken, while having a positive impact, are not
likely to be sustainable because they have proved insufficient to deepen the adjustment process
and stabilize the economy and the macroeconomic situation has worsened.
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
33.   The performance of the Bank during program identification, preparation and appraisal
was, on balance, satisfactory. SAC II was identified and prepared with a view to guaranteeing
the continuity of the reforms initiated with SAC I, thus ensuring continued financing for the
economy during the adjustment period. Program design, however, underestimated the extent to
which: (i) structural rigidities, coupled with the historical decline in cocoa prices, and (ii) weak
institutional and political capacity, would hamper efforts to move away from a monoculture
(cocoa), diversify the economy and pave the way for new areas of economic growth..
34.   Project supervision was satisfactory with substantial staff resources being devoted to it in
the early stages, however, there was some turnover of staff managing this credit. Where
possible, the IDA supervision missions were coordinated with the African Development Bank,
the IMF and other donors. With hindsight, the length of time taken to declare this credit
effective (almost 15 months), due to the intervening multiparty elections, should have alerted
Bank staff to the possibility that the new Government's commitment to implementing the SAP
as it had been negotiated was doubtful and thought could have been given to canceling the credit
and renegotiating a new one
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   The start of the second phase of the SAP coincided with the arrival of the multiparty
parliamentary process in the country.  Governments inexperienced in this process and
preoccupied with political maneuverings, had little time to devote to program implementation.
Weak commitment to stabilization policies led to delays in tranche releases. Apart from this, the
Borrower's performance on implementing structural reforms, albeit with some delays, is
considered satisfactory.



9
36.   The Borrower followed established procedures in its procurement of goods and services,
respected the financial provisions in the Development Credit Agreement regarding audits and
operated a special account as agreed. Initially, internal control procedures were not as tight as
they should have been (mainly record keeping and reporting) but they were strengthened and
management of the project's financial records was subsequently satisfactory.
L.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.   The results of the major structural changes called for under the program  were
accomplished and are broadly positive. Longer-term sustainability is unlikely, however, since
these structural reforms alone were insufficient to deepen the adjustment effort.  Major
macroeconomic imbalances still remain; the overall fiscal and current account deficits remain
high (-69 percent and -16 percent of GDP, respectively until end-1996). Real per capita GDP
has declined on average by 1 percent between 1990 and 1996. The country is also still highly
dependent on external assistance and its social indicators increasingly reflect a growing degree
of poverty (infant mortality, per 1,000, rose from 57 in 1990 to 84 in 1995; life expectancy has
dropped from 67 years in 1991 to 64 in 1995.)
38.   The role played by SAC II in helping the adjustment process should not be entirely
discounted, however, despite persisting macroeconomic disequilibria and the weak response of
the economy to the structural changes that were made. Without the financial support of SAC II,
the pressure on the country's scarce foreign exchange reserves would have led to a much deeper
depreciation in the exchange rate of the Dobra, higher internal prices and a greater fiscal deficit
(via debt service costs) and even further poverty.
J.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
39.   It is important that the design of any new program with the World Bank takes account of
the two factors which were recognized as risks at the outset, and which later affected
implementation of the SAP, namely, institutional capacity and ownership of the program.
Furthermore, in its approach to a new cooperation program with the Bank, the Government has
undertaken a thorough review of public revenues and spending. The results of this exercise will
enable the preparation of a medium-term macroeconomic policy framework. This should
strengthen macroeconomic stabilization through greater mobilization of domestic resources and
greater efficiency in public expenditures. Future Bank lending should encourage productive
activities.
40.   An acceptable macroeconomic scenario will also help to reduce the fiscal deficit to a
sustainable level and will allow Sao Tome and Principe to be considered as eligible for the
special debt relief program under the HIPC Initiative (Heavily Indebted Poor Countries)
Equally, the sectoral strategies now being prepared will encourage the development of human
resources and infrastructure necessary for economic growth.
41.   All these actions hold out favorable prospects for consolidating the economic reforms
supported by the second structural adjustment credit.  Given this outlook and the sound
performance of the Bank, the Government hopes to see the Bank increase its role in the
development of Sao Tome and Principe and expects to negotiate a new program to this end.



10
K.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.   The following lessons may be drawn from the implementation of SAC II.
* Political stability and sustained government commitment are essential. Implementation of
SAC II demonstrated that significant results can only be achieved when there is political stability
and when the Govemment is determined to correct macroeconomic distortions. The "stops"
and "starts" in the implementation of SAC II can be clearly related to the prevailing political
climate and weak institutional capacity.
* Flexibility in program implementation is necessary to respond to evolving, fragile situations,
performance criteria should be tailored to suit country-specific conditions with close Bank
supervision. The timing of complex or politically sensitive reforms is critical. It is clear that,
when designing a SAP, sufficient flexibility must be built into the implementation schedule to
allow for changes in the local socio-economic situation. In this way, delays in effectiveness of
the Credit and subsequent tranche releases may be averted. However, this implies close Bank
supervision if program  implementation is to benefit from  such flexibility.  Furthermore,
performance criteria should be tailored to suit country-specific conditions.
* The depth of the economic crisis in Sao Tome and Principe demands greater attention to
conditions for diversifying the country's economic structure. Reliance on a single commodity
for economic growth can impair longer-term stability, even with temporary adjustment aided by
donors.
* Given the country's extreme dependence on external aid ($200 per capita, one of the highest
in the world) and the Government's weak capacity to cope with complex and multiple donor
procedures, effective donor coordination is fundamental to improve the efficiency and efficacy
of external assistance.
* However, the important lesson of SAC HI must be that for small, isolated island economies
to achieve longer-term viability, conventional adjustment measures are unlikely to succeed. The
Government and the donor community need to find new, innovative ways to stabilize the
macroeconomic situation and promote broad-based economic growth.
* Structural measures in the absence of macroeconomic stability are unlikely to have a
significant impact. The experience of SAC II illustrates clearly the dependence between a
sound macroeconomic framework and the response to structural measures, even when
appropriately designed and implemented. In such cases, even when specific conditionalities are
met, careful thought should be given to invoking the general conditionality related to
macroeconomic performance.



I1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC I)
(CREDIT 2165-STP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART HI -- STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial         Partial       Negligible     Not Applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                            /
Financial Objectives                       V
Institutional Development                                             _
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction 
Gender Issues_
Othcr Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Management 
Private Sector Managcment
Other
B. Project Sustainability            Likely       |Unlikelyv         Uncertain
Second Structural Adjustment 
Credit
C. Bank Performance         |Highly Satisfactory |Satisfactory | Deficient
Identification                                         __
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
Preparation Assistance                                       V
Appraisal 
Supervision
D. Borrower Performance        Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation 
Imdlementation                                               V
Covenant compliance                _
Operation                          __
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
Unsatisfactory
Second Structural Adjustment
C red it__                            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _  __ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _



Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                                      Purpose                             Year of      Status
Approval
Economic Modernization Line of Credit    Support for institutional reforms and investments in agriculture,  1985  Closed
transport, energy and macroeconomic management.
First Structural Adjustment Credit/      Balance of payments support to the first phase of the        1987       Closed
Special African Facility                 Government's structural adjustment program.
Cocoa Rehabilitation                     Support to the first phase of the structural adjustment program  1987   Closed
through the stimulation of food crop production and the
rehabilitation of cocoa plantations to regain former levels of
production and improve management.
Multi Sector I                           To remove infrastructure bottlenecks and build on efforts    1989       Closed
started in 1985 with Cr. 1590-STP, in support of the
Government's structural adjustment program. Also helped set
up a mechanism to channel external resources to priority
development sub-projects
Multi Sector II                           To mitigate the social and economic impact of economic      1992       Closed
decline and structural adjustment through the provision of basic
infrastructure to facilitate private economic activity, generate
employment opportunities for urban and rural households and
raise living standards.
Health and Education                     Support to high priority investments as well as policy reform  1992     Ongoing
and capacity building to help reverse the recent declines in
health and education status of the population of Sao Tome and
Principe.
Agriculture Privatization                Support to increase and diversify agricultural production and  1993     Ongoing
alleviate rural poverty through privatizing the publicly owned
agricultural estates and provide incentives for the private sector
and smallholders.



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in               Date Planned               Date Actual
Project Cycle
Identification                  May 15, 1989              May 15, 1989
Appraisal                       June 26, 1989             June 26, 1989
Negotiations                    May 21, 1990              May 21, 1990
Board Presentation              June 26, 1990             June 26, 1990
Signing                                                    July 2, 1990
Effectiveness                  October 2, 1990          September 11, 1991
First Tranche                  October 2, 1990          September 11, 1991
Second Tranche                  October 1991             November 1992
Third Tranche                   October 1992              January 1996
Loan Closing                  December 31, 1993         December 31, 1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Appraisal Estimate       3.25     6.50     9.75   .
Actual                            3.15     4.38     6.42      6.89     9.77    10.58
Actual as % of estimate           48%      45%
Date of final          December 16, 1996
disbursement
Note: By the end of project implementation, the original credit amount of SDR 7.5
million had become equivalent to US$10,587,105.45



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation (Page 1 of 4)
Key Policy Objectives in the                            Monitorable Actions and                                     Status
President's Report                                 Implementation Schedule
MACROECONOMIC STABLIZATION                             By effectiveness: none
Fiscal Policy and Tax Reform                           By 2nd tranche: ensure macroeconomic framework is     Met in November/December 1992 (Second tranche)
Agree annually on quarterly and annual fiscal deficit  consistent with objectives of the program.
benchmarks.                                            By third tranche: ensure macroeconomic framework is   Met in December 1995 (Third tranche)
On expenditures: (a) reduce civil service numbers; (b) adopt    consistent with objectives of the program.
future public sector wage awards on consistent with programs
fiscal objectives; (c) reduce official travel expenditures; and (d)
reduce government consumption of petroleum,
telecommunications, entertainment expenses and adopt
measures to reduce consumption of electricity.
On revenues: (a) adjust specific import and consumption tax
rates and administered prices, in line with exchange rate
adjustments; (b) eliminate gradually import tax exemptions; and
(c) increase petroleum product prices.
Tax Reform: (a) Adopt a comprehensive tax reform program by
end 1990; (b) simply and rationalize tax system, inter alia, to
increase fiscal revenues and to encourage private investment;
(c) implement ad valorem system by end 1990; and (d)
strengthen tax administration.
Monetary Policy                                        By effectiveness: none
(a) Maintain monetary discipline; (b) agree annually on  By 2nd tranche: ensure macroeconomic framework is   Met in November/December 1992.
quarterly targets; and (c) modify interest rate structure to  consistent with objectives of the program.
achieve and maintain positive real rates during programn period.  By third tranche: ensure macroeconomic framework is  Met in December 1995.
consistent with objectives of the program.
Inflation                                              By effectiveness: none
Limit growth in total credit to achieve inflation target of 25  By 2nd tranche: ensure macroeconomic framework is  Met in November/December 1992.
percent in 1990 and to reduce it further thereafter.   consistent with objectives of the program.
By third tranche: ensure macroeconomic framework is   Met in December 1995.
consistent with objectives of the program.
Exchange Rate Policy                                   By effectiveness: none
Adopt a flexible exchange rate policy to narrow the spread  By 2nd tranche: ensure macroeconomic framework is  Met in November/December 1992.
between the official and the parallel market exchange rates to a   consistent with objectives of the program.
maximum of 15 percent by end 1990 and thereafter maintain it   By third tranche: ensure macroeconomic framework is  Met in December 1995.
below 15 percent during program period.                consistent with objectives of the program.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation (Page 2 of 4)
Key Policy Objectives in the                            Monitorable Actions and                                       Status
President's Report                                  Implementation Schedule
SUPPORTING STRUCT ALicIES                              By effectiveness: none
Trude Policy                                           By 2nd tranche: (a)satisfactory progress in maintaining trade   Met in November/December 1992.
(a) Adopt and implement an automatic trade licensing system  and price liberalization, including (i) introduction of an
by end-March 1991, except for short negative import list; (b)    automatic import licensing system; (ii) elimination of any
evaluate merits of existing barter arrangements; (c) do not  restriction on imports of consumption goods and exports,
contract any new arrangements during program period if there   including beans, cooking oil, milk, rice, sugar and wheat flour;
is no economic advantage; (d) allow private sector to compete   (iii) elimination of price controls,. including profit margin
with ECOMEX , including six essential goods by mid-1990.    controls on beans, cooking oil and sugar; (iv) reduction to at
least 16 percent and simplification of cocoa export tax; and (v)
Pricingz policy                                        adoption of action plan to improve cocoa quality and
(a) Abolish price controls, including profit margin controls, on   marketing; and (b) satisfactory implementation of land
six basic goods; (b) ensure tariff structures for electricity, water,  distribution program, including (i) enactment of land
transport and telecommunications cover operating costs; and (c)  distribution legislation; (ii) carry out land distribution; and
ensure domestic petroleum product retail prices cover  (iii) adoption of an action plan for the reorganization of
international import parity prices, distribution costs, including    cadastral office and land registration procedures.
taxes.
By 3rd tranche: satisfactory progress in (a) maintaining price   Met in December 1995..
Cocoa Sector Development                               and trade liberalization, including (i) elimination of price
(a) Decrease overall level of cocoa taxation; (b) simplify cocoa   controls, including profit margin controls on milk, rice and 
export taxes, move to ad valoram tax and analyze the   wheat flour; and (ii) improve cocoa quality and marketing;                                                     a
possibility of introducing a graduated tax system; and (c) adopt  and (b) satisfactory progress in implementation of land
action plan to improve quality of cocoa and streamline  distribution program, including completion of reorganization
marketing process.                                     of cadastral office and land registration procedures.
Land Distribunto
(a) Formulate land distribution strategy and timetable,
involving credit and other support services; and (b) adopt land
distribution legislation by end 1990, including property
ownership rights.
Private Investmnent Promotion                          None
Trade and price liberalization; allow private sector to compete                                               A new Investment Code was prepared with the assistance
with ECOMEX, including for six basic goods. Revise and                                                        of FIAS and adopted in 1992.
strengthen Investment Code to ensure the provision of
sufficient incentives, while safeguarding the interests of the
State.
ECOMEX -- State Trading Company



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation (Page 3 of 4)
Key Policy Objectives in the                            Monitorable Actions and                                       Status
President's Report                                  Implementation Schedule
CAPITAL. BDGETING PROCESS AND PUBLIC                  By effectiveness: None
INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Public Investment Progcam (PIP!                       By 2nd tranche: satisfactory preparation of PIP for 1991-1993   Met in November/December 1992.
Review PIP annually and only implement those projects  and implementation review of PIP for 1990.
judged acceptable on the basis of the following criteria: (a)
minimum 10 percent real rate of retumr; (b) cost effectiveness   By 3rd tranche: satisfactory preparation of PIP for 1992-94 and  Met in December 1995. 1993-95 PIP agreed with IDA.
and minimum impact on recurrent budget; and (c) financing    implementation review of PIP for 1991.
only on concessional terms.
pIp Pre
(a) ensure all proposed public investments are evaluated by the
PIP Unit of the Govermnent.
PUBLIC SFCTOR REFORM                                  By effectiveness: none.
Public Enerise Reform
(a) Finalize studies to include detail action plans for  By 2nd tranche: (a) complete actions to accomplish any of: (i)   EMAVE liquidated in 1992; EMAG sold to employees in
liquidation, rehabilitation and privatization of P.Es; (b) carry   liquidation of EMAVE; or (ii) rehabilitation of ENAG; or (iii)   1993; and ROSEMA privatized in 1995. Work plan to
out thosc action plans in accordance with agreed timetable; (c)  privatization of ROSEMA; and (b) up dating of action plan  remaining PEs agreed with IDA.
conclude studies of legislation, institutional and regulatory  with timetable for reform of the remaining enterprises.
environment; (d) assess social impact of the PE reform
program to alleviate main adverse effects, including  By 3rd tranche: (a) complete all actions for (i), (ii) and (iii)
mobilization of resources; and (e) adopt and implement  above; and (b) satisfactory progress in implementing action
program to modemize accounting systems for public     plan for remaining P.Es under reforms.
enterprises.
Civil Service Reform
(a) Undertake and monitor measures to restrict increase in civil  By effectiveness: none.                     Public Administrative Reform started in 1993, Following
servant numbers, monitor civil servants movements and                                                         hesitant start, by Third Tranche (1995), progress was made
institutionalize central personnel management; (b) initiate  By 2nd tranche: adoption of an action plan for subsequent  in (i) identifying key posts; (ii) establishing a public
systems of selective productivity-based compensation for civil  phase of civil service reform.                administration reform unit ; (iii) diagnosing organizational
servants; (c) agree on action for subsequent phase of the                                                     weaknesses; (iv) new civil service statutes approved; (v)
administrative reform program by end-1990.            By 3rd tranche: satisfactory progress in implementation of  number of civil servants reduced by 11%, from 4056 in
measures included in the agreed action plan.           1989 to 3,620 in 1995.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation (Page 4 of 4)
Key Policy Objectives in the                             Monitorable Actions and                                         Status
President's Report                                   Implementation Schedule
BANKING REFORM PROGRAM                                   By effectiveness: none.
Financial Sysm
(a) Amend Banking Law to institutionalize separations of  By 2nd tranche: satisfactory progress to develop financial  Partially met. New banking and financial institutions law
commercial and central banking operations and permit potential   sector, including (I) satisfactory progress for enactment of  enacted in 1992 which allowed for separation of central
private foreign ownership of banks in STP; (b) establish  banking legislation; (ii) appointment of an external auditor for   banking functions from commercial functions. A new
effective systems for supervision and regulation of the financial   BNSTP's loan portfolio; and (iii) improvement to 50 percent of  Central Bank (BCSTP) established in 1992 and a private
system; and (c) as CP and BNSTP's loan collections rates  recoverable commercial loan collection rates by BNSTP.  commercial bank (BISTP) in 1993.
improve, increase interest deposit rates to improve saving
mobilization and recapitalize.                           By 3rd tranche: satisfactory progress in performance of
BNSTP's operations in accordance with new banking
legislation and further improvement, to 75 percent, of its
recoverable commercial loan collection rates.
Banco Nacional de Sao Tome e Principe (BNSTPI
(a) Separate the functions and the accounts of BNSTP into                                                       Recovery of nonperforming loans required a waiver from the
commercial and central banking components; (b) intensify                                                        Board, as most of the portfolio consisted of loans to the
efforts to clean up BNSTP loan portfolio, especially with respect                                               public sector (including public enterprises). Instead,
to public enterprises; and (c) adopt strict credit practices,                                                   agreement was reached on carrying out a comprehensive
including collections of commercial loans by enforcing collateral                                               financial reform program including evaluation of commercial
and increasing provisions for bad and doubtful loans.                                                           portfolio of BNSTP as well as transferring performing assets
to BISTP. Government undertook to liquidate public sector
Caixa Popular (CP)                                                                                              obligations which were absorbed by the Treasury and later  '
(a) Strengthen management of CP; and (b) improve CP's loan                                                      converted into a BCSTP loan to the Treasury, to be
collections by enforcing collateral and increase provisioning for                                               liquidated over time.
bad and doubtful loans.
Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF)
Maintain SIF as exclusive source of new development lending
outside BNSTP, that should eventually become integrated into
the banking system.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE and DEBT MANAGEMENT                    By effectiveness: none.
Foreign Exchange Budgeting
Prepare and update quarterly FOREX budget with intention of    By 2nd tranche: provision of quarterly foreign exchange cash    Met. BCSTP prepares on a monthly basis, a report giving
systematizing and regularizing foreign exchange sales.  flow of BNSTP for 1990-91.                              the current foreign assets and liabilities of the BCSTP.
Foreign exchange bureaus were allowed to start operating.
External Debt Management                                By 3rd tranche: provision of quarterly foreign exchange cash
(a) Improve system of debt and debt service record keeping.  flow of BNSTP for 1991-92.
Short-term and MLT debt should be managed by same unit,
within FOREX Dept. of BNSTP; (b) adopt comprehensive debt
strategy to renegotiate outstanding debts, including debt
reduction based on voluntary agreements; and (c) neither
contract nor guarantee any loans (excluding import financing
that is self-liquidating within one year) with a maturity of up to
and including one year, nor any non-concessional loans over one
year. Concessionality is defined to means with a grant element
of 50 perccnt or more.



18
Table 6: Studies included in the Program
Study                               Purpose                   Status            Impact
Feasibility, marketing, legal, as needed    In support of the Government's  Completed     Reduction of public
public enterprise reform program                   sector role in the
economy.
Price Liberalization Impact and        To assist the Government in         Completed      Market
Administration of Food Aid.            evaluating the implications of                     liberalization
liberalizing the price of three key                reforms were
commodities and defining an                        successfully
administrative system for distributing             implemented during
these commodities using the private                SAC II.
sector.
Table 7: Program Financing
(in US$ Million)
Source                         AAppraisal Estimate                           Actual
Local        Foreign        Total        Local      Foreign      Total
IMF           _          2.6           2.6          _-                      -
7_IDA   ___ __          9.75          9.75          -          10.6        10.6
SIDA                      1.9           1.9                     1.9         1.9
African Dev. Fund      -            12.0     1    12.0          -          12.0        12.0
TOTAL                      26.25         26.25                    24.5        24.5



19                                       Page 1 of 2
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Article                        Covenant                                  Compliance Status
3.01 (a)    The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time,    Complied overall, with slippages because
and in any case not later than March 31 of each year, starting   the Credit did not become effective until
with March 31, 1991, exchange views on the progress   Sept. 11, 1991.
achieved in carrying out the program and the actions specified
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.01 (b)    Prior to each such exchange of views as specified in paragraph  Complied overall, with slippages
(a) of this Section and not later than December 31, of each
year, the Borrower shall furnish the following documentation
satisfactory to the Association.:
(i) a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
program, including a review of investments and expenditures
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) the Borrower's revised PIP; and
(iii) the Borrower's draft budget for the next following fiscal
year.
3.01 (c)    The Borrower shall ensure that any new investment, not  Complied
included in the PIP referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section,
and having a value in excess of the equivalent of five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000) be previously reviewed and
agreed upon with the Association on the basis of a financial
and economic study of such investment.
3.01 (d)    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower  Complied
shall not contract or guarantee or authorize under any
circumstance any debt incurred or to be incurred by residents
in the Borrower's territory to non-residents thereof, except for
debt: (i) having a maturity of less than one year, incurred to
finance imports which are self-liquidating for the purposes of
repayment of the principal and accessories thereof: or (ii)
having a maturity of more than one year and a grant element
of not less than 50 percent.
3.02       Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement   Complied
of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3.03       The Borrower shall carry out studies and other activities to  Complied
supply the needed institutional support for implementing and
maintaining the adjustment of the Borrower's economy as
provided in the program. To that end, the Borrower shall
employ consultants and experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants and experts
shall be selected in accordance with the principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.



20
Page 2 of 2
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Article                          Covenant                                     Compliance Status
3.04 (a)     The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained    Complied
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the credit.
3.04 (b)     The Borrower shall:                                      Complied
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this section, including those for the Special Account for
each fiscal year, audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any   Complied
case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information  Complied
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
3.04 (c)     For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from    Complied
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with  Complied
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has  Complied
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such   Complied
records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the   Complied
annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.



Table 9: IDA Resources -- Staff Inputs
Stage of                        Planned                       Revised                      Actual
Project Cycle            Staffweeks        US$         Staffweeks        US$         Staffweeks      US$
Preparation/Preappraisal              n.a            n.a.            n.a           n.a            10.3         20.8
Appraisal                             n.a.           n.a.            n.a.          n.a.          67.3          139.8
Negotiations to Board                 n.a.           n.a.            n.a.          n.a.           16.0         32.7
Supervision                           11.5           16.1           21.5           37.0          178.3         375.6
Completion                            19.0           26.3           14.5           22.2           10.5         13.6
TOTAL        30.5            42.4           36.0          59.2           282.4        582.5
n.a. = not available
Table 10: IDA Resources -- Staff Missions
Stage of             Month and       No. of        Special.           Performance Rating  a/         Types of
Project Cycle             Year         Persons      Staff Skills    Implementation   Dev. Objectives  Problems b/
Through Appraisal             May 1989          8         EC, Fin, PE
Appraisl to Board             June 1990         9         EC, Fin, PE                                      _
Board to Effectiveness      September 1991      4         EC, Fin, PE                                          M/P
Supervision                     1992            3         EC, Fin, PE            I                1
1992           3         EC, Fin, PE            I                1
1993           4       EC, PE, Fin, PSM         2               2              M/P
1993           2           EC, Fin.             2               2             M/P
1993           3         EC, Fin, PSM           2               2              M/P
1994           2          EC, PSM               2               2             M/P
1995           1             EC                 2               2             M/P
1995           1             EC                 2               2             M/P
1995           3             EC                 2               2             M/P
1996           1             EC                 2               2             MJP
Completion/ICR Mission        May 1997          2          EC, PSM               3               3            M/P/T
a/ Key to Rating:   1 = Problem-free or minor problems   2 = Moderate problems   3  Major problems
b/ Key to Problem: M  = Managerial, T = Technical, P = Political, 0  = Other
c/ Key to Staff Skills: EC = Economist, Fin = Financial Analyst; PE = Public Enterprise Reform; PSM = Public Sector Mgt



22
Appendix A
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2165-STP)
Implementation Completion Mission
(May 7-13, 1997)
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Ms. Jennifer Edwards and Mr. Agapito Mendes Dias
visited Sao Tome and Principe from May 7 to May 13, 1997, its main purpose being to carry out,
in cooperation with the Borrower, the Implementation Completion Mission for the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II; Credit 2165-STP). The mission wishes to thank the
Government of Sao Tome and Principe for its support. The present Aide-Memoire summarizes
the SAC II Implementation Completion Mission's conclusions, which are to be ratified by the
Bank's management on the mission's retum.
2.    The mission submitted the draft version of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
to the authorities and thanked them for their comments.
3.    The draft ICR first explains the background to SAC II, and then goes on to justify the
importance of the objectives set for the country's economic growth. Nevertheless, the report
acknowledges that the design of the program did not take account of the impact that the country's
still delicate political and institutional situation could have on the process of implementing the
various components of the adjustment program. Consequently, although the structural objectives
were achieved, the stabilization objectives were achieved only partially, and macroeconomic
imbalances persist.  The report identifies the following as the major factors affecting
implementation: (i) coordination and human resources; (ii) commitment to implementation on
the part of the authorities; and (iii) the transition to a multiparty system. After assessing the
longer-term sustainability of SAC II's achievements, the report indicates that Bank and Borrower
performance during implementation was satisfactory overall. It also considers the results of the
structural reforms introduced under SAC II to be satisfactory.  The report concludes by
presenting a number of key lessons that can be learned from the implementation of SAC II.
4.    During the mission's visit, the Minister of Finance and Planning, Mr. Acacio Bonfim,
chaired a meeting at which the draft ICR was assessed. Also attending were the Governor of the
Central Bank, Mr. Carlos Quaresma Batista de Sousa, the Coordinator of Economic Reforms,
Ms. Maria das Neves Batista de Sousa, and Mr. Luis da ConceicAo, Adviser to the Governor, and
Ms. Piedade, an expert from the Central Bank's Directorate of External Relations and External
Debt.
5.    The Government commented on all the topics dealt with in the draft, and expressed
agreement with regard to the report's objectivity. The Government's comments will be taken
into consideration when the final version of the ICR is prepared. The Government has also
produced an assessment of SAC II implementation, which will be attached as Appendix B.



23
Appendix A
Page 2 of 2
6.    The mission wished to emphasize the following comments by the Government:
(a)   The Credit was completely disbursed and the main objectives of SAC II were
achieved. In particular, the program helped consolidate the foreign exchange, taxation, monetary
and price-liberalization reforms, as well as the structural reforms in the banking system and
public enterprises. (b) SAC II helped strengthen the country's balance of payments position at a
time when there was a severe shortage of foreign exchange. (c) The World Bank made a positive
contribution to the outcome of SAC II. The program provided support for a seminar that
facilitated the dissemination of information on the rules governing World Bank disbursements.
As a result, it was possible to exercise proper financial supervision over the Credit. (d) There
was compliance with World Bank guidelines on the procurement of goods and services and the
financial agreements of the Credit were respected.
The Government also considered it advisable that future World Bank operations in Sao
Tome and Principe focus less on imports and more on productive activities.
7.    The mission confirmed that the final disbursement of SAC II (US$685,389.67) was made
on December 16, 1996, making the final total for disbursements equivalent to
US$10,587,105.45. The mission also noted that the final audit took place in April 1997, and that
the final report had been submitted to the authorities of Sao Tome and Principe and the World
Bank. This report confirms that the financial statements recording the applications of SAC II
present accurately and fairly the financial position of the Credit Account as of December 31,
1996.
Drawn up in Sao Tome on May 12, 1997.
/s/
Jennifer Edwards,
Project Officer,
World Bank



Appendix B
Page 1 of 6
Borrower's Assessment of SAC II Implementation
Key Macroeconomic Policy Objectives of SAC II                                                   Status of Compliance
MACROECONOMIC STABILIZATION
Fiscal Policy and Tax Reform
Agree annually on quarterly and annual fiscal deficit benchmarks.
On expenditures: (a) reduce civil service numbers; (b) adopt future public
sector wage awards consistent with fiscal program objectives; (c) reduce  - Close to 350 workers were laid off and steps taken to consolidate the administrative reform process.
official travel expenditures; and (d) reduce govermment fuel consumption, and
telecommunications and entertainment expenses, and adopt measures to reduce
use of electricity.
On revenues: (a) adjust specific import and consumption tax rates and
administered prices, in line with exchange rate adjustments; (b) eliminate
gradually import tax exemptions; and (c) increase petroleum product prices.    With a view to curbing the fiscal deficit, the Borrower began far-reaching fiscal reforms in 1991, while also
Tax Reform: (a) Adopt a comprehensive tax reform program by end 1990; (b)  strengthening tax administration.
simplify and rationalize tax system, inter alia, to increase fiscal revenues and    - As part of this effort, taxes on oil byproducts were increased, as were retail prices of oil products and electricity
to encourage private investment; (c) implement ad valorem system by end  and telecommunications rates. In addition, taxes on alcoholic beverages and tobacco were raised, leading to some
1990; and (d) strengthen tax administration.                        reduction in the ratio of the current deficit to GDP, excluding interest on the external debt.
*   There was some progress in macroeconomic stabilization, as a result of careful management by the
government during 1992 and 1993.
*   1994 was a particularly difficult year for the Sao Tome and Principe economy. Political instability as a result
of three successive govermments contributed to the country's unsatisfactory macroeconomic performance.
* In the fiscal arena, the global deficit excluding grants stood at 9.9% of GDP.
* An expansionary monetary policy was the main reason for the increase in the money supply, which rose by
128% during the period.
*   The 1995 general budget was the key instrument of the stabilization program. The primary fiscal balance
showed a significant improvement, climbing from a deficit position measured at 9.9% of GDP in 1994 to a surplus
of 3.1% of GDP.
Because of the political instability associated with the failure to implement certain measures in 1996, the
governmentfell considerably short of meeting its public finance objectives. Its primary deficit rose to 7% of GDP.
This in turn touched off a significant increase in inflation, which hit the 52% mark and triggered a 61%
depreciation of the Dobra, in terms of the dollar.
Monetar  olicy
(a) Maintain monetary discipline; (b) agree annually on quarterly targets; and    - The SAP [Structural Adjustment Program] obviously affected the money supply, although it did help to limit it
(c) modify interest rate structure to achieve and maintain positive real rates  somewhat for a short period.
during program period.                                              - At the same time, it improved the domestic credit situation to some degree, since a substantial proportion of the
funds allocated to the govemment went instead to the economy.
- The policy of ensuring real positive interest rates adopted by the Borrower was helpful in curbing bank credit,
and thus in restricting the global money supply.



Appendix B
Page 2 of 6
Borrower's Assessment of SAC II Implementation
Inflatin
Limit growth in total credit to achieve inflation target of 25% in 1990 and to    - During 1990-91, because of the political instability associated with the legislative and presidential elections, the
reduce it further thereafter.                                       Borrower was unable to adopt the expected measures, and this caused inflation to shoot up from 40.4% to 52.7%.
However, with the tighter controls on spending and more effective revenue collection in 1992, a primary fiscal
surplus of about 4.90/o of GDP was produced. Relative success was achieved in containing the money supply
during the period in question, and inflation slowed down to around 27% in 1992 and 21.8% in 1993.
The failure to implement certain measures as a result ofpolitical instability triggered a rise in the inflation rate to
52% in 1996, the year the project was to close.
Exchange Rate Policy
Adopt a flexible exchange rate policy to narrow the spread between the official  - One of the key components of the monetary, credit, and exchange policy adopted during the time of the SAP was
and the parallel market exchange rates to a maximum of 15% by end 1990 and  the devaluation of the national currency (Dobra). From 1987, when the Borrower adopted a more flexible
thereafter maintain it below 15% during program period.             exchange rate policy, until 1991, when SAC II took effect, the Dobra had been devalued in effective nominal
terms by about 83%, and in effective real terms by around 44%.
- The exchange rate was deregulated in 1994 and now fluctuates in terms of the correlation between supply of and
demand for foreign currencies.
The measures to deregulate the exchange rate and ensure that the official and parallel rates were unified were not
fully implemented. In 1996, the gap between the two rates exceeded the 5% target rates agreed on, and the local    r
currency depreciated by about 61% vis-a-vis the dollar. To reverse this situation and improve macroeconomic  un
performance, the Borrower pledged to bring the gap between the two rates to under 2.5% by 1997.
- It is a fact that the SAP helped establish a more realistic exchange rate for the local currency, and that to some
extent it helped liberalize economic and commercial activity throughout the country, by directly or indirectly
affecting other sectors, such as civil engineering and construction, which have experienced renewed growth in
recent years.
SUPPORTING STRUCTURAL POLICIES
Irade Policy
(a) Adopt and implement an automatic trade licensing system by end-March  - In 1993 an automatic import licensing system was introduced.
1991, except for short negative import list; (b) evaluate merits of existing  As an incentive to production and exports, export taxes were reducedfrom 17% to 6%. Export procedures were
barter arrangements; (c) do not contract any new arrangements during program   simplified as well. At the present time, both private and public companies may import or export all products.
period if there is no economic advantage; (d) allow private sector to compete
with ECOMEX4, including six essential goods by mid-1990.
- With the elimination of price distortions and domestic production incentives, the burdensome government price
Pricing Poliy                                                       control system was dismantled.
(a) Abolish price controls, including profit margin controls, on six basic  - Direct subsidies for imports of foodstuffs and oil byproducts were eliminated. The process of abolishing
goods; (b) ensure tariff structures for electricity, water, transport and  maximum profit margins was concluded in 1992.
telecommunications cover operating costs; and (c) ensure domestic petroleum
product retail prices cover international import parity prices, distribution costs,
including taxes.
ECOMEX -- State Trading Company



Appendix B
Page 3 of 6
Borrower's Assessment of SAC II Implementation
Cocoa Sector Development (a) Decrease overall level of cocoa taxation; (b)    - A large-scale recovery and replanting program covering approximately 3,500 hectares of cocoa fields and
simplify cocoa export taxes, move to ad valoram tax and analyze the  including improvements to drying facilities and other infrastructure was launched, with the support of IDA and
possibility of introducing a graduated tax system; and (c) adopt action plan to   France.
improve quality of cocoa and streamline marketing process.          - At the same time, coffee production was improved with the support of the African Development Bank. The
results of these investments are still very modest, and they have not yet produced a major impact on the country's
economy.
Considering the huge investments made and the relatively insignificant effects, the Borrower decided to
undertake a future analysis of agricultural enterprises under management and lease contracts, to determine the
advantages of leases versus the benefits to be gained from having the same land distributed to small farmers for
cultivation.
Land Distribution                                                   - To encourage crop diversification and promote small farms, basic land distribution and ownership measures were
(a) Formulate land distribution strategy and timetable, involving credit and  adopted.
other support services; and (b) adopt land distribution legislation by end 1990,  In 1991, a new Land Law authorizing the sale or lease of publicly owned land came into force.
including property ownership rights.                                The rules for distributing land were defined.
*   A project for privatization of the agricultural sector and development of small landholdings, financed by IDA,
was one of the key measures adopted by the Borrower.
*   Plots of land resumed from enterprises under foreign management or lease arrangements and from other
enterprises are being distributed.
*   Up to 1996, 10,765 hectares of land were distributed to over 3,000 small farmers. This allocation benefited
13% of the population of Sao Tome and Principe. An additional 3,000 hectares were distributed in the form of
medium-sized farms (up to 50 hectares). Two farms, Ribeira Peixe and Santa Catarina, are about to be distributed
in their entirety or in part to small farmers. The project should cover 14,000 hectares by 1997.
The following are scheduled to take place in 1997:
- Preparation of an agricultural development policy statement;
- A socio-economic study of the results of the land distribution process;
- Definition of the institutional and legal structure for agrarian reform, with a view to clarifying the legal status of
nationalized lands. The institutional arrangements for transferring use rights to private operators will be improved
and land registry services will be modernized.
Private Investment Promotion
Trade and price liberalization; allow private sector to compete with ECOMEX,  - Prior to 1987, there was no actual private sector in Sao Tome and Principe. Various measures were adopted by
including for six basic goods. Revise and strengthen Investment Code to  the Borrower to help promote the private sector, including the following:
ensure the provision of sufficient incentives, while safeguarding the interests    *   Liberalization of trade and pricing, and deregulation of the exchange rate;
of the State.                                                       *   Reform of the financial system;
*   New investment code;
*   Land distribution;
*   Privatization of public enterprises.



Appendix B
Page 4 of 6
Borrower's Assessment of SAC II Implementation
CAPITAL BUDGETING PROCESS AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT
PROGRAM
Public Investment Promam (PIP)                                      - From 1990 to 1993, US$82 million was spent on public investment. The agricultural sector absorbed 41%/o, and
Review PIP annually and only implement those projects judged acceptable on  the transportation sector 33% of these resources, channeling them into the following projects: improvement of
the basis of the following criteria: (a) minimum 10% real rate of return; (b)  cocoa and coffee production; support for research services and promotion of small farmers; establishment of a
cost effectiveness and minimum impact on recurrent budget; and (c) financing   palm plantation and oil factory; a new airport; and overhaul of the road network.
only on concessional terms.                                         - The portion of the PIP financed by outside resources increased by about 5 percentage points, to attain 900/o in
1993. These resources were provided in the form of concessionary loans and grants, but the grant element
pIP Process                                                         remained relatively small.
(a) ensure all proposed public investments are evaluated by the PIP Unit of the  - A significant portion of expenditure, about 330/o, went to technical assistance and project management, while
Government.                                                         only around 3% of resources were spent on training.
pUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
public Erilayise Reform
(a) Finalize studies to include detail action plans for liquidation, rehabilitation   The Borrower decided to reduce its direct participation in the economy and to initiate reform of the public
and privatization of P.Es; (b) carry out those action plans in accordance with    enterprise sector.
agreed timetable; (c) conclude studies of legislation, institutional and  By 1996, the commercial firms ECOMIN and ECOMEX were liquidated, the poultry enterprise EMAVE was shut
regulatory environment; (d) assess social impact of the PE reform program to   down, the telecommunications enterprise was converted into a semi-public company (CST), and a management
alleviate main adverse effects, including mobilization of resources; and (e)  contract was concluded with a foreign company to manage the Water and Power Company, EMAE. The
adopt and implement program to modernize accounting systems for public  following enterprises were privatized, among others: Rosema (brewery), Atelier Central (timber), EMAG
enterprises.                                                        (printing), Construtora (construction), TRANSCOLMAR (maritime and land transport), and Hotel Miramar. The
Boa Vista Inn and other small enterprises will be sold.
- At the present time, only the following enterprises remain in the hands of the government: EMOLVE,
ENAPORT, ENASA, EMAE, CORREIOS, ENCO, CST (490/%), and AIR S. TOME (30%). The Borrower has
already drafted legislation to convert these enterprises into stock companies and to establish a unit in the Ministry
of Finance to manage these shareholdings. The Borrower is also considering the possibility of strengthening the
Public Assets Department for this purpose.
Civil Service Reform
(a) Undertake and monitor measures to restrict increase in civil servant  Some measures were adopted in this area. The new Civil Service statutes were approved. In April 1997, the
numbers, monitor civil servants movements and institutionalize central  National Assembly approved the new salary scale for political appointees, special posts, and the general and
personnel management; (b) initiate systems of selective productivity-based  private schedules, as well as a policy on compulsory and voluntary retirements. Implementation of this policy will
compensation for civil servants; (c) agree on action for subsequent phase of  be accompanied by the second stage of the administrative reform project financed by the UNDP. It is designed to:
the administrative reform program by end-1990.                      improve human resource management in the govemment; consolidate the decentralization process; and redefine
the legal and structural framework on the basis of the country's strategic needs.
- The Borrower is aware of the need to make the administrative reform process part of a more global context.
- Some govemment employees were laid off. There are currently 3,889 employees in the civil service, which is
expected to be cut by a fustber 1,00 positions in the next few years.



Appendix B
Page 5 of 6
Borrower's Assessment of SAC II Implementation
BANKING REFORM PROGRAM
Financial Sysm
(a) Amend Banking Law to institutionalize separations of commercial and  Significant progress was made. In 1991, the Central Bank Act and the Financial Institutions Act were
central banking operations and permit potential private foreign ownership of    promulgated. In August 1992, the Central Bank was inaugurated. In March 1993, the Banco Nacional and the
banks in STP; (b) establish effective systems for supervision and regulation of  Caixa Popular were abolished, and the International Bank and the Caixa Nacional de Poupancas e Creditos
the financial system; and (c) as CP and BNSTP's loan collections rates  (CNPC) [National Savings and Credit Fund] began operations. In 1995, the Banco do Equador was established.
improve, increase interest deposit rates to improve saving mobilization and  Since this is a financial system in its infancy, it is natural that some difficulties remain to be ironed out, but the
recapitalize.                                                       situation continues to improve.
Banco Nacional de Sao Tome e Principe (BNSTP)
(a) Separate the functions and the accounts of BNSTP into commercial and  BNSTP is in the final stages of liquidation. Its uncollectible loan portfolios have been assumed by the
central banking components; (b) intensify efforts to clean up BNSTP loan  government. Its functional departments and accounts have been transferred to commercial branches or the Central
portfolio, especially with respect to public enterprises; and (c) adopt strict  Bank, as appropriate.
credit practices, including collections of commercial loans by enforcing
collateral and increasing provisions for bad and doubtful loans.
Caixa Popular (CP)
(a) Strengthen management of CP; and (b) improve CP's loan collections by
enforcing collateral and increase provisioning for bad and doubtful loans.
- Despite the Borrower's efforts to improve the management of CNPC, it operations were highly ineffective, and
contributed significantly to expansion of the money supply and hence to inflation.
Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF)                                - In an attempt to privatize CNPC in November 1996, a protocol of understanding was signed with the Caisse
Maintain SIF as exclusive source of new development lending outside  d'Epargne pour le Developpement, based in France, for a proposed US$3 million, and in March of this year a
BNSTP, that should eventually become integrated into the banking system.  definitive agreement was concluded.
The SIF was restructured and converted into the Economic and Social Development Institute (INDES).
FOREIGN EXCHANGE and DEBT MANAGEMENT
Foreign Exchange Budgcding
Prepare and update quarterly FOREX budget with intention of systematizing    The Central Bank prepares and periodically updates the country's exchange budget.
and regularizing foreign exchange sales.
Extemal Debt Management                                             In the debt management arena, the Borrower has been working in cooperation with the UNDP to institute the
(a) Improve system of debt and debt service record keeping. Short-term and    DMFAS system in Sao Tome. This system is scheduled to be installed in the Central Bank and in the Finance
MLT debt should be managed by same unit, within FOREX Dept. of BNSTP;  Department during the 1997 second half.
(b) adopt comprehensive debt strategy to renegotiate outstanding debts,
including debt reduction based on voluntary agreements; and (c) neither
contract nor guarantee any loans (excluding import financing that is self-
liquidating within one year) with a maturity of up to and including one year,
nor any non-concessional loans over one year. Concessionality is defined to
means with a grant element of 5O0/o or more.



Appendix B
Page 6 of 6
Borrower's Assessment of SAC II Implementation
SOCIAL IMPACT
Policies to alleviate the negative impact of the SAP                The delay in implementing the Social Dimensions of Adjustment Project (SDA) and in taking steps to generate
jobs and income has meant that measures to minimize the negative impact of the SAP have not produced the
results initially anticipated.
The deterioration in the standard of living caused by the harsh SAP measures had a heavy impact on the people of
Sao Tome living in both urban and rural areas.
A series of measures was planned to minimize the negative effects of structural adjustment, as follows:
* The World Food Programme (WFP) assisted in supplying foodstuffs to agricultural enterprises and in the free
distribution of meals in schools and hospitals.
* Government employees were terminated, but no retraining program was initiated, since the SDA Project
financed by the AfDB was canceled. The poverty index increased. However, various plans have been
developed/or are in development to create jobs and alleviate poverty. The Borrower has been working on the
following projects in conjunctions with various partners:
* A Poverty Note [survey], with the World Bank;
* A national seminar to combat poverty, which took place October 17-24, 1996;
* A project to combat poverty by developing five rural communities. The PNAPAF program, a national
program to promote family farms, to be implemented throughout the country from 1994 to 1999.
* Starting in 1994, a study to be conducted every year by the ADP (an NGO) on the poverty threshold in Sao s
Tome and Principe;
*   Plans for the Fourth Round Table Conference scheduled to take place in May 1998; one of the papers for that
conference is on a program to combat poverty;
* Preparations for the first national report on Sustainable Human Development.
May 13, 1997
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Sao Tome, Sao Tome and Principe






____7_________________ 4                                                            6 40                                      IBRD   24847
rO0,                                                7'28                                                                            .ER                               \                                                         L.
A;  S   NIGERIA       g                                                                               ATLANTIC  OCEAN
ATLANTIC OCEAN
!-    -\t  CAMEROON                     -            )           \           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEIEA VISTA
gOM ROM ISLAND                                                                                                                                                                          AGRICULTURAL
<  -'p .   t.UE NATURAL RESOURCES
xJ r. o' ? SAO TOME AND PRiNCIPE                               To"
- ~e -ipHI__ Perrearo ~ PRiNCiPE Z- * ,9 _S/_ P >-Rin5g F=
-. + NATURAL RESOURCES INDICATORS                                      ANTIN
MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN OADES     NATN ILLIMTERS
-  OTHER ROADS                                                     0V            ;   y                                                                MAJOR TOWVNS
7                                                                                                   OCEAN~~~~~~~~~~~~4ARPR                                                                               LATTN
0    TOWVNS132                                                                 1     . C    d                                                            305
PLANTATIONS                                                                                                                                   4 ol Ae     MRAIRS40L
30Ne DOlOoueQ  MAIOR DEPENDRNCIA5   - N'3AINLsUOES
O      I      2       3      4      3  KILOMETERS                                        ___________N METE____/
3 E                                3 MILES                                               =  ODD                            /                                 ROLAS I5LAND                                                                                           0
_    ISOHRETS IN MILLIMETERS
IM  opLO=-il;sAe  L7s/ml*rnalvs4>i7LoW7Ed                  _   _INTE9NATIONAL SOANOARIES                                                           0  I  2  3          5  N     i
A. Iq.L  .l ,r_,y  A r-'7    P-"7A~.AA*A
AA 'AAJA..                                                                                                                                                                07  I    0    3  *           5
l                                     l                                                                                                                                                                  MAr 1 99~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOI 









IMAGING
Report No.:        16638
Type:     ICR



