Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 2165 STP
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
               (Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
                              between
           DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 2, 1990
                    CREDIT NUMBER 2165 STP
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1990, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
     WHEREAS  (A)  the Association has received a letter dated May
25, 1990 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the "Program"), declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program,  and
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of
urgently needed imports and services required during such execution;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from other
donors to assist in financing the imports and services required
during execution of the Program; and
     (C)  on the basis,  inter alia,  of  the  foregoing,  the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches as
hereinafter provided;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications thereof set forth below (the "General Conditions")
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
      Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
      and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
      such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
      the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to
      the Development Credit Agreement,  the performance by the
      Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
      under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
      of the purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,  the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "BNSTP" means Banco Nacional de Sao Tome e Principe, the
Borrower's Central Bank;
     (b)  "Dobra" and "Db" mean the currency of the Borrower;
     (c)  "EMAG" means Empresa de Artes Graficas, a PE established
pursuant to the Borrower's Law Decree No. 34/79 of June 21, 1979;
     (d)  "EMAVE" means Empresa de Avicula,  a PE established
pursuant to the Borrower's Law Decree No. 8/81 of April 23, 1981;
     (e)  "PE" means Public Enterprise, namely any enterprise
established pursuant to the Borrower's Law Decree No. 48/78 of
December 30, 1978;
     (f)  "PIP" means  the Borrower's  three-year Program of
Investments and Public Expenditures revised annually;
      (g) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 22, 1990 and June 11,
1990, between the Borrower and the Association;
      (h) "ROSEMA" means Fabrica de Cerveia e Refrigerantes, a PE
established pursuant to the Borrower's Law Decree No. 49/82 of
December 31, 1982;
     (i)  "SITC"  means  the  Standard  International  Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986); and
     (j)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
Page  3
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
7,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
    (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date,  the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,  1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year, specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15
Page  4
commencing November 15, 2000 and ending May 15, 2030.  Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2010
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 Dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph  (b)  above,  the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. (a) The Director de Relacoes com o Exterior of
BNSTP is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the BNSTP with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for the
collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to
the Association in support of such applications;  such withdrawal
applications shall, to the extent practicable, be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$500,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from
time to time, and in any case not later than March 31 of each year,
starting with March 31, 1991, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b) Prior to each such exchange of views as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section and not later than December 31 of each
year, the Borrower shall furnish the following documentation
satisfactory to the Association:
      (i)   a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
            Program, including a review of investments and
            expenditures  in such detail as the Association shall
            reasonably request;
      (ii)  the Borrower's revised PIP; and
Page  5
      (iii) the Borrower's draft budget for the next following
            fiscal year.
     (c)  The Borrower shall ensure that any new investment, not
included in the PIP referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section,
and having a value in excess of the equivalent of five hundred
thousand Dollars ($500,000) be previously reviewed and agreed upon
with the Association on the basis of a financial and economic study
of such investment.
     (d)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,  the
Borrower shall not contract or guarantee or authorize under any
circumstance any debt incurred or to be incurred by residents in the
Borrower's territory to non-residents thereof, except for debt:  (i)
having a maturity of less than one year, incurred to finance imports
which are self-liquidating for the purposes of repayment of the
principal and accessories thereof; or (ii) having a maturity of more
than one year and a grant element of not less than 50 percent.
     Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out studies and other
activities  to  supply the needed institutional support Ñor
implementing and maintaining the adjustment of the Borrower's
economy as provided in the Program.  To that end, the Borrower shall
employ consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.  Such consultants and experts shall be selected in
accordance with the principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)  The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year,
                  audited,  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than four months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors,  of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
      (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a)  of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
Page  6
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices,  bills,  receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls  involved in their preparation,  can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Economia e Financas
            Sao Tome
            Republica Democratica de
            Sao Tome e Principe
                                          Telex:
                                          225 MIPLANO ST
For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
Page  7
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America,  as of the day and year first above
written.
                  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
                  By /s/ Rafael Branco
                                    Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Callisto E. Madarro
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule,  the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items
       112           -               Alcoholic beverages
       121           -              Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse
       122           -              Tobacco, manufactured
                                   (whether or not containing
                                   tobacco substitutes)
        525           -            Radioactive and associated
                                   materials
        667           -            Pearls, precious and semi-
                                   precious stones, unworked
                                   or worked
        718         718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                                   parts thereof, fuel
                                   elements (cartridges),
                                   non-irradiated for nuclear
                                   reactors
        897         897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver
Page  8
                                   or platinum group metals
                                   (except watches and
                                   watch cases) and
                                   goldsmiths' or
                                   silversmiths' wares
                                   (including set gems)
        971             -          Gold, non-monetary (ex-
                                   cluding gold ores and
                                   concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement,  except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000  may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures after the date falling four
months prior to the date of this Agreement;
     (d)  expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any
national or international financing institution or agency other than
the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance;
      (f)  expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
      (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to:  (i)  SDR 1,500,000  for petroleum products; and (ii) SDR
2,000,000 for foodstuffs.
3.   Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procure-
ment of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000
may be permitted by the Association upon the basis of statements of
expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify.
4.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit:
     (a)  after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000,
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on
evidence satisfactory to the Association:
      (i)   that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower
            is consistent with the objectives of the Program;
      (ii)  with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
            carrying out of the Program; and
      (iii) that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 3 to
            this  Agreement have been  taken and are satisfactory to
            the Association; and
     (b)  after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000,
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on
evidence satisfactory to the Association:
      (i)   that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower
            is consistent with the objectives of the Program;
Page  9
      (ii)  with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
            carrying out of the Program; and
      (iii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 3 to
            this  Agreement have been  taken and are satisfactory to
            the Association.
5.   If,  after the exchange of views described in paragraph 3
above,  the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and,
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress  and  taken  actions  satisfactory  to  the
Association, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines"), subject to the
following modifications:
      (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted there for:
    "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:
            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Forum, Business Edition; or
            (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international
                  circulation; or
            (iii) a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."
    (b)  The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the
Guidelines:
    "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely used in
international trade and specified in the bidding documents."
(c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted
2. Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $500,000 shall be awarded:
     (a)  by purchasers required to follow Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis
of such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been
found acceptable by the Association;
     (b)  by other purchasers,  in accordance with established com-
mercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded on
the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from
Page  10
suppliers from at least two countries,  except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used
where  considered appropriate  under paragraph  3.5  of the Guide-
lines; and
     (c)  by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from
more than one supplier.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract,  two conformed copies of such contract,  together with
the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award,
a description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed
and such other information as  the Association shall reasonably
request. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, such copies together with the oth
er information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association
as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract. Where payments under a contract are to be made
out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the documentation and
the information to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the
provisions of this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association
as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
5.   The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Conditions for Release of Second and
                   Third Tranches of the Credit
     The following actions have been taken consistent with the
principles outlined in the Program and are satisfactory to the
Association:
Part A:   Actions Referred to  in Paragraph 4  (a)  (iii)  of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Second
Tranche)
1.   The revised PIP for the years 1991 to 1993 has been submitted
and is satisfactory to the Association.
2.   The PIP for the years 1990 to 1992 has been satisfactorily
implemented so far.
3.   Liberalization of trade and prices and improvement of
incentives for production and export, including: (a) introduction
of an automatic import licensing system satisfactory to the
Association;  (b) elimination of all price controls,  including
profit margin controls,  on beans,  cooking oil and sugar;  (c)
elimination of restrictions on export and import of consumption
goods including beans, cooking oil, sugar, rice, wheat flour and
milk; (d)  reduction in the rate of cocoa export taxes to at least
16 percent; and (e) adoption of an action plan to streamline and
improve the cocoa quality and marketing process.
Page  11
4.   A land distribution program, including:  (a)  enactment of
appropriate legislation; (b) enactment of regulations thereto; and
(c)  adoption of an action plan for the reorganization of the
cadastrial office and land registration procedures.
5.   Reform of the Borrower's PEs, including:  (a) completion of
all measures to accomplish any of:  (i) liquidation of EMAVE; or
(ii) rehabilitation of EMAG; or (iii) privatization of ROSEMA; and
(b) adoption of action plans satisfactory to the Association with
specific timetables for the reform of the remaining PEs.
6.   An action plan has been adopted for the reform of the
Borrower's civil service and is satisfactory to the Association.
7.   Improvement and development of the Borrower's banking
sector, including: (a) appointment of an external auditor for
BNSTP's loan portfolio; (b) attainment of a level of at least 50%
in the collection rate of BNSTP's overdue commercial loan
portfolio; and (c) enactment of appropriate legislation to
separate the central banking and commercial banking functions of BNSTP.
8.   Satisfactory information has been provided on the past
and forecasted quarterly foreign exchange cash-flow of BNSTP for
the years 1990 to 1991.
Part B: Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) (iii) of
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Conditions for Release
        of Third Tranche)
      1. The revised PIP for the years 1992 to 1994 has been
submitted and is satisfactory to the Association.
      2. The PIP for the years 1991 to 1993 has been
satisfactorily implemented so far.
      3. Further liberalization of trade and prices and
improvement of incentives for production and export, including:
(a) elimination of all price controls, including profit margin contr
ols,
on milk, rice and wheat flour; and (b) carrying out of the action
plan under Section 3 (e) of Part A of this Schedule.
      4. Progress in the land distribution program, including
satisfactory implementation of the action plan under Section 4 (c)
of Part A of this Schedule.
      5. Further reform of the Borrower's PEs, including: (a)
completion of all measures to accomplish: (i) liquidation of
EMAVE; (ii) rehabilitation of EMAG; and (iii) privatization of
ROSEMA; and (b) implementation of the action plans for the
remaining PEs and in accordance with the timetables under Sec-
tion 5 (b) of Part A of this Schedule.
      6. Satisfactory implementation of measures included in the
action plan for the reform of the Borrower's civil service under
Section 6 of part A of this Schedule.
7.   Further improvement and development of the Borrower's banking
sector, including:  (a) the separation of the central banking and
commercial functions of BNSTP under Section 7 (d) of Part A of
this Schedule has been fully achieved; and (b) a level of at least
75% in the collection rate of BNSTP's overdue commercial loan
portfolio has been attained.
8.   Satisfactory information has been provided to the Association
on the past and forecasted quarterly foreign exchange cash-flow of
BNSTP for the years 1991 to 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  12
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests,  the Association shall,  on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account
                  at such intervals as the Association shall
                  specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  the documents and other evidence required
                  pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                  payment or payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                  such request, the Association shall,  on behalf
                  of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account
                  such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                  and as shall have been shown by said documents
                  and other evidence to have been  made out of the
                  Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Page  13
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Association, pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless  the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
