Page  1
                                       0ctober 8,  1991
His Excellency Mr. Eng. Norberto Costa Alegre
Minister of Economic and Financial Affairs
Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
Amendment to Second Structural Adjustment Credit (No. 2165 STP)
Excellency:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Second Structural
Adjustment Credit), dated July 2, 1990, between the Democratic
Republic of Sao Tome and Principe (the Borrower) and the
International Development Association (the Association).  Further to
the discussions held with the representatives of the Borrower, we
are pleased to inform you that the Association hereby agrees to the
following amendments to the above-referenced Development Credit
Agreement:
     1.   Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended by adding the
following at the end of such paragraph:
     "The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
     financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
     the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
     of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Credit           % of
                            Allocated        Expenditures
                            (Expressed in    to be
         Category           SDR Equivalent)  Financed
(1)      Goods              7,100,000        100%
(2)      Consultants'       400,000          100%
         Services and
         related equipment
         TOTAL              7,500,000"
     2.   Paragraph 4 is amended as follows:
          (a)  by inserting in the introductory paragraph the
words "under Category 1 of paragraph 1 of this Schedule" after the
words "expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit  .  .  .";  and
          (b)  by inserting in both subparagraphs 4(a) and 4(b)
the words "under such Category 1" after the words "withdrawn from
the  Credit  Account."
     Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by
countersigning and dating the form of confirmation on the two
original copies of this letter provided and returning one original,
as countersigned, to us.  This amendment shall become effective as
of the date of receipt by the Association of this letter duly
countersigned by you.
                         Sincerely,
                         Mary Oakes Smith
                         Acting Director
Page  2
                         Western Africa Department
Confirmed
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
By:
     Minister of Economic and
       Financial Affairs
Date:31/10/91
