Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13418
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SEVENTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Loan 2368-TUN)
AUGUST 2, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents ma2 not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
their~~~~~~~



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit
Tunisian Dinar, D        =      1,000 Millimes
D 1                      =     US$0.92
US$1                     =      1.09
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
Metric System                               U.K. System
Kilometer (Km)                        =     0.62 mile (mi)
Meter (m)                             =     3.28 feet (ft)
Cubic meter (m3)                      =     220 gallons (g)
Million cubic meters/year (Mm3/year)    =   0.603 million gallons per day (mgd)
Liter (1)                             =     0.220 gallon (g)
Liters per second (1/sec)             =     19,000 gallons per day (gd)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AIC         =            Associations d'Interet Collectif
DGR         =            Direction du G6nie Rural
ICB          -           International Competitive Bidding
LCB         =            Local Competitive Bidding
PCR         =            Project Completion Report
SONEDE    =              Societ6 Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux
LRMC        =            Long Run Marginal Cost



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
August 2, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Tunisia
Seventh Water Supply Project (Loan 2368-TUN)
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Seventh Water Supply Project (Loan
2368-TUN)" prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office with Part II provided
by the Borrower.
The project was a fast follow-up on a similar (National Rural Water Supply Project
(Loan 2134-TUN) project and could have benefitted from waiting for lessons drawn from the earlier
project. Nevertheless, it met or exceeded its physical targets increasing access to water for rural
communities from 46% to 67%.
Due to the ever increasing cost of progressively marginal services the sector's financial viability
may well be threatened in the future. Appropriate studies for finding solutions are in progress.
The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as likely, and its
institutional development as substantial.
The quality of the PCR is very good. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
SEVENTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 2368-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENT
PREFACE .....................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .1.1..........................
Objectives ......................                                                                                    ii
Implementation ......................ii
Results .........................
Sustainability ......................                                                                               iii
Findings and Lessons Learned  .....................                                                                 iii
Overall Project Assessment ....................  iv
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                   .........  1
Project Identity  .............................................    1
Background . ............................................... 1
Project Objectives and Description  .................................    2
Project Design and Organization   ..................................   3
Project Implementation  ........................................   3
Project Results .             ............................................. 5
Project Sustainability   .........................................    8
Bank Performance .                 ........................................... 8
Borrower Performance   ........................................   9
Project Relationship .               .......................................... 9
Consultant Services  .........................................   10
Project Documentation and Data   .................................    10
Lesson Learned  .                 ..........................................   10
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....... 12
Introduction  .            .............................................                                            12
Background      ..............................................                                                      13
Project Identity  ............................................    14
Project Design   ............................................   16
Project Execution   ..........................................    19
Project Results  ............................................    19
Accoriiplishments ..........                                  .                                                    22
Annexes ....................................... 25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III: STATISTICAL ENFORANOR                                                                          A T........................O.   37
Related Bank Loans  .........................................    38
Project Timetable    ..........................................                                                                                          38
Loan Disbursements .........................................    39
Disbursements  (Chart)    .......................................                                                                                        40
Project Implementation    .......................................                                                                                        41
Project Cost ..............................................                                                                                              42
Project Financing                ..........................................                                                                              42
Loan  Allocation  by  Category                      ...................................                                                                  43
Project Results   ............................................                                                                                           44
SONEDE: Actual and Forecast Income Statements from  1983 to 1992  ...                                                                     .......  45
SONEDE: Actual and Forecast Cash Flow Statements from  1983 to 1992  ...                                                                    .....  46
Status  of Covenants   .........................................                                                                                         47
Staff Inputs   ..............................................                                                                                            48
Mission  Data   .............................................                                                                                            49



TUNISIA
SEVENTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 2368-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Seventh Water Supply
Project, for which Loan 2368-TUN in the amount of US$50.0 million was approved on
December 13, 1983. The Loan Agreement was signed on February 7, 1984 and the loan became
effective on November 2, 1984. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1993, after two one-year
extensions. The Loan was fuUly disbursed and the last disbursement was made on November
10, 1993.
2.          The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, North
Africa Department, of the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and M) and the Borrower (Part II).
3.          Preparation of this PCR was started during the last Bank supervision mission of
the project in May 1993, finalized during a final mission in December 1993, and is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports;
quarterly progress reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal
Bank memoranda.






- ii -
TUNISIA
SEVENTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 2368-TUN)
PROTECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.          The project's major objectives were to: (a) provide a larger share of the rural
population with public water supply services; (b) assist "Soci6t6 Nationale d'Exploitation et de
Distribution des Eaux" (SONEDE) in its efforts to promote adequate operation and maintenance
of the rural systems; and (c) assist SONEDE in expanding its organization to cover the design,
construction and operation of water supply systems in villages with populations between 100 and
1,500 (para.3.01).
Implementation
2.          The loan was declared effective eleven months after Board Presentation, and the
first disbursement took place one more year later. Implementation started slowly because the
project was launched too quickly after the Sixth Water Supply Project (Loan 2134-TUN), which
was SONEDE's first experience in the rural sub-sector (para.2.06). The Health Education
Program was designed to sensitize the rural population to proper and safe use of the water
supply and improve their health conditions.
3.          Project implementation was the responsibility of the Studies and New Works
Department of SONEDE which, thanks to the skills of its staff, worked efficiently and obtained
very good results. The only problem, faced throughout the project implementation, was the
difficulty in finalizing bidding documents for ICB, because SONEDE did not use the Bank
sample bidding documents. This led to lengthy and unproductive discussions (para.5.05). The
Rural Monitoring Unit, established within SONEDE under the project, also performed very well,
and succeeded in reducing its staff. The works were completed with a 2.5 year delay, due to
the project's slow start, a slowing down in 1989 and 1990, the large number of villages involved
and the difficulty in reaching many small and isolated villages throughout the country (para
5.02).
4.          The project included a financial and organizational study, to determine the impact
of SONEDE's expanded activities in rural areas on its financial situation, and to propose new
institutional and financial arrangements. According to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement,
SONEDE had to complete this study by March 31, 1986 (para.6.03). The study was started out
in 1986, but was never completed nor submitted to the Bank for review and discussion. It is



now being carried out, by Tunisian consultants, as part of the preparation of the Eighth Water
Supply Project (para.6.04).
Results
5.          The project exceeded expectations in meeting its objective of improving access
to potable water in the rural areas, as 775 rural water supply systems were built, instead of 634
forecast at appraisal. During project implementation, the percentage of the rural population
served by SONEDE increased from 28.3 % to 33 %. Taking into account the rural systems built
by the "Direction du Genie Rural" (DGR), during the same period, the overall percentage
covered in rural areas jumped from 46% to 67.5%. In addition, 48,000 house connections were
installed, compared to 25,000 estimated at appraisal (para.6.02). The project also helped
strengthen SONEDE in the planning and implementation of rural projects through its Studies and
New Works Department and the new Rural Monitoring Unit (para.6.03).
6.          However, the second objective of putting in place new financial and institutional
arrangements for operation and maintenance of the water systems in isolated villages was not
realized. SONEDE never completed the necessary study (para.4 above) and made no effort to
promote the creation of AICs which were to be responsible for operation and maintenance of the
water systems in these villages (difficulties owing particularly to the statutes of SONEDE and
to the fact that the creation of AICs is the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture,
paras 6.04 and 6.05). On the financial side, SONEDE was not able to satisfactorily meet some
of the financial covenants of the legal agreements (para.6.08).
Sustainability
7.          The development of rural water supply could only be sustainable if SONEDE
exploited all possibilities for active participation of local consumers in the operation and
maintenance of rural water supply facilities. For this reason, every effort should be made
hereafter to promote the creation of AICs, which should take full responsibility for operation and
maintenance of the rural systems. SONEDE should also develop least cost technology for rural
areas to improve the rural population's access to safe water at an affordable cost (para.7.01).
Otherwise, SONEDE's involvement in rural water supply would probably exceed its financial
capacity (para.7.02).
Findings and Lessons Learned
8.          The technical aspects of the project were performed by SONEDE satisfactorily,
though with some delays. However, as happens in many developing countries and with many
projects, the financial and institutional arrangements were more difficult to implement owing to
SONEDE's reluctance to promote AICs or develop appropriate technology for rural areas
(para.9.02). On the Bank side, it should be noted that a long and successful dialogue with
SONEDE has made the Bank staff too flexible and lenient towards SONEDE's reluctance to
recruit consultants, promote AICs and develop appropriate technology (para.8.02).



- iv -
Overall Project Assessment
9.           The project achieved its physical goals, but the institutional and financial
objectives were not fully achieved. Overall, the project may be considered satisfactory.






PART I






TUNISIA
SEVENTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 2368-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.          Project identity
Name                       Seventh Water Supply Project
Loan Number                2368-TUN
Borrower                   Republic of Tunisia
RVP Unit                   MENA
Country                    Tunisia
Sector                     Water Supply and Sanitation
2.          Background
2.01        The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for the management and allocation of
all water resources. In 1975, the Government enacted a "water code" for the regulation of water
supply and demand priorities. The code also provided for the establishment of a National Water
Committee to assist the Ministry of Agriculture in the management the water resources. The
"Soci6t6 Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux" (SONEDE), an autonomous
public entity, under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture, is responsible for the
production and distribution of water in urban areas and large villages. The "Direction du G6nie
Rural" (DGR) is in charge of providing water supply services to rural areas and villages with
less than 500 residents.
2.02        Bank involvement in the water supply sector in Tunisia started with the Tunisia
Water Supply Project (Ln. 581-TUN), approved on December 3, 1968. A major component of
this project was the establishment of SONEDE which, in essence, laid the groundwork for both
the rapid improvement of water supply services in Tunisia and the Bank's long, and generally
successful, involvement in the sector. This was followed by six successive operations, including
the project reviewed in this report (one IDA credit and six IBRD loans). Total lending
amounted to US$225 million and by large, all projects were successfully implemented, albeit
with some delays.
2.03        Faced with scarce water resources, the Government has given priority to the
development of water resources, and has launched a water conservation program to reduce losses
and waste which, in the long run, is expected to reduce overall per capita consumption by 15 %.
2.04        The Sixth Water Supply Project (Loan 2134-TUN), approved on April 27, 1982,
was the Bank's first involvement in rural water supply in Tunisia. The project, also called
National Rural Water Supply Project, consisted of: (a) expansion of existing or construction of



- 2 -
new water supply systems in 150 villages (population over 500); (b) provision of credit facilities
for the financing of house connections; and (c) purchase of 80,000 water meters. The loan was
closed on June 30, 1988, after two extensions. The Project Completion Report was issued in
September 1989, and a Performance Audit Report was prepared in July 1993. On completion,
only 77 out of the planned 150 village schemes had been executed, at considerably higher cost
than estimated at appraisal.
2.05        The Seventh Water Supply Project (Loan 2368-TUN), also called Rural Water
Supply Development Project, was first discussed with Tunisian officials in Washington, in July
1982, three months before Loan 2134-TUN became effective. The Bank sent a mission to
Tunisia in September 1982 to identify a project in the rural water supply sub-sector. A
preparation mission took place in February 1983, and the project was appraised in April 1983.
Although the Seventh Project was clearly a continuation of the Sixth Project, the loan for which
had been declared effective only six months earlier, in October 1982, the SAR only briefly
mentions it.
2.06        The Sixth Water Supply Project was the first experience of SONEDE in the rural
sub-sector, and it is difficult to understand why the Seventh Project was launched so quickly
after the previous one. The slow start of the project is a result of this haste, as the Rural
Department of SONEDE, to be established under the project, was not yet operational. In
addition, the impact of this rural area water supply development on SONEDE's financial
situation was not known. A study on this subject was included in the Seventh Project, but the
study was never completed. A new study has now been carried out under the proposed Eighth
Water Supply Project and results have been incorporated within the new project.
3.          Project Objectives and Description
3.01        Prject Objectives: The project's major objective was to provide a larger share
of the rural population with public water supply services (at the time of appraisal, 46% of this
population had access to such services, compared to 91 % in urban areas). A second objective
was to assist SONEDE in its efforts to promote adequate operation and maintenance of the rural
systems. For isolated villages, SONEDE was expected to promote the establishment of water
user's associations (AIC), or contract with individuals or existing organizations for the operation
and maintenance of the water supply systems in those villages. A third objective was to assist
SONEDE in expanding its organization to cover the design, construction and operation of water
supply systems in villages with populations between 100 and 1,500.
3.02        Project Description: The project consisted of: (a) installation of piped water
supply facilities in about 600 villages with a population between 100 and 1,500, and the
recalibration of transmission mains from which the villages would be supplied with water; (b)
installation of house connections and related pipe extensions in rural areas; (c) provision of
drilling and operational equipment; (d) research, design and testing of new materials and
equipment for rural water supply projects; (e) financial and organizational studies, with the



objective of formulating an appropriate financial strategy for developing the sector; and (f) a
public health education program in the villages to be provided with piped water.
4.          Project Design and Organization
4.01        The project concept was developed by SONEDE, with inputs from Bank staff,
over a short period of time, from July 1982 to April 1983. This short preparation time can be
attributed to the continuing dialogue and close relationship between the Bank and SONEDE, and
SONEDE's increasing project preparation and implementation capacity developed during the
six preceding loans. In addition, the concept of the project was the same as that of the Sixth
Project, with the difference that the population threshold for supplying villages with piped water
facilities was lowered to 100 inhabitants from 500.
4.02        The master plans, feasibility and final design studies for new investments in
villages were carried out by SONEDE. Taking into account SONEDE's experience and
implementation capacity, appraisal responsibility for the sub-projects was delegated to SONEDE.
Bank appraisal was limited to the evaluation of SONEDE's management and overall investment
program, including the selection of eligibility criteria for sub-projects. The creation of a rural
department within SONEDE was requested by the Bank at the time of appraisal. During
negotiations, SONEDE submitted a letter confirming the creation of a planning and monitoring
unit for rural water supply projects.
5.          Project Implementation
5.01        Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up: The Loan was approved on December
13, 1983 and signed on February 7, 1984. The only condition of effectiveness was the
execution of a Project Financing Agreement between the Government and SONEDE.
Effectiveness, originally scheduled for June 7, 1984, was postponed to September 10, 1984, then
to November 7, 1984, and was finally declared on November 2, 1984. The delay was mainly
caused by slowness in approving and ratifying legal documents. The Republic of Tunisia was
the Borrower and SONEDE and the Ministry of Public Health (health education program
component) were the executing agencies. The Borrower made available the proceeds of the loan
to the executing agencies on a grant basis except for amounts allocated for credits to consumers
which were relent to SONEDE at the following terms and conditions: repayment in Dinars over
a period of 17 years, including four years of grace, at an interest rate of 10.5%.
5.02        Implementation Schedule: Table 4, Part mII, gives the number of sub-projects
completed, year by year, compared with those estimated at appraisal. Project implementation
was originally scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1989, but started one year behind
schedule, partly because of late effectiveness. In addition, from 1989 to 1991, there was a
slowing down, clearly shown on the graph, page 3, Part ImI. By closing, the Project had built
775 rural systems, instead of 634 forecast at appraisal, but it took 2.5 more years than forecast
at appraisal to complete the project. This is mainly due to the great number of villages involved



- 4 -
and to the difficulty in reaching many of the small and isolated villages throughout the country.
The appraisal schedule seems to have been too optimistic.
5.03        Water tariffs are the same all over Tunisia, which allows cross-subsidization
within the sector, but the level of subsidies is not known. With the proposed extension of
SONEDE's services to small villages, the subsidies are increasing. To determine the extent to
which such cross-subsidization is feasible and its upper limits, a financial and organizational
study was to be carried out by SONEDE under the project. It was agreed during negotiations
that this study would be completed by March 31, 1986, and submitted to the Government and
the Bank one month later. The study was carried out but never completed nor submitted to the
Bank. At the time of the Loan Committee meeting, on October 27, 1983, the Senior Vice-
President for Operations, requested advancement of this study in order to have its conclusions
as soon as possible, and commented that he was skeptical of SONEDE's capacity to conduct the
study with its own resources. It would have been a wise decision to take into account these
comments.
5.04        A Health Education Program in the villages covered by the Project was also
included. It focused on the importance of using potable water and the promotion of user
associations to operate and maintain the facilities built under the project. At the beginning, the
Ministry of Health was not very interested and this component was not started until 1989.
Nevertheless, the Directorate of the "Hygiene du Milieu et Protection de l'Environnement"
performed well, and the program was completed in 1993.
5.05        Procurement: After effectiveness, the procurement process started out quickly
and proceeded satisfactorily. Pipes, fittings, pumps and related materials were provided through
ICB, while contracts for civil works were awarded on the basis of LCB. Through the end of
the project, there were long discussions about bidding documents for ICB, because SONEDE
never used the Bank Sample Bidding Documents, although the Bank often requested SONEDE
to do so. In addition, all the contract awards were reviewed and approved by the Bank which,
for hundreds of civil works contracts, imposed a heavy burden on Bank staff. It would have
been better to give SONEDE full responsibility for awarding the civil works contracts, and to
only control some bidding processes during supervision missions.
5.06        Project Costs: A comparison between the appraisal estimates and the actual costs
of the project is given in Part Im, section 5, Table 5.A. The appraisal cost estimate was TD
67.4 million (about US$ 104.4 million), and the actual cost has been TD 72.9 million (about
US$ 82.8 million). The main differences were due to the number of water systems built (775
instead of 634 forecast at appraisal), the number of house connections (48,000 instead of 25,000
forecast at appraisal), and to operation equipment which was purchased at the end of the project
to use the remaining funds of the Loan.
5.07          Disbursements: In Part Im, Table 3, actual quarterly disbursements of the Loan
are compared with the appraisal estimates and the disbursement profile of water and sanitation
projects in Tunisia. Disbursements were spread over 10 years. This compares to the profile of



- 5 -
water supply projects in Tunisia (8.5 years) and to the 7.5 year disbursement period which had
been estimated at appraisal. This is due to the fact that the first disbursement took place two
years after Board approval, or one year after effectiveness. The original closing date of June 30,
1991 was postponed to June 30, 1992, then to June 30, 1993. By this time the Loan had been
fully disbursed with the final disbursements on commitments taking place up to November 10,
1993.
5.08        Credit Allocation:  The original allocations by category and the actual
disbursements under Loan 2368-TUN are shown in Table 5.C, Part III. There were two formal
reallocations, on June 2, 1987 and April 23, 1991, mainly to increase the percentage of
reimbursement by the Bank, from 40% to 60%, then 90%, for civil works, and from 60% to
70% and 90% for equipment and materials in local currency. These increases were possible as
the result of the Tunisian Dinar/US Dollar depreciation. The TD/US$ exchange rate went from
US$0.65 to US$1.02 to TD 1, increasing the amount of the Loan expressed in TD. Cost
overruns for Categories 1 (civil works) and 3 (credit to customers) were US$1.5 million and
US$2.2 million respectively, the latter because 23,000 more house connections were installed
than forecast at appraisal (para. 5.06).
5.09        Project Financing: Because of the depreciation of the Tunisian Dinar against the
US Dollar, the Bank Loan financed a higher percentage of the cost and the Government
contribution was decreased. The original and actual contributions of the Bank, the Government,
SONEDE and the customers are shown in Part m, Table 5.B. In TD, the Bank contribution
jumped from 32.3 to 44 million, while that of the Government was reduced from TD 28.6 to
18.7 million.
6.          Project Results
6.01        Project Objectives: The Project successfully met its first objective of providing
a larger share of the rural population with public water supply services; the percentage of the
rural population being served jumped from 46% to 67% between 1983 and 1993, thanks to the
water systems built by both the "Direction du G6nie Rural" (DGR) and SONEDE. However,
the Project was less successful in assisting SONEDE in its efforts to promote adequate operation
and maintenance of the rural systems. The services provided by SONEDE are of excellent
quality, but costly. It was proposed that for isolated villages, far from the existing water supply
network, SONEDE would promote the establishment of water AICs (para. 3.01) which would
retain the responsibility for operation and maintenance. Although this would have reduced its
financial burden, SONEDE made no effort in this direction and its current policy is to take over
those systems built by the DGR and operated by users' associations. This problem is discussed
below (paras. 6.05, 6.06).
6.02        Physical Results: The physical targets of the project were fully achieved or
exceeded (para. 5.06), as is shown in Part m, Tables 4 and 6.A. This is due to the efficiency
of the Studies and New Works Department and the Rural Planning and Monitoring Unit,
established within SONEDE, and to the success of the house connection program that included



- 6 -
a line of credit to customers. The facilities built under the project are working well, and are
well operated and maintained.
6.03        Institutional Performance: On the institutional side, the project objectives were
twofold: (a) strengthen SONEDE, the implementing agency, in its operation, maintenance and
implementation of the project in rural areas, and (b) promote the creation of AICs responsible
for operation and maintenance of the water systems in isolated villages. The first objective was
satisfactorily achieved, but as previously mentioned (para. 6.01) the second objective was not
and still needs further efforts from the Government and SONEDE. As a matter of fact,
SONEDE does not seem to realize how costly it is to develop the rural water sub-sector with
the same standards as in urban areas. Water tariffs are the same all over Tunisia. This national
tariff allows cross-subsidization within the sector, between large cities, small towns and rural
areas. However, the level of subsidies is not known and, with the expansion of SONEDE's
services to small villages, the subsidies need to be further increased. According to Section
2.04.b of the Project Agreement, SONEDE was to have carried out and completed by March
31, 1986, a study to determine the cost of providing potable water to rural areas, the extent to
which cross-subsidization is feasible, and the impact of rural development on SONEDE's
financial situation.
6.04        This study was started in 1986 and the first conclusions were that the cost per m3
of providing water was four times as much in rural areas as in urban. Unfortunately, SONEDE
never submitted the study to the Bank for review and discussion, as requested by the Project
Agreement, nor used the conclusions of the study to adjust its own policy. This study has been
started again in the framework of the Eighth Water Supply Project, now under preparation. The
preliminary results already indicate that the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) for providing rural
water supply would be two to three times the current average costs and would be a problem for
SONEDE's long-term financial viability.
6.05        For the time being, SONEDE's policy is to operate the rural water systems itself,
provide every household with a house connection, and to charge for the water consumed at the
national rate. As all rural customers use less than 20 m3 per quarter, the rate is TD 0.095 per
m3, far below the actual cost. Including rent of the water meter (TD 3), the average bill
amounts to TD 5 per quarter. If the rural population was served by standpipes, the water rate
would be much higher, TD 0.286 per m3, which is paradoxical. Obviously, the service through
house connections is much better, but it is clear that SONEDE cannot bear the incremental cost
for the whole country. Up to now, SONEDE has built the cheapest rural systems, in capital cost
as well as in operating cost. The systems to be built in the future will be increasingly costly,
and their impact on SONEDE's financial situation will be increasingly negative.
6.06        The Law of July 6, 1987 and three Decrees, of October 27, 1987, January 12,
1988, and December 14, 1992 regulate the creation of AICs. There are now about 1,200
existing AICs and 380 applications have been submitted for the creation of new ones, most of
them with the help of DGR. Generally, every household served by an AIC pays TD 2 per
month for water supply. It is clear that, in its own interest, SONEDE should not try to replace



-7-
existing AICs but, when possible, make every effort to promote new AICs, as recommended by
the Bank at the beginning of the Seventh Water Supply Project. It would be much more efficient
for SONEDE to provide bulk water at the entrance of a village, at the rate of TD 0.286 per m3,
than to provide every household with potable water at the rate of TD 0.095 per m3 (water
supply provided through stand-pipes in rural areas is generally designed and executed by the
DGR but maintained by an AIC). A firm decision on the policy to be followed should be made
and agreed with the Bank within the framework of the proposed Eighth Water Supply Project.
6.07        Financial Performance: Project accounts were regularly audited by an external
auditor, and all reports were received (with some delays) by the Bank. Tables 6B and 6C, Part
m, give a summary of SONEDE's income and cash flow statements from 1983 to 1992. The
average operating expenses for the period 1983-91 were 16.9% lower than appraisal estimates,
and revenue was by 22.2% lower than appraisal estimates. This is the result of average tariff
and water consumption being consistently below appraisal estimates.
6.08        Some financial covenants of the Loan and Project Agreements were not
satisfactorily fulfilled on a regular basis during Project implementation:
(a)   at the end of 1993, the Government's arrears amounted to 1 year's worth of
billing, and those of the municipalities to 2 years, which was not in compliance
with payment being received at "reasonable period after billing", according to the
Loan Agreement;
(b)  the internal cash generation of SONEDE should have been at least 1.5 times the
debt service requirement. This was met, but only after taking into account
customer contributions;
(c)   Section 4.04.a of the Project Agreement requires that SONEDE maintain a self-
financing ratio of not less than 20%. This covenant was also fulfilled, but again,
only by taking into account the customer contributions;
(d)   the Side Letter No. 3 requires that the self-financing ratio, including the
customers' contributions, be not less than 40%. This was fulfilled until 1989.
Then, it was 38.3% in 1990, 27.9% in 1991 and 36.5% in 1992.
6.09        Indeed, starting in 1986, debt service requirements became increasingly higher
than appraisal estimates due to the devaluation of the dinar, in terms of US$. The increasing
cost of debt, which rose from 12.8 % in 1986 to 19.4% in 1992, was due to exchange losses on
Bank loans (TD 10.9 million on the average from 1987 to 1992). To close the financing gap,
the Government raised its equity contributions, which reached 32% of SONEDE's investments
over the period. These developments obviously prevented SONEDE from fulfilling the financial
covenants under the Loan, as shown para 6.08 above, and required the reassessment of its
tariffs, which is being done under the proposed Eighth Water Supply Project's preparation.



-8-
6.10         SONEDE carries out a systematic analysis of the effect of its tariffs on the
changes in the consumption patterns of its various consumer groups which provides an excellent
planning tool for forecasting future demand. However, due to the uniform national tariff policy,
monitoring of the cost of the water in the different regions is carried out rarely, if at all,
consequently the economic aspects of the service are paid little or no attention.
7.           Project Sustainability
7.01        Maintaining an acceptable level of benefits throughout the economic life of the
water supply facilities constructed under the project would require continuous satisfactory
maintenance and operation by SONEDE, but the financial constraints caused by the
Government's tariff and other policies make it difficult to keep up pressure its maintenance and
operation activities. Adequate maintenance and operation of the project facilities are, therefore,
at risk. The sustainability of the institutional improvements designed to enable SONEDE to
manage its growing involvement in rural water supply is also questionable, due to:
(a)   absence of technical staff interested in developing least cost technology to
improve the rural population's access to safe water at an affordable cost;
(b)   increasing number of difficulties in supplying water at low cost to small and
remote villages;
(c)   increasing specific investment costs, and operation and management expenses of
the facilities in these villages; and
(d)   inability and lack of interest shown by SONEDE for the creation of AICs.
7.02        It is clear that the development of rural water supply is only be sustainable if
SONEDE actively promotes participation of local consumers in the operation and maintenance
of rural water supply facilities. For this reason, every effort should be made to facilitate the
creation of AICs. Otherwise, SONEDE's involvement in rural water supply will exceed its
financial capacity.
8.          Bank Performance
8.01        Bank supervision by the Bank was hindered by a high turnover of task managers
(four) responsible for the project during its implementation. During the life of the project, a
total of 15 successive supervision missions visited Tunisia, at the rate of 2 per year, except in
1986, 1988 and 1990, when there was only one mission per year. The elapsed time between
supervision missions reached 16 months from September 1990 to January 1992. It should also
be noted that most of the missions were combined with the supervision of other projects: the
Sixth Water Supply Project (Loan 2134-TUN), the Sfax Flood Protection Control Project (Loan
2289-TUN) or the Third Urban Sewerage Project (Loan 2255-TUN). About 109.8 staff-weeks
were spent on this project over the entire project cycle, which is very low, the average being



- 9 -
200 s/w. The details of staff input and missions are given in Part m, section 8, tables 8.A and
8.B.
8.02         During the supervision phase, the Bank appears to have been too lenient with
respect to delays in the submission of the organization and financial study, which was finally
dropped, and to SONEDE's reluctance to promote AICs and develop and apply appropriate
technology for rural water supply. This failure to be more rigorous was probably due to the
otherwise productive dialogue and close relationship that has existed between the Bank and
SONEDE since 1968.
9.          Borrower Performance
9.01        Thanks to the competency of its staff; the performance of the Studies and New
Works Department of SONEDE was excellent: the bidding process progressed on schedule,
with no problems in concluding contracts and at costs below appraisal estimates, as well as
successfully completed the physical works as described earlier (para. 5.06). The Rural
Monitoring Unit performed very well, reduced its staff, appraised all the sub-projects and kept
a record of their technical data and costs. Quarterly progress reports were submitted to the Bank
in a timely manner, but included only financial data on contract expenses throughout project
implementation. No written information was prepared on experience acquired in executing the
project components, and therefore no lessons could be learned that may be relevant to improve
preparation and implementation of other projects. Although the Bank insisted repeatedly on
receiving acceptable progress reports, nothing was actually done.
9.02        On the institutional side, the performance of SONEDE has been very poor: it did
not respect its commitments as regards (a) the institutional and financial study required by
Section 2.04.b of the Project Agreement; (b) the promotion of AICs for operation and
maintenance of rural water systems; and (c) the development of appropriate technology for rural
water supply. It is clear that, up to now, SONEDE is not interested in using a specific approach
for the rural sub-sector: the service provided to small villages is the same as in big cities. An
alternative plan of action to SONEDE's assumption of rural water supply systems (para. 6.01,
6.05) should be proposed and developed under the proposed Eighth Water Supply Project to
avoid further financial problems for SONEDE.
10.         Project Relationship
10.01       SONEDE, the Bank and relevant Government authorities maintained their close
relationship developed during the implementation of the six preceding projects. This relationship
was beneficial to the achievement of the physical objectives of the project where the Bank
responded in a flexible way to SONEDE's requests. However, the Bank should have been more
firm in its efforts with SONEDE to build the new institutional arrangements needed to adequately
address its increased involvement in rural water supply. Borrower-contractor relationships were
good.



- 10 -
11L         Consultant Services
11.01       SONEDE did not use consultants for appraisal or detailed design of rural sub-
projects, but used its own design office which generally performed well for routine works.
Nonetheless, the reluctance to employ local or foreign consultants led to failures in: (a) the
institutional and financial study, and (b) the development of appropriate technology in rural
areas.
12.         Project Documentation and Data
12.01       The original documentation for the project was adequate and appropriate. The
appraisal report and both legal agreements provided a useful framework for both the Bank and
SONEDE throughout project implementation. As mentioned earlier, the quality of information
on project implementation provided by SONEDE's progress reports hampered obtaining a
detailed overview needed for the PCR.
13.         Lessons learned
13.01       The project accomplished its physical goals, but the institutional and financial
objectives were not fully achieved. However, as happens in many developing countries and with
many projects, the financial and institutional arrangements were more difficult to implement
owing to SONEDE's reluctance to promote AICs or develop appropriate technology for rural
areas (para.9.02). On the Bank side, it should be noted that a long and successful dialogue with
SONEDE has made the Bank staff too flexible and lenient towards SONEDE's reluctance to
recruit consultants, promote AICs and develop appropriate technology (para.8.02).



- 11 -
PART II






- 12 -
TUNISIA
SEVENTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 2368-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.    INTRODUCTION
The purpose of this Project Completion Report (PCR) is to examine in detail the different
stages of appraisal, implementation, execution and completion of the Seventh Water Supply
Project, and to draw useful lessons from the experience gained.
The PCR is made up of three quite distinct parts, as detailed below.
Part I
This part will comprise:
-     A summary of the main events occurring during the execution of the project and
an analysis of essential questions of particular interest for the Bank.
-     A comparison of the actual results of the project with the initial objectives.
-     An assessment of the performance of the Bank and of the Borrower over the
entire project cycle, underscoring decisive initiatives taken (or not taken) by one
or the other party and emphasizing the lessons that can be learned.
-     An initial evaluation of the extent to which the immediate objectives, established
in mutual agreement, have been achieved, and of the impact of the project on the
Government's policies and on the institutions.
Part H (prepared by Borrower)
This second part will present:
The analysis of the main problems concerning the project and an ex-post
evaluation of its execution.
An evaluation of the performance of the Bank and of the Borrower during the
preparation and execution of the project and a statement of the lessons learned for
the future.



- 13 -
An assessment of the relations between the Bank and the Borrower during the
preparation and execution of the project.
Part m
This consists in a compendium of statistical data covering the main aspects of the
operation and of its execution, in particular the estimated costs and disbursements and the
indicators regarding the estimated and actual benefits of the project and its economic and
financial impact.
II.   BACKGROUND
Since 1968, the year in which SONEDE was established, the Bank has provided the
company with financial assistance to accomplish its objectives and has participated in the
financing of nine projects which have helped to bring about significant improvements in the
sector. In point of fact, at the end of 1991 the percentage of the urban population served was
100%, while that for the rural population was 31.3%. Table I in the Annex of Part HI
summarizes the progression, in rural Tunisia, of the main potable water indicators from 1973
to the end of 1991, the period covered by the four development plans executed by SONEDE.
We summarize below the key characteristics of these loans:
1968  Loan 581-TUN            US$15.0 million  - Water supply for Tunis and
Sousse
1970  IDA Credit 809-TUN      US$10.5 million  - Improvement and expansion of
the systems in eight regions
1972  Loan 858-TUN            US$18.5 million  - Water-supply facilities for
Credit 329-TUN                          tourism areas
1974  Loan 989-TUN            US$23.0 million  - Water supply for Sfax and 62
major rural centers
1977  Loan 1445-TLUN          US$21.8 million  - Water supply for five northern
provinces with cofinancing by the
KFD
1979  Sector Loan 1702-TUN    US$25.0 million  - Village water supply
1982  Sector Loan 2134-TUN    US$30.5 million  - Water supply in 150 villages
with house connections for low-
income customers
Loan 1431-TUN                           - Sidi Salem integrated project
(raw water for the treatment plants
supplying Tunis



- 14 -
1984  Loan 2368-TUN           US$50.0 million  - Potable water supply for 634
rural villages
US$193.5 million
All these loans and their outcomes are the result of a strong relationship between the
Bank and SONEDE, and their mutual agreement on the means and appropriate methods to
improve the conditions and quality of service in the water sector and ensure that this sector
progresses according to a clear and balanced strategy.
mL.   IDENTIT  OF THE SEVENTH PROJECT
1.    Reference
IBRD Loan No. 2368
Loan Agreement                 . February 7, 1984
Effectiveness                  . November 4, 1984
Closing date: Initial            June 30, 1991
Revised             June 30, 1992
Actual              June 30, 1993
Amount                         . US$50 million
R.V.P.                         . MENA
Borrower                       : Tunisian Government
Sector                         : Water Supply and Sewerage
Subsector                      . Rural Water Supply
2.    Project Description
2.1   Category 1: Works
Construction of water-supply systems in about 634 rural villages and if necessary
rehabilitation of existing supply systems with a view to supplying neighboring rural localities.
The population of these rural localities ranges between 100 and 1,500 persons.
2.2   Category 2: Supplies
Supply of pipe and equipment for water supply to rural centers, together with drilling
equipment and equipment and materials needed for operation and maintenance of the supply
systems. (Parts A,B,C)



- 15 -
2.3    Category 3:
Grant of loans to residential customers in the rural areas for installation of house
connections and related extensions. (Part E)
2.4    Category 4:
Execution of a Health Education program, managed by the Ministry of Public Health,
in the villages where running water is to be supplied. (Part F)
3.     Project Cost and IBRD Financing
Execution of the project required investments estimated at TD 67.4 million (inclusive of
taxes), the financing of which was partially covered by IBRD by means of a US$50 million loan,
the breakdown by project component being as follows:
CATEGORY              INITIAL ALLOCATION                       UPDATED ALLOCATION
amount allocated  expenditures financed  amount allocated  expenditures financed
(in US$)                        (in US$)
June 2, 1987     May 2, 1991
WORKS              19,850,000     40%               19,850,000      60%               90%
EQUIPMENT &        20,000,000     100% of the       22,225,312      100% of the       100% of the
MATERIALS                         foreign exchange                  foreign exchange   foreign exchange
FOR PARTS A, B                    expenditures and                  expenditures and   expenditures and
& C OF THE                        60% of the local                  70% of the local   90% of the local
PROJECT                           currency                          currency          currency
expenditures                     expenditures      expenditures
LOANS TO            5,500,000     50%                7,500,000      50%               50%
CUSTOMERS
(PART E OF THE
PROJECT)                                                                                             _
HEALTH               300,000       100% of the         300,000      100% of the       100% of the
EDUCATION                         foreign exchange                  foreign exchange   foreign exchange
(PART F OF THE                    expenditures and                  expenditures and   expenditures and
PROJECT)                          60% of the local                  70% of the local   70% of the local
currency                         currency          currency
expenditures                     expenditures      expenditures
FEE                   124,688     amount due           124,688      amount due        amount due
under Section                    under Section     under Section
2.05 (a) of the                  2.05 (a) of the   2.05 (a) of the
Loan Agreement                   Loan Agreement   Loan Agreement
UNALLOCATED    4,225,312          _
TOTAL              50,000,000                       50,000,000



- 16 -
IV. PROJECT DESIGN
In 1986 SONEDE carried out a rural strategy study that enabled it to assess its objectives
for the period 1986-2000 and the means required to achieve them. The outcome of this study
was a realistic proposal to cover 70% of rural households by the year 2000 and an increase in
water supply system construction rate rising from 110 to 135 villages per year.
The Tunisian Government, wanting to ensure provision of basic necessary infrastructure
in rural areas, with water supply constituting a priority component of this infrastructure,
requested Bank assistance with financing the remainder of SONEDE's investment program in
rural areas, formulated in the Sixth Development Plan for the period 1982-86, and also the
program of the Seventh Development Plan for 1987-91. The Bank responded favorably to the
Tunisian request, and after an identification mission, followed by an appraisal mission in April
1983, the Bank Board approved, on December 13, 1983, a loan in the foreign exchange amount
of US$50 million (Loan 2368-TUN). Total project cost was estimated at about US$104.4
million (TD 67.164 million) for water supply for about 225,000 persons distributed among 634
rural villages without water service; execution of the project was scheduled for 1984-89.
This project, which forms the greater part of the rural centers program included in the
Seventh Development Plan for 1987-91, consists mainly of:
Expansion and development of distribution systems in the rural localities currently
served, and creation of new water-supply systems in 634 clearly identified new
localities at a total cost of TD 67.364 millon. Of this, TD 57.125 million would
be for supplies and works, so that by 1991 coverage of 33.2% would be achieved
in rural areas, with a connection rate of 39.3% for a rural population numbering
3,387,000.
Provision of loans to low-income urban populations and rural-dwellers for
connections to the SONEDE systems.
Improvement of consumption metering through procurement of new meters.
Development of SONEDE's capabilities for carrying out studies of appropriate
technology in rural areas.
It should be noted that SONEDE is responsible for selection and appraisal of
water-supply subprojects in rural areas, given its experience and execution capacity. The Bank
is responsible for, among other things, assessing SONEDE's performance and evaluating its
overall investment program, including the preparation and selection of eligibility criteria for
subprojects, as defined below, which it does in mutual agreement with SONEDE with a view
to standardizing and rationalizing investment decisions.



- 17 -
Existence of a grouped agglomeration
Existence of a connection potential
Availability of water resources that are assured in both quality and quantity terms
(lg/l S RS S 2g/1)
Average capital cost per person, expressed in 1983 prices, as represented by the
ratio of the proposed investments in the subproject at 1983 prices and the 1983
population of the village concerned.
This average cost must be equal to or less than the 1983 per capita investment cost,
termed the eligibility threshold, obtained by means of a mathematical calculation model which
relates the per capita investment (explained variable) and the population concerned (explanatory
variable). It is generally proportional to the number of inhabitants, as follows:
y = axb      or    y = investment
population
x = 1983 population
a and b are the parameters to be estimated.
It has been found that the per capita cost in Tunisia varies from TD 480 for 100 persons
to TD 96 for a population of 1,000.
The values to be assigned to these parameters were determined following surveys and
studies of a sample (a very representative one from the socioeconomic standpoint) of 4,000
unserved localities with populations of between 50 and 2,000 persons. The values arrived at by
the calculations for supplying the 634 localities considered were:
a = 13,125 and b = -0.6 correlation coefficient between x and y, leading to the
following equation:
y = 13,125 x -0.6   (see curve in graph)
Adoption of these criteria is designed to bring the benefits of this sort of operation to a
larger number of rural villages and semi-urban centers of a rural nature.
The setting of a ceiling to the capital cost involved is also aimed at limiting the field of
choice for subprojects and thereby ensuring a minimum financial return.
The project was well designed and despite some delays in its execution, the reasons for
which are discussed below, it fully achieved its objectives, as detailed in Section VII.



- 18 -
SEVENTH IBRD PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CURVE                     y = Eligibility ratio (I/1)
y = 13,125 X                   x = Population 1983
TUNISIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Per Capita Investment Cost in Villages
-=
60                                 21__2 ..  I           ____
X -Populaon 1983;
3q83 .
. SoaI                            . e Dst                                   ;



- 19 -
V.    PROJECT EXECUTION
According to the execution schedule drawn up at appraisal, the project was to be
completed by December 31, 1989. The house connections component was executed promptly
by SONEDE, exceeding the appraisal estimated in both quantitative terms (by 95.20% - 48,000
connections completed as against 25,000 estimated) and financially (by 54.87% compared with
the initial estimates - TD 12.865 million against an estimated TD 7.984 million).
Execution of the water-supply component of Loan No. 2368-TUN, for which the relevant
loan agreement was signed on February 7, 1984 and became effective in November 1984, started
more hesitantly than programmed but then gathered momentum rapidly as shown by the
execution data for the project works component for the period from 1985 to June 1993 detailed
below. In point of fact, SONEDE began with the villages that were easiest to supply, because
they were the closest to existing facilities or else had their own local resources that were
considered adequate in both quantitative and qualitative terms, whereas the others were further
from sources of supply and sub projects for them were more difficult to study and execute.
Execution of the project was delayed and SONEDE requested and obtained two
extensions of the project execution period, the first being of one year, i.e. to June 30, 1992, and
the second also of one year, to June 30, 1993, to enable it to continue execution of the
water-supply components. However, all goods supplied and services rendered were paid for
from loan funds up to November 10, 1993. Execution of the project took nine years from loan
effectiveness (November 4, 1984) to final loan closing date, upon full disbursement, in
November 1993. The Bank showed significant flexibility in twice allowing increases in the
proportion of works, supplies and health education components financed, and in agreeing to
finance other operating supplies (leak detectors, limnimeters, etc.) to use up residual loan funds.
The delay was caused by the following factors:
Late loan effectiveness (nine months after signature)
Remoteness of and difficulties of access to many villages
Difficulties in locating water resources suitable for supplying the villages, existing
resources being either too far away, inadequate or too saline.
VI. PROJECT RESULTS
SONEDE set up a viable structure, the Rural Centers Division, which ran its rural water
supply program adequately and handled the monitoring of the Seventh Project. The tasks
assigned to it included:



- 20 -
Correspondence with EBRD for approval of financing for subprojects, and
contracts for supplies and works, all in accordance with Annex I to the Loan
Agreement.
Monitoring of the progress of the works and of the entry into service of facilities
included in rural centers subprojects financed by IBRD.
Coordination with IBRD in collaboration with the Loan Department for the
management of the loan and administration of the project.
Execution of the project's technical components, appraisal of the subprojects and their
detailed design, contract awards (in accordance with the loan agreement) and the supervision of
installation were carried out efficiently by the SONEDE technical directorates (Studies and
Works). No difficulties were experienced with performance of contracts by contractors and
suppliers. The connection programs were in fact executed quicker than programmed and
SONEDE always provided the Bank with progress reports on schedule, together with the
required information concerning the execution of the project. Similarly, financial data on
contractual expenditures were forwarded to the Bank throughout the entire project execution
period, enabling it to obtain the detailed overall view needed for preparation of the completion
report.
Finally, it can be affirmed that the experience gained in the execution of the various
technical and economic components of the project was positive, in that all reports sent to the
Bank were approved.
The lesson to be learned from the experience gained during execution of the components
of the Seventh Project can be divided into five points:
1.    The first point relates to the time taken for procurement, which was six months
or longer, starting with the call for bids and concluding with the date of announcement of award
of the contract. These times were in fact reduced by two months for works contracts and by one
month for supplier contracts, according to a statistical analysis made of 145 calls for bids issued
in 1993.  One hundred-nineteen were for execution of line-laying and construction of
water-supply works, and took only four months to award the contract, while the other 26 were
for supplies and took five months. However, to meet its urgent pipe needs for works in
progress, SONEDE on occasion resorted to local shopping, in which case the procedure was
completed in just three months.
2.    The second point relates to water supply for rural localities by simple tapping and
extension of lines. In this case, the works are executed by means of a framework contract, the
contract being awarded directly to the contractor in the govemorate where the project is to be
carried out. This procedure enables an appreciable time saving in that there is no need to go
through calls for bids while it also allows execution of several projects of the same type.



- 21 -
3.    The third point is the methodology used for monitoring the progress of project
components; this methodology was established jointly with the Bank and proved most useful,
allowing preparation of the quarterly progress reports.
4.    The fourth is the creation, encouragement and development of a new generation
of contractors to operate in rural areas. The fact is that the old contractors, while having
extensive experience in water-supply works, most often have too heavy a workload to be
interested in bidding on "a few small projects" to bring water to rural centers. This policy of
encouraging new contractors prepared to do this work has been beneficial for SONEDE, since
it has enabled the company to carry out several projects in rural areas.
5.    The fifth is the emphasis on research, manufacture and testing of appropriate
low-cost technology for rural locations. In this context SONEDE has sought to reduce capital
costs in rural areas by means of:
use of low-cost connections eliminating all unnecessary parts and equipment after
the stop valve, such as pipe elbows, reduction after joints, the water cock and
reduction of one meter of polyethylene pipe. This means a substantial saving for
the customer of TD 15.010 for a connection with a 15-mm diameter meter and
TD 34.147 in the case of a 20-mm diameter meter (see Table IX), in relation to
a total connection cost, not including the frontage charge, for a minimum of 10
meters estimated at TD 4 per meter for a 15-mm meter and TD 5 per meter for
a 20-mm meter. The customer's connection to the stop valve is made by means
of a simple copper elbow with two set bolts, one of which is used for the
connection to the stop valve and the other for connection to the water cock by
means of a reducer (see diagram on pages 26 and 27).
The connection of this elbow to the customer's inside fittings, whether copper, galvanized
metal or polyethylene, is done by means of well-designed and appropriate joints (see page 27).
It has also been decided to eliminate all use of lead pipe in the connections (use of lead
has been prohibited in developed countries on account of its toxicity).
Application of new materials (PVC) for areas where the soil is corrosive to parts
made of cast iron or steel. PVC is presently being tried out in the Hammamet
Sud tourism zone (26,000 beds) where 11,710 km of lines with outside diameters
of 315, 250, 200 and 160 mm was laid in 1993. Pipe made of this material is
very easy to lay; however, the cost of special items is prohibitive.
Trials with the Fordilla automatic shut-off faucet were fully satisfactory since use
of this type of faucet made it possible to reduce the consumption of the
nonconnected population in the low-income neighborhoods by about half. This
consumption was measured for four years (1985-88) plus the first quarter of
1989, after which the faucet was broken and no longer usable. Unfortunately, the



- 22 -
slow and automatic closing of the faucet after release of the volume for which it
was set did not meet the needs of the people who wanted a continuous flow for
filling their 10- and 20-liter jerrycans. This being the case, SONEDE has not
pursued these trials with this type of faucet.
It should be noted that their shut-off action continues to work perfectly compared with
conventional water cocks, which have to be replaced two to three times a year. To make the
Fordilla faucet suitable for the needs to be met, the pushbutton must be strengthened by making
it one-piece with the faucet body so that it cannot be twisted or broken off, and the set volume
must be increased to enable users to fill their containers quickly.
Supply and installation of four windmills to generate electricity for the motor
pumps installed in four surface wells in out-of-the-way locations at quite a
distance from STEG medium and low-voltage lines, where connection to power
would have been costly. The operation of these windmills has given complete
satisfaction as regards output and energy saving. Breakdowns are very rare, but
should one occur there has never been any problem with maintenance or parts.
As to use of polyethylene pipe, studies have shown that installation of this pipe in Tunisia
results in prohibitive costs for special items.
It has not proven feasible to develop and use other appropriate technologies for rural
areas, such as utilization of renewable energy by means of photovoltaic batteries for powering
small pumps,a technology applied by STEG for 34-kW rural electrification and irrigation pumps
of about 2 kW and also by UNICEF for rural water supply near Kairouan. This new technology
works well for low-flow water points. It will certainly be the subject of in-depth studies during
execution of the Eighth Project which is currently under preparation.
VII. ACCOMPLISHMENTS
With the closing of the loan, a provisional balance sheet can be drawn up of the
commitments made and actual accomplishments between 1985 and the end of 1993. Thus, out
of 777 localities scheduled for service as of the end of June 1993, 775 had been served by
October 31, 1993, including 543 rural localities with a combined population of 380,233 (1990)
which had been provided with water service by the end of 1992 at a total capital cost of TD
38.47 million. This represents an achievement rate of 85.65 % of the target number of 634 rural
localities initially set, and a cost that was only 67.35% of the initial estimate of TD 57.13
million for supplies and works. These 543 localities break down as follows:
488 rural localities taken over and provided with a new  potable water
infrastructure; and
55 rural localities already possessing water systems which were rehabilitated to
permit supply to neighboring rural centers.



- 23 -
The annual breakdown by governorate of these 543 localities, with their total population
and the investments affected are shown in the annex in Table IX, the Annual Summary Table
of Rural Centers Provided with Service in the Annex.
Over the period 1985-92, volumes consumed and sold rose from 8.6 million m3 to 19.3
million m3, hence an increase of 9.67%, while the number of connected customers went up
from 28,600 in 1985 to 122,068 in 1992.
Apart from a few exceptions, the differences between the appraisal estimates and the
actual figures are acceptable.
The impact of all these accomplishments in the rural water-supply field is significant, as
is borne out by the chief indicators for rural Tunisia set forth below:
-     Tunisian rural population (millions)         3.337
-     Rural population served (millions)            1.064
-     Coverage                                    31.9%
-     Connected population (millions)              0.616
-     Absolute connection rate                    18.5 %
-     Relative connection rate                    57.9 %
-     Total number of customers                  122,068
-     Total volume consumed (probable) (m3 millions) 19.300
Finally, the following Annual Summary Tables are presented in the Annex:
A General Summary Table (Table II) showing Commitments for Supplies and
Works between 1985 and June 30, 1993, Investments Effected up to September
30, 1993, and Disbursements up to November 10, 1993.
Two Summary Tables (Tables m  and IV) of costs of Supplies Committed
between 1985 and June 30, 1993, and those of Investments Effected up to
September 30, 1993.
Four Summary Tables (Tables V, VI, VII and VII) presenting the cost figures
for Works in the Program Studied, Committed and Executed. However, it should
be noted that Table V includes, in addition to the annual figures for Works for
each program, the annual number of localities involved in each program and the
percentage progress compared with the initial estimates (number of localities and
costs of works).
Furthermore, and to set forth the key features of the execution of the Seventh IBRD
Project, four graphs have been attached to these tables showing, respectively:



- 24 -
the costs of Supplies and Works
the costs of Supplies only
the cost figures for Works in the Program Studied and Committed and in the
Program actually Executed
the number of localities for which water supply was studied, committed, executed
and brought into service.
.:cT-2.W t7






- 25 -
ANNEXE
Etats Recapitulatifs Annuels (10 tableaux)
et 4 graphiques






ALIMENTATION EN EAU POTABLE DES CENTRES RURAUX DE. TUNISIE
SONEDE                                           ~~~~~~EVOLUTION DES PRINCIPAUJX TNDICATEUJRS
DE 1973 A FIN 1991
1 ABL.KA Il
IV L PLAd                   5V6 PLAN                                           IVI    PLAN                                       IVOI  PLANI
IDESJ.NATION  II-                                                                                                                                               I---  I                 -    n-1-1 
I             jf ~~~~~    ~~~1973   11974  1975   119'76   11977   11978     1979   I1980   11981  5 198 2   f 1983   I 19 84   11985   11986   1 1987                    1988       1989      1990      I 99    I
51'OPu1atiLon           2R60      2 .900  I  2932 1  2969 1  3007  1  304 5         3 20803   3122  1  3 182 5  3202 f  324 3          3 3285 I  314S5    3086 1  3131 j          3 177 1  3224 J3262 j  3299 I
IHurale ToLaicf                          f         I         H         I                             1         I         1         I         I          I         I         I                     I               
jPopu..aLion             216       480 1 489 1   560 If   63 0 1   700 1 760                    838 1   885 II 941            9 64  11006         8 90      B03 I   854  I         908   953 1 981 I1.033 
I R.~r.3lslwm1.,cH             I                               I I                         I                   H                   1          I         I                   I                      I         I
5TaU.X  l.conf                       6.76 1                 I                              8.86 5                             2.25 %                             I                          3                          I
I  ------U-                                  H                                                  H                                                 l-r--------------i-             I~~~~~~~I  u 
ITo.u. de               16  116.55 %I  17 % 118,9            H  24 5 1  23 5   24,7 %f 26,8   1  2 8 9 129.4 5 129,7 5 130.6 5 120,3 1 126 1    127,3 1 128.6 1    129.6 5 J30.1  1 131.3 5 5
5dennert.rc        ft                    I                   I              I              I         I         I         I         II                   I         I         I            I         I         I         I
ll---- ------                      i                4-If               I                                       I         I                    --I-----11-------i --I                    4- ---------HA -   --1--- I-I
5rP.pul.Ltion       I      77        8 3 f    90 f   110 H 130 1   160                18 0      2 204 1   2 3 0     1 05 J 3 20 1   358           2710 1   255 1   295 1            35' 1 46  1                951    53 1 
5foranch6c ~~  H                                     I       I         I              I                        I                   I         I          I         I         I           I         I          I         I  ~
1-    0 3     Hi                                       H                              Ii        i         H                   i              -    I-f------                 ----]I                    -
5Taux de DrimnchtH    2 6 9 51   3,21%1  3,07%1  3,71%p  4,32t)  S.26%1  5,5411l  6,53%1   7,231ff   9.53%1   9.87%1 10,90%1  8.86%1  8.2611  9,42%1    11.1711 13.8311 IS.18%1 16.7655
5Absolu            H                I                                  1          I        I         1         H                                                                                              
*Taux de IJr-.cht0l6,74 '  117.3    I18 5  119.6    1 20.6  1 22.9 5 123.7 5 124.3 %1   25.9 5532,2  1 33,2 5 135.6 1 130.3 ' 131.8   1534.6 5 j  39.1 1 (46.8   15GS.S % 152.53 55
5Nombhre ToLal   H   8. 70 1 10. 00 I13 ,4 0 1 17. 20 H 20.50  1 23.00 f 23,00 j 24,20  126.70 5 1.,30  136.30 f 39.20  1 28.60  j 31.10 1 40.50  1 48.24  141,73 J                                          j 93.14 5
id  IAtlonn(n      uI                    I         I        H          I         I         I         I         H                             I          I        I                      III5
5Tau.  ACr~rDi0.dufI                      3 0.7 1                                          8.6 1H-0.2%                                                            I              23.145                               I
JNbrecld' .bonn6.s I                                                                                                                                               
5Volusc ToIl,1    H        82 j  87, 8  f93.,5  f  9'7,6 5109.8  I115.7 f 123 f 132,7  1                  141 U 150, 2  f158.1  I 164.5  1 170.6 I 179 H184,9 I   197,3  1192,4  1194,5    197.,6 I
1--oo 6,3 )                                                                                                                                                     --4 
jvoluu.c ConnomptfI       3.9 1 4,2           S.2 f   5,3 5   6,3  f   7.0 f 6,6 1   6,8  I 7,7 H   7,7  f 8sCo                         8,5       G ,G      7,1 5   *.4 I         10.6  114,10  12.3    11,60 1
5Taux Accroiss. H                        10.8%               I                              ,1 55                                         -21                     513.91                                              5
jVo1uvw. Conu.g,.rI                                          a                                                                                                     



- 27 -
SONEDE
DET
7eme PROJET BIRD
D'APPROVISIONNEMENT EN EAU POTABLE
MONTANTS DES FOURNITURES ET TRAVAUX (MDT)
Annee    Engages   Executes  En service
1985      12,727       1,091       0,359
1986      18,432       8,541       2,700
1987      23,059      16,851       8,044
1988      25,044      22,374       13,540
1989      31,442      25,084       18,922
1990      39,563      31,767       21,057
1991      49,115      41,435       28,836
1992      59,399      48,493       38,474
1993      62,695_   58,438  1
ENGAGES DE 1985 AU 30 JUIN 1993
MONTANTS DES FOURNITURES ETTRAVAUX:
EXECUTES DE 1985 AU 30 SEPTEMBRE 1993
70,000
60,000
I          '                          'X
DI 50,000                              -X 
J 40.000                                           /
UJ 30,000                          ,        - ,_
z 20.000         -r           -
U,~ ~                                -, ,- 
z*                 ,             -                    
1 0,000  ,.
o
*      1 -                        ; - 
*- ,-
10,000-7  
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
ANNEE
- *    Engages           Executes      *    En service



SEPTIEME PROJET BIRD
E'['Ar RECAPI?IULATIF ANNUEL DES INVESTISSEMENTS IRELISES DES FOURNI'MRES FINANCEES PAR hA  131 RD
DE 1985 AU 30 SEPTEMBRE 1993
TABLEAU IV
r - 111-I                          I                           -I   I                    I
I  I   I   |EQUIPEMENTS I COMPTTERS A | Toms CAISING PROTrCrTIONS 9 TRACTO-PELLES|    TOTAL GNERAI.
I           I     PIECES  I          I             I              I           I               I                       I
ANW-.E I  CONDUITES  I         I lffDRO-ELECr-  VITESSE AVEC    CREPINES ET I    DE  I     ET           MONTAN    I         I
I           I SPECIALES I            I       I                                I                             I 
I          I KECANIQUES  |ACCESSOIRES      ACCESSOiRES   CONDUITES    4 EOLIENNES       DT     I
1   t-t                    I     ~      I         _I        _I                   I               I             II
I               I                        I               . Il I                  I               I                       I
1985     88.677             I i                        I              I           I               I      80.677      0,41
I     I            l           I            I             I              I           I                             I         I 
1996    4.575.795     30 .398 |                                             50.446                     4  4.656.639  21,15
1981| 8.524.163      152.849       54.661 |                            j   69.790 |        265.500     9.066.963     42,00 |
1980   10.338.028    152.849      304.641       169.626        532.898     589.608         265-500    1 ]2.353.150 |  57,21 |
1989 J 10.338.028    152.849 I   594.695 I    206.682 I        532.898     678.980 I       268.980 I 12.773.112      59,16 I
I 1990   11.238.330    152.849 I   885.093        329.003        532.898    704.654 f       271.489 j 14.114.316 I  65,37 7
1991 | 13.207.492    227.727 | 1.360.334        329.003 |      532.89S |  863.427          401.482 | 16.922.363 j  78,37
I 1992 j 15.342.691    532.338 J 1.595.538 J    329.003          532.8998   1 .358.805      401.482    20.092-755 I  93,06 I
| 1993   19.422.953    628.033    1.730.215       329.003 |      532.898 | 3.896.690        401.482    26.949.282 | 124,81
NB: Provisions initiales du montant des fournitures; 21,591 MIT



- 29 -
SONECE
DET
7eme PROJET BIRD
D'APPROVISIONNEMENT EN EAU POTABLE
MONTANTS DES TRAVAUX (MDT)
Ann6e      Etudies;  Engages    Executes
1985       10,480      2,749        1,002
1986       17,878      6,881        3,885
1987      23,388       9,870        7,784
1988      25,903      11,676       10,021
1989      30,434      17,868       12,311
1990      34,679      22,854       17,653
1991      36,249      27,614       24,513
1992      39,950      32,343       28,400
1993      40,658      33,887       31,488
45,000
40,000          ;"_ 
35,000
I-
o~   ~    ~~ I
o 30,000                                    . .                             -
z
0
- 25,000 ,
z
X 20,000           :
U) 15007                                             /
Z-           .'    .i                  /     
z
I-15,000                                 .
/   ~~               -
10,000   *-                _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _
5.000  ./                 
0,000
1985    1986     1987    1988      1989     1990    1991      1992     1993
ANNEE
*    Etudies            Eng2a6s           Ex\cuzes    -    En service



SEPTIEML PIROJET BIRD
PROGRAMME ENGAGE ET FINANCE PARZ LA B'IRD
ET.AT RECAPITULATIF ANNUEL ET PAR GOTUVERNOIRAT DES MONTANTS DES MARCHIES TIRAVAUX
1985 AU 30 LTUIN 1993
TAlIIL.AU VI I
I             (     i~~~        ~       ~~~~~955  1986     1997                 1988                1959                 1990         1       1~991               1992                            I   9 
G(NOIVIIRNORAT    j      montant             m  Iontant  1        ontant   j      IMontant   I        IMonLant               K4nL.inL          I  I40LanL          I  MonIi.tn            Konan
I                    INbreldcs marchonjNbrejdes Mlnrclesjllbreldes l4archealUbreldes marchesINbreldes marcheoNlbrcldcll marclicalNbreldes HarchcoINbrcIlct. M.-~hrvniN1reldcoMacl.
I                    I    I  Travaux  I          Travaux  I          Travaux  I          Travauix         j  Travaux           I  TrOvatix  I         Travaux   I    IT0,  I  Travaux  Irovu
[TftlRdS             I0  I              I  5                 1 01             0 01         0        11a 0 1           010a                01 1I                0 10 1              01 
)ARIANA              I0 j                     J                   5                 4 1 215.040 IS I 255.1I5S    6                 401.232      6 1   401.232 1    I   737.604  18 1 737.604 
jlliF34 814(35       I    3                 1   I   29.G53 13   1               I956  1    I    79.569 I3 1    79.569       7      422.146    16 1    29.020 116 1   829.020 116 3   529.020 1
1 I iI1 j E          1  2      205.326 131   242.100 141   296.700o                 4 1   301-950 1  4 I   301.950 3               30~1-95o     4 I 32H.515 1 25 I1.195-.759 I 25 1 1.391.759 3
INAIWFUI.            1  2 1     92.S52  1161   563.641 1 161   5661  1 16 1                56.4  1 18          776.550 1 30 31.170.900 340    I .G42.394  1 41 I1.0104.679 3 41 1 1.018.679  1
31 1*0A                 4 1   262.874 1  4 I   282.7512  11 3   617.969 111 j   642.686 3 15 3 1.438.804 115   1.43.8.84 327    1.897.369 3 27 32.027.976  3 27 3 2.027.976   
3JUIM~)1i1A             0 1               131   218.015 1 371   600.822 1371               625.557 3 42 3   935.396 5 48   J .100.806 357 3 1.445.876 3 61 I1.502.!.29 3 7.2 3 2.612.620 1   C
321.. KEI            3  a               3  31    S 9.791 I    3I  ISG.028   2 7 5 500.435 5 20 1 9SS.474 3 25   1.20G.3611 321 78   1.286.368 1 28 31.286.368 3 28 3 1.286.368 1 
3SII.JhNA            30 3               3  9 3   409.478 1  9 I   409.478 5 13 1   702.521 5 26 1 1.176.521 126 11.176.S21 1 26 1 1.294.316 3 30 3 1.716.421 1 30 3 3.716.421
I/.6rIICXIAN           0) 3    54.288 3  5 5   230.575 15 3   230.S75 36 5 299.591 17 I 398-544 Itl I   606.950 5 12 1   783.500 1 13 3   926-780 3 23 3   926.780 
53x!;s.J   ~~    1 13 1 396.660 5 221   971.4S51   22 3   971.451  23 2                 1.034.034    ZS5   1.1SG6.63    25 3 1.160.871 3 31  3 1.440.090 3 31 3 1.44515.090 3 31 11.448.090 
Im"AS~TIR            I 3    1           3    1               3 20 3   213.384 1 20 3   213.304 320             302.581 328 3   302.-581 1 28 1   302.581 5 25 3   102.~1.8    211               302.5813
IMAM12A              I6 3   264.239 5 263   780.2719 326 3   788.279 131 1 849.329   Si 513 1.131.453 3 53 3 1.452.002 1 712 3 1.831.045 3 72 31.~831.045    a1   2.016.594 
K8AI (RiAN          32 3 134.857           4       157.542 517 3   348.533 1 21 3   S30.377 j21 3   5302.377 3 28 1 1.024.244 164 31.861.1719 3 65 3~ 2.561.179 I65 3  .915.390 
XASS KU I N0F.                    3 10      366.015 3101   699.466 3 10 1 699.466 I  0                  720.956  I 10 3 759.50003 10 3 759.500 J 14 3   976S.7 31                2 4 3 9715.785e
JSFAX3  0                               39 3 358.960 327 3   484.785 1 30 5   570.283   5 ~3  1.177.550 3 53   1.3  i 7 n.sso  I~ 31    1.941.642 1124 I7 2.554.716 112.4 3 2.65-.H4 61
161521 1JOWZill     5    1   379.063 3 161   455.413 5161   458.413 3 17 3   5371.558  5 27 3   949.868 3 293 3 1.010.681 3 30 1 1.365.777    40 I n11.424-197 1 45 1  .614.0493
lGADES               I4 I   70a.706 5  9 3   955.741 5  9 3 1.014.578 3  9 1 1.024.575  3 19 3 1.773.025 325 32.206.509 125 1 2.294.503 126     2. 142.1145  3 26 32.341.84h 
3xtUhI1.I               0 j    63.162 121   259.680 3  21   496.250 3  2 3   496.150 1  8 3 1.237.7136 323 52.082.98( 15 23 1 2.130.553 3 24 I 2.199.579 324 3. 219)9.!119
3(AF!SA                 0               I    I               I    I              3  3 3    85.670   3 3         as55670   i 1      636.737 1 19 5   705.117 3 213 1   163.999   21              763.999 
ITOZI-.Uk      3    I              I     I             1  9 3   418.853 3 10 I 591.342 I  0 5 609.541 I11 I 751.050 1 22  1   751.-050) I 12 I   '151 -050    11                          761l.050
31*:nENJN1HE            o 0 3       1.20 3  4 3   343.317 j  41   343.317 j  4 1   343.317   13 5 1.1715.410 3  1   1.248.466 I17 I 1.245.466  I 15   1.282.520    in   1.282.8z0 
ITATAOUIJIK             0               3      3   185.740 16 3   677.738 5  6 3   699.343 16 1 699.343 3 133I 1.065.486    13    1.065.486 129   2. 161.503   29 52.365.S03 
5T(I1AI.       3 ~~1 3 72.745.a47 1156 3 6.882.142 1261 3 9.869.729 1297 111.675.821 1414 117.865.426 1504 122.g554.094 1643 12'I.613.882 1752 132. 142.791 1771 113.Ru7l.1718 



SEPTIEME PROJTET BIRD
PROGRAMME EXECUTE ET FINANCE PAR LA~ BIRD
ETAT RECAPITUIATIF ANNUEL ET PAR GOUJVERNORAT DES MONTANTS DES TRAVAUX EXECU'TES
DE 1985 AU 30 SEPTEMBRE 1993
TrAIIJ.VAU Vill
I             I      3~~~~~~~~~~~I985  I  1986             19837          I     1as                 19539         j      199(3                1 991       j       3992        j    lOTS           1
(2)31V3i(53()ISAr   I    I ~Montant    Montant          j  lontant             MonLant   I      IMawtanL  j             OOMa.nt,           "  Oii.nta  I        ont .m32           mosia5nL3
I Nbrzc des Tra-auxiNbrelIdes Travauxl bxc Idea TrravauxINbreldon Travaux INbrelIdes TravauxINbre IdeB Travaux I brc ides TravauxjiNbrit  crc Tr.ivau.x Nbcc ders Trokvausxi
I       I    I ~~~~~~~~t6m    I    I F.~~~~~~~~~xecutes  ftEee,uiEs   I     Bxecutda  I    I Excue    I    I  xecut6s I                 ExccuL88           I E.xecuL6S  I    Izccutta   I
I rUN  Is                 II                   II                 II                  II                  II                 II                    II                  II                  II
IARIANA4                  I                                                                               1   207.771 16 I 281.570 I  G                360.131 j  6        372.2.74  1  6 1   429.611 I
I3SPN AROMIP;             j1j                        4.228 13 1         61.0331   3 1      62.4710 13 1    G2.470 17 I   118.335 1 13 I   4 41. 675   1(3.                 *1 9.283     I I 1   J3-.410
ItI33ZKNTriC.          2   1415.199     3         247.526     3 I   2 6 1.2712*J   3 1   266.89S I  4 I   306.672          41   311.486 1  4 I   326.890 1 24              673.803 125    1.269.232 
INA1IKUI.           12 1        57.155 116 I 359.369   26             S43.446 116 1 546.903 117 1    75.465 130 1   70.3     38 I 1.066.771 141 j1.479.382 141 I1.656.003 
I33EJA               14 I    30.976 1  4 I   231.616   11.             325.146    ii       561 j5.602 111 1   620.796 15Is  1-437.S&12-    1.6.4  1 2    2.012.458 127 I2.128.620I
IJENIXMIUA          I    I              I 13 1 141.300 137 1 316-61S j 37 1   593.941 1 39 I   703.421 1  8                       979.009 157 j 1.207.235 161 j 1.419.!.4 I 72j 1.587.619I
I I.  K                   I   I    I                        I  8I   11S.910 j 17           310.867    20       682.470   24        955.6-i9   28  1.1240.569 j 28 11.295.985s I 28I 1. 316. 473 
J.'; II. I ANA  I    I            5       64.104 19         352.475 1 13        494.494    13 I 635.714   26    1.021.453   26 j1.134.2U331  2-7  11. 168..61 130   t1-4 01.1I85!
I/.Ac.33(N3AN  I    I            ~~~~I  5 I 146.127 15 I 193.979 1  5               193.979      6 j 258.008 j7             430.690   1I.       677.510    13 1   '154.361  1  3 I 825. 7371
I~~~ 355H         1~~~~~ I  fi.194 I17       4141.211 121        94a8-306 j 2 4      9714.362    25   1.094.450   25    1 . 02.B1] I   27-   1.220.82.2 I31    1.406.413 I.11   1.444.948 
IHowvr I RI                                                   20        '/7.280   20 j 107.325i   28 j 229.381 J28                 2339.0103   27      290.368    213      293.1633 j 2.8      2(11. 3611
IMAIIIIA             j3 I       83.711 16          20t.585   26        GS62.1-21 I 31      670.493    42 j 840.422   51 j 1.192 . 2. 6   72    L .614.628    81   1 3.743.7/6! I 83   I 3. oY.083 
I KA I (HIAN         j2 j   11-1.708 j  2.         140.640   171       278.1308  21        400.543 I21 I 475.382   2n              660.423   6. I, 1.4 01t-227   6!.   11. 29. 4 79   65    1 3.96f. 313Ii
1  I Nl-.                   I        ~~~111.708 I10 j   290.410 1 10 1 694.832 110 1 696.143 110 I 7U6.620 I  0 1 746.506    14                                853. 12!,  1 H      893.111
15FAX                j                   1  9      2 09.812 I27 j   405.800    30 I   584.416 154 I   772..289 154  1 .05.9.440   I1 1.614.609 II1(. I 2.59.93l,11 j34 1 2.586.314 I
IIUIII 0OlJ-/.L53      8l      245.887 1 16 1 407.921 j16 1 432.632 117 1 4G0.389   22 I 618.77a 1 29 1   965.961   38    1.426.382 140  1I.S87.552 I 45 I. I./8.537 I
IGAIII-S           4 I   265.044 I  9 1 757.836            9 1 1.054.117 19 11.057.087    13   1.075.894    19   1.428.237 1 25 J1   .172 426 I 26; 12 -2.26.86 FIG   26   2.286.023I
IKEFnS3             I    II  FJ    59.058 I2 1 506.799 12 1 509.427 IS                                         631.361    71   1.0971.124 j22    1 .953.5712 j 23 I 2.071.626 124 I2.142.297
Ic:AYSA                                    I         I         I                                                            9                   144.699   16  508.G20 12 1    708.956 j 21 I   7-08.956
ITO2LURI                  II                  II  9 I   194.8111  10                       434.309    10       617.858    10I   61G.043 I111    737.086 1 111    747.641 j 1 It     747.641 1
IMM3)F255NH                                 3    1   220.986     4 I   350.866 1  4 I   350.866 I 3 13    43-7.904    17    1.13S.3G9    17 I 1.321.011 1 18 I 1.331.730 j 18 1 1.380.058 
ITATAO3.J3 IIIMP                           F I   166.580 16 1 416.777 1  6 1 653.776 16                        680.584 113         8 52.133  1 3 11.088.7112 I 29 I 1.350.700 129 1 2.034.853 I
I  I    I  I    I             I    I              I    I              I     I             I    I              I    I               I    I              I    I              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    I I    II   
ITOTAI,              1 20 11.001.874 1109 I 3.884.68,1 1259 1 '7.784.385 1289 110.020.976 1367 112.311.343 146/1 117.6!52.773 1627 124.513.350 j74fi P8t.399.fl99  I'l-p  131-468.484  
I  I    I  I    I  I    I              I    I              I    I              I    I              I    I              I     I             I    I              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II   
KA3IT01I3A 33N..l IfAII  (Code inarch6 70.019).dtabli nur d6coupLe proviaolro en 1987 pour 242.441 r91 et C163.ur6 en 1988 our d6cempic uidfiniLif plour 2411.327  Trr



iWIr
SEPTIEME PROJer BIRD
MONTANTS DU  BRANCtrEMENT ECONOMIQUE A USAGE DOMESTIQUE PAR DIAMETRE DU COMPTEUR
TABLEAU IX
MONTANT DU BRANCHEMENT ECONOMIQUE ( DE 4ml) PAR DIAMETRE DU COMPTEUR
ET PAR DIAMETRE DE LA CONDUITE DE DISTRIBUTION
DIAMETRE DE           AVEC OU SANS LES FRAIS DE FACADE D'UNE LONGUEUR MINIMUM POSSIBLE DE 10ml
LA CONDUlTE
Dl. DISTIBU-                   COMPTEUR 0 15 mm                               COMPTEUR 0 20 mm
TION
SANS FRAIS DE GAIN EN  AVAC FRAIS DE  GAIN EN SANS FRAIS DE GAIN EN  AVAC FRAIS DE  GAIN EN
(mm)         FACADE             FACADE (4DT/ml)              FACADE        %    FACADE (5DT/ml)    %
DT   -                DT                .       DT             .       DT
 80          165,473    9,07          212,273    7,07        238,431   14,32           296,931   11,50
4 100         165,652    9,06          212,452    7,06        238,610   14,31           297,110   11,50
q, 150        168,218    8,92          215,018    7,00        241,176   14,15           299,676   11,40
Prix moyen        166,448    9,02          213,248    7,04        239,406   14,26           297,906   11,46
NB:Montants en DT des accessoirs, non necesaires, situes apres le Robinet d'arret
Compteur 0 15mm                Compteur b 20mm
2 raccords coud6s        8,638                        20,792
Reduction                0,216                         0,484
Robinet a bec            1,737                         3,163
1 ml de polyethylene    0,565                          0,940
TOTAL                   11,156                        25,379
Divers 15% + TVA 17% =  3,854                          9,768
TOTAL GENERAL          15,010                        34,147



j:|~r,.i r: ri:zoIi l ir                          I  HRANCII.| HRANCII.|
d=15mm' d=20m
Tube on cuivre 1-/10/;          20/22
Ecrou prisonnier      20/27     28/34
.. \              .  D          . 
Behelle                                      ~~~~~~~~Etuide  et
Dessixn
LI        \    \\                 I                              ItclCUpar:  JEBII



______         -                                                                     S1)1     IN.. p!ispnm er  ---I
~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~-~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~Ecr licolIc  1                  et_                                         d;]'.  . 1)  - 1.
0 1 <                                     |                     ~~~~~~~~~~('1, 0 lJ D )E[                     D .
UlA |CI.   BRItANCHti.
(I=irGUL1mi   d=Z0mmi
_ t   __._ ___                                                                   Tnbe an culvrc       lo/ln en/;z
I                                 \                                  | \\ | . ,Ecro  priouonior  20/27 |   6/34
Tube  16  1X8
P50
RACCORD
[:RACCORD  BEX.           RACCORD GALVANISE            RACCORD POLYETHYLENE]                       POLYETHYLENE           ;
(Cuivre 016/18)        DROIT OU GOUDE|   DROIT OU COUDE                                        COD



- 35 -
SONEDE
DET
7eme PROJET BIRD
D'APPROVISIONNEMENT EN EAU POTABLE
NOMBRE DE LOCALITES
Annbe     Etudie    Engag    Ex6cut| En service
1985       183        41        28          2
1986       323       156        109         31
1987      390        261        259        113
1988      452        297        289        189
1989      547        414        367        262
1990      661        504        467        300
1991      696        643        627        400
1992       801       752        746        543
1993      818        777        775
900
700j
6U 00-
0 400.TF                                       TF
300        ,
200
100
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
ANNEE
*    Etudi-   Engage             *    Execuie i  -   En service



- 3 7 -
P A RT III



I



- 38 -
TUNISIA
SEVENTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.                   Related Bank Loans
Loan                          Purpose                                 Approval    Status
Lo.51-TUN                    Creatioo of SONEDE                          1968    Completed
Ln.809-TUN                    2ad 'iater Supply Project                   1970    Completed
Ln.989-TUN                    3rd Water Supply Project                    1974    Completed
Ln.1445-TUN                   4th Water Supply Project                    1977    Completed
Ln.1702-TON                   5th Water SUpply Project                    1979    Completed
Lc.2134-TUN                   6th Water Supply Project                    1982    Completed
To strengthen SONEDE's financial
position, espand its rural operations
and provide credit for house connections
Sfax Flood Protection Proj.  To zininize flood damage potential           1983    Completed
Ln.2289-TUN                   in Sfaz and suburbs
Third Urban Seweraae Project To rehabilitate and espand existing          1983    Completed
Ln.2255-TUN                   sewerage and stornvater systems
in 30 urban centers
2.                   Project Timetable
Planned            Revised                         Actual
Date               Date                            Date
Identification                                                                    09/82
Preparation                                                                       09/82-04/83
Appraisal                                                                         04/83
Post-appraisal                                                                    09/83
Negotiations                                                                      11/01/83
Board Approval                                                                    12/13/83
Loan Signature                                                                    02/07/84
Effectiveness                 06/07/84            09/10/84                        11/02/84-
Credit Closing                06/30/91            06/30/92                        06/30/93
Project Completion            12/31/89            12/31/91                        06/30/93
--------------------- --------------------- -------------- ----- -- --------------------



-3  ,   '0                            *1           *-.-I          *.-,                          *0             -I                          C.,   Q
2''    -Ct              2'            -Ct                           -<              -.             -              .-<             Ct             -z    o  to
-            -n             .0             '0                             Co             cc             0              cc             Co I
-             0              -a             Co             -                             Co   Cl
Cc Cc
o              . a  o Co    "2Cr, Co           2000            C((fl    . (cC 020         COO         C,<0  20    2.0  tO 10   0.. 2Cc Co   12' 0
CC CC          2' tO   t.   C C    0  l).I CC CC        p. 1 CC    02' Ccl.    OCaCCO             OOtflltlt    OClttttC         It. C' CC Cc   -I C'                CS
C    00       2(00Cc          Cc'  00        00  fl*Cc    Cc-tflCc    Cc-I CICc    000Cc               Cc-I 00        Cc't 210       00  (5C   I
-       0     CC   It         (C   21   -   21  IC   -I  .*  C   ft  --  Cc  Ct  ,-1   (p   2'   21'  tO   CS  .--    C    ft.  tC   fl)Ct    II    CC                   2'
(C    0.         CJ W            2C2.          2rt..J.        oc..          020            tzr2-l.         COW            OW             020.   , 0-2'
C    Co  C020  Co  020. 0  OW  002C2'0 (.0 0  OW   o  a---- a  Co- 0  02.0- 0    Cl,
.020     n.- -0.n    -a.-- .a-n    -n.---.n-a    .n.-cc.n           to.- Co.IC            cc-cc    -a.- cc-n    c.--Co2.c.   .000-Cc  ,                              0
-fl-a          .a20,.-.fl   OtCc 020                      ccn  cc Co    0.0  -.0CC'         CCIO'0    0-00cc           Otfl .00.                            Cc
Cc a          0.0    (.0    (.00.-..-.                0     0.0      -a    -acc    Co    Corn    -J    200    a,   a.Co    20                    .0. I                      (C
CC               l-..l          C-..            -              CS             -S             a,             -.1             a,             Co        a                      a
(C  I                                                                                                                                                                     ,    Cc
Itt I                                        .0'2'  .0.0    .0.0.0.0                      OOOC.0*.OC.0.-.-..-                                        a                 S
Coo'    flL0.  CS    Co ..O a,Co    .11. C-.Com       a-t..aOo.t,   Co I--.t-ca,   .C '-a*--O  a    (SI
0Co0CoCoCoCoC S
Ia,
-0t                                                                                                                                                       B
-a  I                                                                                                                                                I          Cc
WI I
Cc
o                                                                                                                                                    a          a  ICC
0    .0.0    0.5.0a,,            WOO         020C.020    20202020    20201.0t.0    00.-..                C--C                                      a    0         a
a,           a,COCCC            0r..a.-    O-Ja,Co         Co,0O2aa.aO20r..la-    -acca,Co    ICcOCoCo    .0.0.1.Co    000                            a     0    Cc
(C  a cc 20   20 20 Co .0.   Co cc ,..a a    .- to .0 Co    Co cc ..o a,   20 .0. ,-. 0   cc Cot..    .-.OL..S.a.    Co200C-.-.-l-                  I    Cc        I
6 -0.0    00C001          00             .00.0120    -  .C-C-- Co    CCaCcS-.0Co           -.tCO.M.    Occa,.-.,    cc.a a,.-ooooto               a          Co a C'.                U.)
Cc                                                                                                                                                   I          0.1  Cc
0.I                                                                                                                                                  I           0  a 0
(C  I                                                                                                                                                      .0    0
0 flfl COCOO -J ....a,a,a, a'CoCoCoCo.0.0 .0..P- .0.00020.-IC-. S Co a
aa I fl cc 20.0C-ICo Co -a o co 0 200 .--a-.0-.0 a, .0. .0 20 0 a, r..a 0 .0 0 CC, 0 CC -a- 20 0 0 0 0 I -. a IcC
CD  I                        at -J    0         a,                cc 0     a.   a,,       a, CO C cco.-.20CCt-I.-lt-.2020C-.lr...                   S    0           Cc
cc cc    a, a, cc 0     r..a cc t-. a-   cc 0  a, .0.   20 a,, in-.., 20    a' r.-S .0. a,    a, .0. a. Co    Co a, I-., .tO.   a, cc (53 .0.   .0. .0. .0.    S    CC  a tO
a                                                                                                                                                I     0        a   B
o                                                                                                                                                    I    Cc          CD
I                                                                                                                                                a     (C          Cc
Cc  a                                                                                                                                                a    -c
-3  a                                                                                                                                                .    Cc
o  a                          20.0.0.0.   .0.   .0.0    .0.0.2.40    l-.tt02020    20202020    0.0o
Cc I                          0.00  cc    cc.0-..J        .-00a'    1.0020-53    0.00.-..   'fl-JCo0..-a.Co...-2.JO..                              I    --
a                         0 Co Co Co  0 Co 00   0 0 0 0  000 0  000 Ccl 0 000   00 0 0  0 P.O.                                                        CD
0 Co Co Co 000 Co 000 Co Co 000  0000  0000  0000  0 Co Co



US Dollar zilillhoos
C  L' 0--           --  's0LS            '
ffiAeSM- =_==                  _==
- __         __          __
wi  _0tS2t$;D                             0
U.                    __1- -t  -a  
a.=. =_ht  W-   =
0-___ +> A   



- 41 -
4.  Project IpDlementation
PROJECT EXECUTION
1985          1986          1937          1988           1989           1990          1991          1992           1993
Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu.
Cumulative  Investment  5.9    2.7  11.8  17.2  23.7  29.4   41.4  34.7  59.2  37.5  59.2  44.1  59.2  52.6  59.2  58.7  59.2  71.0
iu Dinars million
Percent of Estimate                  46%          146%          124$            84%            63%           74%            89%           99%          120%
Subprojects coapleted    63           2   127      31   254    113    444    189    540    262    634    300   634   400   634    543    634   775
Percent of Estimate                   3S           24%           441            43%            49%           47%           631            861          122%



- 42 -
5.  Project Cost and Financing
A. PROJECT COSTS
(TD thousands)
Component                         SAR
---------                     Estimate        Actual    Difference  Percentage
'Works, Pipe laying                 34,402        31,488        (2,914)   -8.47%
Pipes & Equipment                   20,347        21,789         1,442      7.09%
Operation Equipment                  1,113         5,160         4,047   363.61%
Health Education Progran               509           293          (216)  -42.46%
Sub-Total                        56,371       58,730         2,359      4.18%
House Connections, Estensions        8,964        12,365         3,401    37.93%
Supervision and Studies              1,947         1,735          (212)  -10.87%
Total Cost:           67,282        72,830         5,548      8.25%
Front End Fee                           81            81             0      0.00%
TOTAL PROJECT COST:              67,363       72,911         5,548      8.24%
B. PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ thousands)                      (TD thousands)
Initial        Actual       Balance   Initial        Actual       Balance
Budget       --------      -------    Budget    --------         -------
Baak Loan 2368-TUN               50,000       50,000              0   32,300        44,000       11,700
Government Equity Contribut.  44,300          21,300       (23,000)  28,600         18,700       (9,900)
SONEDE Cash Generation            7,200        5,227        (1,973)   4,600          4,644           44
Customers Contributions           2,900        6,326         3,426    1,900          5,567        3,667
Total:               104,400        82,853       (21,547)  67,400         72,911        5,511



- 43 -
5                          C: Loan Allocation by Category
(in US$)
Category                  Estimate             Revised              Revised              Actual              Balance
--------  --------  (06/02/87)           (04/23/91)
1. Civil Works                     19,850,000           19,850,000           19,850,000            21,347,035            1,497,035
Bank Financing               401                  60%                   90%
2. Equipment & Materials,          20,000,000           22,225,312           22,225,312            20,510,127              510,127
Parts A, B & C. Bank Financ.l00S & 60%             100% & 70%           100% & 90t
3. Credits to castomers             5,500,000            7,500,000            7,500,000             7,724,913            2,224,913
Part E.        Bank Financing    50%                   50%                  50%
4. Equipment Part F                    300,000             300,000               300,000              293,237                (6,763)
Bank Financing           100% & 601          100% & 70%           100% & 70%
5. Front End Fee                       124,688             124,688               124,688              124,688                     0
6. Unallocated                      4,225,312                                                                           (4,225,312)
General Total:           50,000,000           50,000,000           50,000,000            50,000,000                     0



4 44 
6.  Project Results
A.    MONITORING INDICATORS
1985        1986         1987          1988         1989          1990        1991         1992           1993
Appr. Actu. Aupr. Actu. Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu. Appr. Actu.  Appr. Acta.
STA,FIFG
Total Staff             4,925 4,300 5,152 4,549 5,331 4,472 5,485 4,341 5,706 4,738 5,917 4,732 6,120 4,884                 5053          5274
Staff per 1000 Conn.   7.4        6   7.2      6   7.0      6   6.8       5   6.7      5   6.6       5   6.5     5              5            5
Connections per Staff           157          160          173           188          187           198         204           209
OP ERATIONS
'Water Produced           245 235.9   255 244.9   264 256.4   271 271.1   280 265.8   288 272.3   295 282.5                288.2         2.88.2
(3illions m3/year)
Water Sold              177.9 170.6 186.0 176.4 194.4 184.9 202.2 197.3 210.0 192.4 217.3 194.5 223.8 197.6                208.9         208.2
(millions ;3/yvear)
Uaaccounted for water27.38 27.68 27.05 27.97 26.36 27.88 25.38 27.22            25 27.61 24.54 28.57 24.13 30.05          27.515        27.75
Connectionstl000        640.6   674 690.6   727 738.6   776 784.1   824 829.1   884 874.1   938 919.1 994.1               1056.4          1098
RURAL SECTOR
Rurai Poe.t!000               3,145        3,086        3,131         3,177        3,224        3,262        3,299         3,337         3,375
SONEDE
Rural Population                890          803          854           908          953           981       1,033          1,064        1,114
Se-7ed *1000
Service level                 28.3%          263        27.3%         28.6 V       29.6%        30.1%        31.3%         31.881        33.00I
Coooections2100O                 39           42         50.5          48.2         47.7                      93.1
'iater Sold  iIl1ions o3        7.8             9         7.6         16.27         8.39         14.11       18.55
Villaces served                                                                                                960            994        1,079
G R.
Rural Population                                                                                             1,041          1,101        1,165
Served * 1000
Service level                                                                                                31.56%         32.99%       34.51%
Service level SONEDE + GR                                                                                    62.871         64.88%       67.5 1
--  -  - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - -  - -- -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -



4 45-
6. 3.                                         S0N00: AcIt ualI ;ad Fo:ecs t  [ ccoae  S2o:-        a      ft r~ 1983  to  1992
(io zil!!ions of T01
198a3           1 98a4           19 95           196               1 9 I2923                          1909              3  29019112
!Sst.    Act.  !Est.    Act. 2st.    Ac: .!2st.    Act.  !Est.               A      !:.  st.    Act.   E st.    Act.   IS.       Act.  !Est.       AC',.  2 A:toal
AtrSold  (~.Ill                   161 .]  155.3!170.2  111.i !177.9 1741.]   186.0  176.0   114 .4  125.0  !202.2  197.0   200 9.    273 9.                                  2.    9.             0. 
:te 'o 0001              1565.4  562.9  1615.6    616 :665.5 6741.0   715.   7272 76.   753   805.6  224.0   851 .6  884 .0    8 96 . 5939.0    941.6 997.0  21,243.2 
A7efige Tarii!iliIIlimes/1312    222  223.3              268    229      270   1,55 2    11I      05a      311    253  2  235    2 7 9  2       35    310 2 325    309           I25  2   30            327 
"a:er  sales                         225. 97   33.1  245 .61   38.4  142.01   441.3  257 .35   45.4  260. 46   49.5  '67.74   54.9270. 35   5 S.6     72.2   61.21i79.33   60.6  2                     67.52
M!,tr  reto    Aot.    2aat            5.4  3.4      2 . 8.62  33. 7:10. 12    4. 9    I1. 6 7     5. 6  23.36      6 . 3  25 . 0        721 6.-35     8.2   18.23    2.9  220.9          9 .3  2       9 . 9
S:-w cottectiot clargas                6. 52    7 .3:7 .81    7 .727. 668 8. 528.14                  9    S  803    a 8.4   S 2.23    8.9  2  .82   11 .9  2  9. 3 5       t1    9.9 1      112        1 2 . I
iersales  tortes                  2 2.25    2 .422.51        2 .  21. 09    3.2 23 .5 1     3.7       I 2.02    A 4. 5    4. 6    5.2     518    5.2        5.76    4 . 3    6.3 I I
Orscellssaoos             2 ~~~~~3. 1    2.7  I 2. 65    3 .I1 39 5    1.1  24 .29      1.5     I 2 .6 5   .a     5 2 504   2 2.6  2 5.45     1.9      6.9       2       .       .             . 
less bad  debt ?rovisicass             -0.2   -0.3     0. 3   .0.4  2-0.3  35 1.) 3     - 0.4 - -0.3!2-0.4I5 -0 .5          - 2 -. 5 - -.1    0 -.55   -1 .32 -0.63   - I.1       0. 6 -0 .4            I -. 42
'37AL  810197ES:                    252. 99   4 8 .6   67.11   5 5 .322. 5 i 1.2 2!85.06   6 4. 4290 .7              70  200 .3   77.6   20 6.1   26.3I 212.04   26.8 I121.45   9 2 .9    9 90 .92
F!rsootel                           214 .96   15.7  217.50   25 .9       . :10.3    29.3 123.22    22  226 .33   2 2.8  :2.         2 23.4 13  23. 2 25 .6  237.0   28.2 B  240.62a   30 . 92           4 .2 2
Fi:e1 S                             2 3.306    3.7      4 2.31    4 . 4  .04     4.825.287    5.2  26. 72           S.7     I 2  .55     62     .      6.2 2   9.4I   6 .5 210.2I7     6.3  2           6 .6 
Ce2ei CaI                              I 1.49    0 .9   I 2.77    1 .I   2.08    1522. 41    1.3   2 2.7 4          2.423. 0   2. 2    3I. 4 4     2.22    3.76    2.2 .         4.1     3.1            3 .3
!i s!rri a Is                        29.09      7.6     9 2. 70    7 .0 I :1.30  S .9210.f3       6.7 I 21.3 0         7 I 21.82 3    7.2 1 212.4 6     8.2  213. 2 4 10.2    1 24.00    7 .3  2       10 .1I
Oases                                 2 2.52    2 .a2 2. 82    2 .2     1.44     3. 8  2.26       4.      I 2 I 4.0    515 .36           52     5.  5.3  26.'0    4 .42 6. 79    2.72                   2 . 
'aece:  Purcases                     2 0.08    0 .1        I 0.5    0 .52   .I6 i 0.6  20 . 17     0.8   2 .1 7     1.210 .18            I1 2 0.28    1 .32   0.2 0     1.2  2  0.29    1.3 I           I.22
.Aftiistr.  eztnses           a the:! 3.1        .        2.1 6    7 .5:4.8    4. 5    4.86 5     4.2 2   5.2 5    4.        3.67    4.I      6 6. 12  5.2 B    S. 51    6.2 3   6.910    4 .2 2        4.92
loss  cori tol  !:Da3sas              -.1       272927. 0  :l.l    .:O 2-09-11.3 -51.5    -2                               -2.2        -      I2-1.0   -7 .9   11.3.1   -8. 24.2          6 -. 8  2     7.92
5~~-tota2:                 22~~~~6.4    2 7.3  221.04   3 0. 7 23.70    0.6  240 .49 3 3       I. 25 .23 26..'   250.5      1926.911 46 .7 2 6.55  5.0                5 25.4 7   49.8        5.72
3e~~~rec1acios             2~~~8. 11    9.9   10 . 35   1 1.2  213.32   13.6   15.02 22.35  227.44   15.   :19.75   0 6.4 222.11   121. 5   2             I 2.3 15226.00   12.6  2           3.52
0003L 0?OPEA?3G  !2?!YS1S:    324.52   3 7.2   41.39   4 1.9 42.21  43.3  255.5!   47 .2    2 6.3                   .1  270.7   58.3  279.0 6 65.3 2  86.76 69.5                9 94.5 67.5  2        7 4.32
01A20IICOME                   218.46   1 1.4225.72   13.4   3.29   18.0   2 29 .5   27.4 2 27.I              7.3   29.3    19.3            27.1   20.8  2   5. 4  17. 2 2 27.0   15.2 2          66 2S
Iccerest  earced                                                                 I 2  .42I.8                        2.                2.5:             2.32             3.:               3.2           3.2
For!igs  ercnatu   losses            222                                       -. 2              -632            -0.4  2              9.9  2        -0.5             I-0.1  2          -117  2    -2.52
0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~2                    -0.3:I2                           17 I I7.0                          1.2222                            3.924                               4.I           5.I
ivc  inCo2e  belOre  co              220.56     2 . 8       17.  0.62 .19    7.629. 26    7.I I 16.4                 2.2   212.4    -0.825.66       3 1 3. 4 7             22  14.29 -0.2               2.2
:..Co:t I'll                                                                                                                                                 I               0. 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    II   
NE0  ICM210 . 56    2 .8                                I 27. 1    0.8 1 22.9    7 7. 6  29.26    7.3   22.44   -.         1.1      -.    1.6          19:34             .    1.9 -.                     . 
I..H.....H..I..............
ia:kiq  ratio2   6 5                             76  662          762    67  70.6 S!    65         732       70 74.4           7 71   751   2 I 74   7 5. 3 2     7   2 .2 2        78   21.5          917 
Goe:Wtoo  rer2t;                                     2                            502            51.9  2           5.6  2              54            54.2 2            58. 6 259.1 I2                  60.2 2



- 4 6 -
6. C.                                          SOIEDE: Actual  and Forecast  Cans'  low Statooeuts  fina 1983  to 1992
(in illIjocn of TO)
1983            1984       1      M 115            76 '            1987              1938             1989             1998             1991               1992
!'St.    Act,   jo-t.    Act.   tost.    Act.  !-ESt.    Act.   EaSt.    Act.  lEst.    Act.  lESt.    Act.  lint.                Act. lEnt.        Act.      Actual
SOOFCES 0r FUNDS                      ........ .............-.........-...    ------    ...... ------                                                                     - ----I------    ----
................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           II                                                                                    
Set Incone  before  lntarest           13.46   11.5  125.72   13.5  124.29   21.1    29.5   27.0    27.3   22.0  129.5   24.0    27.1   26.4  125.4   23.2                        27.0   22.1 1        24.3
0a2'eciation                           11.11    9.9  110.3$   11.2  I       13   12.6    15.0   13.86    17.4   15.3         19.1   16.4    22.1   15.6         24.0   15.6 126.0   13.6               18.9
Cbaiuaja    'dockioq  capital    12.66    7.6 !8.28   -2.81  2.2   (4.0)    4.4'  (2.411   2.0    5.71  5.9   (8.6)1   4.5    1.0I   3.5   (5.0)!    4.2   (5.2)!                                       1.61
Sub-ontal:        123.91   13.9  121.79   27.5    34.6   29.7   40.16   25.2  142.72              431!43.414   31.8  144.74          46!   45.9  36.8 148.75   35.5 1              44.8 
LEES' DEBT SERVICEI                                                                                      IpIIIII
.................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II                                                                     9II                                                                    
?t:nc:oal                  ! ~~~7.25    4.5 !112.8   12.8  110.94   10.0  113.91   13.7   15.05   28 .3   14.96   27.1   14.25   26.2                 15.4   25.4    15.18   27.1            28.31
13taroa.                            17.1    8.3  18.62    9.8  19.4   10.7  110.29   13.4  110.87   14.6   111.15S   14.4  111.4                        14  111.89   12.1  112.89   11.3               9.51
NET, CAS1 GENERATIO0.                 1  5.3    1 .1  1  3.6    4 .9  114 .3    9 .0   1 1.0            . I1 16 .3    0.1 I    17.3   - 9 .7   19.1 I  5.8     18 .6  -0.7!   2 1.0   - 3.51            7.01
Ico row inq                           136 .2   2 4.2  129 .2   1 4 .5  10 .7   20.1  1259   19.2  12 1.2   20.1 I2 20.7   12.7 1 20.0    8 .0  I25.0    7. 01    2 6.0    3.4  5                        5.01
C:stosers Contributions               I    .      .        .      25176 14 .2              I 5.3   21 .3  1  9.3   2 2.   9 1  9.    15 .5  10 .7 1 11.8     11 . 012. 7        11.9   1 3.7  1         891
Go7erneut Contribaticn                112 .4   13.3     4.3  20. 0  1  8.3    7 .6  1  5.6    3.2   I 10.0    8.0            1 2. 1 17 .5   12. 8   11. 5    11 1.9   14.3   1 12 .7   13.9         1  12.21
TOTAL SOUREES  0F FUNDS               165 . 0 48.4  150.3   51.9  151.0   51.7  1 56.2   05.1  157 .3   51.1  160.3,   36.0  616.6   36.3  I   66. 5 33.3                         7 71 .6 27.5  1      33.11
A??LCACIONs 
laveutneot                ~~~~15.2   47.41  50.8   43.6  150.7   49.7  I 5.0   52.!    H 158           05.9  1 60. 3   ,4i9  163.0   32.2  165.0   31.                  7.0   28.4  I        33.5 
Otter  lovesto1eat                    1 1.0    1.01  -0.5    8.3          0 .3    2.0!   1.2    2.21  -2.7    0.2             O .;    1.1  1-0.4    4.1           LS 1.  14i       1.6   -0.9  I       -0.41
'TOTAL APLCTIU ONS                      65.0   48.4 150.3   51.9  1 51.0   51.7  1 55.2    51157.3   51 .1  1 60.5   36.0  1 62.6   36.3  166.5  33.3     71.6   27.3                                  3i.1 
Self Financico  Ratio witbou 15tllS             2.17  116.37   9.26  126.21  17.10  127.52  12.90  12.94    0 .2  127.41 -21.6  128.49  17.90  126 . 95 - 2 .2 0  19. 34 9 -.5 so                     1 6.1 I 1
C:ntc:ers Cotnor:utions I                             I11I1II
Self Financi3g  Ratio -iith           129.45  20.92 130.88 32.89  139.37 44.10  142.70  53.90  143.41  51.0   4 2.1-0   0 . 53 444   51.90  142.87   38.3 145.96   27.9  I 26.501
Cuncooer   Contributions  0 I                                                                                                                                                   
De:t S!E7ie  Rat!o without    I 1.53   1 .10  I1 14 5 1. 20  I11.70   1.33   1  .5 6   2.6  11. 65   0. 37    I 1.66   0.97   11.7 4   1. 12  I  1.6    1. 11   I 1.76&  1.01                          I 1.1 2I
ECol;.oners  Cootribotions                            IIIII
Dent Service Rat'o witla              1 2. 0    1.33  I1 1.5    1. 77  12 .27  2.31 1  2.0 2 1.74  1 2. 01   1. 40    2.3  0.            5 1 3   2.1 6   1. 39 1    i9   1. 4 5   2 .1  1 I. 39        1.9 01
Contoners Concribatioas               IIII                                                                                 1III
.--   - -  -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  -  - -  -I  - -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  - - -  -  - -  -  - -  - -  -  - -  -  -



7.                  Status of Covenants
!  Loan   ! Project         DESCRIPTION                           ! DDE DATE !        COMPLIANCE
!Aareenent!Agreenent                                              !EACH YEAR !
3.02     !Payment of Water Bills by Government                      12/31   !Not Complied with. Arrears 2 years    !
!Departments and Agencies                              ! !for Municipalities, 1 year for Governi!
I               I                                                I            I                                          I
!          ! 3.05.i    !Quarterly Progress Reports                !Quarterly !Complied with
!          ! 3.05.ii  !Annual Report on ODeration. Indicators!   06/30   !Not complied with
I                I                                          I           II
!          !  4.02.b  IDnaudited Financial Statements             !  06/30    !Complied with
!          !  4.02.b  !Annual Audit Report                        .  09/30   !Complied with
!          !  4.03.a  !SONEDE's internal cash generation          !  12/31    !Fulfilled with Customers Contributions!
!shall be at least 1.5 times projected
ldebt service
3.05     !  4.04.a  !Self-Financiag Ratio of 20%                !  12/31      F.ulJfijled with  custcaners
!  !        !                                          !           ! Contrxibutions
!Side Letter No.3      ISelt-Financing Ratio of 40% including !  12/31   !Fulfilled until 1989, then 38.31 in   !
!Customer contributions                   !            !1990, 27.9% in 1991 & 36.5% in 1992
!          !           !
3.05     !  4.05.b  !Review Water RatEs and Propose             !  11/30    !Fulfilled from 1984 onwards
!  Adjustments
3.06                 ! lReview with Bank conclusions of the    ! 06/30/86 !Not done. Study prepared for the 8th
!   !       !Financial and Organizational Study        !           !'ater Supply Project
4.02.c                ! lAnnual Audit of MOPS Accounts         -!  09/30   !
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- 48 -
8.       A: Staff ilputs (staff-weeks)
FT      LE?      LENA      LEll       SPI       PCR            TOTALS
1953      5.3       8.9      0.6                                 14.8
1984              20.5       5.6       1.8                       27.9
1985                                   6.4                        6.4
1986                                   3.3                        3.3
1987                             -      .0                        8.0
1988                                   5.1                        5.1
1989                                   9.6                        9.6
1990                                   4.9                        4.9
1991                                   4.6                        4.6
1992                                   5.2                        5.2
1993                                  10.3                       10.3
1994                                   1.7       8.0              9.7
TOTlLS:       5.3      29.4       6.2      60.9       8.0       0.0 109.8
This gives a total oi   109.8 staff-weeks for the entire project cycle.



- 49 -
8.                          B: Missions Data
--                           ----------------                                   Rating
Stage of           Month/   Days in  Number of Specialization Number of   Overall
Project Cycle      Year      Field    persons   represented    Staff-days  Status
Identification    09/82        9         2          E.F.                   18     n/a
Preparation        02/83       7         2          E.F.                   14     n/a
Appraisal          04/83      16         2          E.F.                   32     n/a
Post-appraisal    09/83        5         2          E.L.                   10     n/a
Supervision 1      02/84      11         2          E.E.                   22         1
Supervision 2      12/84      15         2          E.F.                  30          1
Supervision 3      05/85      12         2          E.F.                   24         1
Supervision 4      12/85      18         2          E.F.                   36         1
Supervision 5      06/86      10         2          E.F.                   20         1
Supervision 6      05/87      13         2          E.F.                  26          1
Supervision 7      12/87      10         3          E.F.E.                 30         1
Supervision 8      09/88      11         3          E.F.E.                 31         2
Supervision 9      08/89      18         I          F.                     18         2
Supervision 10    10/89       16         1          E.                     16         2
Supervision 11    09/90        8         3          E.F.F.                 22        2
Supervision 12    01/92        8         I          E.                     8         2
Supervision 13    09/92       22         1          E.                    22         2
Supervision 14    02/93       18         1          F.                     18         2
Supervision 15    05/93       23         3          E.F.Ec.                66         2
PCR                12/93      10         1     .   E.                      10     n/a
Total of Mission/Staff Days:                                             473
Key to specialization:      Ec.Economist
F. Financial Analyst
E. Engineer
L. Lawyer
N.B.: M.ost of the supervision missions were combined with the supervision of previous
projects and, since 1990, with the preparation of the Eighth Water Supply Project.



-36      -
SEP1IPME PRO31T B.I.R.D
ETAT RECAPITUIJAT ,F ANNUEL ET PAR GOUVERJIORAT DES LEITRS R111U1  KIS EN SERVICE
DE 1985 A PIN 1992
F-                                                         -                F             ~~~~~~~~~~~~-o----------,---------------------------------
Ir00I3  I    I    I  I  I  II  I  I  I       II            I        I           I                 II           I        I           I                III           I        I          I              II            I        I                           II           I        I          I               ii            I       I              I                II           I TI                    I TI  1.T~  1. T
0070    I   I   I I  I   I  I  3    21  30161 0167371   I I    I                                I                I   Il   II    11010140]   I  o    II   3001                                                               I   I    I                  I- I.......II   IIIII"It*1    412..I  6J1I71
I-~~~4~~F4----4    ~-F                              -F-- ----I-- A                             -I-----I--l----+-----F- -F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               F-
--F---F--F---+                          4        ---------------- I             -A            F4-------
srs  I I    I          I                      I       I                     I                 10       31       15       2o      Iooo *                I       I                    I.                         '      11 04 16 33 3                         I       I                   II                            I        I                          1 131I110I12 30 00 410...21 071...70
I  I  I        I           I                I     I       I  I                                   I        Il        5 1 0 1               010 I                            I3        I31        7    o r 1               0    7     7    1    7    5    0    1         I        I           II                    1     1    1    7    0 . 7         0    1'                 4               313 1 0 1 1 3 3 1 7 1                                         33 6 6  
I  I  I I  I    I  I I   I    1 6 1          1400       127g        37                   l   1 1 0 0 2      1 0 0 0     3 1 ,           0 1       0   365*1          4 0 3 0      'III      I      41     0001      21.47       1        I I          'lo     sO    1   05610             1  3   1      1        16   1        '  ~   3 3l0l5-1-1 0 0 1                   3 1 10-1 3 1



