Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
Rh  t N6. P-3686-TUN
REPORT AND rEoNNEATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTrMIoNALA  FOR REOOSTRCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXCrUTIVE DICTORS
Of A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO 09*50.0 MILLION
TO THEE
PEPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SEVENTH WTER SUPPLY PROECT
November 18, 1983
lMOI doemusug bm a mesdelmi dIsib&Ru   id may be used by redfpkemis I I.y lb de pfsaam of
thkofficmia dudmlb.  cinimu -, -' absrwlu be ihelmi wihest Would Buk ahdmixadIm. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (TD)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate used
in the Staff Appraisal Report, which approximates the rate as of April 15,
1983, is:
US $1.00   TDO.646
TDI.0O0  US $1.55
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
DGR      =   Rural Construction Directorate (Direction du Gdnie Rural)
DSSB     =   Basic Health Directorate (Direction des Soins de Sante de Base)
EW       =   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NA=   Ministry of Agriculture
MOPH         Ministry of Public Health
SONEDE       National Water Authority (Socift6 Nationale d'Exploitation et de
Distribution des Eawz)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SEVENTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Tunisia
*
Beneficiary:          Soci6te Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des
Eaux (SONEDE)
Amount:               US t50.0 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee
Terms:                17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Onlending:            The Government would onlend US$5.5 million of the Bank
loan to SONEDE at 10.5 percent interest for 17 years,
including 4 years of grace. SONEDE would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description;        The proposed project would extend public water supply
services to a larger share of the rural population,
ensure adequate operation and maintenance of these rural
water systems, and build up SONEDE's capacity to provide
services in rural areas. It consists of: the
installation of piped water supply systems in about 600
rural villages, and where necessary the recalibration of
transmission mains; the provision of drilling, operating
and maintenance equipment; research on, and design and
testing of, new low-cost materials and equipment for
rural water supply systems; financial and organizational
studies; provision of credit facilities to domestic
customers in rural areas to help finance the
installation cost of house connections; and a health
education program. Benefits of the project would accrue
mostly to low-income groups, namely about 350,000 rural
villagers, of whom 40 percent would have house
connections (standpipes in their yards) and the
remainder would be served at public taps. The risk that
such a large number of rural subprojects would be
difficult to execute, operate and maintain would be
lessened by SONEDE's creation of a special unit for
rural works and the proximity of almost all the villages
to SONEDE's already existing operating centers.
This document has a rescteicd distr bution and nay be used by reapicats only in the peffw=mnsc of
their of}rwia duties. Its contents may not otherwrise be disclosed without World Bank authorezation



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
Local     Foreign    Total
u- US SMilion…--
Pipe Supply and Laying, and
Recalibration of Transmission Mains    21.9          20.7       42.6
Storage Tanks                               6.4         6.6       13.0
Pumping Stations                            1.5         2.1        3.6
Drilling, Operating and Maintenance
Equipment                                 0.3         0.9        1.2
Studies                                     0.3          -         0.3
House Connections                           5.1         4.6        9.7
Health Education Program                    0.3         0.2        0.5
Base Cost                            35.8         35.1       70.9
Construction Supervision               1.2         0.6        1.8
Physical Contingencies                4.5          4.4        8.9
Price Contingencies                   12.9         9.8      22.7
Total Project Cost                   54.4         49.9      104.3
Front-end Fee                          -           0.1        0.1
Total Financing Required             54.4         50.0      104.4
Financing Plan:
Local     For i a    Total
u'S $4Milion-
Bank                                              50.0      50.0
Government                           44.3           -       44.3
SONEDE                                7.2                     7.2
Customers                             2.9           -        2.9
Total              54.4 J1      50.0      104.4 /1
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY  1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
-      -        US %      houli -n  -       -
Annual                      4.5   11.0   10.7    8.2    4.4    6.8    4.4
Cumulative                  4.5   15.5   26.2   34.4   38.8   45.6   50.0
Economic Rate of Return; Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report; No. 4669b-TUN, dated November 11, 1983
Map No. 17436
/1      Including US $18.9 million of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A SEVENTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Tunisia for the equivalent of US $50.0 million to help
finance a seventh water supply project. The loan, which includes a
capitalized front-end fee of 0.25 percent on the Bank loan, would have a term
of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The Government of Tunisia would onlend the equivalent of $5.5 million
of the loan to Soci6te Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux
(SONEDE) at 10.5 percent interest per annum for 17 years, including 4 years of
grace. SONEDE would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A special economic report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86)" was prepared by two economic missions which
visited Tunisia in October 1981 and March 1982. A draft of the report served
as a basis for discussions with the Government on macroeconomic policies and
sectoral investment programs. The final version of the report (No. 4137-TUN)
includes a main volume dated March 16, 1983, and a second volume on sectoral
aspects dated June 29, 1983. This part reflects the report's findings, as
well as some preliminary data on 1983 obtained during subsequent Bank
missions. Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I.
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Only three percent of arable
land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject
to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas. While the known
exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and the
phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality, there have recently been
promising indications of new hydrocarbon reserves, although it is too early to
assess their exact potential. The country also has considerable tourism
potential, and efforts have been made during the last decade to develop it
rapidly.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the
infant mortality rate declined from 150 in the early 1960s to 90 at the end of
the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from under 15 percent to about 62
percent, and average caloric supply per capita increased from about 80 to 115
percent of minimum standard requirements. An active family planning policy
pursued by the Government led to a decrease in fertility and birth rates.



However, since at the same time mortality rates also decreased, the annual
natural demographic growth rate decreased only slightly from 2.6 percent in the
1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s. Moreover, after 1976, the net emigration of
Tunisians abroad was sharply reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC
countries and Libya.
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tunisians in
the labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half of the total
investments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive
sectors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors,
however, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They
provided 53 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in 1982 while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 19 percent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976, not
so much in terms of overall growth as in terms of che underlying growth
factors; output in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average
below the demographic rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather
conditions; textile production and tourism development grew at a slower pace
than projected mainly because of difficulties in European markets. By
contrast, manufacturing industry other than textiles, as well as energy,
phosphate processing, construction, and construction materials expanded at a
fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particularly
in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favorable from 1976
to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace than exports, and the
terms of trade improved significantly due to sharply higher post-1974 export
prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap remained relatively small,
and domestic savings financed on average over 76 percent of investment, which
increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP for 1972-76 to 30 percent for
1977-81. The current account deficit averaged $450 million per year (1977-81),
and was easily financed; grant aid and private investments (mainly for oil
exploration) provided about 30 percent, while the remainder was mainly covered
by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus, during the 1970s total foreign debt
increased little relative to GDP, and the debt service ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and
redistributing domestic resources. Central Government revenues were equivalent
to about one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these
revenues was saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of total
Government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation
permitted a rapid increase in payments to private consumers and public
enterprises.  Such tranfers, including those for social security, accounted for
19 percent of total current budget outlays and over 7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved,
except for the employment target, and open and hidden unemployment remains a
serious problem for the Tunisian economy at present. The actual GDP growth
fell short by 1.2 percentage points of the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a.,



mainly because of poor performance in agriculture, while the investment
objective of $9.8 billion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, was fully
met. Completion of some large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion
of the oil refinery) was, however, delayed, but private sector investments,
both foreign and national, exceeded Plan targets. Although job creation
objectives were achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except construction,
these sectors could only absorb 90 percent of new job seekers at a time when
migration to Libya and Europe slowed down. The overall unemployment rate,
estimated at about 12 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not
declined.
10.      In 1982 and 1983, the current economic situation suffered a series of
setbacks. GDP increased by only 1.5 percent in constant prices in 1982. Three
factors accounted for this poor performance: adverse weather conditions which
depressed agricultural output and consequently, agro-industrial output;
recession in Europe which reduced exports, particularly chemicals and tourism;
and exceptional technical problems in key intermediate industries. GDP is
expected to recover in 1983 reflecting a stronger performance in the industrial
sector. The slowdown in output, coupled with a large increase in minimum wages
and some price liberalization led to an unusually high inflation (13.7 percent)
in 1982. In 1983, inflationary pressures were slowed down by a voluntary
reduction of 5 percent in producer prices and sales prices of industrial
products and also by an intensification of price controls. In July, the Cost
of Living Index, compared to the beginning of 1983, increased by less than 1
percent. Relaxation of controls in September is expected to increase this
Index by about 8 percent for the whole year. During 1982-83, the current
account deficit of the balance of payments experienced sharp deterioration
reflecting: the fall in petroleum export receipts and the reduction in exports
of agricultural products; the increase in imports of food products and
consumption goods; and the slowdown in tourism due to the unfavorable
international economic environment. The deterioration in the trade balance led
to a steady drain in the level of foreign reserves in the first half of 1983
and recourse to commercial credit.  This trend was reversed in the second half
of the year as petroleum exports picked up and the credit was drawn down.
11.      Medium-term Prospects.  The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) was
approved by the Parliament in July 1982. The main objectives are employment
generation, export promotion, and more rapid growth in the three least
developed regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and South).
Sectoral priority is to be given to agriculture, engineering industries, and
tourism.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth during this period and beyond
will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural gas sector.
Oil and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging. Based on
known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields that
recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil and gas
production would at best be stabilized at about its present annual level of 5-6
million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade. Barring large new
oil or gas discoveries, and given the rapid rise in domestic demand for energy,
Tunisia will have to face the consequences of a decline in energy revenues.
The Government considers that the situation requires immediate policy changes
and has introduced the most urgent ones in the Sixth Plan. By introducing
these changes on time, Tunisia expects to reduce the associated economic and
social strains, and avoid major balance-of-payments problems.



- 4 -
13.      The Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growth objective in the range of 5.9
to 6.1 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growth rate will be
difficult to achieve in view of the poor 1982 performance. Projected growth of
traditional exports (tourism, textiles, and phosphate-based chemicals) is
insufficient to compensate for the projected decline in oil export revenues;
these exports should be supplemented by new ones, in particular engineering
products. Production diversification and export promotion will, however, take
time to bear fruit. The Plan strategy therefore rightly aims at containing
domestic demand in order to control import growth. The macroeconomic scenario
assumes no improvement in terms of trade, as was brought about by oil price
rises in 1973-74 and in 1979-80. This would not only affect the external
account but also result in slower growth of domestic savings, particularly
public savings.
14.      Consequently, the Sixth Plan projects a drop in the fixed investment
rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 25 percent for the Plan period.
This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant prices relative to
the Fifth Plan investment. A major objective is to correct recent capital
intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation of investments.
More resources would be allocated to small and medium manufacturing enterprises
in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the unemployment problem and
reduce income disparities between rural and urban areas. Since June 1981, a new
set of policy measures has targeted the incentive system toward this objective.
The Investment Code was modified to offer free industrial zones and direct
subsidies to job creation for new projects in underdeveloped regions, and a
Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and Household Workshops was created. In order to
promote a more efficient technical and financial management of the public and
private modern sectors, the Plan assigns a major role in project promotion and
supervision to an expanded network of new development banks (two opened in 1981
and three in 1982); they are joint ventures with foreign investors and should
alleviate the pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of public
investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment of the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation, and
public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a
better-adjusted fiscal system should be used to restrain final consumption and
stimulate savings. As first encouraging steps in 1981 and in early 1982,
sizeable price increases in energy and agricultural products were implemented,
and the whole interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving
accounts and term deposits and industrial lending rates being increased by 1.5
to 2 points. In October 1983, the Government announced its decision to remove
soon the subsidy on bread, cereals and cereal products, a subsidy which
represented about 2 percent of GNP in 1982. There was a sizeable increase of
the legal minimum wage (30 percent) in M4arch 1982, mainly to improve the
low-wage earners' living conditions, but the Government recognizes that overall
wage and salary policies should keep labor cost increases (including social
costs chargeable to enterprises) in line with productivity increases,
particularly since Tunisia wants to stimulate tourism, and improve its
international competitiveness for exports of manufactured goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive since
independence, and the country has come a long way towards meeting the basic
needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent of GDP
is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the young and
regional pockets of poverty still present serious social problems.



-5-
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total
population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but remained the same in some rural
zones in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor agricultural
performance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and the interior
(West) widened, in part because the system of price controls and subsidies as
well as budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact.  The Government
is using the forthcoming Plan to focus on the zones of poverty, with a view to
eradicating them before the end of this century. Reducing the demographic
growth rate is considered an important factor in this endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprehensive education system provides free access to all students, and the
gross enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary education, and 30
percent for secondary education. The performance of the system could, however,
be improved by expanding vocational training programs, improving their relevance
and responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs of the poor and
rural groups.
19.      Public health services are second among social expenditures, and their
overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital
statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the
availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services
have concentrated largely on curative medicine, and the medical referral system
is not functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor are often excluded.
Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality remains high
relative to middle-income countries.
20.      In the Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing and water
supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs (health,
shelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (training). In
education, two reforms are under discussion: the first one would provide a
nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second would create
polytechnical high schools combining basic and technical education. In health,
the Sixth Plan allocates more resources to preventive medicine and nutrition
education. Finally, as regards housing, public subsidized programs will be
directed to the neediest population groups. The housing demand from households
above the minimum standard income limit will be satisfied by the private sector.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  During the second half of the
1970s, the growth of foreign borrowing was modest and a growing share of foreign
funds was provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. Foreign loan
commitments averaged about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of which in the
form of official assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came
from bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada,
and some oil-surplus countries. About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by
the Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing
terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1982, debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at about $3.5 billion, or 43 percent of GNP (it is
expected to account for about 44 percent in 1983); because exports declined
substantially, debt service was 17 percent of exports of goods and services, as
compared with 13 percent in 1981.



22.      The current account deficit reached $690 million in 1982, and is
projected to grow to about $1.0 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from
abroad, projected at $1.2 billion per year on average (at present dollar
exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, with ODA providing half of
the total. The external debt-service ratio is not expected to increase above
its present level until 1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely
implementation of policy changes to curb domestic demand, promote exports, and
improve public sector savings. It should be noted, however, that the Sixth Plan
recommends a low growth scenario in order to preserve the country's relatively
high financial stability and creditworthiness. This objective is even more
crucial if the country is to succeed in mobilizing the large inflows of direct
foreign capital assumed in the Plan. Foreign investments were small during most
of the 1970s but have gained momentum during the last three years in line with
increased activities in the oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign
investors in manufacturing. Such investments have increased from $100 million
in 1976 to about $350 million in 1981, and have been equivalent to 10 percent of
total investments for 1971-81. The Plan's growth scenario estimates that about
15 percent of total investment could be financed by direct foreign investment,
equivalent to an annual inflow of $400 million. The newly created development
banks (para. 14) are expected to play a significant role in this context.
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook in the medium term will
depend on developments in the hydrocarbon sector and on the policy changes to be
initiated during the next few years. In the 1983 Budget Law, the Government
reiterates its determination t9 implement all needed policy measures to preserve
macroeconomic equilibrium. Considering its long record of prudent and skillful
balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good grounds to
assume that it will formulate and implement the necessary policy changes and
will continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending. The Bank's close
dialogue with the Government on several policy aspects at the macro and micro
levels will be pursued in connection with the implementation of the Sixth
Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA /1
25.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia sixty-one loans and ten
IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,213.3 million and $75.2 million (net of
cancellations) of which thirty-six loans and credits have been fully disbursed.
Annex II contains a sutmaary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1983. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory. As of June 30, 1983, overall disbursements amounted to 54 percent
of appraisal estimates, which compares favorably with other countries in the
region. Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial finance and port
projects has generally been above the country average, while larger than average
disbursement delays have been experienced for agricultural credit, education,
highway, urban and fisheries projects, due to project specific problems that are
being addressed through supervision missions and sector discussions. In a
number of sectors, important institutional improvements have been achieved, and
/1 Part II is substantially the same as Part II of President's Report No.
P-3641-TUN of August 15, 1983, for a Mining Technical Assistance Project.



autonomous agencies have been created or strengthened to ensure the efficient
management of the related sectors or subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting4overnment
efforts to: (a) increase employnent; (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular emphasis
on rural areas, and on operations targeted to low-income population groups; (c)
promote export-oriented policies, technological changes and improvements in
labor productivity; and (d) provide selective support for the development of
basic infrastructure and for institution building in key public services. An
important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in the
timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through missions and advice
by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program, the use of
the Bank's Project Preparation Facility, and technical assistance projects. The
Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts to increase the
mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing for the projects
it assists. The latter is particularly important in view of the extent of
Tunisia's external resource needs.
27.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 32 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 28
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 23 percent, and industrial and
hotel financing, mostly through the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia (BDET),
17 percent of total commitments. In addition, the Bank has made two loans for
technical assistance, the first aimed at improving the Government's capability
for project identification and preparation in the agriculture, industry and
energy sectors, and the second designed to rationalize and develop the mining
industry.
28.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts in
key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development. It will also assist projects which address the needs of the least
developed regions of the country, develop research capabilities, increase
productivity, and help reduce the gap between income groups and between urban
and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to employment creation,
institution building and agricultural development. In addition to the proposed
Seventh Water Supply Project, prcposed future lending would include projects for
agricultural development in northwestern Tunisia, research and extension,
irrigation operation and maintenance improvement, regional development, rural
health and electrification, industry, energy and urban development.
29.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. It
will be centered on the analysis of economic issues and policies related to the
necessary adaptation process from a petroleum exporting to a petroleum importing
country. This analysis, which was included in the special economic report
entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)"
(No. 4137-TUN), dated March 16, 1983, will be pursued by an updating economic
mission tentatively scheduled for early 1984. Further economic and sector work
will include a review of industrial employment creation issues, a financial
sector study, a study of education finance and administration, and reviews of
the transport and energy sectors.



- 8 -
3u.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 28 percent of total public
conunitments to Tunisia during 1979-1981. Their share in total debt outstanding
and disbursed at the end of 1981 (including loans from private sources) was 12
percent and their share in debt service during 1981 was 9 percent. The share of
the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt is expected to remain at
about 1U percent and their share in the debt service to increase to about 13
percent through 1986.
31.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest in
tourism projects), in Socidtd Touristique et Hotelibre RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor (ICF), which produces aluminum
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord itntegrated
tourism development project.  IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled S9.2
million, as of September 30, 1983. Currently, IFC is considering a project to
rehabilitate and modernize the fluorspar mine supplying ICF, the creation of a
leasing company whlich would be Tunisia's first, anid a fertilizer project which
ould produce phosphoric acid for export.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
32.      Institutional Framework.  The Ministry of Agriculture (MA) manages all
water resources in the country. Based on an informal delineation of
responsibility, SONEDE, the autonomous national water authority established in
1968, whose operations are supervised by the MA, has until now handled the
production and distribution of potable water in all agglomerations over 500
inhabitanits, while the HA's Rural Construction Directorate (DGR) has built water
supply systems in rural areas and villages under 500 inhabitants; these latter
systems are operated and maintained by offices of the country's Governorates.
Under the proposed project, SONEDE will expand its coverage down to villages of
100 people; DGR will thus focus on the smallest villages and dispersed rural
population (para. 38).
33.      Water Resources.  The volume of water available in Tunisia is limited.
At present, about 58 percent of total exploitable water resources is being used,
including 7 percent for potable water; by the year 2000, more than 90 percent of
the water resources will be in use, including 22 percent for potable water.
Most of the fresh surface water resources are found in the northwest, requiring
large impounding reservoirs to optimize their yield and long trAnsmission mains
to convey their water to the large consumption centers, mainly .cated in
coastal areas. Groundwater resources in the north have limited capacity, and
thus are only suitable for supplying small towns. In southern parts of the
country, detnand for water already exceeds available regional water resources and
some water must be brought in from the north. It will ultimately become
necessary to resort to desalination and recycling of wastewater in this part of
the country. The water supply situation is further compounded by the high
salinity of some sources, which must be mixed with fresh water to be fit for
hutman consumption.
34.      In order to promote water conservation, the Government enacted a water
code in 1975 to regulate the collection and allocation of water, and established
a National Water CoTnuittee to help the MA manage water resources. Furthernore,
the Government is undertaking a water conservation plan, and a progressive water



- 9 -
tariff structure is applied so as to promote conservation. Finally, the
Government has prepared three master plans for long-term development and use of
the water resources in the northern, central and southern parts of the country.
The southern master plan and the first phase of the northern master plan are
being implemented with Bank financial assistance (Loan 1796-TUN, Southern
Irrigation Project; Loan 1431-TUN, Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project); the second
phase of the northern master plan is being prepared with assistance from the
Federal Republic of Germany; and the draft central master plan is awaiting
Government approval.
35.      Population, Service and Consumption Levels.  About 48 percent of
Tunisia's total population (estimated at 6.4 million in 1980) is considered
rural, nearly two-thirds of which is agglomerated into about 4,500 villages and
the remainder dispersed in isolated locations. The population distribution has
changed and is expected to continue to shift in favor of urban areas, largely
due to migration out of rural zones; the rural population is expected to
represent less than 38 percent of the total population by 1990. However, the
agglomerated rural population is not projected to decline in absolute terms
through the end of the century. As of mid-1982, about 91 percent of Tunisia's
urban population had access to safe piped water, of which about 70 percent was
supplied through private house connections; in rural areas, only about 46
percent of the population had access to safe public water supply, and only 15
percent was served through private house connections. Of Tunisia's 4,500
villages, only 1,000 had public water supply systems.
36.      Constraints and Priorities in the Sector.  The major constraints to
rapid expansion of public potable water supply in Tunisia are financial and
organizational. In view of the remote location of fresh water sources from the
consumption centers and the high salinity of many water sources, which must be
mixed with fresh water, long costly transmission pipelines are required, vith
per capita investments becoming higher as the population per system decreases.
So far, the Government has given first priority to the urban areas where it has
been possible, through SONEDE's program, to reach a large number of consumers
quickly, as reflected in the service level statistics (para. 35). Under the
Sixth Development Plan (1982-86), SO0NEDE's investments in urban water supply
will continue (totaling $346.0 million) with the objectives of serving the
entire urban population and increasing the proportion of the urban population
with house connections from 70 to 80 percent.
37.      However, now that major progress has been achieved in urban areas, the
Government intends to boost investments in rural water supply significantly.
This is in line with its objective to improve the living conditions of rural,
low-income population groups. During the Fifth Plan period (1977-81), $35.9
million was invested in rural water supply works. During the Sixth Plan period,
this figure is projected to increase to $264.2 million, with the objective of
increasing the percentage of the rural population served by public water supply
from 46 to 56 percent by the end of the decade.  In view of the high investments
required to reach rural groups, the Government has decided to bear a large
portion of the financial burden for these investments itself ($186.0 million for
the proposed project and another project probably to be executed by DGR; the
remaining $78.2 million would be invested directly by SONEDE in large
villages). The proposed investments in rural water would account for about 7
percent of the Government's capital investments during the Sixth Plan,
reflecting the priority given to poverty-alleviating projects in rural areas.
Foreign financing will lessen the impact of these investments on the



- 10 -
Government's budget. In addition to the proposed loan, the Government is
discussing a possible loan of $12.0 million equivalent from the Federal Republic
of Germany (KfW). It has also already received about $2.0 million equivalent
from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development and $10.0 million
equivalent from the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) for rural water projects
currently under implementation. In the longer term, the Government's objective
is to provide the entire agglomerated rural population and about 80 percent of
the entire rural population with public water supply by the year 2000. This
objective is ambitious and would require additional Government investments of
about $1.1 billion equivalent in current prices. In view of its magnitude, it
may have to be revised in light of available financing. One of the goals of the
proposed project is to establish a framework for providing rural water supply
services at the lowest cost, thereby allowing more rapid coverage of other rural
areas in the future. It is also expected that SONEDE would gradually reserve
more of its funds for rural works.
38.      On the organizational side, as noted in para. 32, until now SONEDE has
handled water supply provision, operation and maintenance in villages with over
500 inhabitants. Smaller villages and rural dispersed areas have come under the
jurisdiction of DGR for construction and of the Governorates for operation and
maintenance of water supply systems. These smaller systems have, however, not
been well operated or maintained and require heavy Government subsidies - they
are not subject to water tariffs and, in those instances where village
communities collect operating funds, they are inadequate. In view of its
objective to greatly extend water supply services to rural areas and of SONEDE's
successful activities in the lar,-er villages, the Government has decided to
expand SONEDE's coverage down to villages of 100 people. This will allow these
villages to be brought into SONEDE's tariff system and therefore contribute,
albeit still in a subsidized manner (para. 52), to sector finances. The
Government intends that DGR would continue to construct water supply systems in
villages with populations under 100, and the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW)
is considering the possibility of providing financial assistance in this
regard. The Bank has been in contact with KfW to assure coordination of the two
projects.
39.      Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector.  Since 1968, the Bank Group
has been extensively involved in the sector and has assisted in financing six
projects of SONEDE (through five loans and one credit). SONEDE itself was set
up in 1968 under the first Bank loan (581-TUN of January 1969) which financed
water supply works in the regions of Tunis and Sousse. An IDA credit (209-TUN
of June 1970) assisted in financing the improvement and expansion of water
_upply works in eight areas of the country. Both projects were jointly financed
with the Swedish International Development Authority. A second loan (989-TUN of
May 1974) of $23 million helped SONEDE finance the construction of water supply
systems in the country's second largest city, Sfax, and a number of rural
centers. Another loan (1445-TUN of July 1977) of $21 million helped finance
production and distribution facilities in five northern provinces. The Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development cofinanced this project. A first sector loan
(1702-TUN of May 1979) of $25 million contributed to financing water production
and distribution systems in smaller towns and rural centers, and a second sector
loan (2134-TUN of May 1982) is helping finance water supply works in about 150
large villages and house connections for low-income users. The Bank Group has
also assisted the development of the sector through a tourism infrastructure
project (Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN of September 1972) which included water
supply works of $18.5 million, and the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project (Loan
1431-TUN of July 1977) mentioned in para. 34 above.



- 11 -
40.      The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) on the first two projects
(No. 1902 of February 13, 1978) cGacluded that they had met their basic
objective of providing water of acceptable quality for the increasing
requirements of the population in the areas served, and contributed greatly
towards the development of SONEDE into a technically sound and financially
viable institution. The PPAR on the third project (No. 3914 of May 14, 1982)
concluded that project implementation was successful although at substantially
higher cost than estimated, and that this could have been avoided by having
detailed engineering completed prior to appraisal. As a result, subsequent
projects have been appraised on the basis of final designs. The execution of
the fourth and fifth projects is proceeding satisfactorily. Except for part of
*      a water treatment plant, which will be completed by mid-1984, all facilities
under the fourth project are completed and in operation. The fifth project
should be finished by the end of 1983. Construction under the sixth project
started in mid-1983. The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) has also
published a Sector Operations Review on the Water and Wasce Disposal Program in
Tunisia (Report No. 4146 of October 20, 1982) which concludes that SONEDE has
developed into a mature and efficient institution, with a history of sound
finances, and that commendable achievements have been made in urban areas and
large rural settlements. The OED review also concludes, however, that much
remains to be done in smaller rural centers, and the proposed project, the
seventh Bank operation in the sector and the first one entirely devoted to
serving this latter group, addresses this concern.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.      The proposed project is the result of a continuing dialogue between the
Tunisian Government, SONEDE ane the Bank on sector development. In 1982, SONEDE
carried out a feasibility study of alternative water supply sources for
agglomerated rural populations. Under the proposed project, 600 of these
villages, for which the least-cost sources were identified to be either existing
water transmission pipelines or groundwater resources located within the village
limits, will receive public water supply services. The project was prepared by
SONEDE, and was appraised in April 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington
from November 1 to 4, 1983. The Tunisian delegation was led by the Director of
Sector Planning, Ministry of Planning, and included the General Manager of
SONEDE. The Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Tunisia - Rural Water Supply
Development Project (Seventh Water Supply Project)," No. 4669b-TUN of November
11, 1983, is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III of this report. A map showing the location of areas covered by the
project is attached.
42.      Project Objectives and Description.  The objectives of the proposed
project are: to extend public water supply services to a larger share of the
rural population; to ensure adequate operation and maintenance of the villages'
systems; and to build up SONEDE's capacity to provide services in rural areas.
The project would consist of;
(i) the installation of piped water supply systems in about 600 villages with
a population ranging between 100 and 1,500, covering all Governorates
except Tunis, and the recalibration of transmission mains, where necessary;
(ii) the provision of operating and maintenance equipment for these systems and
equipment for drilling exploratory wells in villages to be serviced in the
future;



- 12 -
(iii) research on, and design and testing of, new materials and equipment to
lower the cost of rural water supply systems;
(iv) the carrying out of financial and organizational studies, with the
objective of formulating an appropriate financial strategy and a framework
for operation and maintenance of rural water supply systems for future
sector development;
(v) the provision of credit facilities to SO0NEDE's domestic customers in rural
areas to help finance the installation cost of house connections and
related works; and
(vi) the carrying out of a public health education program in the villages to
be provided with piped water, including the pravision of necessary
equipment.
43.      House Connections.  SONEDE's policy is to encourage the installation of
private service lines, as more public health benefits are generated from this
mode of service. In rural areas, house connections generally consist of
standpipes in the customers' yards. From mid-1985 to 1989, SONEDE expects to
install, on force account, about 25,000 house connections in the villages to be
served under the project. Once installed, these become the property of the
customers, who pay a fixed fee to SONEDE for maintenance of the connections.
SONEDE has an on-going credit program, partly financed with funds from the Sixth
Water Supply Project (these loan funds will, however, be fully used by early
1985) to help low-income customers finance the installation cost of their house
connections. This credit program finances 95 percent of the cost of the house
connections, with the customers themselves paying the remaining 5 percent.
Funds would be made available under the project to ensure the continuation of
the credit program during the project period. The foreign exchange component of
the credit program would be financed under the Bank loan; SONEDE would finance
the local cost. The credit would be offered to customers on substantially the
same terms and conditions in effect under the Sixth Project, i.e. a redemption
period of no more than five years and an interest rate of 11 percent, which is
positive in real terms. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
credit for house connections would be made available on the above terms to rural
customers (Project Agreement, Section 2.11).
44.      Project Cost and Financing.  The total estimated cost of the project
(base price mid-1983), excluding the front-end fee, is $104.3 million, of which
$49.9 million is in foreign exchange. The cost estimates are based on detailed
bills of quantities of the proposed works, and are derived from experience
obtained from ongoing contracts. Taxes and duties estimated at $18.9 million
have been included, as well as construction supervision of 3 percent, physical
contingencies of 15 percent on all components except the studies and credit
program, and price contingencies on all components, totalling about 28 percent
of the base cost plus construction supervision and physical contingencies, of 4
percent for the second half of 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985
and 6 percent thereafter for foreign costs, and of 5 percent for the second half
of 1983, 9 percent for 1984 and 8 percent thereafter for local costs.
45.      The proposed Bank loan of $50.0 million would finance the entire
foreign exchange cost for civil works, equipment, materials and house
connections, representing 48 percent of the total cost or 58 percent of the
total cost net of taxes, as well as the front-end fee of $0.1 million. SONEDE
would finance 7 percent of project costs, reprerenting the local costs of the



- 13 -
house connection program, the studies and construction supervision. The balance
of project costs, representing the rest of the local cost component, would be
financed by the Government (42 percent) and customer contributions (3 percent).
The Bank loan would be made to the Government, which would make that portion of
the loan ($44.0 million) allocated for rural water supply works (excluding the
credit program for house connections), along with the Government counterpart
contribution for these works, available to SONEDE on an equity basis. The works
constructed under the project would be incorporated in SOINEDE's assets as they
are completed. The $5.5 million of the Bank loan allocated for the credit
program for house connections would be onlent by the Government to SONEDE on the
same terms as the Bank loan to the Government (17 years, including 4 years of
grace), at an interest rate of 10.5 percent.  The Government would bear the
interest rate risk and SONEDE the foreign exchange risk on these onlent funds.
The Government's equity contribution and loan to SONEDE would be recorded in a
Project Financing Agreement between the Government and SONEDE. Execution of
this Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
Details of project costs and financing are contained in the Loan and Project
Summary.
46.      Project Execution.  Research on, and design and testing of, new
materials and equipment and the financial and orgauizational studies would be
carried out by SONEDE's staff, who have conducted similar studies in the past
and are capable to handle these tasks. SONEDE, an experienced efficient
institution, whicn has provided technical assistance to similar organizations in
some other African countries, would also execute the rural water supply
component of the project. However, since SONEDE has to date dealt mainly with
urban areas and larger villages, it has established and would maintain a new
rural unit to be exclusively in charge of planning, engineering design and
supervision of rural works. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
this unit would have a structure and functions acceptable to the Bank (Project
Agreement, Section 2.10). The proposed investments would be made between 1984
and 1989 in a sector approach under which SONEDE would select and appraise the
subprojects to be included. This follows the approach instituted in the Fifth
and Sixth Water Supply Projects, under which SONEDE has performed well.
Detailed designs are already available for about 100 subprojects which will be
executed first.
47.      The health education program would be executed by the Basic Health
Directorate (DSSB) of the Ministry of Public Health (HOPH). The DSSB would
educate the rural population in those villages receiving water supply under the
project about the relation between waterborne diseases and unsafe sanitary
practices and about proper rrocedures for the collection, transport, storage and
use of potable water.  This would be done through mass meetings, school programs
and teacher training. To achieve these objectives, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that SONEDE would inform DSSB of each subproject's location
promptly upon its selection, and that the Government would carry out the health
education program through DSSB in accordance with appropriate standards and with
adequate staff and other resources (Project Agreement, Section 2.09; Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01 (a)).
48.      Selection and Review of Subprojects.  As noted in para. 41 above, the
proposed subprojects represent the least-cost solution for provision of water
supply to the project villages. The average per capita investment cost of
installing piped water supply works in villages is generally inversely



- 14 -
proportional to the population size. In Tunisia, this per capita cost varies
from $743 for a 100-person village to $149 for a 1,500-person village. Any
subproject whose per capita cost (excluding customer contributions) in 1983
prices does not exceed the average cost for its 1983 population size by more
than an agreed deviation would be eligible for financing under the proposed
project. Any subproject with a higher cost would have to be specially justified
by SONEDE. In addition to the least-cost and per-capita-investment-cost
criteria, subproject selection would depend on a review of such aspects as
socio-economic characteristics of the community, and the proposed arrangements
for operation and maintenance (para. 49). SONEDE would submit to the Bank for
comment an appraisal note covering all the selection criteria for a subproject
prior to inviting bids for the related works. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations on application of the above selection criteria and procedures
(Project Agreement, Section 2.02 and Schedule 2).
49.      Operation and Maintenance.  As noted in para. 38, many small rural
water supply systems under the responsibility of the Governorates have suffered
from poor operation and maintenance. Under the proposed project, SONEDE would
ensure operation and maintenance of the systems to be constructed. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations (Project Agreement, Section
3.02). SONEDE has a decentralized operating network which would be able to
handle operation and maintenance of most of the systems without major expansion,
since the concerned villages are located close to SONEDE's existing operating
centers. For some isolated villages, SONEDE would need to make special
arrangements for routine operations (such as opening and closing valves) and
intends to do this by entering into management contracts with individuals or
organizat.ons or by establishing water users' associations. In those cases
where SONEDE would not directly handle routine operations, its appraisal note on
the subproject would include an analysis of the proposed system for operation
and maintenance. In the longer term, however, SONEDE must develop a system for
ensuring the operation and maintenance of rural water supply systems at a
reasonable cost; this is especially important as villages supplied with water
become more numerous, smaller and more remote. SONEDE would therefore
undertake, under the project, an analysis of the most appropriate organizational
and financial structure for future operation and maintenance of rural water
supply systems. This analysis would be done as part of a more general study on
sector financing, described in para. 52 below.
50.      Financial Performance.  Although SONEDE will execute the project, as
noted in para. 45, the financial responsibility for investment in rural water
supply works (excluding the credit program for house connections) would be borne
by the Government, which would pass the Bank loan funds, as well as the
Government counterpart contribution, for these works to SONEDE on an equity
basis. These investments would not, therefore, be included in SONEDE's own
investment program or in those expenditures which need to be covered by its
covenanted self-financing ratio (para. 51). However, SONEDE would operate and
maintain the water supply systems to be built under the project and commit
itself to financing the renewal and extension of these systems as necessary in
the future. The above arrangements would be detailed in the Project Financing
Agreement to be concluded between the Government and SONEDE. The cost of
operating and maintaining these works and the impact of this cost on SONEDE's
revenue requirements has been taken into account in preparing SONEDE's financial
projections and the financial covenants for the project.



- 15 -
51.      SONEDE's capital structure and financial performance are satisfactory.
In 1982, its debt/equity ratio was 39;61 and its operating ratio 81 percent.
Projections to 1991 show that this performance would continue, with the
debt/equity ratio averaging 33:67 and the operating ratio 70 percent. Tariffs
are projected to increase in the future to enable SONEDE to meet its objective
of financing 20 percent of its capital requirements by net internal cash
generation (excluding customer contributions), and assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations (Project Agreement, Sections 4.04 and 4.05;
Loan Agreement, Section 3.05). In addition, an understanding was reached that
SONEDE would finance at least 40 percent of its capital expenditures from 1982
through 1986, and during future time periods agreed upon between SONEDE and the
Bank, by net internal cash generation (including customer contributions).
SONEDE's self-financing ratio will fall slightly below the 20 percent covenant
in 1983 and 1984 (16 and 18 percent, respectively) because of a need to cover
exceptionally high working capital requirements related to advancement of
certain investments, but this shortfall will be compensated by higher rates in
the following years. SONEDE has an excellent record in responding to financial
requirements through appropriate mea.'ures, including tariff increases; it has
increased its tariffs by about 86 percent since the beginning of 1982, and a
further increase is projected for 1984 (about 20 percent, which has been
proposed by SONEDE and is now being considered by the Government). Projections
show that a level of tariffs in 1985 almost identical to that projected in 1984
would permit SONEDE to self-finance about 28 percent of its investments in
1985. Projections furthermore show that SONEDE's self-financing ratio would
average 27 percent during the monitoring period 1983-91 and would be about 47
percent when customer contributions are included. Overall, when borrowings by
SONEDE are included, the company would finance, during the Sixth Development
Plan (1982-86), about 84 percent of its capital investments. The balance of 16
percent would be financed by the Government. As more than 23 percent of the
cost of SONEDE's investments would be returned to the Government as taxes, there
would be a net flow of revenues to the Government. Assurances were also
obtained during negotiations that SONEDE would not incur any long-term debt
without the Bank's concurrence, unless its projected internal cash generation
for each year during the term of the debt to be incurred is at least 1.5 times
the projected debt service requirement of SONEDE in such year (Project
Agreement, Section 4.03), and that all Government agencies would pay their water
service bills to SONEDE within a reasonable period of time, so as to allow
SONEDE to carry out its financial obligations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
52.      Tariff Structure and Revenues in the Project Area.  SONEDE's tariff
structure is progressive, taking into account both the level of consumption and
type of usage. Government policy is to apply this same structure throughout the
country, allowing cross-subsidization of operations in smaller areas by
operations in larger cities and agglomerations with local groundwater
resources. Forecasts of SONEDE's income in the project area between 1986 and
1991 show that revenues will be sufficient to meet operating and maintenance
expenses with a small surplus to cover part of depreciation. The eventual
expansion and renewal of the systems to be built under the project would be
covered largely by SONEDE's revenues from the remainder of the system. A study
to be done under the project, with a view to developing a financing plan for
providing water supply services on a nationwide basis, will examine the extent
to which a higher level of cross-subsidization is feasible, taking into account
the possibility of reducing costs in small centers through consumer
participation. As noted in para. 49, this study will also analyze the most
appropriate structure for operation and maintenance of rural water supply
systems. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SONEDE would carry



- 16 -
out these studies in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, would start the studies no later than October 1, 1984, complete them by
March 31, 1986, and furnish their conclusions and recommendations to the
Government and Bank for review within one month of completion. The Government
and Bank would review the conclusions and recommendations no later than June 30,
1986, and the Government, SONEDE and the Bank would agree on, and the Government
and SONEDE would thereafter implement, a plan of action for their execution
(Project Agreement, Section 2.04 (b); Loan Agreement, Section 3.06). This
process will provide the basis for a review of SONEDE's financial requirements
in the future, as it expands its services to more and more rural areas, and of
the financial policies to be followed to meet these requirements.
53.      Procurement and Disbursement.  Equipment and materials, expected to
total about $31.0 million, would be procured in bulk and awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures according to Bank
guidelines. A margin of preference of 15 percent or the actual customs duties
(whichever is less) will be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Items such as
pumps, motor drives, special valves, etc., which depend on the design of
individual subprojects, would be purchased at different times during project
execution and cannot therefore be grouped. These would be procured through
local competitive bidding, in accordance with SONEDE's procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. In these cases, an individual ceiling of $200,000 and
an aggregate ceiling of $2.0 million would be applied. Equipment and materials
for SONEDE's operations in the villages to be served under the project and for
the public health education program, costing less than $50,000 and aggregating
to no more than $800,000, would be procured by obtaining quotations from at
least four suppliers. Civil works would be carried out through many small
contracts widely dispersed throughout the country. These contracts, whose total
value is estimated at $45.1 million but which individually would not exceed
$300,000, would not attract international bidders and would be procured through
local competitive bidding. This procedure is not expected to result in higher
project costs or lower quality work. In any event, foreign contractors would be
allowed to participate in the bidding. Whenever possible, SONEDE would group
civil works contracts to speed up the procurement process. In addition, works
on force account would be allowed, after approval by the Bank and up to a
maximum value of $4.0 million, for isolated areas where no contractor would be
interested to carry out works at reasonable prices. All ICB bid documents would
be reviewed by the Bank on a prior to award basis.
54.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of seven years
as follows: 40 percent of total expenditures for civil works; 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for imported equipment and materials and 60 percent of
local expenditures for equipment and materials procured locally; and 50 percent
of the credits accorded for house connections. The front-end fee would be
withdrawn by and paid to the Bank at loan effectiveness. Disbursements for
works carried out by force account would be made against statements of
expenditure, the supporting documentation for which would be retained by SONEDE
for review by Bank supervision missions. Project completion is expected by
December 31, 1989. The loau closing date would be June 30, 1991.
55.      Monitoring System.  Agreement was obtained during negotiations on key
indicators of SONEDE's performance between 1984 and 1991, including staffing,
systems operations, finance and project execution. Assurances were obtained
that SONEDE would report on the evolution of these indicators on a quarterly
basis during project execution and on an annual basis for five years after
project completion and, if necessary, take promptly any remedial action agreed



- 17 -
upon with the Bank to ensure that the targets are met (Project Agreement,
Section 3.05).
56.      Audits.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SONEDE would
furnish to the Bank, within six months after the end of each fiscal year, copies
of its financial statements for such year, would continue to have its accounts
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and would submit
certified audit reports to the Bank for review and comment within nine months
after the end of each fiscal year (Project Agreement, Section 4.02). In
compliance with audit covenants under previous loans, the audit of SONEDE's 1982
accounts was carried out and submitted to the Bank. For the health component,
the MOPH project accounts would also be audited and submitted to the Bank within
the same time period (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02). An understanding was
reached that the Controller General of Finance, who has independent status and
is acceptable to the Bank, would do this audit.
57.      Benefits and Risks.  Individual consumers would benefit from the
availability of potable water, a basic need for sustaining life. There would
also be many benefits such as reduced expenses for health care, higher
productivity and improved learning. These benefits are, however, difficult to
quantify and a meaningful economic rate of return cannot be calculated. The use
of water tariffs as a proxy for benefits is also not appropriate on a project
basis, since the same tariff schedule is applied to all centers served by SONEDE
regardless of size, thereby providing cross-subsidization from larger to smaller
agglomerations. However, the economic justification of investments in the
sector is clearly implied by the fact that about 40 percent of SONEDE's water
production (i.e. that portion of total sales which is consumed by industry,
tourism and the upper income brackets, and which is not subsidized) is sold at a
tariff which is close to the long-term average incremental cost of water supply
in the country, based on an 8 percent discount rate. This shows that consumers
are willing to pay for the cost of the water they receive. This approach,
however, understates the actual returns since it does not take into account the
benefits associated with improved health noted above.
58.      Under the proposed project, water supply networks would be installed in
about 600 villages to serve an estimated future population of 350,000 by the
year 2005. These beneficiaries would, for the first time, gain access to a safe
potable water supply; about 40 percent of these people would have their
dwellings connected to the system through standpipes in their yards, while the
remainder would be served by public taps. Nearly all of the project's
beneficiaries would be in low income brackets. Their average monthly water bill
would account for less than 3 percent of their income, which is within generally
accepted norms and is considered affordable.
59.      The proposed project is not expected to have any adverse effect on the
environment. Population density in the villages is extremely low and most
dwellings are equipped with isolated dry pits which present no health hazards.
The DGR provides technical assistance to residents who wish to build septic
tanks and seepage pits. The health education component of the project would
assure that public health education needs are covered.
60.      The main risk associated with the project is that such a large number
of rural subprojects would be difficult to execute, operate and maintain. This
risk would be lessened by SONEDE's creation of a special unit for rural works
and the proximit- of almost all the 7illages to SONEDE's already existing



- 18 -
operating centers. Arrangements for bulk purchase of equipment and materials,
and grouping of civil works contracts where possible, should minimize delays in
the procurement process.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Societe Nationale
d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE) and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to tlhe Executive Directors separately. Special
features of the draft Loan and Project Agreements are referred to in the text,
and listed in Section III of Annex III. It would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan that a Project Financing Agreement be
executed between the Government of Tunisia and SONEDE (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01). Through Article VI of the Project Agreement, the requirements of Section
4.03 of this Project Agreement are made applicable to the Loan Agreements
between SONEDE and the Bank on the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Water Supply Projects.
62.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 18, 1983
Washington, D. C.



-  19  -                                         ANNEXI
T?ALE                                       Page 1 of 6
TUNIIA                - SOCIAL INDICASTORS DATA SIlgET
TUNISIA                             FRKRdcOE GROUPU (UEICHTED AVeRAGiS) A.
HOST                    (HOST RECENT  SLTISTE) lb
lbRE!CENT  s     MIDDLE INC1C          MIDDLE 11COM!
19bt       1970-b ESTIATUk    N. AFrICA & HID LAST   LAT. AWMRICA U CAIN
AMA (TUSAND SQ. UN)
TOTAL                             163.6      1b3.6       163.6
ACRICULTURAL                       69.6       70.3       72.1
Sll PMR CAPITA CUS$)                 210.0     3170.0     1420.0             1340.0                 20b5.2
US.u! COINUPICTtN PS CAPITA
(KLOGMS uO COAL eqUIVALeNT)      173.0      361.0      652.0             110.1                  1407.6
WfUIATIOI AMI VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATluN.MlD-IEAR (THOUSANDS)   4221.0    5127.0     6528.0
URBAN POPULATION (X Or TOTAL)      36.0       43.5       52.9              47.4                    65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULAT1ON IN YEAR 200 (KIKLL)                          I0.I
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                            19.5
Y AM STATlONARY POP. REACHED                          2110
PoPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. KM.                      25.E       31.3       38.9              36.0                    35.6
PE Sq. KM. AGIIZ. LAND           60.7       72.9       57.8            469.0                     93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (1)
0-14 YRS                        43.4       46.2       40.7              43.9                    40.1
15-64 YRS                        52.5       50.0       51.6              52.8                    55.8
61 AID ABOVE                      4.2        3.8        3.7               3.3                     4.1
POPULATION CROUTN RATE (2)
TOTAL                             1.Sc      1.9/c      2.21c             2.9                     2.3
URBAN                             3. 27      3r         4.0               4.6                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TH10S)      46.9        40.6       34.2              42.5                    31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TOUS)       21.0        14.6        9.1              12.0                     8.1
CRosS REPIODUCTION RATE            3.5         3.2        2.5               3.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TH0US])         *        29.2      180.9
USERS (2 OF HARRIED WOMEN)         ..       10.0       2l.3
PM0 An) NUTRILTIOE
INDEX UF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1169-71-LOO)                     91.0        96.0      IZ7.0              97.5                   113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY 01
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)     83.0       88.0      116.0             102.3                   111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         52.0       57.0       74.0              72.0                     7.9
OF WICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0       14.0       Z3.0/d            17.6                    39.t
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        36.1       24.5        9.1              15.2                     5.3
EALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT B1RTH (YEARS)     48.1        54.2       60.6              57.2                    64..
INFANT YORT. RATE (PER THDUS)    158.9       131.3       87.6             104.2                    62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                              .        69.0       63.0/. f          59.3                    64.8
URBAN                              ..         ..       9 .               84.9                    77.8
RURAL                              ..         ..       25.0/i.f *        37.5                    44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       62.0         ..                ..                    54.6
URSAN                              ..      100.0       42.0/               .-                    69.6
RURAL                              ..       34.D         ..                ..                    29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIN         10030.0     5930.0     3690.0            3536.0                  1776.0
POP. PEA NURSING PERSON             ..       730.0      890.0            1820.7                  1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           410.0      410.0      660.0             643.3                   477.0
URUBN                           230.01L    310.0      350.0/h           545.0                   667.5
RURAL                          1040.OLL   1270.0     1230.Wh           2462.0                  1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        24.1       25.0/h            26.4                    27.2
mSona
AVERACE SIZE OF HiUSENOLD
TOTAL                              ..        S.Lf/       5.5..
URBAN                              ..        5.171      5.5..
RURAL                             ..         5.17!      5.
AVERSGE NO. OF PERWNS/RO(n
TOTAL                              ..        3.2/i      3 if
URBAN                              ..        Z.7         Z.67               .
RURAL                             ..         3.671      3.1
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..       24.0/i     34.21j            46.2
URBAN                              ..         ..       6.2               77.6
RURAL                             ..          ..        6.071            16.1



BEST COPY AVALAILE
ANNEX I
T A B L E 3A                                    Page 2 of E
TNISINA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHERN
IURRT ENC                     T MCI"NT AU          AE) k
HONT              "       ( INOSY RUEIN              iibin
1711 I7OL4  TWIHATI          M. AnmICA a mD  ZAT-  LAT. M^URA A Ca10
ADJUSTED KNROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIIARYI  TOTAL                    66.0       101.0        103.0               89.6                    105.0
HALI                    U.0        121.0       116.0               104.B                    106.3
FEMALE                  43.0   *     0,0        66.0                72.4                    103.6
SECONDAKYs TOTAL                   12.0        23.0         27.0               41.7                     40.0
KALK                    19.0        33.0         34.0               52.6                     36.6
Em"AL                    5.0        13.0        20.0                31.2                     41.2
VOCATIONAL (3 OF SECONDARY)          23.5        11.1         27.3               10.3                     34.0
UPlIL-TEASIIER RATIO
PRIMARY                            61.0        47.0         39.0               31.9                     30.7
SECONDARY                          16.0        2S.0         20.0               23.3                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATe (2)              15.5        24.0jj       62.0               43.3                     79.5
PASSENGER CAS/THOUSAD POP            10.5        13.0         16.3/M 16.O 4.6
RADIO RECELVERS/TNOUSAND POP         40.3        75.7        157.0              136.1                    221.2
TV RECEIVERS/TIIOUSAND POP            0.1        14.0         47.1               45.6                    10.3
NEWSPAPER (DAILY GENCRAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             13.6        15.9        43.6                31.0                     64.1
CINEHA ANNUAL ATTENDANCC/CAPITA       1.6           ..         Z.3j               1.7                      2.9
LUOR  iOt
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          3135.0      1215.0       1693.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    6.0         7.7         6.4                10.7                     24.6
ACRICULTUE (PRC=NT)                3b.0        50.0         35.0               42.5                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0        21.0        32.0                27.6                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              27.0        23.7         25.9               25.D                     31.3
HALE                               50.2        44.2         46.9               45.4                     49.5
FEMALE                              3.3         3.6          4.4                5.6                     14.3
ECNOHIC DEPENUENCY RATIO              lUo         2.1          1.7                1.B                      1.4
IME DIMRSUWIS
PERCENT Or PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
KICUEST 52 OF  OUSEHOWLDS            ..           ..        1.0/.
IIiGIEST 22l OF 0IOUSEHOLDS          ..           .        42.OL*
LOWEST 202 or HOUSEOLDS              ..          ..         6.0f 
LOWEST 40 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..        15.0f..
wry usT ma
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERtTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .           .        204.O/d            276.1                    289.D
RURAL                                ..          ..         97.077            177.1                    166.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                             .       193.0/d             400.0                    519.8
RURAL                                             .       193.07i             263.3                    372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                             .         0.0/d              22.0
RURAL                                                       15.07i             30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N T E S
/a  The SrouP averageS  fOr -ach lndicator are population-weighted arithmtic  neae    Coerag  of countries ong te
Indletore depends on availability of data and Is not uniform..
/b  Unless otherwise noted. -Dati for 1960- refer to any year between 1959  nd 1961; "Data for 1970' betwen 1969 ad
1971; and data for 'Most Recent Estimte" betwee  1979 and 1981.
/c  Due to emgration, populatioe growth rate i lower than rate of natural inerease; /d 1977; /s 1962; If Accese to
piped water only; fg 1962; /h 1976; /I 1966; Q 1975.
k Based on recent official sources, updated percentages of population having access tc safe water are: total t70.0).
urban (91.0)* rural (4e.0). Ihese figures vill be included in the next version of the social indieacore date sheet.



BEST COPY AVAILABLEANEI
UUiTliC21iI SllTu                                                                        Page  3  of  6
fim,AIih.wsh lie 4.5. et m dim les ira   musc.peml  lddSbm     aSbhritt.iSm, NsW cuiiuhis, II ebmid4 mi4. b  eie  lbst tlbs  "v "I ieSlsaS.i
ianpumcrht bias.. if lb. tabp m .SNmedtda it.Ed alalu.M. ad g.n. misioNo by digest""e ensuies  to1 ol"es b lgs b isis gt are. rmeiblmae. mogl S.
basiSb. crie   r ml m lisic., looSugI6 mosng., s.debw     mce  Israels mijor 4iISrmeus blues  sonpersmn,
Tlb. telctme. ilmms mam  III lb. Bsa euiry sta Il SbmI          lMlesmr  cl    I m                    Vsk,wmae             F  ...0b.  bg r.smtss   no-  lbsf S. ea ly grupsty   loSb
achl-1.-isalrv lees 6.. 1   "sigloh Mue., Mr4 Itmpmrl:.re" gra  awrm  "Im1s4 ambib11.dsd  Sll.                  bus"Ft   lIN   F  Mdl   S. bum b:Nh igfl NN1ml sfiruisur pk-*  msuteStl
glllmtlSsml 1.  i lb cmlstms. Str udlPc. 'lb unrig.. irs lutrGislls sightSd erSibusIs -ug.. 1st nih  IsIdlgle  uMS sbu  isilY ubajust*rIly Of IsiP  as:IrSeis C9
gmy cCi I s  b    llcm.Smslscltu    leellsiugl    lSmumiymsm  lios usllb. S m                                   ld   dm15us In-a    1. mI all  Mem, suslmem h
eelidI  .tsllIN *-ecmg..  l.me lmselc   5 -ge,sb.  lies. ed.etgm. arm guar u.5C1 1 ssytlmsemt.m   i  ldime  i.IS.sql    at
telsterm sissy..
fsj"mis   'mle.ge  ca"rll'l tu..A  rdre  sd 5.5usd eitm.l tins.                          bR lfulIA IG9tsiea.  Eb-I dl .matSB                             sl
fIlSl im   SCSI does,                                                                        esseleptpim               tm     sysutm   45.51  gby "mihnt ml  rmimlsmw
ta    ;      mg.a -fsSns  ml  gte,rt..lsrgt sc  immi lmmmigrily mU ptommimsll             iecilmi   rdil   em               mils  tsmm  5simlmipt usiN"smamd
"mI.l.p"  -mstm    mtmiN  m,  htlib Im ri.4es  ur Sm  Sm. fllttm     lsth.                    tmImils 4cmmlltuSa.
m1sS..d SAIt) 1.9g.                                                                                                                                  F ilmgmt.smm  (mlii,
VP   I.F.,                               of ~~~~~~~l mmylSil bods
"M!bffId~'It!fli ~l5P -es py55   m. SImiage  g5 egris:g aorhel5stSs,                     :uib.S.public asAS IV1 gNmeirsw                    plt  dludbiyggtiGo
IWO5, lliii   SSl   il.b  Siem   m   p55m.    mlg SbmmS                                                                                        olsdism yrtmeSysiSs g:- Week
mr m. m  Smrtsiw., ami heuplsut.bsm,Iit                  u  ba
ftLK,!M1'11,      -  -_5                                ore piim    usals   .1catcimsllu cmmSmt  Mel PslmWAoity stuffs bye  physS6iti bS  by a mduumt
aderlon.s, smsmrs  gge uso  sit.*. msuimr                   ft.mlam"s  minim  mroSed     sisi fle    lm   gpI         "-= mle I"
udd gsoNIibeMst.   Srcls . hi lt.:.gt     ml.1   ei-    scm    e ctSs rsele 5   milm  teB a                                 elISe        ...SSS. . ntr esslImIt    pmqPe.m
ISbN 5111 tf, uSI SUE1 dusg.                                                                    stemu bupiSlSl  SwaSIsmUs  ymilsmrel %eMPfoalu. ui frarl
buspolai   Sag  i  rure  hemplisl. ad5   Idit I   swisotomSlv EsemSsl.
I                                                                   P.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.:SlSe   rslll   steSl'.del aSl  mente  SuICeal
Wrfihgg   1- As it JiOy It flu, 5141. melSm*)hfef .bIjL    Tou   mflr aT                                                           INmlm   Si t Susirgm.
Fron bplil. d1,     lie v uht Sbme
em g * teslIl 4 sti *l EelS1. .1 mtrbm SI LbUsS llmptloitSm
J1V.~5t   l m    se u IL t    grm cy  f15.        NWiuhSl  .1  de i                5 
nago imuNlriuml lists, 111l1. mmd sill dms...                                              mjesli,e   baRlueeia    el~1      m     s                             Srs
smut - Cutelil yms.ieSt.ls  leSueSlmum sig bu    cm w Simdu tbiAr meam smut.  Abarduerdut. mt Slis  miy ut way  AIS NoItiud
suic  rum. S a  *s   ' I- ed haeIr mirticisy .Md soletsst                            Sb b.nmeid ler sSSl.mtSee  putsan...
rttm. ;  Ie Iuello  meuaolstm. 6.1 mt&iuigS  tiles egmyimi ml ibiee                     .dssShjtglseptga*IlS   r5   5 ue    a WeAui1
Jamsu  ca:aitg  tIle. usparefy di StrIbk Samm tsgr  Vt uSabsm.siy'a"T Pr                              55t tr  Isl ill etiem,  Om irc  smgym   Milimem
repsyel Sersmi tamesmS*Cl reel.  ;Sle   msesty mtsbttlsimgo at ly.?                        .Simtitism, tMP-ftIei.   ui Igsramtuel sesesgANL mstmrlmtmra isA
mN-;rs.Te Pi-sm.Scm  F., lets SII,y       . rule  Iain. three S.int                       -es..cuPlmd Purm.
gusmiSm  dee1la  Is lerkilito Cmesltam   sealom.  usaeS s.d sues Isml              ~         smg~~t~   a~   7  slmilil                       "'l ow. stu    OIi tnS
ytclsuim -paet:glMe-.   e-  S ... umtry Is lies imelgmu  ma .1 lie,mim all.lutdel amsa  sluetell  it                                       ftBs aqrmsc  pamsge
. I.atumm    ml atuelly  id fgresaIll IFe."m  Far pts,Jeclts  putymmi.                    ul tstat. srbis. afd rsrcS lails  tcmpnilaty.
llflimmlanhmtJa-     s.c c1l-dct  dPu.1.1Sdlmm .her  Sm migese
i1eSIIMes.S .in    tIs lbdah ruts. mmdI mta Sb su
gsmterm t. tMintme gecust.  This so  eumu eilvly slice  IsIIS,tuu
laiti  Is the. reism   eetm .g si met re-riImiulem  riteJaIt - gitnte tualsa  mile  rA comasm
eggSh gmm.rc tSe  .6  uem. reyPsand  Rtotnal sty,iie sitlumeey                               Ins.m isS c       Mg.  :ii   I          Re o hml As yeemmmtg5m  .1 rmp"iust
Ppuleation  miss as .t[lmiu  af5 lb  Wsmm  b   tiss  uborlet.9-P M yrmt    ibungus  smSltimmiS miemlly  m                                      .ihldrem s    seti-
ME1g  de tie  lssytg-toe Ish Sbntl.silbII                     ei   .6                        tmraft IsSdals  fiV or dtflmmsl lemuSh  if Ptiem;t mdmumtSai li
nle  I tst  rtu tu     .l" ..tmeaul   mmml                                                  saugrise gifi ustifmisi Smiella mmUllmcm  u"gy        nol o swis1 m aus
lrmt uel ace,  mey5t¶sm  s ~embi -lie   at diem slgtlmmry                          m1ime me.o pupate rtm  Mt.. me chb-  tlb  etetu  ugbsi uw.
ePuleI.m missl       uesd.isiuySiei*tllml iii Uncle - l",Cweiei M ublitel -Maeury
Ieeea   lobn. a51 I.iani Sm.. date,m                                                    PuPlSu soeall   uS Is Se t? Frust *de e.jw -er-eMyu4-- eemsu  mrc
tsr a.   ices~ tasq - B11555u15 c.aubeme let artcmlSeect lis    PereerulSy maetssl
airS .15151, IEEE!1      Si IlEisldZ                          `'..svs                      Pusttigs esrstie-Lamerl p mylo-NV asi luis)    Yitmt  mtimle
t.re.lm..im hem .Iola.me tete I"     CIis   esyrm,abm-m tile                                  inuli   emei   amtlt   rebisae    he sBituim"     Syssi.
55rse, m   e Ie   e ye.wt.       ur  c.M yreasemleate  of totalve.resl p                    - :Mm. leM Iesg "ml aaisry Seltulle..
Yspcle   Isa. Isis  .5dSisIOd411.                                                            r-paml-tmrcl          ttiy    .  eehir-tcs   tmei   iisI
tea yptt . la   tS&mt  15. -Ab. -$ SlUt-us.b                                                tu,1m- ita Sssmte.l.ol.   oda.rdd  n    it1a
75e.lmlSeq Eect   rtqa.7ti- ut   7111. bs.m  ercj%ie   lmhelmt leem11elfm5     L.tleftt Re duism CubIc  mas tded                                         aitu
Ct_tbtlsi. ssP1lme.        - mSl.tBI- birthb  sr thbemid ml  mid-J
* ;,A 5151 dm1.
W____W____________t__                 as.b rtibeadl .6 meId-let,                       Fsssta olIIm Iptu.~mtum    au i,ba 
it!  rf.ffj     mu   - Mmret saides ml dghlimie e ns   still bur is                    miltatiy aobt.ea.
1151.                                                                             licesed isemlats Im teattnla s.. 170. nd  edeadyr  am pooitansgssiddllue , I
jtflicm.                                                              i~~~~~P) '-I- r  fdeeso  t. her inf  t oert fore a Meanss    .- mt inteelt he  -mbdemmto, wm
tastl Plamp - ast. attet ml rra      - we.-I f- ttmlsg  ml mirthe                     gsoretu pbStlr yel ebsh  sui-St  uhse murmsdTItccs
Iece   ht-eml   s   5-4   sta5n   sehtbretl  ule   .                                          .  ete    i   m  c.a    etltlu   s  tIM                ma    smts
.56 sereled a.ea  I. in... etc stay.                          Ileemecesl CStrrtdll., let Ibacel ese.el.tial - uSe.. lb  users E... f. usl-d-t t
Noodi  e s   a   r,el.   e   ul.L helht     se biL UIper rcytie                               yehW  . Ianllrl.m  butd   ttet` ly Isod   tett 1 gemc  qua. . itIs sroldre
ess aYtrdm.tl tee?      ll.damdttt.                                                                                                                 Riki tee  uu   Ss       dly"I  sepuam  ta   miso  e.  4:
..at dew  r"eluS       snarl  Qtch mie  SIb    -m unScis . P.,tms -PL.                   itch.lm7 meld 7htt.l    lt   .td Pr-'v aZ "' ul....es Ic' it m  - "e . ""me
Iali .a aitm  s-It. ge price            p    lSealibs  1b.- . tmlt.y B.A. iBnS.Mn                                                                              ,d
yeMtAccci.  sealme .1 ecmtIm.  h: Iseces  melbtmlteedesoklct    simptcl Ira,                   -t.Smlutyca                                            mrsee..  re -  med
seff.jy   ejlssto rd   es led.  fespytt  protatteIs ofmairk t eosplicA                       oots. -uuiadt..      iillIshemea.msmus   i                          at
myv.  inmSlhh1e eeyylti  capita don-e m        itls  Ipl   g.m                               yegststsm   .1 inst ca..  tifsastlee, tm eceim emartm  eret
a=sIscll   c.hease Sm sleek.  15.t eryltem  -me.ud  sst.led , -.do.                            - a ,cap -chl tet . lms,tls .5losi le. .
,aitLe;med       good. yrces .e. end la.  Is dtetribites.                                      12tlnus t  -hel    mIb  es"e as :mNta.mi .1tLeS  lik  lir..
5e"mltiemte ares eml-ted by tADIt hed es phseldlwsicut miedm let mileSl                      rrmt"                 .0  Lker formm  te lealeg. lasetev. bsAlwa ed
eee cci a  dwetbul.e  p..liIu.-edct..s   I ytem  dlso.                                         '.i.e I.dn((z rH fl-tuer Ft .tc tI m"t1mllq  ea 0.tac  Sn,g Ied liesits
ckubd lci tSih-SI.  tilE elida tamlue            'aUti   1j  aeci   m ad pIee.lec.   5.    htlre   5m
mit apyty cldIedI I           19dy.ae m0 l mad    1.5 at.  atsm   bw                        mistsl St taestmlp.-...i. mile  u                    lotses letayst  s .,1IA.
Nme t..Il :rf.  P.,5 te   anyle  rsem   u upy ad  ED s4a- er   minimaltt '   asrtemue urcI  etc .5!i    leeS. ru                           lelemlelI we 1,katapilsi
yule -ytmtetmr .11 MlIc .IS t        1m bed  be VDm1  pileSi f, Thie -                       uS       vi,cdliide.ledgeb                   d   .-Ia . ptlcystm   relue
.e.5.em  e-.Iteat oIbm .l.. .t 1 viinof .t .lc  P-iet. el   E - r                           ret satis   m          soon"icme  51 tie yeya1tcaie, mmd 1mw  5m tinS t .a
det 1 mete .ytIes  eec   o.wRc.  ut.  lb cr'Weyea   by iAD am lie                            le   lase  e  Ira seisu  .umru
ThIrd World ted1 Cmrssya lObS-si. 1411 e5  ti. dean.                                       Zy71liry Ui. - bitei el taseltutm   -li-. IS and St mad at met
cei.d Ira  .  .t   .ee  ru.-         ea  ye dy   ls-si,. tilO  .i tilly
mt..
Child teen, 5-41 smmIb mugs Ipi, ibamlild  - AminI st dt.por ib-eel SI                        Fceue5         't    im(i   sre   shs  - Seusi-d by riebumt
we mat 5-  nets  1. hl Idsm  S 1S.essesalteldeestaltOi  lis  I   umm  merestv 10pueds -  symlUpais
euate- dl detse    hld". hIm tchl me  5   -9h s.d 55t aemmors                              ieeebi-de,              m ,vP-d  nm  omt41PMto
~ecu  g   utS aal   1         Ide5  ti,il  u    iliss-klst  matt I-Pseam seen  -I. t fleas -                                              emlseeitu  emmi
kwe. Ii  its bt.  lerres  mlemutetam,)   mstetl. .tu. iSred-mrlytuatlvdI  Suquats diet yIn es-islal1 su-l.ed  Iwtag    met.
buSme .1 rapt Essiat, ette, eS retell BiS seceachi  =Zcc.1 s  me.               orlFeydubie,
misZtenusimdyCmldutne    asmd c                     lelibttlac   meB   eot lmrte ine.si hOt ec ceetlel d                                                    P., adpit. 
"staelie"e Wh1 ad lbs las  ;icwui   Popula.. tions.   cl                              ms  eulmymy"a    umiI   mtidm   stm   u   mt
Monetaty welleS us pnetie  mt. le        "'y.lr         usta    aa                           put-m1 ieee. oft. lb emtluy. lick. 1sme  I.  -Iettd Ira lb. rE
es.  ease  yehlae .I.aea.eB   -  utasyii1 Bale'd memt thee  "5g mien                         tinsel oBIblimetet ret %tobe, cl  l ilstq4  an orbs  ce.
Ira a Con  -vy k.  eadesred is Umia WMebi  a.sblc  -ce   eFIkmmtlItaIts    e.   b.oi  s.yirslnalset      ti
bunpo.  im reset . emce   eshmfe..e.diml-e   S    aistec                                      mlirt-  em .5N oeg  ruuulI    MbMe iStNi S a  ute  eees
lb. dii Is leitmbarm lb Icily'. Nmt.t aule
AllieeIs ter"eic lMieHIeEe  of7.IM ameisiaeo. - Isle   uchis iS
My 1W. - rudteumie. F lieu ricetycctla ypet.tlma. leech 1Iteruemi
a I ielde the edletium  ond dievee. * 1.1, -   Itl..  --l trtei  el1 tame55ad                                                                  s   Same1 555.i
tunes  rores. cii a.te-mter by ales-kims,Vt. .          ,a thlb  and as mit                                                tececet~ Madlvei. us   reeesu . bysee.
prI.de, ad mIte  atellIatlc.                                                                                                                  My  tin



BEST COPY AVAILABLE.
- 22 -
Am=II I
peg.11 41 of 
opulationa 0.5 mIllion (aid-191)
clip per Capital $1,40 (19511
Ann"' I ora th lb go
_4rAt                                              (4t  son rrei
(million Us$                            Aa -                                                n
IndalleiOr                    at current primes)
1932            1911   17o    1979 1      9n    l1oll    1U    11113             lin     loss    1914
Dre do eetM c prodmat 1/               7,905.9           5.3      7,1      7.1     0.0      5.0      1.5         7.3       *.n      5.8     5.6
AgTiouluref                          1,005.o         -10.2      4.5    -4.5      0.1      0.0    -1.7         11.5       4.0    32.9       .7
Industry                             2,435.0           9.0      9.0    11.9      9.0      1.0      0.0         7.1       7.2      7.0     0.7
lervices                             23,70.7           5.0      7.4      0.7     3.9      1.3      4.9         0.2 '.'            5.9 '    .7
Conamptien                             e,191 .          10.4      5.3      4.       9 9.9    7.2     4.7          .9       1.23     0.2      3.9
gross Invustment                       2,370.1           0.9    12.9       3.9      5.9    14.5    -I.7         -0.4       I.1 2     .0      1.3
Ellports ot goode  an4 373 2.B02.)                       5        3.2    232.      0.7      3.0    -b.5         20.4       7.2 7    *3     12.7
Imports ot goods and NFr              32,05.1           10.7      9.0    14.3      7.2    13.0    -5.2          II.I       0.3    s59       7.4
Ureoa  nat,onal product                7,9".2            5.C      7.9      7.5      s.5     5.2      1.0         7.2       1.9       . e    5.3
arove national gavings                 1,390.0          -7.2    14.       21 1.   -7.2    -1.1   -10.1           e.2       0.1      3.1   1I.$
PalCa9
CeVdeotlator                                            70.0    30.1    3N.3   100.0   110.9   124.9
Unchange rate                                            2.33    2.40    1.40    2.47    2.02    1.69
Ihare of CDP at market prioss (S                                 Average Annual Inereaee (Xl
7 (aeurrent nrlees)                                          tot constant orloa)
1971       976       2961       192        1930        1              1971-76      99-         9-0          30-
Gross dmetic product 1/  100.0          100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0              9.8         e.0         5.3         4.9
Ariculture                15.6       1e.1       132.       12.7      12.5       11.7               6.2         0.4         2.7         3.5
Industry                 20.e       25.9       32.1       31.4       30.9       32.2              10.2         7.8         1.7         5.8
servies.                  47.7       42.9      41.3       42.0       43.0       43.9              863          7.2         5.6         1.1
Cone , ption                  52.0       77.5       76.8       79.7       82.5       78.4              9.0         7.5         5.0         3.3
Gross inveotunt               20.0       30.4       32.2       30.0       25.9       23.5             14.1         86.         0.0         4.2
Rxports of goods and NIPS    23.8        29.1       42.1       30.7      41.4       41.3               5.0         7.9         8.2         6.3
Inmorts of goods and NIB    25.8         37.1       51.1      40.4       48.9       43.1              13.1        12.1         5.0         4.0
Grosr national product        99.b       98.7      100.9      100.5       99.0       99.2              6.5         6.5         5.4         4.9
Net factor income             -U.4       -1.3        0.9        0.3       -0.4      -0.8               -           -           -           -
Groas national savings        17.0       21.1       24.1       20.9       18.0       20.8              2.9         3.4         2.9         ;.6
As I of CDP
(at ;,rrent pr 4e         m
1971     _l7         1            s
IUoLlC FINANCE
P urrl nt revI nue                                             21.4       24.2       30.0       32.6
Current expenditure                                            18.9       18.5       22.4       24.9
Surplus (*3 or deficit C-)                                      2.5        5.7        7.5        7.0
Capital expenditure                                             0.9       11.4        9.2        9.6
Foreign financing                                               3.2        1.7        1.4        1.9
1971-76         1970-81          1981-80         1986-91
0t24 INDICATORS
GNP growth rete (Z)                                            8.4             6.5              5.0             4.9
CIP per capita growth rate (Z)                                 5.4             3.1              2.7             2.3
ICOR                                                           2.7             5.4             b.0              5.4
Marginal savings rate                                         24.0            26.0             12.2            24.4
Import elasticity                                              1.51            2.02             1.06            0.82
/I CDP at mrket prices and components at factor cost.
UtNI C? i1-C
Kay 1983
5



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-23 -                                                         AMEX 1
TUNISIA -  Tm ML TU1
PCplUtLon-  e.5 millin Xmdi819g)
GO por CaPitm: 81.420 (1981)
ABOWl Growt e
(at IYa0 Pr=
Anmmt                                                                      o.Ze
(ma ll on     u sSE  A__ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
Indicator              at curent Prices)
19r2             1977   1978   1979   19S    198s1   Lvi?      A.                    LiSp
UmL TRWE
Merchandise export's           .989.2             9.7    9.0   20.7    U.J    3.3   -4.0   26.          7 l            Is .o
crnd, oil                     86.e             12.4    1 12. 1t24      0.2   -8.8  -2Z.4    370         .      t.    -
Ohebr pri_ary                  97.3             4.9  -15.7   2S.1  -1t.9   -0..  -L7.9         57-   33        °      97
YNwufectura                 1.025.1             6.6   10.4   33.3    3.6   20.3   15.2    19.8   aA.j   1.2   263 zi
Nrcbadie imports              3.Ze3.9             14.1   1u.7   t5.7    7.7    9.5   -5.5    tZ.J    e.l    5.0    7.7
367.4             9.b    7.7   39.D   -b.8   14.3   -5.0        4.7    2.7    53       5.u
Petrolm                       383.1             1a    1.1    9.7   1W5    4.9  -36.7    00.2   11.3    8.2   21.1 21
Kmcbinern equipd ent          841.5             5.5   t5.4   -2.o   -4.4    4.1   -2.4    -3.0   -0.7   O.u    0.U
Others                      1.66e.9            21.b    e.5   24.9   15.3    0.0    5.0         i.      7.8    7.0    >.0
Pric- Index
PRICES
Export price iUlx                              54.8   58.7   75.5   1U0.0  117.4  122.9    uzJ.7   tI.v  141.9   bI.,
Import price index                             72.b   76.0   85.3  OO.   14.4  121.2   131.8  143.J  EP5.3  ID7.4
T r_ of trade                                   75.5   7e.6   88.5  l0O.u  102.b  1u1.4    93.l   92.0   vL.3    W.u
Coqu rtio of N lrcandlue Trae (Z)                      Average Annual lecri  (ZJ
(at arrnt Prica.)                                (at conataut pricca)
1971    9770   181   1962   1980    IY91            TIY1-70  -970-61    1-60   1960-e 
Exports                      100.0  1UJ.0  100.0    0.U  100.0  Iuu.o               4.1         ."       1.2        >.7
Crde oil                  24.5   40.9   51.5   43.0   34.1   28.7                 4.L.      5.8        1.2      -0.1
Otbhr primary             19.2   13.4    5.0    4.9    4.4    4.3                -5.4      -1.9      L1.7        >.I
Manufacturs               5b.3   45.7   43.5   51.5   bl.5   67.0                 8.4      14.1       17.b       8.1
imports                      100.0  1OO.0  100.0  100.0  100U.0  10W.0                .1       11.5        5.>       J.9
Food                      21.2   12.3   11.2   11.3   10.1    6.3                 0.6      11.9        2.6      -5.3
Petrolem                   3.9   11.1   19.0   11.7   22.7   30.6                29.2       10.9       9.7       8.e
lacbiL   and EquiPment    30.1   31.9   25.2   25.9   17.4   12.8                13.5       8.7       -1.2      -1.0
Others                    44.6   44.7   44.6   51.1   49.6   50.3                IO.o       U.S        7.6       4.8
Share of Trade v&tb        Sbar of Trade witb         Sh_e of Tade with            Share of Trade With
Industrial Ctuntries C )    DloP         trs    )       Otx          (U        Ceotrally Planued CountrIes LA)
-19S70    1975    1990     1970      975    ISI9    0 1      1575  IYWi           W197U   1973   I9W
DmCTIO OF TRADC
Exports            70.8    60.1    b8.7        4.9    21.7    25.4       13.9   11.1    4.8            9.4    0.1    0.'
I3parta            85.9    79.5    31.8        7.1    10.9      7.7       0.7    4.3    7.5           63    3.1    3.U
IL  Conatant price data at 1980 prices.
21 Incr-re in refining capaity.
DMA CP 2t
may 196j



BEST COPY AVAILAILL
-  24  -
pag 6 of 6
07P=IS.              CaI:l UDD
(mllion7 038 at currat price.)
Pepul-tion: 6.5 mllion (mid-1l91)1
GNP per Cupits. $1.420 (19 11
actus1 13                                         Proieeted
19271    1976     1979      1980     19S1S3                           19      1986       1991
Bet szprts of goods 4 -ervicea             -57.4   -417.0   -350.O   -472.6   -6.6  -713.4             -787.9   -938.9 -1.028.5  -1.350.0
REports of goodes 4 arwies               469.4  1,479.5  3.137.5  3.912.3  3,948.4 3,336.9          3,801.8  46352.1  3,023.9  11,107.4
imports of goode 4 aervices              526.5  1,896.5  3.493.5  4,384.9  4,633.0 4O057.3          4,589.7  3.29.1   7.052.4  12.242.4
rt trenefer- U                              52.0     52.7      61.0    100.0     38.5    25.4            32.4     32.4    24.3       24.0
Current account balce                       -.4   -36.3   -295.0   -372.6   -646.1  -693.0             -755.5   -906.5 -1.004.2  -1,111.0
Direct private investment                   27.6    102.6      30.9    236.0    367.2   338.6           300.0    350.0   400.0      500.0
L l[ane (net)                               53.3    167.8    479.3    322.8    282.7   354.4            543.7    669.3   773.4      871.0
Official                                  39.2    130.4    190.6    272.7    249.8   351.8            449.6    422.6   465.1      659.6
Privat.                                   -3.9     37.4    288.7      50.1     32.9      2.6           96.1    246.7   308.3      211.4
otber capital                               13.7     55.2   -111.3    121.3    101,9       -              -        -        -         -
Cbane in reacrves                          -91.2     38.7   -123.9    -6.9   -105.7        -            -90.2   -112.8  -169.2    -260.0
Isternational reservs                      114a.8    304.5    415.3    4)5.7    435.2   478.3           568.7    61.5    97.3   2,086.5
Reserves as motbs of imports                 2.6      2.2       1.6      1.4      L.A      1.4            1.5      1.5      1.7       2.0
Actual 1/-
1971    1976     1979      1980     1931      1932
official Fgrant                             3535    50.2      50.7     41.5     20.3      25.4
Gross dieberuceens of M? [can              105.2   229.5    628.8    533.,    585.1    699.7
Cocessiooel                                61.0   104.0    139.5    216.3    236.3    329.2
Bilateral                                 52.8    95.1    138.7    196.2    230.3    230.0
IA                                         4.8     8.9      0.2       1.0      1.1       0.5
Othar meltilateral                         3.4     0.0       0.6     19.1      4.9      98.7
Non-coIcecional                             4.2   123.5    483.3    317.6    348.8    370.5
Private                                   28.8    60.1    37o.7    188.4    199.8    226.9
Official sport credits                     3.2     9.9      49.5     55.5     47.0      37.4
3tD                                       12.2    25.3      55.4     51.1     69.4      83.4
Other multilateral                          -     30.2      13.7     22.6      32.6     22.8
Debt oc --ig ad Diahrsed                   619.5 1.166.5  2,931.8  3.172.5  3,271.0  3.S233
Official                                 440.0   971.9  1.823.0  2,017.6  2.133.9  2,485.6
1I3D                                    39.3   127.9    232.0    269.o    319.5    37.8
oh.                                     21.1    66.1      67.3     67.g     67.5      67.4
Other                                  379.6   779.9  1,523.7  1,680.7  1.746.9  2,038.4
Privet.                                  179.5   194.6  1,158.8  1.134.9  1,037.1  1,039.7
Dodiabureed debt                           352.5 1,110.8  1.738.2  1.803.5  1,673.5  1,698.0
383 SWOSM
Tota debt service payment.                  69.8    98.6    311.8    426.6    506.8    553.4
Interact                                  19.9    36.9    162.2    215.5    204.4    208.0
P'ymeta eS I aport.                         14.9     6.7      9.9      10.9     12.8      16.6
Payments as 2 Cup                            4.1      2.2     4.3       4.9      6.1       7.0
Average interest rate of ne Loan (2)         4.9     5.4       7.1      6.9      8.3       6.8
Official                                   4.6     4.3       5.6      5.9       6.9      -
Private                                    6.1     7.9       9.8     10.,5    12.7       -
Average maturity of new Loan (years)        23.3    16.6      13.8     17.2      15.4     16.9
Official                                  26.2    20.4      19.4     19.4      18.2      -
Private                                   13.8     8.6       9.2      9.2       5.3      -
*A S of Debt O.tatanding
at End of Nt    Rect
Tear (1931)
MMr SURE
Maturity structuze of debt octetandiag (Z)
Amortiastion due witbin 5 years                                  37.7
Amortization due within 10 years                                 63.6
Interest structure of debt outstading (2)
Interact due within first yer                                    4.3
1/ Prelimiosry aetites for 1982.
2/ Including grt.
Ems" Cy 2C
tay 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE   - 25 -
Page 1 of 2
Tm  STATUS OF LAt CROUp OPmONS II UISIs
A. STATRIENT OF BA  LONS AND IDA CEDmITS (As of September 30, 1983)
US $ million
Loan or                                                                                          Amoume (Leso
Credit                                                                                            Cancellation)
Number    Year           Borrower                       Purpose                           lean     IDA       UWdiubursed
Tbirty-six Loa end Credits Fully Disbursed                                                 301.39   75.2
1155       1975       Republic of Tunisia           Third Education                         8.60                 1.65
1188       1975       Republic of Tunisia           Second Highways                        28.00                11.44
1431       1977       Republic of Tunisia           Irrigation Developmet                  42.00                 7.83
1445       1977       SOIIDE                        Fourth Water Supply                    21.00                 3.54
1504       1977      JDET                           Developmt Finance Copuan               *30.00                2.62
1505       1977       Republic of Tunisia           Small-Scale Industry Development        5.00                 1.10
1601       1978       Republic of Tunisia           Rural Roads (Third Highways)           32.00                19.6t
1675       1979       Republic of Tunisia           Second Urban Sewerae                   26.50                  3
1702       1979       SO3EDE                        Fifth Water Supply                     25.00                  .86
1705       1979       Republic of Tnisia            Second Urban Developmnt                19.00                14.58
1746       1979       Republic of Tunisia           Second Fisheries                       28.50                21.39
1796       1980       Republic of Tunisia           Southern Irrigation                    25.00                20.49
1797       1980       Office des Ports Nationdux    Tbird Port                             42.50                13.74
1841       1980       Republic of Tunisia           Fourth Highways                        36.50                31.24
1864       1980       Socidte Tunisiene de
1'Electricitd et du Cm        Second Natural Cas Pipeline            37.00               20.18
1885       1980       Ianqu  sationale de Tnisie   Third Agricultural Credit               30.00                24.09
1961       1981       Republic of Tunisia           Fourth Education                       26.00                24.31
1969       1981       Republic of Tunisia           Smll-Scale Industry Deavlop.sut        30.00                29.63
1997       1981       Republic of Tunisia            Northwest Rural Develop mt            24.00                20.17
2003       1981       Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Caz       Third Poaer                            41.50               38.17
2005       1981       Republic of Tunisia            Health and Population                  12.50               12.42
2012       1981       Republic of Tunisia            Textile Rehabilitation                 18.60                6.81
2052       1981       Republic of Tunisia            Grain Distribution and Storage        42.00                41.52
2108       1982       Republic of Tunisia            Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)           35.50                34.98
2113       1982       bDET                           Electrical nd Mechanical Industries  30.50                 27.57
2134       l982       SONEDE                         Sixth water Supply                    30.50                23.00
2157       1982       Republic of Tunisia            Irrigation Dcevlopment                22.00                21.56
2L97       1982       Republic of Tunisis            Technical Asaistance                   4.50                 4.41
2223       1983       Republic of Tunisia            Urban Development III                 25.00                24.63
2230       L983       Republic of Tunisia            Education V                           27.00                26.60
2234 bl    1983       Republic of Tunisia            Central Tunisia Irrigation             16.50               16.50
2255 b/    1983       Republic of Tunisia            Urban Sewerage III                    34.00                34.00
2289 bI    1983       Republic of Tunisia            Sfax Flood Protection                  25.00               25.00
2301 b/    L983       Republic of Tunisia            Industry (IV) Foundry                  16.80               16.80
TOTAL                                                           T1.199 i 89/ 5r
Of which has been repaid                                           139.36    7.8
Total now outetaMning                                            1,060.53   67.4
a                           ^Amout Sold                           14.33
of which has been repaid            14.33                       1.060.53   67.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA c/
Total Undisbursed                                                                      639.51
a/   Does not include the Mining Technical Assistance Project, Loan 2346 of $13.4 million approved
on September 13, 1983, and not yet signed.
bI   Not yet effective
cI   Prior to exchange rate adjustment
TIe status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/ID financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directore on April 30 and October 31.



-  26  -     *         CES? tIfP Al -t1L
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as September 30, of 1983)
Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligator                    Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1962     NPK Engrais                  Fertilizers            2.0    1.5       3.5
1966     Societe Nat. d'Invest.       Dev. Finance Co.              0.6       0.6        7
(now BDET)
1969     ODFIT (Tourism)              Dev. Finance Co.       8.0    2.2      10.2
1970     Societe Nat. d'Invest.       Dev. Finance Co.              0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1973     SocietE Touristique          Tourism                1.6    0.3       1.9
et Hotelibre RYM '
1975     Societe d'Etudes et          Tourism                2.5    0.6       3.1
de DeveLoppement de
Sousse-Nord
1974     Industries Chimiques         Chemicals                     0.6       0.6
du Fluor
1978     BDET                         Dev. Finance Co.               1.2      1.2
Total Gross Commitments                            14.1    7.6     21.7
Less Cancellations,                                10.7    1.8      12.5
Terminations, Repayments,
and Sales
Total Comnitments now                               3.4    5.8       9.2
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                   0.0    0.0       0.0
4~~~~



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TUNISIA
SEVENTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of key events
r        (a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:              15 months (January 1982-April 1983)
(b) The agency which
prepared the project:             SONEDE (National Water Authority)
(c) Project first identified
by the Bank:                      September 1982
(d) Date of Bank
appraisal mission:                April 1983
(e) Negotiations;                     November 1983
(f) Planned date of
loan effectiveness:               May 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special conditions
1. Special condition of effectiveness
Effectiveness of the Project Financing Agreement between the
Government and SONEDE (para. 45).
2. Other special conditions
(a) SONEDE would inform the DSSB of each subproject's location upon its
selection, and the Government would carry out the health education
program through DSSB in accordance with appropriate standards and with
*                 adequate staff and other resources (para. 47);
(b) SONEDE would select subprojects based on agreed selection criteria and
procedures (para. 48);



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) SONEDE would ensure operation and maintenance of the water supply
systems constructed under the project (para. 49); and
(d) SONEDE would start the financial and institutional studies by October
1, 1984, complete the studies by March 30, 1986 and furnish their
conclusions and recommendations to the Government and Bank within one
month. The Government and Bank would review these conclusions and
recommendations by June 30, 1986, and the Government, SONEDE and the
Bank would agree on, and the Government and SONEDE would thereafter
implement, an action plan for their execution (para. 52).



IBRD 17436
I           I    '                   1      AUBUT i
T U N I S I A
RURAL WATER SUPPLY DEVELOPMENT      600   cl i I e r r a n e a n
PROJECT      .            taeo
GF OF t NIS  ,  A ON
1 NW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I\ 
_,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ->CA SON^ S >    f Af
ro COR    +             GA 3    _   ;k   r<N
GUFOf NAAfA,AMET
N\f/  A 
(9  01. IU
(.4                    .  .~~~...     .....
*   ~~~   , *..   ..........
a.   *0.    :~~~~~...   /   \ AND






