G AC   ILOAN NUMBER 2368 TUN
Project Agreement
(Seventh Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION
ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
Dated                         7     , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2368 TUN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     7        , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIO    AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE
DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX (hereinafter called SONEDE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SONEDE agrees to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a project financing agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SONEDE, part of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
SONEDE on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SONEDE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SONEDE shall carry out Parts A through E of
the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and


﻿-2 -
public utility practices and shall provide, or cause to be pro-
vided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SONEDE shall select Sub-projects to be carried out under Part A
of the Project in accordance with the selection criteria set
forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to inviting bids for works for a Sub-project,
SONEDE shall furnish the Bank, for comment, an appraisal note
prepared in accordance with the outline set forth in paragraph
(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and such other information as
the Bank shall request.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and works required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. SONEDE shall: (a) carry out the research on,
and design and testing of equipment and materials referred to in
Part C of the Project in accordance with a work program,
including a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)  (i) carry out the studies referred to in Part D of the
Project in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank; (ii) start work on such studies by October 1, 1984 or such
later date as the Bank may agree, and complete such studies by
March 31, 1986 or such later date as the Bank may agree; (iii)
furnish to the Borrower and Bank for their review, within one
month after the completion of said studies the conclusions and
recommendations thereof; (iv) on the basis of such review, agree
with the Borrower and the Bank on a plan for the implementation
of said recommendations; and (v) thereafter take all appropriate
action on its part to implement such plan.
Section 2.05. (a) SONEDE undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by SONEDE to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-3-
(b) SONEDE shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) SONEDE shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for Parts A
through E of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) SONEDE:- (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A through E
of the Project (including their cost and the benefits to be
derived therefrom), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in Parts A through
E of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Parts
A through E of the Project, their cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by SONEDE of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
SONEDE, SONEDE shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the -Bank shall reasonably re-
quest, on the execution and initial operation of Parts A through
E of the Project, their cost and the benefits derived and to be
derIved therefrom, the performance by the Bank and SONEDE of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-4-
(e) SONEDE shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SONEDE and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.07. SONEDE shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction and operation of the facilities included in
the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence sAtisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 2.08. SONEDE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Project Financing Agreement. Except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, SONEDE shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Project Financing Agreement
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. SONEDE shall inform MOPH, promptly upon the
selection of a Sub-project, of the Sub-project's location.
Section 2.10. SONEDE shall maintain a unit for the planning
and supervision of projects in rural areas with such powers,
functions, staff, facilities, equipment and work program as shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.11. SONEDE shall provide credit for ho.use connec-
tion installations under Part E of the Project to its residential
customers in rural areas on terms satisfactory to the Bank which
shall include, inter alia: (i) interest at a rate of eleven per
cent (11%) per annum or such other rate as shall be agreed
between the Bank and SONEDE; and (ii) repayment within a period
not exceeding five years.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SONEDE
Section 3.01. SONEDE shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, finan-
cial and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. SONEDE shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, including,
without limitation, the water supply systems constructed under
the Project, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. SONEDE shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. SONEDE shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 3.05. SONEDE shall:
(a) monitor its operations on the basis of a system of key
technical and financial indicators and targets acceptable to the
Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank (i) until the completion of the
Project, a quarterly report showing the results of its operations
in terms of said indicators and targets; and (ii) by June 30 of
each year, until the completion of the Project and during the
five years immediately succeeding such completion, a report in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request showing the
results of its operations in terms of said indicators; and
(c) shall promptly take all such remedial action as the
Bank may reasonably request to ensure that the targets referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section are met.
Section 3.06. SONEDE shall not, without the prior approval
of the Bank, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of any of its
properties or assets required for the efficient operation of its
business and undertakings.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SONEDE shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate


﻿-6-
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate sub-
accounts reflecting its operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project and separate sub-accounts reflecting all
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) SONEDE shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. SONEDE shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than: (i) six months after the end of each such
year copies of its unaudited financial statements for such year;
and (ii) not later than nine months after the end of each such
year certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited and the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors (A) in respect of the sub-
accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement and
(B) in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of
the Loan made available to it and withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, sub-accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
SONEDE shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of


﻿- 7 -
the revenues and expenditures of SONEDE shows that the projected
internal cash generation of SONEDE for each fiscal year during
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1 .5 times
the projected debt service requirement of SONEDE in such year on
all debt of SONEDE including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" means any indebtedness of SONEDE maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or further modification of
its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
extent the amount of such debt has become out-
standing pursuant to such contract, agreement or
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into, but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii)   The term   "internal cash generation    of  SONEDE"
means gross revenues of SONEDE from all sources,
adjusted to take account of SONEDE tariffs in
effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during the twelve-
month period to which such revenues relate, less
all operating expenses of SONEDE, including ex-
penses accountable to administration, maintenance
and taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes), but
before provision for depreciation of assets and
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)   The term   "debt service requirement"    means  the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sink-
ing fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
other charges on, debt.
(v)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by SONEDE in the fiscal year in which the
debt in question is to be incurred, which both the
Bank and SONEDE accept as reasonable and as to


﻿-8-
which the Bank has notified SONEDE of its accept-
ability, provided that no event has occurred since
such notification which has, or may reasonably be
expected in the future to have, a material adverse
effect on the financial condition or future
operating results of SONEDE.
(vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of currency of the
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the pre-
vailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, with absence of such rate, on the basis
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as SONEDE and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, SONEDE shall, in each of its fiscal years, take all
measures as shall be necessary to enable it to earn revenues
sufficient to cover, in addition to operating expenses (excluding
depreciation), debt service requirements and increases in working
capital other than cash, not less than twenty per cent (20%) of
the annual average of SONEDE's estimated capital expenditures to
be incurred during each such fiscal year and the two (2) follow-
ing fiscal years.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "revenues" shall mean income from water
sales and from the provision of related services,
and miscellaneous income including income from
non-operating sources, but excluding customer
contributions.
(ii) The term "operating expenses" shall mean expenses
for operation, maintenance and administration and
related expenses, including, without limitation,
expenses for operation and maintenance of the
water supply systems constructed under this
Project.
(iii) The term "debt service requirements" shall mean
the aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on debt.


﻿- 9 -
(iv) The term "working capital other than cash" means
the excess of current assets (accounts receivable,
inventories and current maturities of long term
advances) less current liabilities (accounts pay-
able, deposits payable and short term loans).
(v) The term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed assets, exclud-
ing expenditures on account of fixed assets under
this Project.
Section 4.05. SONEDE shall: (a) before November 30 of each
fiscal year, on the basis of forecasts prepared to the satisfac-
tion of the Bank, review the adequacy of its rates;
(b) furnish the Bank and the Borrower by November 30 of
each fiscal year with a copy of the conclusions and recommenda-
tions resulting from such review; and
(c) take promptly after November 30 of each fiscal year all
necessary measures to meet the revenue requirements set forth in
Section 4.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of SONEDE thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify SONEDE thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Amendment to the Loan Agreements
(Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Water Supply Projects)
Section 6.01. The provisions of Section 4.03 of this
Agreement shall supersede the provisions of the Section 5.04 of


﻿- 10 -
the Loan Agreements dated July 5, 1977, May 31, 1979 and May 14,
1982, respectively, between the Bank and SONEDE.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT);
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA); or
64145 (WUI).
For SONEDE:
Socigt6 Nationale d' Exploitation
et de Distribution des Eaux
23, Rue J. Nehru
Tunis
Tunisia
Cable Address:                     Telex:
SONEDE                            12262
Tunis                             TN


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SONEDE, or by SONEDE on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by
its President Directeur G6neral or such other person or persons
as its President Directeur General shall designate in writing,
and SONEDE shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, e%eh of which     shall be an    original, and all
collectively but une instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION
ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accord-
ance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, SONEDE shall prepare and forward to the
Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days
prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender documents relating thereto, a general procurement notice,
in such form and detail and containing such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. SONEDE shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive biddingr
3.   Contracts for goods shall be grouped to the extent possible.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding; (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 13 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured   in  the
Republic of Tunisia if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of SONEDE and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in the Republic of Tunisia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or


﻿- 14 -
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison I- the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bic from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for works may be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for   goods  estimated  to   cost between   $50,000
equivalent and $200,000 equivalent each may be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that
the aggregate amount of all contracts so awarded shall not exceed
$2,000,000 equivalent.
3.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each may be awarded after obtaining quotations from at
least four manufacturers or suppliers, account being taken of the
reasonableness of the price offered and other factors such as the
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the equipment,
the compatibility with presently used equipment, and the avail-
ability in the Republic of Tunisia of maintenance facilities and
spare parts; provided, however, that the aggregate amount of all
contracts so awarded shall not exceed $800,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
more than the equivalent of $200,000 each:
(a) Before bids are invited, SONEDE shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 15 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SONEDE
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform SONEDE and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, SONEDE, and MOPH for goods under Part F of the Pro-
ject, shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract wab
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform SONEDE or MOPH and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% of the original price, SONEDE, and MOPH for goods
under Part F of the Project, shall inform the Bank of the
proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and the
reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement,
shall promptly inform SONEDE or MOPH and state the reasons for
its determination.


﻿- 16 -
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Works in isolated areas may, with the Bank's prior approval,
be carried out through force account in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that the
aggregate amount of expenditures for works so to be carried out
shall not exceed $4,000,000 equivalent.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Selection and Appraisal of Sub-projects
Sub-projects shall be eligible for financing under the
Project if:
(a) they are to be undertaken in villages with a 1983
population of between 100 and 1,500;
(b) the per capita investment cost of the Sub-project,
which is the relation between the total cost of the Sub-project
in 1983 prices and the 1983 population affected, is equal to or
lower than a maximum per capita investment cost per 1983
population affected agreed upon by the Bank;
(c) an appraisal note has been prepared including the
following information:
-    the  physical   and  economic  characteristics   of  the
village(s) in which the Sub-project will be executed,
the population recorded by past censuses and a forecast
of future population;
-    a forecast of future water consumption and the number
of service lines, and an evaluation of the percentage
of population served;
S-   feasible alternatives to supply the village with water;
-    a calculation of the estimated costs of feasible alter-
na'ives, and an economic comparison of these alterna-
tives;
a justification of the proposed scheme, detailed cost
estimates and a program (including a timetable) of the
proposed works;
-    a forecast of water sales and other revenues;
-    a  calculation  of  future  operating   and  maintenance
expenses, an evaluation of staff needs, of needed
management systems and of relations with regional
SONEDE offices and with the SONEDE headquarters;


﻿- 18 -
-    a description and evaluation of the existing or pro-
posed schemes for operation and maintenance of the
water supply systems to be constructed;
-    a calculation of the per capita investment cost and the
incremental cost of providing water to the village; and
-    conclusions and recommendations.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this _    _   day of         198  .
FOR SECRETARY


