Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
33  I/I
Report No. 9202-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
MARCH 18, 1991
Asia Country Department IV (India)
Population, Human Resources, Urban and Water Division
This document has a restgicted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorkztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs)
US$ 1.00 = Rs 17.8
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.056
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm       -   millimeter (1 millimeter = 0.039 inches)
m        =   meter (1 meter - 3.28 feet)
km       =   kilometer (1 kilometer = 0.62 miles)
km2      =   square kilometer (1 km2 = 0.368 square miles)
ha       =   hectare (1 hectare - 10,000 square meters   2.47 acres)
1        =   liter (0.22 imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lpcd         liters per capita per day
m3       =   cubic meters (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
Ml       =  million liters
Mld      =   million liters per day (0.220 million Imperial gallons
per day or 0.264 million US gallons per day)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARWSP    -  Accelerated Rural Water Supply Program
BEOH     -   Block Extension Officer, Health
DEMO     -   District Extension and Media Officer
DOPH     -   Department of Public Health
DRD      -   Department of Rural Development
EE       -   Executive Engineer
FY       -   Fiscal year
GOI      -   Government of India
GOM      -   Government of Maharashtra
GSDA     -   Groundwater Survey and Development Agency
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
MM       -  Man months
MPW(F)   -  Multi-Purpose Worker (Female)
MPW(M)   -  Multi-Purpose Worker (Male)
MWSSB    -  Maharashtra Water Supply & Sewerage Board
NGO      -   Non-Governmental Organization
O&M      -   Operation & Maintenance
PHL      -   Public Health Laboratories
PPMU     -   Project Planning and Monitoring Unit
PW       -   Public Wortzs
SHEB     -   State Health Education Bureau
SOE      -   Statement of Expenditure
TYRSEM   -   Training for Rural Youth for Self-Employment



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AITD PROJECT SUMMARY
Page No.
I.       Sectoral Context
A.    Introduction ................................ 9-9 .......  .000 .......  I
B.    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Service Levels ... ........   2
C.    Institutional Respinsibilities ............................    4
D.    Sectoral Issues ......................................*...............    S
E.    Government Policies and Program       s . ...........................    7
F.    External Financing of Rural Water Supply & Environmental
Sanitation ..................................................      9
G.    Previous Bank Experience ...................................        9
H.  Rationale for IDA Involvement                  ...  11
II.   The Project
A. Origins ......... 11
B.    Area to be Served .............          .........                 12
C. Objectives    ..13
D.    Design Criteria, Service Standards and Population Coverage .  13
E.  Description of the Components           .        .                   15
III.  Project Costs, Financing and Implementation
A.    Costs and Financing ..... .                                        20
B.    Status of Project Preparation             ......                   22
C.  Project Management                   ......                          23
D.    NGO Involvement and Community Participation        ...... 25
E. Role of Women                      ...... 26
F. Disbursement.....                                                     26
G.    Procurement ..... .                 ...... .. ... . ..             27
H.  Monitoring and Evaluation                ......                      29
I.  Accounts and Audits                   ...... 30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Maharashtra in October-November 1990. This mission comprised Ms. Ellen Schaengold
(Mission Leader), and hesurs. Karl Kleiner (Engineer), Albert Kennefick (Financial
Analyst), Randall Vick (Procurement Specialist), Robert Boydell (Engineer), Sanjay
Vani (Financial Analyst) ati? K.V. Rao (Public Health Specialist). This report was
reviewed by Mr. Richard Skolnik, Chief, Population, Human Resources, Urban and Water
Development Division, and Mr. Heinz Vergin, Director, Asia Country Department 4.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents .nay not otherwwbs be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.   Financial Analyses .....................................................   31
V.    Economic Analysis and Fnvironmental Assessment
A.  Economic Analysis .................................................   33
B.  Envirornmental Assessment ................................... ...   34
VI.   Benefits and Risks
A.  Benefits ........................................................   35
B.  Risks .......... . ... . .................... .. .......* ...........   35
VII.  Agreements Reached and Recommendation ..............................    36
Tables
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1
Component l: Rural Water Supply - Detailed Description, Procurement, and
Cost Estimates:
Population, Water Demand, and Service Levels fcr Phase 1 ................   38
Technical Details for Phase 1 ....          .........      .............. ..... . ........   39
Investment Cost Estimates for Phase 1 ....................................   40
Piped Water Supply Schemes Phase 2 ............ 0.. ........... .    .    .......   41
Borewell Program, Handpumps, Ground Water Development    ...................   42
Leak Detection Survey and Repair Works ...................................   44
Design Criteria ................ .......................... *........ ......   46
Component 2: Environmental Sanitation - Detailed Description, Procurement and
Cost Estimates:
Latrines ..................................  ........   ..........................    49
Drainage .....     .. .................................................. . .    50
Solid Waste ............................................................      ..     51
Component 3: Health Communication - Detailed Description and Cost Estimates
............ .   ....                         .........................................................    52
Component 4: Institutional Strengthenir.g - Detailed Description, Procurement
and Cost Estimates:
Project Planning and Monitoring Unit:  Description and Cost Estimates ...    54
Project Planning and Monitoring Unit: Terms of Reference for
Health and Sanitation and Training Cells ...........................          58
Project Planning and Monitoring Unit: Terms of Reference for
Construction Supervision Monitoring ................. ...............    59
Scheme Design ..... ...................................................... ......    61



- 1ii .
Page No.
Training .. .           ...       .........          .............**.......................      63
Commnity Participation                                         ..............   . 65
MVSSB/Zilla Parishads/GSDA/RDD  ............................. . . ...                             66
Annex 2        -       Project Implementation Schedule  .........              ..............    67
Annex 3        -       Project Cost Schedule  ******.**...*....................                  68
Annex 4        -       Schedule of IDA Disbursements  .........................                  72
Annex 5        -       Retroactive Financing . ..............                      .........     74
Annex 6        -       Project Monitoring Guidelines  .........................                  77
Annex 7        -       Financial Analyses of District Schemes ................                   79
Annex 8        -       Environmental Assessment .......................... .*...                 92
Annex 9        -       Project Supervision Plan ..............................                   93
Annex 10       -       Hand Over Resolutions for Water Supply and
Drainage Schemes ......................................                   94
Documents on File
MAP
IBRD No. 22833



- iv -
INDIA
AHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY & ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
s:        India, acting by its President
Laries:    Government of Maharashtra (GOM)
SDR 76.4 million (US$109.9 million)
Standard, with 35 years maturity
Government of India (GOI) to GOM: As part of the central
assistance to States for development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time.
tion.     The project would be implemented in about ten districts in
the state of Maharashtra. It would raise the standard of
living in rural areas through improved health and
productivity, by expanding access to potable rural water
supply systems and environmental sanitation facilities. The
rural water supply component would include about 75 large,
regional piped water supply schemes, 170 individual village
piped water supply schemes, and the installation of about
3,000 India Mark III hand pumps. In a country where the
incidence of water-related diseases is high and public
sanitation standards poor, the project would promote
enhanced approaches to environmental sanitation and health
communications through the development of new strategies and
the implementation of those strategies through innovative
programs. The environmental sanitation component would
promote the disposal of waste water in villages with piped
water supply through improved drainage and the construction
of low cost latrines. The health communications component
would create greater community awareness and demand for
improved hygiene and environmental sanitation and would give
field staff in the Department of Public Health a greater
role in promoting a cleaner environment. NGOs would play a
key role in the planning and implementation of the
environmental sanitation and health communications
components. The project would also strengthen the water
quality monitoring system in rural areas throughout the
state.
The main risks would bet 1) the environmental sanitation
and health communications components would be given low
priority during implementationt 2) inexperience in working



with NGOs; and 3) the sustainability of investments in rural
water supply due to inadequate institutional and funding
arrangements for operation and maintenance (O&E). These
risks would be minimized through an agreement on the final
strategies on environmental sanitation and health education,
the involvement of NGOs, and the role of the project
planning and monitoring unit; the establishment of a
Government-NGO Task Force; and through training and
improvements in administrative arrangements and revenue
generation to reduce the risk of inadequate O&M.
Estimated Costs                            Local       Foreign      Total
…---- (in US$ M) --------
Rural Water Supply Schemes                  71.9        14.2         86.1
Sanitation Program                          8.9          0.4          9.3
Project Support                             1.6          0.1          1.7
Institution Building                        4.0          1.4          5.4
Health Comunnications                        4.7         0.5          5.2
Other Consultant Services                   0.6          0.1          0.7
ZP/GSDAIDOPH Incremental Staff Salaries     3.8          0.7          4.5
HWSSB Engineering Costs                     11.8         2.1         13.9
Land Acquisition                            0.2            -          0.2
TOTAL BASE COSTS                          107 5         19.5        127.0
Physicel Contingencies                      7.6          1.4          9.0
Price Cont ngencies                         1.7          3.0          4.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       116.8         23.9        140.7
Notet The above costs include an estimated US$12.9 million in taxes and
duties.
Financing Plan
Government of Maharashtra                  26.8            -         26.8
District Governments                        2.0            -          2.0
Householder Contribution                    2.0            -          2.0
IDA                                        86.0         23.9        109.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       116.8         23.9        140.7
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY                1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Annual                15.1    19.2    24.9    23.9    18.2      8.4     0.2
Cumulative            15.1    34.3    59.2   83.1   101.3   109.7   109.9
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable



INL'IA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY & ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Introduction
1.01        Over the past ten years, India has made a major investment in
rural water supply. As a result, it is estimated that about 952 of all
villages in India now have access to at least one safe water source. The
supply of water, however, has not been adequate to meet the demand within
villages. A large percentage of the rural population are still using unsafe
water to a varying extent. Small programs have been initiated to promote
latrine usage among the lower income groups in rural areas but these programs
have been unsuccessful due primarily to low demand. Less than 32 of the rural
population use latrines and public facilities for drainage and solid waste
removal are poor. The health benefits of the government's programs have been
undermined by inadequate coverage, maintenance problems, and underutilization
of existing water supply sources due to social factors, combined with poor
environmental sanitation.
1.02        With a growth rate of just over 22 per annum, India's population
is now estimated at 848 million and will reach almost one billion in 2000.
Water-related diseases are a major health problem, affecting over 80 of
infants and children annually. About 802 of the poor live in rural areas
where health standards are low. Infant mortality rates in rural areas are
about two-thirds higher than those in urban areas. A labor-saving, safe,
reliable source of domestic water supply linked to improved environmental
sanitation and health education are important factors in improving health
standards and economic productivity in rural areas. Health impact studies of
small pilot projects in other countries have shown that combining potable
water supplies with sanitation and health education can significantly reduce
the prevalence of diarrhea in small children.1/
1.03        Women play a key role in the water and sanitation sector both in
terms of collecting and managing domestic water use and also in terms of
responsibility for household sanitation and family hygiene. The time spent by
women in collecting water for domestic use averages about 1-2 hours per day;
11 Water SUPPly, Sanitation and Hygiene Education, Report of a Health Impact
Study in Mirzapur, Bangladesh, R.M.A. Aziz, et al, UNDP-World Bank Water and
Sanitation Program, 1990.



- 2 -
in more arid or hillv locations, much longer time is spent. Without the
involvement of women., the full benefits of investments in water and sanitation
cannot be realized.
1.04        The proposed project would support the Government of Maharashtra's
rural water supply program in about ten districts and would support the
development of strategies to promote improved environmental sanitation through
the provision of facilities and related health education programs in those
districts. The special features of the project would be to: a) promote
linkages between rural water supply, environmental sanitation and health
education through institutional coordination; b) through improved designs,
provide adequate safe water to meet the communities' needs, including those of
the rural poort c) through the involvement of NGOs, promote community
participation in the identification, planning and maintenance of rural water
supply and environmental sanitation facilities; and d) create greater
community awareness of the causes of water-related health problems and the
need for a cleaner environment.
B. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Service Levels
1.05        Because of the wide geographic diversity and range of incomes both
between and within states, rural water supply services range from traditional
open wells and hand pumps to sophisticated piped water supply schemes with
treatment plants and a large proportion of private connections. Determining
the percentage of rural population with access to safe, reliable water depends
on such factors as distance to source, quantities available and the
variability of water quality. The Government of India has established
criteria that water sources should be within 1.6 km at a maximum and should be
free of contaminates such as excessive salinity, iron, fluorides and other
toxic elements, and guinea worm. Using these criteria, it is estimated that
about 95? of all villages in India have access to at least one safe water
source. About 85? of those served have access to hand pumps; the remainder
receive water through piped schemes.
1.06        The Government of India has had a policy of discouraging private
connections for piped schemes in rural areas in order to provide more
equitable service. In recent years, the demand for house connections has
grown. Because the schemes were designed only for stand posts, the
installation of private connections has in many cases seriously reduced the
capability of the systems to deliver adequate water to the entire community.
1.07        Utilization of safe water sources is much less than the 952
coverage would suggest. Many Indian villages are made up of small hamlets
which are located at some distance from each other. Field studies indicate
that usage of safe water sources is minimal beyond about 150 meters if
alternative water sources, even polluted ones, are available. Thus, even if a
safe source is provided, because of distance to source or social factors such
as caste (members of higher and lower castes may not share the same water
source), a much smaller population will actually utilize the safe source.



1.08        in addition to utilization, maintenance is a problem, with about
20-25? of rural water supply schemes out of operation at any one time. Taking
into consideration the distance which persons are willing to walk to obtain
water, social factors, and likely down time, a large percentage of the rural
population are still using unsafe sources of water to a varying extent.
1.09        Rural environmental sanitation facilities are defined in broad
terms to include: private and community latrines, public sullage and storm
drainage systems, sotkc pits (private household disposal of sullage water),
garbage and dung disposal and tubewell apron constru.cion. Water quality and
water quality monitoring systems are often inadequate. The lack of
facilities, especially in larger villages (populations over 1,000), combined
with inadequate hygiene practices and polluted water sources, contribute
toward the spread of water-related diseases.
1.10        India has extremely high rates of water-related diseases in both
urban and rural areas. Although infant mortality rates have fallen over the
last forty years, the rates in India remain among the highest in the world.
There are unofficial estimates that as many as 80Z of all children have some
form of diarrheal disease (including common diarrhea) annually. In addition,
there are area-specific problems of water-related diseases such as guinea worm
and fluorosis which can result in a crippling skeletal disease in adults.
1.11        The levels of environmental sanitation in rural India are
extr3mely low. It is estimated that less than 3? of the rural population have
access to latrines. Even where latrines have been provided under government
sponsored programs, in many cases they are not utilized because of individual
preferences for open fields. Demand for latrines is increasing, however, in
more densely populated aruas where privacy and security, particularly for
women, is a problem.
1.12        Piped sewerage systems for villages are virtually nonexistent.
Sullage or storm drains have been constructed in a few areas, particularly
where piped water supply systems have been constructed. In some cases, where
indiscriminate defecation is practiced (particularly by children), existing
drainage systems are used for excreta and other solid waste disposal.
Inadequate drainage during the monsoon season results in flooding which
contributes to lower sanitation and health standards. Thus, the low levels of
service for human and other waste disposal in villages combined with poor
drainage create conditions for high rates of water-related diseases in rural
areas.
1.13        Haharashtra.  The service levels for rural water supply and
environmental sanitation facilities in Maharashtra are slightly higher than
the national average. The rural population served by hand pumps is 522;
another 5? are served by traditional wells. The remaining villages are served
by piped schemes. Less than 10? of the rural population have private
connections. The high percentage of rural population served by piped schemes
is due to the inadequacy of groundwater sources. Many villages receive
potable water through large piped water supply schemes covering many villages



- 4 -
with long transmission lines. Sanitation standards are generally low; the
coverage of latrines in rural areas is about 5Z which is higher than the
national average of about 3Z. According to informal surveys, improved access
to rural water supply and drainage facilities are high development priorities
among the rural population. These same surveys consider diarrheal diseases
and malaria to be among the main health problems. Provisions for chlorination
at the village level are inadequate. Water quality monitoring in the state is
above average but laboratories suffer from inadequate staffing and equipment.
1.14        Role of Women.  Women have the primary responsibility for
collecting and storing water for household use in India. Much of the demand
for latrd. es in rural areas comes from them. Women are responsible for
maintaining latrines inside the household and have the main responsibility for
family hygiene and sanitation. They also have responsibility for waste
disposal around the house, i.e., cleaning cowsheds, disposing of cow dung and
garbage, sweeping the rooms and courtyards, and cleaning utensils. Thus,
there are strong reasons for including women in rural water supply and
environmental sanitation programs. They are already being trained on a small
scale to participate in the maintenance of vil'age hand pumps and are serving
on a few pilot village water committees.
C. Institutional Responsibilities
1.15        National Level.  Implementation of rural water supply and
environmental sanitation programs is the responsibility of state governments
in India. The central government plays an important role in setting
standards, and providing funds and technical assistance. Responsibility for
rural water supply and sanitation at the national level is with the Department
of Rural Developme't in the Government of India (DRD/GOI). The DRDIGOI
operates a fund called the Accelerated Rural Water Supply Program (ARWSP),
which provides about 40Z of the total funding for state rural water supply
programs during a five year plan period. DRD/GOI also funds a small Central
Rural Sanitation Program which has had little if any impact.
1.16        Another central government agency 5nvoived in rural water supply
is the Central Groundwater Board which is under the Ministry of Water
Resources and has responsibility for the production of water resource
inventories and maps, and for the monitoring of ground water levels and rates
of depletion. The Ministry of Health supports a number of health education
programs, but the prevention of water-related diseases has not been a priority
during the past decade.
1.1?        Maharashtra.  There are four agencies concerned with rural water
supply and environmental sanitation in the states the Department of Rural
Development (DRD/GOH) which includes the local government authorities s"ch as
the Zilla Parishads (district councils) and Gram Panchayats (village
councils); the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board (MWSSB); the
Groundwater Survey and Development Agency (GSDA); and the Department of Public
Health (DOPH). The MWSSB is responsible for the construction of water supply
schemes costing more than Rs. 300,000. The Engineering Wings of the Zilla



Parishads in each district are responsible for the conœt.ruction of all piped
schemes costing less than Rs. 300,000, and the construction of traditional
vells and environmental sanitation facilities.  The Zilla Parishads are also
responsible for the maintenance of large, multi-villaC water supply schomes
and hand pumps. Gram Panchayats are responsible for the maintenance of
individual village level piped water supply schemes, handpumps and for
environmental sanitation. The GSDA is responsible for the drilling and
construction of hand pumps and tubewells. The DOPH is responsible for health
education, environmental sanitation promotion, and water quality monitoring.
The state's public nealth laboratories which are within DOPH have
responsibility, along with the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, for water
quality testing.
1.18        The MWSSB was established in 1976 as an autonomous body; the
Chairman of the Board is the Minister of Urban Development and its Vice
Chairman, the Minister of State for Rural Development. The Secretary, Urban
Development Department and the Secretary, Rural Development Department are
among the members of the Board. The Board is responsible for water supply and
sewerage activities in urban areas (excluding Bombay) and for water supp3; in
rural areas. The Member-Secretary of the Board is the administrative and
technical 'iead of the organization. There are three Chief Engineers, one of
whom looks after rural water supply exclusively. The MWSSB has lj,800 staff
of whom i,800 are engineers. The GSDA is under the administrative control of
DRDIGOM and has responsibility for groundwater surveys, exploration and
drilling. GSDA has a Deputy Engineer (Mechanical) and District Senior
Geologist in every district in the state.
1.19        Each Zilla Parishad has an Engineering Wing which consists of two
Executive Engineers (EE). One ER is in charge of roads and buildings; the
other is in charge of minor irrigation and rural water supply. At the block
level, the BE in charge of rural water supply has under his supervision junior
engineers who have the main field responsibility for construction and
maintenance. The Gram Panchayats do not have technical field personnel; they
depend on technical support from the Zilla Parishad or the private sector.
The Joint Director for Health Services in the DOPH is responsible for health
education and the promotion of environmental sanitation. At the field level,
the Block Extension Officer, Health, Health Assistant (Male) and the
Multipurpose Worker (Male) have primary responsibility for environmental
sanitation. The District Extension Media Officer has primary responsibility
for health education at the field level.
D. Sectoral Issues
1.20        There are a number of problems and issues in the rural water
supply and environmental sanitation sector which need to be addressed. Those
in Maharashtra are similar to those affecting the whole country. The main
problems and issues in the sector are poor community participation, inadequate
operation and maintenance (O&M) of rural water supply scheaes, low levels of
cost recovery and weak institutional coordination.



- 6 -
1.21        Community Participation.  Community participation is an idea which
has received national attention in recent years but has not been fully
realized as a development concept. In the national debate on
deceatralization, rural water supply and sanitation are two subjects which
have been found suitable for loc4l involvement in planning, construction and
O&M. Several states, including Maharashtra, have recently introduced
government policies to give O&M responsibility to local government for rural
water supply. The policy of decentralization raises such issues as ensuring
that the local authorities have adequate technical skills to handle the work
load and sufficient funds, particularly for O&M.
1.22        O&M for Rural Water SupRly. India is one of the few developing
countries that h&s made significant efforts to address the hand pump
maintenance problem. In the 19708, alarming figures of only 25-30Z of pumps
in operation were reported. These numbers have been reversed to an extent
where consistent reports of 70-75Z of hand pumps being operational today are
the norm. Choice of technology has been an important factor in improving
maintenance, in particular the development and standardization of the India
Mark II hand pump. Further improvements are expected with the introduction of
an improved model, the India Mark III hand pump. However, as coverage levels
increase, so does the maintenance burden and the associated institutional and
financial demands. The problem of O&M for piped schemes is more severe,
primarily because of shortages of funds, staff time allocations to deal with
O&M, and the lack of skilled personnel.
1.23        One of the main sources of maintenance problems throughout India
is the irregular and fluctuating supply of electricity which often results in
damaged electrical equipment as well as problems with the water distribution.
Other O&M problems result from communities which illegally tap into the
distribution systems, and neglect of stractural maintenance.  In the current
transition stage of handing over responsibility for O&M to local authorities,
the main issues involve the need for adequate funding, clarification of the
technical and financial responsibilities for major and minor repairs, and
creation of greater consumer awareness of their role in O&M.
1.24        Cost Recovery.  In most states in India, including Maharashtra,
cost recovery for the OaM of rural water supply schemes is very low. In all
of the states, capital investment costs are financed from central and state
funds. High capital costs, lack of consumer affordability, poor water supply
service, and the notion that water is a *public good' have been used to
explain political resistance to more cost recovery. Hand pumps and stand
posts, which are water sources for the low income groups, have been provided
on a grant basis by central and state governments. Policies for cost recovery
apply only to O&M expenditures for piped schemes; revenues are collected
primarily from private connections and industrial and commercial users. The
collection of water charges in many states is undertaken by local government
agencies and not by a centralized state water authority. Thus, it is
difficult to estimate the actual levels of collection. In many cases, such
collections may not be pursued. A number of states have undertaken a new
policy which encourages private connections in rural water supply schemes (the



current level of private connections is only about 152) and which encourages
local governments to finance all of their O&M expenditures for rural water
eupply schemes from their own resources. The issue for cost recovery is to
ensure that schemes are designed to maximize private and commercial
connections, to ensure that local water tariffs are sufficient to meet
increasing O&M costs, and to prevent water wastage.
1.25        Institutional Coordination.  The strategy of linking water supply,
related health education and environmental sanitation programs together is
based on the objective of achieving the maximum health benefits from each
investment. These programs, however, are implemented by different agencies
within the state government structure. Ensuring proper coordination among
these agencies is an important issue. In states such as Maharashtra, which
have a long tradition of strong local government, coordination may be less of
a problem. At local government levels in Maharashtra, there are existing
systems of committees which coordinate inter-departmental activities ttnder the
authority of the senior district administrative officer.
E. Government Policies and Programs
1.26        The Seventh Five Year Plan (1985-90) gave high priority to
providing safe water to villages which did not have a protected water supply
source within a reasonable distance. The target for the Seventh Plan was 1OOZ
coverage: the actual target reached was about 95Z. The plan called for
greater attention to ensuring that scheAuled castes and tribes had access to
safe water and to involving communit'es and NGOs in the program. Similar to
previous plans, the Seventh Plan also discouraged private connections for
piped water supply schemes in order to provide more equitable service. The
Seventh Plan recognized that little had been done in the area of rural
sanitation and called for 25Z coverage of latrine use among the rural
population; the actual coverage achieved was less than 3Z due to less than
anticipated household demand.
1.27.       Under the draft Eighth Five Year Plan (1990-95), the government
plans to emphasize consolidation of rural water supply coverage to improve
service levels, greater community participation in O&M and improved water
quality surveillance. Priority would continue to be given to those villages
without an adequate number of safe water sources. However, more emphasis
would be given to increasing the service levels of those villages covered with
one water source under previous plans, including the design of piped water
supply schemes to provide above 40 liters per capita per day (lpcd) with
private connections. The states would be encouraged to seek capital
contribution from villages which desire service levels beyond 40 lpcd, similar
to government policy for urban areas. The draft plan also establishes the
policy that O&M costs for piped water supply schemes should be covered by the
community.



- 8 -
1.28        For sanitation, the draft Eighth Plar.; 'tld adopt a new strategy
of linking health education, sanitation and later supply, and developing a
demand based approach to promoting latrine use. The Eighth Plan would also
widen the definition of sanltation beyond latrine use to include the disposal
of refuse and waste water, and personal hygiene. Primary responsibility for
the environmental sanitation program would be given to the district and
village authorities.
1.29        The total expenditure for rural water supply under the Seventh
Plan was Rs.44 billion. The central government contributed 40Z; the remainder
came from state budgetary sources with a small contribution (less than 102)
from foreign funding. The central allocation for rural sanitation was only
Rs.l billion for the five year period. Under the draft Eighth Plan, the
government plans to increase substantially its contribution to the sector.
The plan allocation for rural water supply (including small towns with
populations less than 20,000) would be increased to Rs.100 billion and for
sanitation, increased to Rs.33 billion. The central government's share of the
allocation would increase to about 45Z with the reawinder coming from the
state budgets and a small contribution from foreign financing.
1.30        Maharashtra.  The Government of Maharashtra had identified almost
602 of its villages as problem villages under the last two five year plans.
Under the Seventh Five Year Plan, targets were set to cover about 20,000
villages or about 85Z of those identified as problem villages. During the
mid-1980s, the state experienced three successive years of drought. This
resulted in increased expenditures for rural water supply under the Seventh
Five Year Plan. The original outlay was expected to be about Rs.3.6 billion,
but actual expenditures were Rs.6.6 billion. During the drought period, a
number of temporary piped water supply schemes were constructed which need to
be replaced with permanent systems. In addition, the sources for some schemes
failed and, thus, needed to be relocated. The state made only minimal
attempts to promote latrine usage in rural areas during the Seventh Plan.
1.31        The rural water supply and environmental sanitation policies and
strategies in th. Maharashtra draft Eighth Five Year Plan largely follow those
of the central government. Priority will be given to villages which have not
been previously provided with adequate safe water sources. The Government of
Maharashtra has changed the criteria for distance from source, however, from
1.6 km to 0.5 km (paragraph 1.05). Recognizing the growing demand for house
connections in rural areas, piped water supply schemes would be designed to
allow for service levels up to 70 lpcd.   The state's program for
environmental sanitation and related health education would focus largely on
the ten districts covered under the project and 3 districts covered under a
similar project being financed by ODA (paragraph 1.32). The proposed
allocation for rural water supply in Maharashtra's draft Eighth Five Year Plan
is expected to be about Rs. 9 billion, including the contribution from the
central government. The Bank-financed project would represent about 202 of
the state's overall investment program in rural water supply. It is estimated
that the Bank-financed project would cover about 602 of the rural water supply



- 9 -
investment program in the ten districts which are included in the project
during the Eighth Five Year Plan.
F. External Financing of Rural Water Supply & Environmental Sanitation
1.32        UNICEF, DANIDA, the Netherlands, UNDP, SIDA, ODA, KFW and EEC are
all donors which have assisted the development of rural water supply in India.
UNICEF has been the most influential through its assistance for the
development of the India Mark II hand pump and its maintenance system, and a
tubewell drilling program. Further research and development of the India Mark
II has resulted in an improved model, the India Mark III, which has been
developed by UNDP/World Bank Water Decade Program together with UNICEF. The
amount of financing made available by these donors, however, has been fairly
small in terms of the overall investment program in the country. In recent
years, there has been a growing emphasis on linking rural water supply,
sanitation and health education programs in India, particularly in the
development assistance programs of DANIDA and the Netherlands. Their
pioneering efforts in promoting this linkage strategy has influenced both
central and state government policies. ODA has recently approved a rural
water supply and environmental sanitation project in three districts in
Maharashtra. DRDIGOM is coordinating the preparation and implementation of
the two projects which are in separate districts but which have similar
objectives and will be utilizing some of the same institutions. All of these
donors remain active in the sector and the Bank is working with them to share
experiences in developing this linkage strategy on a larger scale.
1.33        While it is too soon to fully evaluate the impact of the projects
which the DANIDA and the Netherlands are assisting, the lessons learned from
their implementation would be incorporated into the proposed Bank-financed
project. These lessons include: a) the necessity of bri.nging social
scientists together with engineers to strengthen the community participation
and poverty objectives; b) the importance of adequate mapping of social groups
in the design of water supply schemes; c) the need for close liaison with
local government leaders; and d) the need for close involvement of NGOs in
project planning and implementation.
G. Previous Bank Experience
1.34        The Bank has not had any previous experience in India in
implementing a project which combines rural water supply, health education and
environmental sanitation in one investment package; nor has it financed any
free standing rural water supply projects in India. The Bank has financed
seven projects with rural water supply components. Six of these were water
supply and sewerage projects in six individual states: Maharashtra,
Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. The seventh project
was the Second Haryana Irrigation Project. Two agriculture projects which
have recently been approved contain rural water supply components: Tamil Nadu
Agriculture Development and Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Rehabilitation. Of the
seven projects, the Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh projects have



- 10 -
been completed and Project Performance Audit Reports have been prepared.2/
In these seven projects, the Bank financed different types of technologies
including traditional wells, hand pumps, and piped schemes.
1.35        In the Kerala and Gujarat Projects, the Bank has financed a small
component for rural low cost sanitation. In the Gujarat Project, the low cost
sanitation component has recently been given to NGOs for implementation. The
NGOs are combining health education and motivation campaigns with the
promotion of low cost sanitation. This program is relatively new but early
indications are that it has exceeded its targets for installing latrines in
rural areas.
1.36        For all three projects in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar
Pradesh, the Bank was working with newly established agencies. In the
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh projects, major institutional changes were
included as part of the design. In both cases, it was found that the
institutional objectives were overly ambitious and, thus, were not achieved.
Financial objectives for urban and rural areas were also not met. Local
authorities were unwilling to collect water charges and, thus, O&M suffered.
The Rajasthan project underwent a major restructuring due to a serious
drought; resources were shifted from urban to rural areas. Physical targets
were achieved in both projects. Both projects required an extension of the
closing date. Implementation delays were due to administrative problems in
both projects and to restructuring of the Rajasthan project. Lack of
counterpart funding was also a problem in the Rajasthan project.
1.37        For the Maharashtra project, price inflation, design modifications
and initial implementation delays resulted in substantial cost overruns. The
project required a one year extension of the closing date but was fully
disbursed one year after the original closing date. The project had
difficulties with inadequate preparation and land acquisition which resulted
in implementation delays and cost overruns. Institutional strengthening was
not a problem in the Maharashtra project; the Audit report referred to MWSSB
as a strong and competent agency. Its overall financial performance was also
satisfactory, although problems occurred with the benefiting municipalities
which failed to increase tariffs.
1.38        The main lessons learned from these projects are:  (a) adequate
project preparation before appraisal, including detailed engineering designs,
is essential; (b) financial and institutional strengthening targets need to be
more reAlistic; (c) the number of contracts should be reduced to simplify the
procurr art process; (d) to achieve improvements in construction quality,
contrar   s should be prequalified and construction supervision should be
monitored (e) adequate funds for O&M must be provided; (f) NGOs can play an
21 Maharashtra Water Supply & Sewerage Project, PPAR Report No. 7202, March
1988; Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage Project, PPAR Report No. 8090,
September 1989; and Uttar Pradesh Water Supply & Sewerage Project, PPAR
Report. No. 6242, Jvr 1986.



- 11 -
important role in promoting low cost sanitation and hygiene education; and (g)
adequate counterpart funding is imperative. The lessons learned from these
projects have been incorporated into the proposed project.
H. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.39        IDA support for the proposed project would assist Maharashtra in
giving higher priority to environmental sanitation and promoting increased
investment in rural water supply, environmental sanitation facilities and
related health communications programs. IDA involvement is likely to
strengthen the state government's emphasis on cost recovery for O&H and
community participation. It would encourage more NGO involvement in the
sector through their involvement in project planning and implementation.
Improved engineering design standards would result in better distribution of
water to meet the communities' needs.
1.40        The project would improve the health and productivity of the rural
poor in Maharashtra. Women, in particular, would benefit from the project
through improved access to domestic water supply sources. This, in turn,
would give them more time to participate in economically productive
activities. It would im at providing replicable models for investments in
combined rural water supply, health communications and environmental
sanitation programs elsewhere. Although other donors are involved in the
sector, the scale of their financial investment is small. IDA involvement
would provide additional support to strengthen appropriate policies,
strategies, design standards and institutions at the state level.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origins
2.01        The DRDIGOI prepared guidelines for the Eighth Five-Year Plan in
1988 which placed much greater emphasis than previous plans on linking rural
water supply, health education and environmental sanitation. During this same
period, the IDA prepared a strategy paper for the sector. Essentially, the
strategy comprised five main elements. These were: (a) improved cost
recovery performance for rural water supply and strengthening of the
institutional capacity to carry out O&M; (b) strengthening of the resource
mobilization capacity of local government; (c) improvements in the
coordination among government agencies to achieve an integration of water
supply and environmental sanitation programs; (d) strengthening of community
participation; and (e) promoting private sector involvement in the sector.
2.02        The state of Maharashtra was selected for this project because:
(a) it has serious water supply problems in rural areas; (b) the state
government has given priority to developing environmental sanitation and
health communications strategies; (c) it has a strong local government and NGO
base for developing successful community participation approaches; and (d) the
state government is willing to enforce its cost recovery policies. An



- 12 -
identification mission visited Maharashtra in r'srch 1989. There were three
preparation missions and the project was appraised in October-November 1990.
Negotiations were carried out in February/March 1991.
B. Area To Be Served
2.03        Geology, Hydrology and Water Resources.  More than 901 of the
total area of Maharashtra consists of hard rock formations. The remaining
areas consist of sedimentary rocks and of unconsolidated alluvium, the latter
along the Purna and Tapi valleys. Rainfall in the state is of uneven
distribution and is erratic in frequency. The western areas have a very heavy
rainfall ranging from 5000 to 7000 mm. A rain shadow area follows in the
central region where rainfall ranges betwveen 400 to 700 mm. This area is
chronically drought prone. Moderate rainfall of 750 to 1000 mm is available
in the eastern parts of the state.
2.04        Most of the project area lies within the low rainfall and hard
rock zones of the state. Groundwater availability in these areas is limited
by both the low rainfall and the low porosity of the hard rock formations
which are also regularly dissected by impermeable dikes and traps, thus
preventing the movement of groundwater. Where groundwater sources have been
developed, there has been widespread mining whereby extraction exceeds the
natural aquifer recharge. As a result, many wells have gone dry. Recently,
the Government of Maharashtra has been enforcing more strictly regulations
which require permits for the construction of new wells.
2.05        Although relatively small quantities of water are required for
domestic rural water supply, drought and soil conditions do not allow the use
of groundwater in most of the water supply schemes included in this project.
Therefore, surface water, mainly from irrigation schemes, will be used for
regional water supply schemes servicing a large number of villages.
2.06        Population.  The current population of Maharashtra is about 75
million. About 60Z of the total population live in rural areas. Within the
rural population, about 20? are scheduled castes and tribes, which are
generally among the poorest groups in society. The rural population in the
project area is about 17.5 million, of which 17? are scheduled castes and
tribes. About 40? of the rural population in the project area are below the
poverty line. The average size of population in the villages included in the
project area is about 1,500. A number of villages, however, are rural growth
centers with populations above 10,000.
2.07        Ten Districts.  Ten districts were selected to be included in the
proposed project, although other districts may be added if mutually agreed
between the Association and the Government. They were selected on the basis
of government criteria which indicated their acute drinking water problems
(paragraph 2.09). Eight of the districts have been declared drought prone by
the state government: Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Beed, Buldhana, Latur, Pune,
Sangli and Satara. Two are designated as tribal districts, Chandrapur and
Thane, in which the scheduled caste and tribal population is 30-40Z. These



- 13 -
districts are affected by the poor quality of groundwater due to salinity,
excessive fluorides and other problems. The main water-related diseases in
these ten districts are cholera, gastroenteritis, hepatitis, typhoid, malaria,
dysentery, guinea worm, scabies and common diarrhea. There are a total of
13,191 villages (1981 census) in the ten districts, of which 142 have a
population above 2,000.
C. Objectives
2.08        The main objectives of the project are to raise the standard of
living in rural areas through improved health and productivity, by expanding
access to potable rural water supply systems and environmental sanitation
facilities. The project would also develop replicable models for coordinating
water, environmental sanitation and health communications programs elsewhere
and strengthen the institutional capacity to promote improved environmental
sanitation. The improvement of health and productivity would be achieved
through the following measures:
(a)   more equitable distribution of safe water through improved design
standards, taking into account residential patterns, and community
involvement, particularly of the rural poor, in the identification
of schemes and the siting of stand posts and hand pumps;
(b)   improved reliability of water supply and drainage schemes through
an upgrading of skills of the community and government officials
at the local level, clarification of responsibilities for O&H,
improved cost recovery for O&H to provide adequate funding and
increased involvement of the community in maintenance;
(c)   increased public and private investment in environmental
sanitation through programs to increase latrine usage, the
provision of small scale drains and improved solid waste
management; and
(d) greater community awareness of the causes of water-related health
problems and the need for a cleaner environment through a health
communications program targeted mainly toward women, adolescents,
and children.
D. Selection Criteria, Service Standards and Population Coverage
2.09        For the rural water supply component, the selection of villages to
be included in the project would be on the basis of criteria established by
Government of Maharashtra for identifying those with the most serious water
supply problems. The Government of Maharashtra criteria for identifying
priority villages include a maximum distance of house to water source of 0.5
km, depth of water source exceeding 15 meters, groundwater contaminates such
as excessive salinity, iron, fluoride and other toxic elements and villages
with endemic diseases such as cholera and guinea worm. Piped schemes are
selected for areas where hand pumps are not feasible. Conditions where piped



- 14 -
schemes are required includes (a) where hand pumps have failed permanently or
for several months during the dry season; (b) where groundwater is polluted or
the yield from hand pumps is poor; (c) where population growth has resulted in
piped schemes being the least cost solution. The Zilla Parishads (district
governments) are also involved in the selection process in terms of
identifying their priority villages within the government criteria.
2.10        The rural water supply schemes selected for inclusion in the
project are based on agreed design criteria which are shown in Annex 1. These
criteria include the protection of electrical equipment against power
fluctuations by special devices; the schemes are also designed to cope with
limited power supply times. These criteria would be applied by the MWSSB
which has primary responsibility for the design of the piped water supply
schemes. The Association has appraised in detail eighteen large and forty-
five small rural water supply schemes in the ten districts. These schemes
represent the first two years of the investment program for which detailed
designs have been prepared. These schemes would serve as prototypes for the
project. The agreed criteria will also be used for designing the remaining
rural water supply schemes to be financed under the project. During
negotiations, an agreement was reached that water supply schemes to be carried
out under the project would be designed in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Association. Consultants have already begun preparation
of the designs for the remaining schemes. These designs would be completed
during the first year of the project. The Association would review the
detailed engineering designs of all the remaining regional schemes and a
sample of the small piped water supply schemes to review their suitability for
inclusion in the project.
2.11        The rural water supply component is expected to cover 1,100
villages, of which about 660 villages or 602 would be covered by piped schemes
and the remainder by hand pumps. Hand pumps will be provided on the basis of
one for every 150 population. The total population covered by hand pumps is
estimated at 450,000. For the piped water supply schemeb. present and
projected population, water supply service standards, and projected water
demand for the various rural water supply schemes for the first two years are
contained in Annex 1. The total population served is estimated at 655,000.
Population projections have been made in accordance with population growth
rates in the past years. At present about 90Z of the population covered
during the first two years are using water sources which may be polluted, dry
up during the dry season, or may not be situated within a convenient distance.
With the project, almost the entire population covered by piped schemes will
have access to safe water supply, either through public stand post (an average
of 65Z) or house connections (an average of 35X). The future water demand is
based on a projected consumption of 40 lpcd for public stand posts and 70 lpcd
for house connections.



- 15 -
2.12        The environmental sanitation component would be implemented in
about 2,100 villages covering a total population of about 4.6 million. These
villages would be selected on the basis of their having access to piped water
supply schemes and would have populations above 1,000. This would include the
villages covered under the rural water supply component as well as other
villages in the district which have piped water supply. Adequate water supply
is required to promote latrine usage; the additional water provided through
piped schemes often results in related environmental sanitation problems such
as inadequate drainage. The health communications component would be
implemented initially in the same villages as those selected fir the
environmental sanitation program. Following a mid-term evaluation, the
program may be extended to the remaining 20 districts in the state. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that Maharashtra would furnish to the
Association for review by December 31 of each y3ar, beginning December 31,
1991, an annual action program for the following year for investments in rural
water supply, environmental sanitation, health education, training and
technical assistance under the project, and the status of land acquisition
required for these investments.
2.13        The lessons learned from ongoing Bank-financed projects (paragraph
1.38) have been incorporated into the proposed project as follows:
Lessons Learned                      Proposed Project
adequate preparation                 detailed engineering designs were
completed for the first two years of
construction as part of preparation
realistic financial targets          encouraging private connections and
setting tariffs to cover O&H
simplified procurement               large packages of civil works
contracts
improved construction quality        prequalification of contractors and
construction supervision monitoring
role for NGOs                        involvement of NGOs in the planning
and implementation of the
environmental sanitation and health
education components
E. Description of Components
2.14        Rural Water Supply (Base Costs US$86.1 million).  The rural water
supply component is the largest in terms of investment costs, and would be
about 702 of the total project costs. The component is expected to include a
total of about 75 regional piped water supply schemes and about 170 small
individual schemes. During the first two years of implementation,



- 16 -
construction would begin on 18 regional piped schemes covering 225 villages
and 45 individual piped schemes. The component would also include a progream
to install 3,000 India Mark III hand pumps (see paragraph 1.32). The hand
pump program would include drilling, installation of 1,700 new pumps,
rejuvenation of existing wells through hydrofracturing and the replacement of
1,300 India Mark II hand pumps which are beyond repair.
2.15        A pilot scheme would be undertaken in eight drought prone villages
to develop groundwater using unconventional methods such as rainwater
harvesting, artificial recharge and conservation. A leak detection survey and
leak repair works would be undertaken as part of this component for existing
systems. In &,ddition to civil works contracts, items to be financed would
include drilling rigs and hydrofracturing equipment, geophysical survey
instruments, hand pumps and other miscellaneous equipment, and incremental
staff salaries. Consultants would be employed to undertake the leak detection
survey and to prepare detailed engineering designs for the remaining piped
water supply schemes.
2.16        The piped schemes range in size from one village serving a design
population of 1,000-2,000 to large, regional schemes covering up to 24
villages and serving a design population of over 85,000. Water sources for
thesa schemes are from percolation wells, minor irrigation dams, river
intakes, Bombay and Pune Municipal Corporation water mains, and municipal
reservoirs. Water abstraction permits for surface water schemes have been
received for schemes being constructed during the first -;wo years of the
project.   Problems are not expected for the remaining schemes because the
Government of Maharashtra has a policy of giving priority to the supply of
drinking water over irrigation needs. Permits for the abstraction of water
from the Bombay and Pune Municipal Corporations raw water mains are available.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that Maharashtra would ensure that
all the water extraction permits itn respect of surface water supply schemes to
be constructed under the project are issued by its Department of Irrigabion in
a timely manner.
2.17        There are about 14 existing irrigation dams which will be used for
water abstraction for the water supply schemes during the first two years of
construction. These dams are regularly (pre- and post-monsoon) inspected by
the Maharashtra Dam Inspection and Safety Service. Inspection procedures and
items to be inspected are laid down in regulations which are satisfactory to
the Association. The MWSSB has received an inspection certificate which
confirms that the 14 dams are inspected twice a year and that the dams are
structurally sound and safe. Dam safety is not expected to be an
environmental issue. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
Maharashtra would ensure regular inspection and evaluation of the dams in
accordance with sound engineering practices.
2.18        Environmental Sanitation (Base Costs US$9.3 million).  Because of
the low levels of existing environmental sanitation facilities, the low demand
relative to water supply and the low unit cost, this component would be small
in terms of investment costs. Combined with the health communicazions
component, it would have the objective of developing new strategies to



- 17 -
increase demand and usage, and to implement those strategies through
innovative programs in a flexible manner to allow the implementing agencies to
adjust the program on the basis of lessons learned during implementation. The
broad parameters and institutional responsibility for the strategies have been
agreed with GOM. The strategies would set out action plans for the project
implementation period. This component would include small scale surface
drains for sullage, soak pits, individual latrines and street bins.
2.19         With the construction of piped water supply schemes, the disposal
of waste water will become an increasing problem in the villages covered undir
the water supply component. The majority of villages in Maharashtra do not
have public drainage systems. In places where drainage systems have been
constructed, adequate maintenance is not carried out. In many villages, an
acceptable alternative to sullage drains is the construction of soak pits by
private households. Soak pits have been used, however, only on a limited
scale. To address the waste water problems in this project, the DRDIGOM has
undertaken measures to promote the use of soak pits in villages covered by
piped water supply. Households wishing to take private connections will be
required to construct soak pits at their own expense. The promotion of soak
pits and ensuring community involvement in their maintenance would be
undertaken as part of the health communications program of the DOPH.
2.20        The construction of surface drains to carry sullage will be
undertaken in all villages with design populations over 10,000 and in selected
villages with populations over 5,000 in which the soil conditions or
population congestion preclude the use of soak pits. The drainage systems
would include main line drains, branch lines in by-lanes, cross drains and
disposal pits. The drainage systems would be financed on a cost sharing basis
between the state (50Z) and the Zilla Parishads (502). The participating
villages would be required by GOM to pass a resolution indicating their
willingness to provide the contribution to capital costs and assume full
financial and administrative responsibility for maintenance (Annex 10).
2.21        Although the twin pit, pour flush latrine has been in wide spread
use in India for some time, the GOM has not previously undertaken a
si&A1ficant program to promote its use in rural area. In most parts of the
state, this low cost model is virtually unknown. The only option for a rural
household wishing to install a latrine is a much more expensive septic tank
model. Thus, the main objectives of this subcomponent is to ensure that the
market mechanism is in place in all ten districts for individuals to purchase
a low cost latrine and to ensure that sufficient masonuv are trained to provide
quality control over construction. The subcomponent v-ould in3tall on a demand
basis low cost latrines iA villages with piped water supply schlemes. First
priority would go to villages with populations above 1,000 which are receiving
piped water supply schemes under the project. Second priority would go to
other villages in the districts with populations over 1,000 wh-4ch have
existing piped water supply schemes.
2.22        Because of the low demand for latrines in Maharashtra (paragraph
1.13), there is a need to motivate households to adopt the use of low cost
models. This motivation would be provided through a health communications



- 18 -
campaign and through subsidies provided by GOM and the Zilla Parishads
(Annex 1). The latrines would be constructed by force account with the owners
contributing through labor, cash or in kind. The GOM and Zilla Parishads
would provide a subsidy which would be administered by the Zilla Parishad.
2.23        Refuse bins for solid waste removal would be provided as an
incentive program to the large villages in which drainage schemes have been
constructed and where 50Z of the households have adopted low cost latrines.
The bins would be provided by the state government with a 10? contribution
toward the cost from the Zilla Parishad. Pilot schemes would also be
undertaken as part of this component to try out innovative solutions to
promoting environmental sanitation including demonstrations of new or modified
technologies. Incentive schemes would be introduced to reward villages,
blocks or districts which maintain a clean environment and which maintain
their water supply systems. The project would finance the development and
implementation of an environmental sanitation strategy. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that Maharashtra would prepare and furnish to the
Association, no later than May 31, 1992, a report on its strategy on
environmental sanitation to be carried out under the Project, and implement
such elements of this strategy as would be agreed upon between Haharashtra and
the Association. The strategy and pilot schemes would also be reviewed as
part of the annual action plan.
2.24        Because this is a new program for the state government, the first
year would consist of the development of strategies for promoting demand,
delivery, and maintenance of drainage systems and latrines. The promotion of
latrine use would be through a demand-based strategy with the private sector
having a key role in the manufacturing and delivery of low cost sanitation.
NGOs would also have a major role in promoting latrine usage, implementation
of the incentive schemes, and in organizing village water and sanitation
committees. Strategies would also be required for ensuring the maintenance of
drainage systems and soak pits. Consultants will be employed to assist the
implementing agencies in developing the strategies and preparing an action
plan for implenting the strategies through innovative programs. A joint GOM-
NGO Task Force has also been established to identify the role of NGOs in this
component and to implement the NGO program throughout the project
implementation period.
2.25        Health Communications Program (Base Cost US$5.2 million).
Although this component is the smallest in terms of investment costs, it
constitutes one of the most important activities required to meet the project
objective of improving health conditions. Sanitation-related information
campaigns in rural areas in the past have been largely unsuccessful.
Although the sanitation messages are simple and basic, for populations with
low levels of literacy and education, they can be considered offensive or even
incomprehensible, if the messages are framed in scientific terms. Thus, the
delivery and effectiveness of the message is often hampered by the negative
perceptions of those targeted for behavioral change.
2.26        This component has four main objectives.  Its first objective is
to create greater community awareness and demand in the following areas:



- 19 -
(a) personal and family hygiene; (b) promotion of latrine usage; (c) consumer
awareness of the requirements and importance of O&H of water supply schemes;
and (d) community awareness of their responsibility for and the importance of
the maintenance of drains and soak pits.
2.27        To achieve this objective, this component has a second and third
objective related to the responsibilities and orientation of the DOPH staff in
the ten districts. The DOPH has identified three field level staff who will
play a key role during implementation of the project: District Extension and
Media Officer (DEMO), Block Extension Officer, Health (BEOH) and the
Multipurpose Worker (Male) (MPW(M)). The second objective would be to
redefine the job descriptions and responsibilities of these three positions to
give them a greater role in promotinig environmental sanitation and related
health education. The third objective of this component would be to create
greater awareness of water related and environmental sanitation problems among
health personnel through. revised training curriculum.
2.28        The fourth objective is to strengthen the water quality monitoring
system in rural areas. This would include the strengthening of the staff and
facilities of the state, regional and district Public Health Laboratories
(PHL) in all 30 districts in the state. The BEOH and MPW(M) would have
responsibility for monitoring water quality and would assist the PBLs in
collecting samples. They would be przvided with sample kits for that purpose.
The Zilla Parishads would be required to purchase bleaching powder and ensure
that water systems under their control are properly chlorinated.
2.29        As part of project preparation, consultants have completed base
line surveys of individual and community water related and sanitation
practices. Additional consultants would be employed to develop a health
education strategy and prepare prototype messages during the first year of the
project. During negotiations, agreement was reached that Maharashtra would
prepare and furnish to the Association, no later than May 31, 1992, a report
on its strategy on health education programs to be carried out under the
project, and would implement such elements of this strategy as would be agreed
upon between Maharashtra and the Association.
2.30        The component would include investments in the strengthening of
the State Health Education Bureau through provision of a new office building,
equipment, health education materials, audio visual equipment and vehicles,
and strengthening of PHLs through the provision of equipment, materials and
vehicles, the employment of consultants and incremental staff salaries.
2.31        Institutional Strengthening (Base Cost US$5.4 million).  This
component consists of four main subcomponentst (a) project management,
(b) community participation, (c) the strengthening of MWSSB, the Zilla
Parishads, GSDA and DRD/GOM, and (d) training. Project Management includes
the employment of consultants to support the Project Planning and Monitoring
Unit (PPMU) (see paragraph 3.16). These consultants would be employed for
monitoring construction super-ision, the environmental sanitation and health
education components and the training programs. Community participation
involves the hiring of NGOs to undertake implementation of aspects of the



- 20 -
environmental sanitation and health communication components. The
strengthening of MWSSB, Zilla Parishads, GSDA and DRDIGCM would be through the
provision of office buildings, equipment and materials.
2.32        The training component of tL- project would cover personnel from
MWSSB, Zilla Parishad Engineering Wi..s, GSDA, DOPH and DRD/GOM. Non-
governmental personnel trained under the project would include village
mechanics, village masons, dais, mahila mandals and NGOs (see Annex 1). The
detailed planning of the training component would not be completed until
agreement has been reached on the strategies for the environmental sanitation
and health communications components. To ensure that the training component
is carried out in a satisfactory manner, the PPMU would be given
responsibility for assisting in the development of the overall training plan.
The annual training plan for the project would be reviewed as part of the
annual action plan (see paragraph 2.12).
2.33        The training component for MWSSB/Zilla Parishad engineers would
include strengthening the MWSSB training center at Nasik. Mobile training
units would be introduced at the Nasik center to provide training for
operating staff in remote places. Specific orientation and in-service courses
would be provided for executive, deputy and junior engineers. Other courses
would be offered for strengthening OVX of water supply systems and training in
sanitation and social awareness. Training for O&M would include pump
operators, electricians, fitters, and hand pump mechanics. Overseas training
would be provided to senior engineers from MWSSB to give them exposure to
current engineering and management practices in other countries. MWSSB has
also carried out project-related orientation workshops for government
personnel in the ten districts.
2.34        The main ags9ry responsibility for developing the curriculum and
training program for DOPF ivould be the Public Health Institute in Nagpur.  The
pre-service and in-service training of the BEOH, MPW(M) and MPW(F) would be
revised to cover water-reluated subjects and health education. The District
Training Teams in DOPH wouid4 be responsible for intr ducing revised curriculum
into the existing training program of field staff to emphasize water-related
and sanitation subjects.  !n.ject orientation courses would be carried out for
DOPH staff and non-governmeintal persons at the village level. NGOs would be
employed to assist in the tr*iining of the BEOH and MPW(M). Field study visits
both within India and abroa' *ould be included for DOPH and GSDA staff.   Key
staff of the PPMU would be given project management training.



- 21 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs and Financins
3.01        The total cost of the project, including duties and taxes, is
estimated at Rs.3,195.8 million or US$140.7 million equivalent. The total
base cost is estimated at Rs.2,261.2 million or US$127.0 million. The total
project cost, net of duties and taxes, would be US$127.8 million. The
estimated costs by project component are summarized in Tables 3.1. Detailed
costs are presented in Annex 3.
Table 3.1: Proiect Cost Estimates
Z of
--- Rupee (Million) ---      --- US$ (Million) ---    Base
Component                Local   Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign  Total   Costs
WATER SUPPL.Y SCHEMES:
Phase 1 Village WS         25.08     4.59      29.67     1.41   0.26      1.67      1.31
Regional WS      312.81    62.39    375.20    17.57   3.51    21.08    16.59
Phase 2 WS Schemes        773.70   151.11    924.81    43.47   8.49    51.96    40.90
GSDA Works & Equip.        70.77    16.05      86.82     3.98   0.90      4.88      3.84
Leakage Repair Works       20.00     5.00      25.00     1.12   0.28      1.40      1.11
SANITATION PROGRAM         158.65     8.35    167.00      8.91   0.47      9.38      7.39
PROJECT SUPPORTs
Scheme Designs              5.21     0.29       5.50     0.29   0.02      0.31      0.24
Project Management Unit   13.50      0.30      13.80     0.76   0.02      0.78      0.61
PMU Superv. Monitoring      9.50     0.50      10.00     0.53   0.03      0.56      0.44
INSTITUTION BUILDING:
Training & Mat./Equip.    27.03    14.47       41.50     1.52   0.81      2.33      1.84
Comunity Participation    9.00           -      9.00     0.51   0.00      0.51      0.40
MWSSB/ZILLA P/GSDA/RDD    34.70    10.30       45.00      1.95   0.58     2.53      1.99
HEALTH EDUCATION            82.80      9.10     91.90      4.65   0.51     5.16      4.06
OTHER CONSULT. SERVICES:
Leak Detection Survey      10.80      2.80     13.60     0.61   0.16      0.76      0.60
ZP/GSDA/DOPH INCR STAFF    68.50    12.10       &0.60     3.85   0.68      4.53      3.56
MWSSB ENGINEERING COST    210.10    37.10    247.20    11.80   2.08    13.89    10.93
LAND ACQUISITION             4.10         -      4.10      0.23      -     0.23      0.18
RETROACTIVE FINANCING:
Civil Works,Mat/Equip.    63.10    13.20       76.30     3.54   0.74      4.29      3.37
Consultants                13.49      0.71     14.20     0.76   0.04      0.80      0.63
Base Costs                1912.84   348.36   2261.20   107.46  19.57    127.03  100.00
Contingencies              738.85   195.77    934.62      9.35   4.37      1373   11.00
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       2651.69   544.13   3195.82   116.82  23.94    140.76  111.00



- 22 -
3.02        Base Costs and Contingencies.  Base costs are expressed in end
1990 prices. Civil works costs are based on standard lists of works and
materials which are revised annually. Equipment costs are based on detailed
lists and on prices of similar imported or locally available items. Costs of
foreign and local experts were estimated on the basis of recent experience in
India. Consumable material costs are based on GOI estimates and reflect
current prices. Physical contingencies are US$9.o million or 6.42 of total
costs. Price contingencies are US$4.7 million or 3.32 of total costs. These
contingencies are estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule,
expected annual price increases, and expected exchange rates as follows: a)
local inflation rates of 8.4Z in 1990, 7.02 in 1991 and 1992, 6.6Z in 1993,
6.5Z in 1994 and 1995, 6.22 in 1996 and 6.02 in 1997; and b) foreign inflation
rates of 3.62 for 1990 through 1997. Total contingencies represent 9.8Z of
USS base costs, or 29.32 of Rs. base costs. Direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs are estimated at about Rs.544.1 million (U6$23.9 million
equivalent).
3.03        Taxes and Duties.  Identifiable taxes and duties are estimated at
about Rs.291.5 million (US$12.9 million equivalent).
3.04        An IDA Credit of US$109.9 million equivalent would finance 862 of
the estimated total costs of about US$127.8 million, net of taxes and duties.
B. Status of Project Preparation
3.05        The appraisal mission has reviewed detailed engineering designs
for 18 large regional piped water supply schemes end 45 small piped water
supply schemes and found them satisfactory. Draft bid documents have been
approved and bid packaging was agreed during the appraisal mission.
Consultants are preparing the detailed designs for all remaining water supply
schemes. These designs should be completed during the first year of the
project. Consultants have completed a village health and sanitation survey
which has provided basic data for the environmental sanitation and health
comunuications components. Health communications consultants are being
employed to assist in the preparation of the strategy papers for environmental
sanitation and health education and to develop the prototype messages for the
health communications component. Workshops have been held with NGOs to
develop with them a mutually agreed role and a joint GOM-NMO Task Force has
been established to develop and implement a community participation action
plan, including the role of NGOs. Project coordination committees have been
established at the state and district levels with all the relevant government
agencies represented. There are NGOs represented on all of these committees.
3.06        Proiect Management.  The Project Director who heads the PPMU has
been identified and would be appointed along with key staff for Credit
Effectiveness.
3.07        Design and construction.  Detailed engineering designs for the
first two years have been completed for 63 schemes (182 of total base costs)
and the prequalification process has been completed. Consultants have been
employed to begin detailed designs for the remaining water supply schemes.



- 23 -
3.08        Equipment, vehicle and materials.  Lists have been prepared and
were reviewed during appraisal.
3.09        Terms of Reference for Consultants.  Terms of Reference for
consultants to prepare the health communications messages were approved during
appraisal and Terms of Reference for consultants to assist the PPMU were
approved during negotiations.
3.10        Land Acquisition.  Land will be required for head works, water
works, pumping stations and balance and service reservoirs. Since the schemes
are relatively small, only small pieces of land are required in each
particular case. The required land belongs either to the GOM or GOI or is
privately owned. Land belonging to GOM is managed by the Gram Panchayats.
MWSSB has received letters from the Gram Panchayats confirming the land
availability.
3.11        There are 18 regional and 45 village water schemes which will be
constructed during the first two years of the project. These schemes would
require about 350 small sites. For all of these small sites, land acquisition
procedures have advanced to the stage where construction could begin in a
timely manner, with the exception of two schemes.
3.12        In two cases. small pieces of land (about 1.5 ha each) are
required from GOI for the construction of head works and waterworks on forest
land. The application for obtaining a permit is in progress. During
negotiations, an understanding was reached that the clearance from GOI would
be expedited and that construction for these two schemes would not begin until
such clearance had been obtained.  Should there be a delay in receiving GOI
clearance, these two schemes would be replaced by other suitable schemes and,
thus, project implementation would not be adversely affected.
C. Project Management
3.13        Project Organization and Management.  The main responsibility for
ensuring that the project is implemented according to agreed criteria would be
the DRD/GOM, through its role as lead agezicy, and the MWSSB, through its
responsibility for engineering design and construction supervision. Program
coordination would be managed through state and district level, inter-agency
committees. A Project Planning and Monitoring Unit (PPMU) would be
established in DRD/GOM to assist in project implementation. Procurement would
be the responsibility of each implenting agency; the PPMU would have
responsibility for procurement monitoring.
3.14        At the state level, the implementing agencies are the DRD/GOM,
MWSSB, GSDA and the DOPH. The main implementing agency would be the DRD/GOM.
The Secretary, DRD/GOM would chair a Steering Committee with responsibility
for inter-agency coordination. MWSSB would have responsibility for the design
and construction of the piped water supply schemes. The GSDA would have
responsibility for borewell drilling, installation of hand pumps, and
hydrofracturing programs. The DOPH would be responsible for the health
communications program, promotion of improved environmental sanitation



- 24 -
facilities and water quality testing. The GOM is currently reviewing the
organization and responsibilities of MWSSB. During negotiations, an
understanding was reached that the Government of Maharashtra would inform IDA
about any proposed changes in the organizational structure of the MWSSB which
would have a material effect on the implementation of the project.
3.15        The state-level Project Steering Committee would be responsible
for the overall direcrion of the rural water supply and environmental
sanitation programs. It would support inter-departmental coordination and
monitor the quality and progress of the project. The Steering Committee would
have the authority to assemble the representatives of all the implementing
agencies as well as NGOs which have been selected as members of the district
coordination committees.
3.16        A Director would head the PPMU which would be under the Secretary,
DRD/GOM and would be staffed by government officers and consultants. The PPMU
would be established and key staff (Director, Chief Engineer, Training
Officer, Accounts Officer, and Assistant Secretary) appointed for Credit
Effectiveness. During negotiations, agreement was reached that in order to
assist the PPHU in implementation of the project, Maharashtra would employ
consultants for the following activities:
Ci)   evaluation on a regular basis of construction quality and
supervision of water supply schemes and drainage works;
(ii) monitoring of health communications;
(iii) carrying out impact evaluations; and
(iv) support for organization management.
The consultants for the evaluation of construction quality and supervision
monitoring would be appointed no later than October 1, 1991 and the others
would be employed as and when necessary. The main responsibilities of the
PPMU would be to coordinate and monitor the programs of the various
implementing agencies and to act as a secretariat to the Steering Committee.
It would provide, on a daily basis, project planning support, procurement
monitoring, technical guidance to the implementing agencies, and independent
monitoring of project implementation to ensure high technical standards. The
PPMU would also provide support in the strategy development for health
communications and environmental sanitation, community participation, the
involvement of NGOs and training (Annex 1). The PPMU would be assisted by the
Government-NGO Task Force in planning and implementing the NGO program under
the project.
3.17        At the district level, the Zilla Parishad Engineering Wings in
each district would be responsible for construction of a few small piped
schemes and O&M of regional water supply facilities and the construction of
drainage systems. The Gram Panchayats would be responsible for the O&M of
individual village-based water supply schemes, hand pumps and the maintenance
of environmental sanitation facilities. During negotiations, agreement was



- 25 -
reached that Haharashtra would cause the HWSSB to transfer all water supply
schemes constructed under the project to the local Zilla Parishads or the Gram
Panchayats, as the case may be, for operation and maintenance of these
schemes. In each of the ten districts, coordination committees have been
established which would be chaired by the chief executive officer (the senior
administrative officer in the district).   All implementing agencies would be
members of the district coordination committee as well as NGO representatives.
D. NGO Involvement and Community Participation
3.18        NGO Involvement.  Maharashtra has a large and, in many cases,
highly skilled NGO community in the rural areas. A number of NGOs have
specialized in the areas of health education and sanitation. Several NGOs
have also concentrated their activities in the area of rural water supply.
Thus, this state provides a strong base from which to develop a successful
program for NGO involvement in this project.
3.19        The involvement of NGOs in the proposed project is an important
way to ensure community participation and the involvement of women through
women's groups. The PPMU, with assistance from the Government-NGO Task Force,
would have responsibility for organizing and managing the NGO participation,
and for coordinating funding arrangements. NGOs would participate in two
essential ways. There are NGOs which have well established skills in health
education, sanitation and water supply. These groups would be involved
through demonstration models, project monitoring, training of government
workers, village masons and mechanics, and other NGOs, and would carry out
project related research. Other NGOs would participate in terms of service
delivery through the promotion of latrines, organizing village water
committees, carrying out pilot schemes, and implementation of the incentive
schemes (paragraph 2.23).
3.20        A joint GOM-NGO Task Force has been established to develop and
implement a community participation action plan and to define the role of NGOs
in the project. The Task Force would be chaired by DRD/GOM and would have
representatives from DOPH, NGOs, a women's group and UNICEF. During
negotiations, an understanding was reached that the Task Force would have a
continuing role in support to the PPMU and in managing the NGO program. It
would also have a role in determining the selection criteria and funding
arrangements for NGOs which would be acceptable to the Government of
Maharashtra and the Association. The selection criteria and funding
arrangements would be finalized during the preparation of the two strategy
reports (paragraphs 2.23 and 2.29).
3.21        Community ParticiPation.  Specific measures will be introduced
during the project to ensure greater community participation. Procedures will
be introduced to ensure that district, block and village level field staff
from the implementing agencies meet and discuss the facilities to be
constructed with the Zilla Parishads and Gram Panchayats. A written document
(hand-over agreement) will be required from the local authorities which
indicates their acceptance of the facilities and includes an undertaking to
provide the financial requirements for O&M (Annex 10). The district



- 26 -
coordinating committees will be responsible for ensuring that the district
councils are fully informed of project activities and provide an avenue for
monitoring the project's progress. Procedures for handing over facilities to
local government for O&M will be strengthened to ensure the cooperation and
understanding by the local authorities of their commitments and
responsibilities. Water and Sanitation Committees will be formed in every
village receiving piped water supply schemes under the project.
E. Role of Women
3.22        Women have the main responsibility for the management of domestic
water use, family hygiene, and maintenance of a clean household. Because of
their key role in the sector, the health communications strategy will focus on
women as a main target. The PPMU will have responsibility for managing pilot
schemes for NGOs which would focus on women's involvement. The village water
and sanitation committees will include women as members. The GOM has recently
introduced a requirement that women hold 30Z of all seats on the district
councils. New elections are expected to be held within the next year. Some
of the women elected to the district councils may be selected as members of
the district project steering committees, With this representation, there is
a greater likelihood that the interests of women would be met in the project.
F. Disbursements
3.23        There is not a standard disbursement profile for rural water
supply projects in India. The credit will be disbursed over a period of six
and a half years (Annex 4). Although it is expected that the water supply
component would be implemented in five years, an additional year for project
completion is required to allow sufficient time to meet the community
participation objectives of the project. The closing date is December 31,
1997. Disbursement will be made against the following categories of
expenditures: (a) civil works, 90Z; (b) equipment, materials and vehicles,
100? of foreign and local ex-factory expenditures, and 80 of other local
expenditures; (c) consultant services and training, 100?; and (d) incremental
salaries, 85X of expenditures incurred until March 31, 1993, 65? until March
31, 1995 and 50X thereafter.
3.24        Special Account.  In order to accelerate disbursements in respect
of the Association's share of expenditures prefinanced by the GOM, and in
order to allow for direct payment of other eligible local and foreign
expenditures, a Special Account would be opened in the Reserve Bank of India
with an authorized allocation of US$6.0 million equivalent to cover four
months of expected requirements for Association financed items.
3.25        Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for goods,
works and training with a contract value of US$300,000 or more, and all
consultant services will be supported by full documentation; otherwise,
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be used. The PPHU will be responsible



- 27 -
for aggregating the eligible expenditures under each sub-project and preparing
withdrawal applications for submission to the Association. Documentation
supporting SOEs would be maintained by the PPHU and would be made available to
IDA during supervision missions.
3.26          Retroactive Financing up to US$5.1 million equivalent (4.6Z of the
credit) has been included to cover eligible expenditures during the twelve
month period preceding credit signing (but not before April 30, 1990), for
costs incurred in implementing appraised rural water supply schemes and other
eligible expenditures.
G. Procurement
3.27          The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Procurement Profil-
(US Mlillion)
_Procurement Method      TOTL
Procurement Elemonts             ICB    LCB  OTHER   N/A    COST
Land Acquisition                  -      -       -    0.2      0.2
(0.0)   (0.0)
Works:
Water Supply                  78.3    6.7      -     -      65.O
(82.0)  (6.1)                (67.1)
Environmental                   -       8.    6.5    -       9.8
(2.6)  (6.01          (7.6)
Borowell Program                -       -     8.1    -       8.1
(2.4)         (2.4)
Other Componontnp               -      0 8     .1    -       a.9
O_ t  8L  (2.4)    _       .0).
soods                            2.3    8.0    8.2    -       13.6
_                       it~~~~~~~2.3   (7.n8)  (8.0)  (12.6)
Training and Technical
Assistance:
Project Support                 -       -     8.1    -       8.1
(3.1)         (8.1)
institution uIl4iqng             -     -      3.u    -        .u
(3.0)         (8.0)
Engineering Costs                  -     -        -   3.4      8.4
_   (00)   90-2)
Salaries, Incremontal Staff        -     -        -  15.7    16 7
(11.1)  f11.1)
Total                           -0.6     e8  22.0  V19.    140.7
(64.8)  (16.6)  (16.9) (11.1) (109.9)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the crodit.
N/A means nO4 applicable.
Other includes force account work for small works organized with
departmental labor, LIS, shopping and IDA's consultant solection
procedures.



- 28 -
3.28           Works.  The total cost of the civil works under
this project will be about US$101.8 million. All contracts for
works with an estimated cost of US$5.0 million equivalent or
more will be awarded under international competitive bidding
(ICB). Contractors bidding for these contracts will be subject
to prequalification. Other civil works contracts (not
exceeding US$10 million equivalent in aggregate) will be
awarded after local competitive bidding (LCB) under procedures
which are acceptable to the Association. Borewell drilling
(worth about US$3.1 million), several other small components
(worth about US$3.1 million) such as leakage repair and check
dams, and latrine construction (worth about US$6.5 million),
will be carried out by force account. These works are widely
scattered over the life of the project over a large area and
therefore competitive contracting is not efficient. In
addition, in the case of latrines, cash and labor contributions
from the beneficiary households are envisaged, making bulk
contracting impractical. Local contractors are competitive for
all ICB contracts. Domestic contractors bidding under ICB will
have a 7.52 price preference in the evaluation of bids.
3.29           The works for the water supply component, about
US$85.0 million (or 83? of the works) will be packaged in about
three large contracts of similar size to be awarded over the
initial three to four years of project implementation. The
first package comprises the supply and laying of pipes and
would consist of 16 slices, generally along district lines.
Contractors will be allowed to bid for one or several slices
depending upon their qualifications. The contract will be
awarded to the lowest evaluated combination of bids. This
procurement arrangement is being tried for the first time in a
rural water supply project in India where traditionally
numerous small contracts have been awarded to local, often not
well qualified contractors under LCB procedures. For this
reason, during negotiations, an understanding was reached that
a detailed review of the procurement arrangements would be
conducted jointly with the Association after the first contract
bid results are known but before bids for the next package are
invited. Based on the results of that review, the procurement
arrangements will be revised if necessary with a view to
simplifying packaging, slicing and timing and making the
procurement as efficient, expeditious and economical as
possible.
3.30           Goods.  The total value of goods to be procured
under the project would be about US$13.5 million. All
contracts for goods costing US$200,000 or more (about US$2.3
million) will awarded after ICB. Other contacts (not exceeding
US$8 million equivalent in aggregate) will be awarded under LCB
procedures acceptable to the Association, with the exception



- 29 -
of: (a) four specialized testing devices for the public health
laboratories costing about $200,000 for which few suppliers
exist and which, therefore, would be procured under limited
international bidding; and (b) small contracts costing less
than US$50,000 each and not exceeding in aggregate US$3 million
which will be procured following local shopping procedures.
3.31           Training and Technical Assistance.  The project
includes approximately US$6.1 million for project support and
institution building. Approximately US$3.1 million of this
would be used to employ consultants, i.e. designing, management
and construction supervision monitoring. Consultants will be
retained in accordance with Association's Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants.
3.32            All contracts procured under ICB for works, all
contracts for equipment costing more than US$300,000 and all
consulting contracts will be subject to prior review and
approval by the Association. This will allow prior review for
approximately 802 of the procurement under the project. See
Annex 2 for the main schedule of actions for procurement.
Bidding documents, which were drafted in line with the
Association's sample documents, for the first large goods and
works packages, and prequalification documents have already
been reviewed and approval given by the Association. These
documents would be used as models for the remaining goods and
works procured under both ICB and LCB procedures.
3.33           In order to facilitate the implementation of the
project, the Government has proposed to use up to US$5.1
million (4.6X of the credit), for retroactive financing of
expenditures made after April 30, 1990 on generally (1) on-
going works, (2) the first shipments of hand pumps and drilling
rigs, (3) the advance and early payments on the borewells and
major water supply contract and (4) project preparation
consultant contracts (Annex 5). The advanced procurement is
being done in accordance with procedures described above and is
necessary in order not to delay critical activities of project
implementation.
H. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.34           To provide effective monitoring and reporting of
the project, the PPMU will regularly monitor project
expenditures, implementation activities and system performance.
In addition to monitoring the physical and financial progress
of implementation, the PPMU would be required to undertake
periodic impact evaluations usixg such indicators as: a) time
saved by women; b) incidence of water-related diseases,
particularly in children; c) awareness of health education



- 30 -
messages; and d) use of new facilities (Annex 6). In
conjunction with the DRD/GOI, a mid-term review of project
progress would be undertaken at the end of 1993. The mid-term
review would focus primarily on assessing the implementation
progress, construction quality, and the impact of the
innovating aspects of the project which include the
environmental sanitation and health communications components,
the involvement of NGOs and the comnunity participation aspects
of the project. The review would also evaluate the project's
impact on low income beneficiaries and women.
3.35           The monitoring system would include beneficiary
assessments which would be carried out by the PPMU in
conjunction with selected NGOs in the ten districts. These
beneficiary assessments would focus on the impact of the
project on health, community participation and women's
activities, and the effective use and sustainability of the
facilities provided. In addition, the Secretary, DRDIGOH,
would be expected to meet on a quarterly basis with the Chief
Executive Officers and Zilla Parishad Chairmen from all 10
participating districts to review project implementation.
Progress reports on project implementation would be provided to
the Association on a quarterly basis. The project is expected
to have average supervision requirements (Annex 9). A major
supervision mission would be required for the mid-term
evaluation.
i. Accounts and Audits
3.36           During project preparation, systems and
procedures for a project accounting system were designed and
documented. This system will supplement existing statutory
procedures in place at the various implementing agencies. At
each of the implementing agencies, the project system will
entail posting of project transactions to a simple project
ledger, and photocopying of appropriate support documentation
for the transactions. The posting of transactions will be
keyed to contract numbers which will be structured to allow for
its identification by the implementing agency, district or
village, scheme or contractor. The ledger will be posted
manually, and will allow classifying transactions according to
categories such as civil works, materials, equipment, technical
assistance, land and taxes or duties.
3.37           The various implementing agencies will submit
copies of their project ledgers, together with copies of the
transaction support documentation, to the PPHU on a monthly
basis. Each im,ilemeu.ting agency will submit these records to
the PPMU at a different time of the month to allow for an even
work load at the PPMU. The PPMU will retain the support



- 31 -
documentation copies in centralized contract files, and will
post data from the ledger sheet copies to consolidated project
ledgers maintained by the PPMU. The PPMU project ledgers will
be similar to those at the implementing agencies, but will be
computerized. The records system at the PPMU will be simple,
yet flexible enough to provide continuous visibility of project
expenditures, to produce management reports in various formats
and to produce summary sheets and statements of expenditures
for withdrawal applications that will be sent to the Bank. The
system at the PPMU will facilitate the centralized auditing of
project expenditures, in addition to providing clear audit
trails to original transaction data at the various implementing
agencies. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
Maharashtra would maintain, or cause the PPMU to maintain,
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices its operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the project.
3.38           During negotiations, agreement was reached that
GOI and GOM would appoint auditors acceptable to the
Association to annually audit project accounts, statements of
expenditures and the special account. The audit reports would
be in conformity with Association guidelines, and would be
submitted to the Association not later than nine months after
the end of each financial year. The audits will cover all
project expenditures until such time as the credit has been
closed.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSES
4.01           The financial viability of the rural water
supply works under this project should be viewed at the
district level. It is the district administration which will
be responsible for supporting the operation and maintenance of
the schemes commissioned within their jurisdictions. The ten
districts vary in terms of the number, spatial distribution and
population of villages; the accessibility of sources of
drinking water; and the relative prosperity (or poverty) of
individual villages.   The capital costs of the small village
piped water supply schemes range up to about Rs.2.0 million,
while the cost of the large regional schemes are about ten
times as much. Anticipated annual costs for operations and
maintenance also vary with the size of the scheme, amounting to
about 15Z of the capital costs. Hence, a district's prospects
for financially supporting water supply investments depends
largely on the particular mix of schemes it requires. Further,
since a district's water revenues are enhanced mostly from the
number of households that can be charged for house taps, the



- 32 -
financial prospects also depend clearly on the relative
prosperity of the villages within the district.
4.02           The Gram Panchayats have been empowered to levy
water charges, within statutory limits, on households which
have house taps. The Gram Panchayats levy a house tax which
includes the cost of hand pump maintenance. In cases where
villages must be supplied water through regional or other large
schemes requiring extensive conveyance, pumping, storage, or
treatment works, the Zilla Parishad must bear the costs of
operating and maintaining works up to the village boundaries.
The GOM has recognized the importance of ensuring that
districts' set aside sufficient funds to recover these costs.
In 1986, the state issued a government order that required the
Zilla Parishads to create a separate "Fund for Maintenance and
Repairs of Rural Drinking Water Supply Works". Under this
order, the Zilla Parishad must credit to the Fund not less than
202 of its regular income, to be used solely for maintenance of
water supply works.
4.03           The capital costs of rural water supply in
Maharashtra, as in other Indian states, are covered by state
and central government grants. This includes the cost of hand
pumps as well as piped water supply schemes. In addition,
electricity in rural areas is subsidized, primarily to support
the agriculture sector. Although power tariffs in rural areas
are low in Maharashtra, they are much higher than those in many
other states in India. Moreover, the GOM recently increased
the power rates in rural areas by 1002 and is taking steps to
increase them further in the future.
4.04           For O&M costs for piped water supply schemes,
GOM would set village-specific charges based on estimates of
actual costs. Such charges would be set between minimum and
maximum statutory limits. The current limits are being
reviewed with the intention of increasing them to ensure their
adequacy. In the case of regional water supply schemes where
especially high O&H costs could not be fully covered by maximum
statutory charges, sufficient amounts from the Zilla Parishad
general income would be deposited in the Maintenance Fund to
cover O&M costs. Major annual adjustments over the next five
or six years are not likely to be needed to cover operation
cost price inflation. The effects of such price inflation will
tend to be offset by revenue from increased house taps
resulting from forecasted village population increases.
4.05           Thus, during negotiations, agreement was reached
that each Gram Panchayat participating in the project would set
and collect water tariffs, from private house taps and public
stand posts, for village water supply schemes and handpumps at



- 33 -
levels sufficient to cover estimated annual O&H costs
(including appropriate bulk water charges for regional water
supply schemes); and cause each Zilla Parishad participating in
the project to transfer sufficient revenues (including all
those derived from bulk charges) each year to the district
maintenance fund to ensure coverage of annual estimated O&M
costs for those p.rtions of regional water supply schemes for
which they are responsible.
4.06           The provision of government grants to cover
capital costs and portions of the O&M costs for regional
schemes can be justified given that the supply of potable water
is essential to public health; that the capital costs aze often
relatively high given the small size of villages served; that
there is little or no industry in rural areas for cross-
subsidizing; and that poverty is widespread in rural areas.
Financial analyses (Annex 8) show that unless water charges to
village households are set substantially higher than what urban
domestic households pay, it would not be feasible to expect
recovery of piped water supply capital costs for rural schemes-
-especially for very expensive regional schemes.
4.07           Environmental Sanitation.  Large but partial
subsidies are provided for village drainage schemes and for
household latrines. For drainage schemes, the state covers 50Z
of the capital costs with grant funds, after the Zilla
Parishads contribute their 5OZ share. For household latrines,
the cost of individual latrines would vary considerably
depending on the model used and the type of superstructure. It
is estimated that about 50-75Z of the cost would be borne by
the GOM and the Zilla Parishads. Because of the low demand for
latrines and removal of waste water in rural areas, and the
important health benefits which these interventions would
bring, these subsidies are justified.
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
A.  Economic Analysis                     +
-.01           Health benefits would be central in the proposed
project since a primary objective of the project is to reduce
the incidence of water-related diseases. Any attempt to select
and quantify meaningful benefits would likely be only
approximate and incomplete. Moreover, the methodology would be
open to challenge. Similarly, u6ing women's time as a means of
measuring economic benefits would represent only a small share
of the actual benefits expected. The calculation of women's
time would be equally incomplete and the methodology inexact.



- 34 -
Water tariffs are often used as a proxy for benefits in rural
water supply projects. While this approach has merit, it does
not reflect any of the true benefits which are health related
or social in nature. Thus, an economic rate of return has not
been calculated for this project. In cases where attempts have
been made to calculate women's time in other Asian countries,
it has been found that the economic rate of return has been
about 152. Had the health benefits been quantifiable for these
projects, the economic rate of return would have been much
higher. A small, impact evaluation of health benefits in
Bangladesh, covering a population of about 5,000, indicated
that the combined inputs of water, sanitation and health
education reduced the prevalence of diarrhea in small children
by half and ascaris infection by more than one third.31
B. Environmental Assessment
5.02           The project would have a positive impact on the
environment (Annex 8). The provision of safe and reliable
water supply and improved environmental sanitation facilities
and related health education are expected to have a positive
environmental impact on the lives of people in the rural areas
of these districts. The project would have a beneficial impact
by promoting community awareness of the importance of a clean
environment. It would promote the controlled disposal of human
and other waste, thereby reducing bacterial contamination of
the ervironment. The project would strengthen the state's
capacity to monitor water quality for bacterial, mineral and
chemical contamination. For one regional scheme, it was found
that the groundwater in the village had been polluted by a
government-owned distillery. During negotiations, an
understanding was reached that construction of the scheme would
not begin until appropriate approval for an effluent control
implementation program had been given by the Government of
Maharashtra. In providing water supply and environmental
sanitation schemes to tribal communities in two districts, the
project would have a positive impact on tribal well-being. The
base line surveys have been carried out in tribal areas to
ensure that the environmental sanitation and health education
strategies take into account their specific needs. The project
is not expected to have any adverse impact on the environment.
3/ Water Suppl, Sanitation and Hygiene Education, Report of a Health Impact
Study in Mlirzapur, Bangladesh, K.M.A. Aziz, et al, UNDP-'World Bank Water and
Sanitation Program, 1990



- 35 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01           In addition to the environmental benefits noted
above, the project is expected to benefit about 1,100 villages
or about 1.1 million persons who would be covered by all three
components.   However, through the implementation of the
environmental sanitation and health education components which
will cover villages with piped water supply systems other than
those included in the rural water supply component, the project
could benefit an additional 1,100 villages with an estimated
population of about 3.5 million persons. About 40? of the
population served would be below the poverty line. The main
benefit would be the reduction in the incidence of water-
related diseases which would lead to reduced morbidity and
mortality, and more water available for day-to-day domestic
use. The project would also result in time saved by women in
collecting water. The project would improve the lives of the
rural poor and give communities more responsibility for
services provided.
B. Risks
6.02           One of the main risks to this project is that
the environmental sanitation and health communications
components may be given low priority in implementation and,
thus, will not have their full impact. This risk will be
minimized by the agreement reached with GOM over the final
strategies to be implemented, the involvement of NGOs during
project implementation, and the monitoring role of the PPMU.
Another risk is the lack of experience in working with NGOs.
This risk has been reduced by the establishment of the
Government-NGO Task Force. The sustainability of investments
in rural water supply would be at risk if there were inadequate
institutional and funding arrangements for O&M. This risk
would be minimized through measures to: a) upgrade local skill
levels through training; b) strengthen administrative
arrangements by which communities assume responsibility for
O&M; c) maximize revenues through design improvements which
provide for house connections and reduce O&M costs; and d)
clearly identify subsidies required in the poorest areas.



- 36 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01           As a condition for effectiveness, the GOM would
be required to establish the PPMU and appoint key staff
(paragraph 3.16).
7.02           During negotiations, agreements were reached on
the following:
(a)   GOM would ensure that water supply schemes to be
financed under the project will be designed according
to criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.10);
(b)   GOM would prepare and furnish to the Association for
review by December 31 of each calendar year,
commencing on December 31, 1991, an annual action
program for the following year for investments in
rural water supply, environmental sanitation, health
education, training and technical assistance, and the
status of land acquisition (2.12);
Sc)   GOM would ensure that the Department of Irrigation
would make available abstraction permits for all
remaining water supply schemes which draw water from
irrigation sources or rivers (2.16);
(d)   GOM would ensure regular inspection and evaluation of
dams in accordance with sound engineering practice
(2.17);
Ce)   GOM would prepare and furnish to the Association no
later than May 31, 1992, a report on the government's
environmental sanitation (latrines and drainage)
strategy which would subsequently be agreed and
implemented (2.23);
(f)   00  would prepare and furnish to tee Association no
later than May 31, 1992, a report on the government's
health education strategy which would subsequently be
agreed and implemented (2.29);
(g)   to assist the PPMU in implementing the project, GOM
would employ consultants for the evaluation of
construction quality and supervision, monitoring
health communications, carrying out impact evaluations
and supporting organization management (3.16);
(h)   GOM would ensure that all water supply schemes are
transferred to the Zilla Parishads or Gram Panchayats



- 37 -
and that the Zilla Parishads and Gram Panchayats have
responsibility for O&M (3.17);
(i)   GOM would maintain records and accounts in accordance
with sound accounting practices (3.37);
(j)   GOI and 0OM would appoint independent auditors
satisfactory to the Association to submit audit
reports, in conformity with Association guidelines,
for project accounts, statements of expenditure and
the special account, for each financial year, to be
supplied to the Association no later than nine months
after the close of each year (3.38);
(k)   GOM would cause each Gram Panchayat to set and collect
water tariffs at levels sufficient to cover O&M costs
(including bulk charges for regional schemes (4.05);
(1)   GOM would cause the Zilla Parishads to transfer
sufficient revenues to the district maintenance fund
to ensure coverage of annual O&M costs for regional
water supply schemes (4.05).
7.03           Subject to the above conditions and assurances,
the proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of SDR 76.4 million to India at standard IDA terms with
35 years maturity.



38-                                                          ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Component 1: Rural Water Supply
Population, Water Demand, Service Levels for Phase 1
DISTRICTISCHEIIE        NO. OF       PPUATION         SERVICE STANDAS IN1  OF W PO ATIN            IATER WEMII  2004          HATER         WATER 91ICE
VILLAGES     1990   200         19W                2004                        (CIIIDAVI              WMA         - -
---  - - -     --   _         AT NIKCE WCE  MATE
(in 10001    PROTECTED NROTECTE  S.P  N.C  H.P e          MEST. INSTI 1T1I   TOTAL    (CIIWI)  TYPE           DUALITY
U. N.R.                                            COHN.
:l*:s 2:z.z:.35,ua-ssssasaaminUaaa*n                             ___    _   ___                         ___ D _       __  
VILLAGE MATER SUPPLY SCHENES
LATUR/ 11 VILlAGES           11      10.7  13.4        3    9  B           Is   32                7U3                  743           1    a       WEINS
SATARA/ 4 VILLAGES           &        5.0    7.2               100         41   39                373                  373         442   a        WPE
ANIIEONASARI 10 VILLA6ES    10      19.7  27.0                100          49  31                1334                 1334        1532    ON      WEMII
PUNEI 6 VILLAGES             6       7.3  10.9        10  42   4           92   19                49                   495         579   so       NPEIS
SEED/ 10 VILLASES           10       9.7  13.7        4         4          43  37                 4S                   H99         909   UN       WE
AURANGAADI I VILLAGE         t       0.7    1.1       -    -  100          10    0                 42                   42          49   so       WE
SANILII I VILLAGE            I      1.10   1.40       -    -  100           0 O                    60                   60          7e0  ON       Ns
TOTAL FOR VILLAGE SCHElE    45        53     77       3   6  *0            70  30                3764                 3766        4367   61
AVERAGE CONSUIPTION PER CAPITA (year 2006,vilage water schemes)                                                         4  lIcdl
REGIONAL VATER SUPPLY SCHENES
LATURI AUSA                 20      25.9  39.0         5  20  75           69  32               I,9                  1,"6        2,450   DM       Ns
SATARAI KHATNAL             12      11.2  15.0         5   10  55          41  39                 776                  776         960   Ull   1V
AHNEONAGARICHNANANAPJURI     3       6.0   12.2       -   25  75           50  50                 696                  494         n0o            us
CHITALI           1       4.3    7.1       - 30   70           s5 50 s39                                    399         473    A       NS
PUNEIKARLA                   s       7.3 1L.1         10  2070              5   46                " 51   152           750          29    AN    US
NANJARI                22      20.4  33.5       1o  10  E0            so  50               1,937                1,937       2,110    P1UN II'E
KaTRAJ                  I      16.0  31.1       15   10  75           30  70               1,91      66         1,t63       2,310  Pmc    is
6EEDIPOOS                   20      34.5  52.1       1o  90   -            4    52              2,950                2,950       3,400    DH      Vs
KAIJ-OHARUR            14      55.0  81.3       15  35  50            33  67               5,9      370         6,2"        7,070    gm      Vs
AURANSA9ADISILLOO           12      26.4  40.2         5   95   -          51   4               2,19                 2,19        2,690 "          Ns
SANGLI/NANE-RAJURI          22       45.5  96.5        5  20  75           52   4               4,54                 4,54        5,4S9    a       VS
THAEIAGHAI                   14      9.1   12.0       -    -  100          69   31                603                  403         04   PC        VS
PACHNAPUR             27      14.0   19.9            -  100          79  22                 948                  94        1,124    MC      Us
BDAAPOKHARAN          22      49.1  48.6       10  20  70             0    0              3,659    152         3,51I       4,519    DAM     VS
IULDHANAIIIALKAPUR          22      22.4  29.9         5   20  75          61   39              1,4                  1,49        1,952     A      aS
ANDAPUR              1     13.0  25.9       25  50  25            70   30              1,270    150         1,420       1,722     A      VS
PHAROSA             1       2.2    2.8       5  4    50           4555                   1t0                  140         14    DAN    uS
CHANDRAPUR/ItERI              1      8.3  11.2        10  40  50            30  70                706                  706         U3     WIN  11
TOTAL RE61WAL SEIIES        225       392    579       9   33  59      *       5 55      5 7 Ill                       604
AVERAGE CONSUIIPTIOI PER CAPITA (year 2006,reiqmal sches)                                                               5' (ltid)
222,2*222 8U
S.P. a PUOLIC STANMIPSTS                           6    * GRODIIATER                IPE a 1 PL   EUCTEU I TESTINI AT NELL STILL TO K CARRIED UT)
H.C. ' HOUSE CONNECTIONS                            PIIC * PUIE NIIICIPIL CWON.   VIS      N ITHIN STADR   (AfTEI DISINFECTIIOM
H.P. a HAND PUNPS                                   IIC  * UNA  IUICIPIL CWNI.
0. a OTHER SURICES (INRACE WATER, OPEN IELLS)   R   * RIVER



11033W. KIAILS E  WEE SNit S1ES
lFlEE W" mm MRE 11
ismiciSOm                            ----     Mu TN -         "in,.       ITm  ons         11E              E IElS                    misimlui  simm                     SERVICESI2RIG
us    oi                rpw.sr.  ruc   acm  No PSI. srAngm  -----                       --                               min                   ---- -- -------
-------- ---------            I  XES.    SEYICE ES.          ---       ----------               SI11-  IJSE-
UU*. LEIIII     l CWKIII             lE   CEPSCIT-                                ------          3114(1   1W-1N )som   TOTAL        MnTS   C .
lo)  IN)         Sf2c)   Ilhsts)  Walc  lstCIs)           (Mo.)   () ICES         tol laN)           IN)   (KEl    Nl    1 1:)        IN.1  (10.1
VILLIS  MIER SEPLt  SO     S
LAIUSI I VIILIMS           mm       1"9   13.11       4116       412       A                                           1    394        13.02    0.45           13.47       so    1,020
S11W  11 VYILIES          N        0       3.42       we          12       A                                            6    1"          5."    0.34    0.40      .24       32       511
WIElU I 10 VIUIAES   MIN    3/150  7.07               Sf7       12114      A                    I                       10   70         24.32    1.32    0.e   21.7e        3      1,312
PatIE 4VILLES             mIo     151140  5.13        4114      toll2      A                                             1   245         5.52    0.72      .     4.24       so      404
EfuI 20 VILLAMES          WIN    311u 10.44           SI1l        12       a                                           10    370         9.95    0.3)   ...i   10.23        50      93
_111114SI VILLMiE         U       a        40.4        4.1        12       C                                            1      30        0.37    0.0     0.40    0.31        5        0 
SiaIl I I  UILUE          N               e.U0         5.        12       A                                            1     30         2.4e    0.00    3.0    2.00         3       28
131K  FM VIUM  SCNCES             gIls       0                                                  1                      46  1,114       43.93    3.34    0.04   17.41       292    4,30 44
S    W
IE6W NATO UMV SSIXN ES  
LATN  OM                  m         30   0.39        153.0        14       3        153         1        3    315      19    320        31.5   39.37   14.23   II."        104    2,494           a
511111  I OL              MN        150   3.15        40.0        16       a         4                   2    140      11   4"1         37.44    3.2    4.01   52.29        59    1,310
151111IC11ll1    N                  150   5.14        50.3 s1              A                    1                       2    320        7.52    2.50    1.30   11.32        43    1..20
CNliTI          IA       135   0.03        0.0         12       3        40                                  1    190        4.60    1.03    2.13    7.31        13      710
rF SuEaMI                 m          MI  0.0o         so.0        1        C 1)     ss          1        1   200        5    252        5.11    4.50    1.12   13.33        1?    1,0:1
3111111              PIE     Var.  14.00         9.           4       4         -                                  3    3N        14.55    4.32    0.44   21.31       155    3,350
133T41               PIE       30    3.44                    1        C 2)    144                   1    300       3    700       12.10    3.29    7.44   23.43        34    4, km
EEUIFE                    m         250   4.20       212.5        14       S       213                   1    4o       22    395       U3.9   35.20    9.41       .54      120   5.413
E AI-                m         417  15.0        442.4        It       3       442          1        1  170        14  1,940       33.40  31.32 3U.34  101.54           32   le,9
EIMA3ISILLu               3         250 5I.10         18.0        14       3        1o          1        2    39       it   u          30.12   13.45   14.71   40.00         2    3,940
SIIRICINIEl  a1                     324   9.00       20.0         22       3       250          1        2    200      to  1,125       U.S    45.13   32.90  1u.1          230    3,301
fUIGMI                    MO        260  .20                      14       3        4u                   2    130      24    294       33.01    3.5s            44.57       47      114
PICIW                I        150   0.34                    3        3        1                    1    10       21 V  44        31.40   20.61    3.00  u101          75      971
MIuSIU              I         40   2.0         274.0        14       3       214                   1    I50      13  1,329        2.94   21.42   32.74  117.34      139    ,.43
MIU/UAL     WR            Du1       250   0.45       114.0        I4       3        Ilk         1        3    310      19    462       54.52   34.11   32.53  123.21        80    2.r54
lIMI                       250   0.20       106.0        14   l           103                                  I    550        4.10    1."     5.9    12.50        4.    1,5's
DUEL             m         100 4.42          14.0        12   e            14                                  I     0         1.4   0.   e0.0 0       .00          I      30e
t         lUP I           N          ISO  13.90       52.0         I       A        52                                  1    150        7.10    0.e5    0.0      1.15       i3    1,543
TOTAL E611  SOMS                             es3                                                                      200 11,472         522    233      2u31 3,0        1,294   55,44 1
all :      lE a A   uISIuCINm                              N      S 6 K EU
1ls513SlU3                                      U   'Da EUL
lnE C  eBI    - 1) PkESs1   FILlEIR             a        NI* E
21 PK IE3IE3   111O1          FIE    s PfI UIICIPL CIM  E1IL
mI     a _5  NIIICIYI UNCIL



I    I wi 131u    'miiims Ims El 31msU
I ti t :   1 " IAN eV uimu  cIntial is "1 mIs
I91  lathe            du s  muiii UVI4 uA         "162ui   -
1W S        mzlua IN  "   ISeMa  hI     i a I m   IsJi
wu'ca    wizt   ir11t
U    '                             sillegtst (wn_Mniisststss_ss&s_s    gIll 13.9 W$    all t                                                                                    s      s Slmum  uttui          B ai tilsujamn
Su                             trit   Ulbi      orlis it        wnt li  cr 06     it911 "                  ll   w,1   WI    "           u5 U       9I%   "I   WAt          wici u's#  a's           Iso    inii  lVW
u's   st4        WI    I-        £99    1(1    110    lii          %I   wI   95                                     It's   we    We  1 %            Ill, II            u,1aUe
a's   91o       fill   UI#    allg   m1         Ire    "iCt        fil    Is's  till                               HIS n-n    w     , e,I   tll   Unc                    c m
#-1   WtI        WSJ   &*Kl    ti       j'      tlN    Itt         t'i  to'    we WttI- N-                                        fl N-1   Ut   all                        m
ut11's          fil    all    9191       WI tW        i            atill         all   WI    til         Oil       til  uate ll             wu    a's   WI                mmuiiinu
WI-  WiI        Wi)   WtI    W-it   P11    WI    IIIII             IM     It,   Ort                                 aiI   we    ctt         sall 91 tie ll               minm
W1             to al      l    u1 91   Olit   ILl    tr.           l     II's   "It                                WI   all    WI " l       1-1   II-,   o-l              m
usO    W        WAs    "'11       ' WI II        II's   u$fl WI MI         W        iW                                     tic    sI-I      all   We   cc.                     mnim a
I ,11           5w1  Itll   wi    9191   "'I ItlI                   WI    tI             WI        e tall-s tl-  tUti rs                     W WI   WII Un-swim=
"It  910 1        Wf1    5-I   U-lt   6)9t   61         liii       U1      W-     ilt            it' 1   t          Uc-l    we    WIr       til    "e        's          siuisimom
WI lL -                                                 U t  '1 sill  "It    W5          If s    41,     ti        S'    all   W            of'    "t     liit 
A-t.   H-S      of-It  tt-l    tf-S      "'a S         *1-1 Ul     U-li                                             u's                                    u's 1      -t t-  tt S7    t
a's             I n'    It-ll   Ifts     W- t      .-  "tIl        U-I             Wt                                                                                           "an WI WS  Wi U s l5U4s  -
9-     WI       WLi    il    1  61   cmt    Wsi    91.              rll UI  l                                        I'  te                          S    ll                 Hu tto
cii    Wi  Wit   ill~Wo    O'sa    alt    tr'tWI    49ro)1ut                               #0        '        Ws I    II1 WIa's   "Is   4£5                            lEemm
u.s    Wi        WI    III    191    10.1   it'    Ulf             911   cWs   ice   ILl W-t             1         W,   We   If'            al    tilt   lol                   swum
Y'                              u's U-U         II,[    K'sU    f   I,-1 n   Ulf    we-   all    U,4   fr        III#                               tilt   K-   UI-S        impan~
fill   Wi                         I                      Ul        tll   I6   al t                       We n-t            We   all           lt   il l    tl-             1
U-i   *-t   'H-C    WI    I-it    ill    910    I-t                tC-    W-   itl  IeI          N-t                all   We  ctr -t        Ut   iC-C   Y-C            a
htI    U*5       W-t     it'    I1    I-. 14    11W U-l                     * S          Ill t-                    S' 9 15 31I0 LN IM -t                   ca-I          j             s
*i            tli-c   ac- U       i-     U- c       I ti Al i*ct    ltl    lt-     alss   AZ'S  till   Ire    to'                          "Iss   L1a       c 1   W l-W fi-s  -lw        ulis   si
we   u'         fil {"   61    tilt                                                                                                              13    IIIIIUIU I                fIit lin
I  W9t11   £-9                   t-Sf    uS   ti                                                                                                                                               bit-uI all   it's  "It  II,$  31  "  "It  01-  I6-    06,11  -tI   It'   mlI3 5t1l ll   I 1||
£             lIt   WI         irat   ic-c~~~~~~~~K'  lilt    "I~t   flti  ki-c   Irs   "If   CIt'  j0l*    50,         "It               W c-    u-c      ilH    lcil   li-li    sairim  tini  isom
*  5-5    WI    tre    are    ats aUe           we Ic-             Its-   fr-    Ice    O'-   fro    se-            st-c i'-   fr-o         ti-l   ce-c   1i-c            Jmlia  ,aIus
o           see   cc-c>     ti-c     1-e   tre    al-    III    It-O           ill   tWI   50.0  se-         el-c   rn-c        i1-   LI    use U-e   ce-                 ir -im          I am mi
O  ulI 50       it A-i          tc -l c1 c -it    -s    AM-         U-I   U-                              cc1 ec  cW c-c  t - c-    cc      i-ct  lit -     llt          S lii 1i *0s3
il*   t *I      Wil   Mim    NMI   *iit   l*             in]        u     w- tVl   c)      c    cce    rn-         'ol"-   sec     Ve       is-l    at-e    c-1i          5  uuct 
0   ~~      am-   t-         sc-s    sri*   Ira    wc-   ie-        at          t-i    We   at-i   arc    tel         c-c       ccc    c-c   sc-c       Sc-a   si'   si-a    St 1Ui         * m     S
*           si~-c    e#     it-c    Sl-l    U-t   Li-I    i-c    Ic;           h-I   Il-c   li-1    e*c    cc-c      c-c        sc-c  ce-c   rn-        ca-    ti-c   a.t           SNeni 11 ini,
o                                                                                                                                                                          533121 AiIm  SitU s  531116f Ilaamsoo  ItsamVio 
6-4               1151     lIs      luitl lW35   l1    01531   11            113   533W   W1201  b1@1    31531   323          115  0813    1201  X1131  81531   1201 B
-a- - --  -----------------                  -------- ------.----. .- --                                                                          .
Slle  11120                                 gSh  riamausi                                                               15    Itu Slit    01U1  ma tue
snUMss    itsi    l     l5553               -IIIIIiS ms,mI         Z       *tSuuu             nia slmE                     tms mums                          -



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Piped Water Supply Schemes of Phase 2
Introduction
1.01      The selection process for villages and regional schemes of Phase 2
of the project is still in progress but will soon be completed. Selection
criteria are:
-    villages with acute water shortage
-    no safe water source in the village
-    guinea worm invested areas
-    villages with tribal population.
Project Proposal for Phase 2
1.02      Villages and regional rural water supply schemes in Phase 2 will be
located in the same 10 districts as in Phase 1. Phase 2 will comprise:
-    57 Regional schemes (including 1 town) with a total population of
955,000
-    122 individual village water schemes with a total population of
55,000 inhabitants
-    8 individual village water schemes (pilot project GSDA) with a total
population of 10000 inhabitants.
Base Cost Estimate and Procurement
1.03      Costs include civil works including supply of all materials and are
based on cost rate of Phase 1 for which final design estimates are availables
------ in Rs million ------    Procurement
Local     Foreign      Total    by
Village water schemes         63         12          75      ICB
Pilot project villages         5          1           6      LCB
Regional schemes             705        138         843    ICB
Total                        773        151         924
Imp2lementation
1.04                       It is estimated that tender documents for a first lot
of villages and regional schemes are completed by December 1991 and the
remaining lot by October 1992. Construction could therefore start mid 1992 and
by assuming a construction time of maximum 3 years. the second lot of works
would be completed by Mid 1996.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
Borewell Program, Handpumps. Ground Water Development
Introduction
1.05                       Borewell drilling and installation of hand pumps is
carried out by the Ground Water Survey and Development Agency (GSDA) based in
Pune.  The GSDA which has 6 regional offices presently operates some 59 drilling
rigs. During the 7th plan period some 59,000 wells have been drilled of which
702 are claimed to have been successful. The 1989/90 drilling program consisted
of approximately 4,000 wells, and 1,000 wells requiring rehabilitation and
rejuvenation. Presently the GSDA has procured 2 hydrofracturing units through
UNICEF and have experienced a degree of success in rejuvenating old wells and
increasing the yield in new ones. The pilot project for enrichment of ground
water will be carried out in eight drought prone villages I/ of Ahmednagar
District.
1.06                       Although the rainfall is low, the main problem is that
the villages are located in a plateau area and because of drainage, the majority
of ground water is lost to the valley below. The GSDA is proposing to adopt
unconventional measures of rainwater harvesting, artificial recharge,
hydrofracturing and conservation in order to resolve the water shortage problem.
Although these measures are not new and have been proven elsewhere, they have
not been used in Maharashtra to any great extent. The cost of this component is
modest and it provides a worthwhile demonstration that should be monitored with
a view to replication in other problem areas.
Project Proposal
1.07                       The proposed program which will be carried-out across
all 10 districts covered under the project will consist of:
(a)   drilling of some 2050 wells approximately 60 m deep, of which is
estimated that 1700 (80Z) will be successful and installation of
India Mark 3 hand pumps. This will serve some 178 small villages,
and 884 small clusters or wadis;
(b)   rejuvenation of some 400 well by hydrofracturing which will serve a
further 260 villages and 126 clusters;
(c)   replacing of approximately 1330 broken down handpumps which are
beyond repair by the new India Mark 3 hand pumps. These pumps are
much easier to maintain at village level;
(d)   rejuvenation of about 600 wells by hydrofracturing;
(e)   supplying of spare parts for upgrading washers and cylinders in some
10000 India Mark 2 hand pumps;
1/ Kavthechiwadi, Jawale Baleshwar, Mahalwadi, Dhorwadi, Varudi, Sawargoan
Ghule, Amlewadi and Sarole Pathar, total population 6,660.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
(f)   supplying of equipment for supporting the drilling and
hydrofracturing activitiess
- 3 borewell drilling rigs - 150 mm dia. hydraulically operated top
drive rotary DTH fast drilling rigs, truck mounted and complete
with compressor and all equipment and tools
- 4 hydrofracturing rigs - truck mounted diesel powered
hydrofracturing units capable of delivering at least 335 1/min at
170 bar for use in wells up to 6.50 dia and 60 m deep, complete
with all equipment and tools
- 6 ABEM-WADI electronic geophysical survey instruments will be
purchased for rapid site reconnaissance before detailed surveys
take place
- 6 PROCOM-2 image enhancers to be located in each of the regional
GSDA R&D Cells for use with interpreting "remotely
sensed' data;
(g)   source development works for the 8 draught prone villages included
in the pilot project. Remote sensing date will be interpreted and
detailed hydrological mapping will be undertaken for each village in
order to prepare a micro water conservation and development plan.
This may include new borewells and hydrofracturing of existing to
improve yields, plus construction of large diameter hand dug wells,
cut off and filter trenches to encourage aquifer recharge, and
valley plugs, etc.
Implementation
1.08        It is estimated that the main borewell drilling and rejuvenation
program will be completed within two years. Whereas, the hydrofracturing and
pump replacement and upgrading program will continue for a further three years,
at a rate of some 200 hydrofractured wells and 400 pump replacements per year.
On completion of each hand pump and apron installation they are handed over to
the Grampanchayat for future operations and maintenance in a two tier
maintenance scheme backstopped by the Zilla Parishad. The source development
pilot project will be implemented mainly by GSDA, however, some smaller
components such as the construction of the large diameter hand dug wells will be
undertaken by the Zilla Parishads. Small-scale local contractors and casual
labor will be used as required.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
Base Cost Estimates and Procurement
Share
in
---- in Rs Million ----    Taxes
Procurement
Description               Local   Foreign    Total   Duties            by
Construction:
1700 borewells               24.18       1.25    25.43      2.55       Other
1000 hydro frao              11.97       0.63    12.60      0.18       Other
1300 pumps replaced           1.75       0.20     1.95      0.17       LCB
Materials & Equipment:
3000 hand pumps              25.54       1.29    26.83      1.03       LCB
3 DTH Drill Rigs              8.25       7.50    15.75      8.25       ICB
4 Hydro frac. rigs            9.43       8.57    18.00      9.43       ICB
16,300 m MS casing            4.19       0.22     4.41      0.17       LCB
Pump spares & tools           2.60       0.30     2.90      0.14       LCB
6 Abem survey equipment       0.17       0.16     0.33      0.17       ICB
6 Procom enhancers            0.17       0.16     0.33      0.17       ICB
Source development for 8      1.04       0.05     1.09      0.07       Other
draught prone villages
Grand Total                  89.29      20.33   109.62    22.23
(20.4Z average)
Retroactive financing        18.52       4.28    22.80    20.42
Financing after project      70.77      16.05    86.82    20.42
effectiveness
Leak Detection Survey and Repair Works
Introduction
1.09        Water loss surveys indicate that existing rural water supply systems
have high water losses. As a result and in order to reduce water losses it is
common practice in India to provide water for two periods of maximum 4 hours per
day only. It would however be desirable to provide continuous services. This
would avoid the risk of inflow of contaminated water into the water supply
system when the pipes are not under pressure. It would also remove the need for
unnecessary private investments for underground and roof storage tanks and
booster pumps at each individual house in order to have 24 hours water supply.
Since the project will include the expansion and rehabilitation of about 67
existing village water supply systems with a total population of 350,000 in



ANNEX 1
- 45 -                             Page 8
Phase 1 and similar number in Phase 2, it will be necessary to carry out a leak
detection survey and leakage repair in order to reduce water losses to an
acceptable level. The MWSSB has therefore decided to carry out a leak detection
survey and repair program in all project location with existing water supply
facilities which will be incorporated into the u,,w system.
Proiect Proposal
1.10        MWSSB intends to use the services of a specialized consultant who
would be responsible fort
-     carrying out a leak detection survey in each project village
-     estimating the total leakage losses
-     identifying of locations of all major leakage points
-     preparing of cost estimates for repair works and required material
-     preparation of standard tender documents including specifications
and bill of quantities
-     training of MWSSB staff on the job
-     manage/supervise the repair works.
1.11        It is anticipated that the survey is carried out by a local
consultant with some advisory input of a foreign expert, if required. The leak
detection equipment will be imported. Staff of MWSSB will be seconded to the
consultant for on the job training. Immediately following the leak detection
survey, the necessary repair works shall be carried out by a contractor who will
be managed and supervised by the consultant. This has the advantage that
additional leak detection can be carried out during repair works if required in
order to reduce the overall losses to an acceptable level. Detailed information
about the actual scope of repair or replacement works and required material is
at present not available. Costs or replacement are estimated. The contractor
will be required to bid for works including all required materials. Since the
scope of work and actually required materials are difficult to estimate, the
contractor would be requested to bid on a unit cost basis for various diameters
of pipe, fittings and valve sizes and type of materials and excavation depths.
The required repair works will involve:
-     replacing pipelines which are beyond repair
-     replacing of leaking pipes, fittings and valves
-     repairing of leaking joints and valves
-     repairing house and public standpost connections
-     repair/replacement of standpost taps, etc.
1.12        The works will be carried out by local contractors on the basis of
local competitive bidding (LCB). Young contractors trained in pipe fitting and
plumbing under the TRYSEM system (Training for Rural Youth for Self -
Employment) will be permitted to bid. The availability of such young village
contractors will be very important for the further maintenance of the water
supply system and laying of house connections.



- 46-
ANNEX 1
Page 9
Base Cost Estimates and Procurement
Share
in
---- in Rs Million ----      Taxes        Procurement
Description                   Locel  Foreign    Total      Duties       by
A) Leak Detection Survey
Local consultant
600mm x Rs. 15000    1/       9.00        -       9.00     0.45         LCB
Foreign advisor
6mm x US$10000                 -        1.00      1.00        -         IS
Leak detection equipment
and transport for 3 teams    1.80       1.80      3.60      1.80        ICB
(incl. 1COZ duty)
Sub Total A)                 10.80      2.80     13.60      2.25
(16.5Z average)
B) Leakage Repair Works
Sub Total B)                 20.00      5.00     25.00     2.00
(8.02 average) LCB
Grand Total A)+B)            30.80      7.80     38.60      4.25 (11.OZ average)
Implementation
1.13         The consultant and the contractors will be requested to complete
the survey and repair works in approximately 4-5 years. At least 3 consultant
teams and about 6 repair teams will be necessary. As soon as the consultant has
gained some information about the scope of repair works and materials required,
he should prepare standard bid documents which would be used throughout the
project period. Bids for works would be invited for the total works in each
district (10 districts). Leak detection and repair work should be implemented
almost at the same time. The work would be coordinated with the health
communications program to be undertaken by DOPH as part of the project.
Design CriterLa for Rural Water SUPPlY Systems
Design Period                        15 years
Water Demand
Public standposts                    40 lcpd
House connection                     70 lcpd
1/ Includes field allowances for seconded staff.



- 47             ~             ANNEX 1
Page 10
Allowances as appropriate should be made in each case for institutional,
commercial/animal and industrial use. For small municipalities or rural centers
with a pollution > 10000 a minimum of 100 1/cd should be assumed.
Service Levels
Hand pumps                            1 per 150 persons, maximum distance 250m
Public standposts                     l per 250
System Losses
New systems                           15Z of gross demand
Mixed old/new systems                 If losses in existing system exceed 20Z,
leakage repair shall be carried out.
Pumping Systems Standby Capacity
1 or 2 pumps                         1 standby
2 pumps or more                      2 standbys
Pumping Hours
Small villages < 1000 population    8 hours minimum
Villages        > 1000 population    12 hours minimum
Large and regional schemes            16 hours minimum
Daily Water Supply Periods
It should be aimed at supplying water for 24 hours. Interrupted services cause
suctions in the pipes which may lead to water contamination. Continuous supply
would also eliminate the need for additional water supply installations of each
house.
Water Treatment
Ground water                         Disinfection only.
Surface water                        Flocculation, sedimentation, filtration and
disinfection. Plants to have a minimum of
mechanical equipment and power dependance
Storage
Balancing clear water reservoir at treatment plant 1-2 hours master balancing
reservoirs in regional schemes up to 6 hours, service reservoirs up to 50Z of
daily demand. These are guidelines only. Actual capacities should be
determined by supply/demand analysis.
Peak Factors
Transmission mains - not more than 2.0 depending on pumping hours and storage
Distribution mains - 3.0 depending on schemes size and daily supply times
Flow in Pipes (Distribution Systems)
Average velocity   - 0.3 to 0.5 m/s
Minimum PiDe Size
Service connections to single private tap - 12mm
Service connections to single stand post - SOmm
All other pipes minimum diameter            - 65mm



- 48- -O~
- 43 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 11
Water Hammer
Water hammer analysis should be carried out on all transmission mains and the
appropriate pipe class and surge protection devices used.
System Pressures
Minimum residual pressure at peak supply - 8m head for single story buildings
Maximum pressure in distribution system - 50m head
Systems Layout
(a) Systems layout should be designed following good engineering practice
which will include: release valves at all high spots, scour valves at all
low spots, thrust/anchor blocks at all horizontal and vertical bends,
distribution system valves at all major branches and a minimum cover of
80cm for mains less than lOOmm dia and 90cm cover for mains greater than
100mm dia.
(b) Wherever possible standard designs should be used for treatment plants,
reservoirs, pumping stations and other structures.
(c) Adequate provision should be made for the disposal of spillage water at
standposts.
(d) Where house connections are provided, the house owner shall construct a
soak-away pit for sullage water.
Pipeline Materials
These should be chosen on the basis of satisfying performance criteria and least
cost. Exceptions may apply in special cases. Cast iron, duktile iron and steel
pipes shall have cement mortar lining. Specifications for plastic pipes shall
include that the pipe performance (eg: elasticity, strength) shall not
deteriorate in any way by storage of pipes in the sun and by water temperatures
in the pipes of up to 35 C.
Service Connections
All service connections to distribution mains should be made using appropriate
saddles and connectors.
Metering
Bulk meters to be provided at the outlets of all treatment plants and
reservoirs.



491_                           ANNEX 1
Page 12
Component 2: Environmental Sanitation
A. Latrines
2.01        Institutional Responsibility.  Primary responsibility for
implementing this component will be with the ten Zilla Parishads which are
responsible for quality control of the construction and administration of the
subsidy. Within the Zilla Parishad, the Junior Engineer (Works) would be
responsible for supervision of construction and the Junior Engineer and Block
Development Officer would be responsible for jointly administering the subsidy.
NGOs and Multipurpose Workers (Hale and Female) are expected to take primary
responsibility for promoting latrines by interacting with individual families
and communities. The PPMU would have responsibility for monitoring the
implementation with assistance from the Task Force. GOM will provide an
environmental sanitation strategy paper which will indicate an implementation
program for the remaining years of the project, including a clear definition of
agency responsible and role of NGOs and related training programs.
2.02        During the 7th Five Year Plan, the government constructed about
14,000 latrines under different programs. Present coverage of latrine usage in
rural areas in the state is estimated at 6X. There is no ongoing government
program to promote latrine usage. NGOs in parts of the state have undertaken
innovative and successful schemes to promote latrines.
2.03        Component Description.  The main objectives of this component are:
(a) to ensure that the market mechanism is in place in all 10 districts for
individuals to purchase with or without government subsidy a low cost latrine
model (primarily the twin pit pour flush model but other models could be used
depending on the local conditions) and to ensure that sufficient masons are
trained to provide for quality control in construction; and (b) to install on a
demand basis latrines in the 10 districts in villages with piped water supply
schemes. Target villages have been identified as follows: (a) first priority
to project villages (those receiving piped water supply schemes) with
populations of 1,500 or above (316 villages or 1.4 population); (b) second
priority to project villages with piped water with populations between 1,000-
1,500 (126 villages or 0.2 million population); (c) third priority to non-
project villages with piped water supply and populations of 1,000 and above
(about 600 villages or 1.9 million population). The latrines would be
constructed at the owners cost with a subsidy provided by government.
2.04        The average cost of a low cost model using brick construction for
the superstructure is estimated at Rs. 2100 in end 1990 prices. The subsidy for
the latrine program would be as follows: a) for Scheduled Castes and Tribes--
GOH (Rs. 1080), ZP (Rs. 360); and b) for all others--GO!  (Rs. 1080).  The
subsidy would be administered jointly by the Junior Engineer and Block
Development Officer on a phased basis. Fifty percent of the subsidy would be
given after completion of construction up to the plinth level and the remaining
502 after completion of the superstructure. The full subsidy would be given to
each beneficiary regardless of the type of superstructure chosen or whether the
beneficiary contributes his/her own labor toward construction.



-50 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 13
2.05        Training of local masons would be carried out by trainers with good
construction and training skills on a phased basis. This training could be
conducted by NGOs with experience in constructing low cost models. This
training will be monitored by the PPMU. Demonstration latrines in project
villages would be used for training purposes. Training fees equivalent to one
day wage would be paid to the local masons for attending the training sessions.
B. Drainage
2.06        Institutional Responsibility.  The Zilla Parishad Engineering Wings
would be responsible for the construction of drainage systems. Schemes would be
prepared by the Deputy Engineering (PW) and approved by the Executive Engineer
(PW) in each Zilla Parishad and a Superintending Engineer in MWSSB. The final
designs would be approved and construction quality monitored by the Engineering
Cell of the PPMU. The design population for this component is estimated at
783,430 (based on the 1981 ceneus). It would cover 25 villages with population
over 10,000 and approximately 50 other villages with populations above 5,000
with soil conditions or population densities which do not permit the use of soak
pits and, thus, require a drainage system.
2.07        Soak pits would be constructed at the owners expense.  Monitoring of
soak pit construction and maintenance would be the responsibility of the Block
Extension Officer Health and the Multipurpose Worker(M) in each block.
2.08        There are no existing programs to promote drainage system.  Such
systems are taken up by the district or village governments on a demand basis.
The systems are financed on a cost sharing basis between the state and district
governments. Funds are also provided for drainage under the rural employment
schemes funded by the central government (i.e., JRY program).
2.09        Component Description.  This component would finance surface drains
to carry sullage in villages with populations with more than 10,000 in the year
2006 and in smaller villages where soak pits would not be sufficient due to soil
conditions or population congestion.   The drainage system would consist of
branch lines in by-lanes for collecting and carrying sullage waste water from
households, main line drains, cross drains and final disposal pits.
2.10        The component would be financed on a cost sharing basis between the
state and the zilla parishad/village panchayats. The state would provide a
subsidy of 50Z while the remaining 50Z would come from the resources of the
zilla parishad or village panchayat. Funds from employment schemes provided to
the zilla parishads could be used to finance the 50Z contribution as well as
labor contributions from the village.
2.11        The drainage systems for villages with populations of 10,000 or more
and villages with poor soil conditions would be required as part of receiving
the water supply scheme. Thus, the project would require a resolution from the
zilla parishad and the gram panchayat indicating their willingness to provide
their contribution to the capital costs and to assume full financial and
administrative responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the drains.



51 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 14
2.12        Soak pit construction would be required for any household taking a
private connection from piped water supply schemes constructed under the
project. The hand over agreements should be modified to include this
requirement. A government order has been issued giving the BEOH authority to
issue a "no objection, certificate which verifies that a soak pit has been
constructed by households seeking a private connection.
C. Solid Waste
2.13        Institutional Responsibility.  This component would be the
responsibility of the Deputy Engineer (PW) in each Zilla Parishad with approval
from the Executive Engineer (PW). This component would only be implemented in
villages with surface drains and where a high percentage (50Z) of the households
adopt latrines. Technical help in organizing a solid waste disposal system
(including collection and final disposal) would be provided by the Junior
Engineer (Works) at the block level.
2.14        Component DescriDtion.  This component would consist of refuse bins
placed on cement concrete platforms each of 90 mm diameter and 800 mm high with
M.S. flat rings at both ends.  Each bin would have a capacity of 500 litres and
would be placed at a ratio of one per 500 population. Alternative designs for
the bins should be explored to develop bins which are easy to handle and empty.
The bins would be provided as an incentive scheme for villages with 502 adoption
of latrines and where surface drains are also being provided. The bins would be
provided with a 90Z subsidy from the state government. A 10 contribution would
be required from the 2P or villages. The villages would also be responsible for
providing bullock carts. Although this would be a demand based component, it is
estimated that 6,000 bins would be required.
D. SUHMARY COST ESTIMATES
Sher
In
Taxes  Procurement
LcgcI  Foreln  Tote1   DuSGS  by
-in  Rnli*lflon-
A. Latrinoe
80,000Tltrin*s         99.6    5.2  105.0      10.5    Other
B. Drrlnag
iusilsurface
drains for sul lags
In 76 villagoe         47.5   2.5    60.0       4.0    LCB
C. Refuse Bins
6,000 refuse bin*
Base cost, Ro.2000
per unlt               11.4   0.6    12.0       1.2    LCB
Total                    156.7   8.8   167.0      16.7
(9.4 average)



_ -                               ANNEX 1
Page 15
Component 3: Health Communication
3.01      Institutional Responsibility.  The Department of Public Health would
have primary responsibility for implementing this component. Within the DOPH,
the State Health Education Bureau would have responsibility for providing the
health education materials. The key personnel at the field level would be the
District Extension and Media Officer (DEMO), Block Extension Officer, Health
(BEOH) and the Multipurpose Worker (Male and Female). The responsibility for
the training curriculum and organizing trainers for training of the BEOH and MPW
(M) would be the Public Health Institute in Nagpur.
3.02      Component Description.  This component has three main objectives.  The
primary objective is to create greater community awareness and demand in the
following areas: (1) personal and family hygiene; (2) promotion of latrine
usage; (3) community responsibility for the operation and maintenance of water
supply schemes (including water consumer awareness); and (4) community
responsibility for the maintenance of drainage (from public or private sources).
The second objective of the component is to redefine the responsibilities of the
Block Extension Officer Health (BEOH) and the Multipurpose Worker (Male) so that
more of their time in the field is spent on water related and sanitation
activities and to provide training for this reorientation. The third objective
of this component is to provide greater awareness of water related and
sanitation problems among health personnel through revised curriculum in their
basic training. The health communication component would focus on message
development and delivery systems for the community. The health communication
aspects of reaching the secondary target groups would consist of training
materials and revised curriculum.
3.03      The component would be implemented in three phases.  The first phase
consists of strategy development which would be undertaken by consultants in
close consultation with the SHEB, PPMU and the Task Force. Thiri strategy
development would require about one year and would focus on 30-40 project
villages with populations over 1,500. Training curriculum and programs would
also be developed during this strategy phase. Phase two which would begin in
the second year of the project would be the implementation of the strategy and
training programs in the ten project districts. During the third year of the
project, there would be a mid-term review. Following the mid-term review, a
third phase would begin which would involve training of health personnel and
provision of education equipment and materials in nonproject districts.
3.04      The component would also include strengthening of the water quality
monitoring system. This would require strengthening the staff and facilities of
the state, regional and district Public Health Laboratories in all the districts
in the state. The BEOH and MPW(M) would have responsibility for monitoring
water quality and assisting the PHLs in collecting samples. They would be
provided with sample kits for that purpose. The Zilla Parishad would be
required to purchase bleaching powder and ensure that water systems under their
control were properly chlorinated.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 16
3.05       The component would consist oft  (a) employment of health
communication consultants; (b) strengthening of SHEB through the provision of
new office space, furniture and equipment; (c) production of training and health
education materials; (d) audio visual equipment and vehicles for the district
and block level, (e) strengthening Public Health Laboratories for water quality
testing at the state, regional and districts level through the provision of
equipment, materials and vehicles, (f) employment of consultants (NGOs) to
undertake training of health personnel and (g) studies and development of an MIS
system related to water and sanitation.
3.06       Implementation.  Target villages would be determined by the PPMU.
During the first three years, the target villages would be coordinated with the
villages identified under the latrine program.
BASE COST ESTIMATES AND PROCUREMENT
Share In   Procurement
Doeonrption                           Local  Foreign  Total   Taxes      by
---In R Mill ion ----
A) Local Consultants
I) Progrosaive Res. Aide, Prop.     1.1      -      1.1    0.1        Other
-T) Health firm, Communication
(fees materials, transport,
per diem)                        8.0       -     8.0     0.1        Othor
B) Construction of SHEB office
building                            2.8    0.2      2.5     0.2        LC8
C) SHED offic furnlehinge              0.6      -      0.5     0.1       LS
D) Health Communications Materials    40.1     2.1    42.2     4.2       LCB
E) Equipment
1) AAS A HPLC for PAL                 -     8.0    8.0        -       LIB
ti) Other Equipment for PHL         18.0    1.0    19.0      1.9       LCB
IIt) PCH Linoe                       10.9    0.6    11.6      1.2       LCB
F) Vehicles, PCH A Districte           9.0    2.2    11.2      8.4       ICe
TOTAL                                 64.9    9.1    94.0    11.2 (11.9X avg.)
Retroactive Financing                  2.1      -      2.1
TOTAL                                 82.8    9.1    91.9



-54-                              ANNEX I
Page 17
Component 4, Institutional Strengthening
Subcomponent: Project Planning & Monitoring Unit
A. Description and Cost Estimates
4.01      The PPMU would be established under the Secretary, RDD, and would
locate its headquarters in Bombay. The PPHU would act as a secretariat to the
State Project Steering Committee which would be chaired by the Secretary, RDD.
The PPMU Director would be at the rank of Deputy/Joint Secretary.
4.02      The overal; responsibility of the PPMU would be to provide, on a daily
basis, project planning support, technical guidance to the implementing
agencies, and independent monitoring of project implementation to ensure high
technical standards and that the project achieves its overall objectives. The
PPMU would also provide support in the areas of strategy development for health
education and environmental sanitation, community participation, the involvement
of NGOs, and training. The MWSSB, ZP Engineering Wings, DOPH and GSDA would
have full responsibility for the implementation of their respective components.
Regarding the involvement of NGOs, the PPMU would be supported by the
Government-NGO Task Force. The Director of the PPMU would be a member of the
Task Force.
4.03      Project management would be coordinated and guided on a periodic basis
by the project state and district level steering committees established by RDD.
A reporting mechanism has been established for the coordination committees.
PPMU staff would be expected to attend district committee meetings. The PPMU
would be responsible for independently assessing the quality of engineering
wr:ks, ensuring that World Bank procurement guidelines are followed, ensuring
community (beneficiary) involvement in implementation and monitoring, and
assisting the Secretary, RDD in ensuring that the project is implemented
according to the Credit Agreement signed with the World Bank.
4.04      In terms of overall project implementation, the Secretary RDD as head
of the nodal agency would have the main responsibility and authority. Any
serious matters involving project management, funding or implementation
identified by the PPMU Director would be referred to the Secretary RDD and the
State Project Steering Committee.
PPHU Director
4.05      As head of the PPMU, the overall responsibilities of the Director
would be to:
(a) plan, coordinate and monitor the programs of the implementing
agencies;
(b) with assistance of the Task Force, wherever necessary, manage the
program involving NGOs;
(c)  provide advice to the Steering Committee with regard to the timely



- 55 -                            ANNX 1
Page 18
implementation of the project, effectlve control of costs and the
acceptable quality of the works;
(d)  act as secretariat to the State Project Steering Committee.
4.06      The Director's specific responsibilities would, subject to the flnal
approval of the state level project steering committee, includes
(a) preparation of annual action programs for the project for review by
the World Bank including annual investments in rural water supply,
envlronmental sanitation, health education, community participation,
technical assistance and training;
(b) assist in the preparation of strategy reports for World Bank review on
environmental sanitation and health education;
(c) coordination and preparation of detailed annual training plans for all
implementing agencies and sanction funds for such training;
(d) with assistance of the Task Force, preparation of detailed annual plan
for NGO participation including training of health personnel, masons
and caretakers, implementation of the latrine component, formation of
water committees and other community organization activities for water
supply and sanitation, implement pilot schemes for women, and project
monitoring at the village level;
se) with assistance of the Task Force, coordinate and manage funding
arrangements for NGOs;
(f) preparation of monthly monitoring reports for the State Project
Steering Committee and quarterly monitoring reports for the World Bank
and preparation of reporting format for World Bank quarterly reports;
(g) preparation of annual village targets, in consultation with MWSSB
for use in implementing the health education and environmental
sanitation programs;
(h) manage the preparation of Project Completion Report for the World
Bank.
Procurement
4.07      In terms of procurement, the PPMU's main responsibilities would be:
(a) to advise the implementing agencies on the standards, formats and
procedures required for procurement according to World Bank guidelines
and the Credit Agreement signed with the World Bank;
(b) to ensure that the standard terms and conditions are in conformity
with World Bank guidelines for tender documents prepared by various
implementing agencies, and bid evaluations and contract award
recommendations prepared by the implementing agencies as appropriate;



56 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 19
Cc) to forward tender documents, bid evaluations and contract award
recommendations as indicated in the Credit Agreement to the World Bank
for review and approval.
Ensineering
4.08      The main engineering responsibilities of the PPMU would be:
(a) to advise the implementing agencies on high quality design standards
for rural water supply and drainage systems;
(b) to ensure the designs of water supply and drainage schemes to ensure
that adequate mapping, consumer demand analyses and criteria and
standards agreed with the World Bank have been employed;
(c) to ensure (based on criteria and standards agreed with the World Bank)
all tender documents for contracts involving engineering works;
(d) to ensure acceptable standards of site supervision and construction
work of water supply and drainage schemes by actual, on-site checking
during various stages of construction up to and including the final
commissioning of the works;
Ce) to keep copies of records of all contracts and payments made against
them.
Health and Sanitation Communications
4.09      The PPMU's monitoring of and support to the health communications and
environmental sanitation components would be with the assitance of the Task
Force. The main responsibilities for health and sanitation communications would
bes
(a) to assist in the preparation of the strategy reports for heaith
education and environmental sanitation to be submitted to the World
Bank;
(b) to support the implementation of the health education and
environmental sanitation strategies;
(c) to carry out periodic impact evaluation studies of the project using
participatory monitoring and evaluation to determine the views of the
project beneficiaries.
Training
4.10      The main training responsibilities of the PPMU would be:
(a) to prepare annual training plans for all components and to prepare the
training investment program for the annual action program;



57 -
ANNEX 1
Page 20
(b) to coordinate the implementation of the training plan with DOPH,
MWSSB, GSDA, ZPs and GOIs
(c)  to plan, organize and make recommendations to the PPMU Director
regarding study tours for all implementing agencies (inter-state and
foreign) utilizing high quality institutions in India and applying
high technical standards which are relevant to India in selecting
countries for foreign tours;
(d) to assist in carrying out workshops to ensure that the strategies
developed for health education and environmental sanitation are
imparted to the government departments and NGOs;
(e) to prepare proposals for MWSSB and ZP Engineering Wing training which
would utilize high quality existing institutions throughout India in a
creative and dynamic program to improve the quality of performance of
MWSSB and ZP Engineering Wing personnel.
Finance
4.11      The main finance responsibilities of the PPMU would be:
(a) to vouch and record monthly transaction summaries received from
various implementing agencies;
(b) to maintain adequate records and copies of support documentation for
project expenditures;
(c) to monitor expenditures on various schemes relative to scheme cost
estimates and physical progress;
(d) to generate various financial reports and analysis needed for the
continued planning and control of the project;
(e) to prepare Withdrawal Applications and Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) required for the drawing of World Bank funds.
Government and Technical Assistance Requirement
1 Director (Deputy/Joint Secretary)
1 Chief Engineer
1 Desk Officer, (Assistant Secretary)
1 Senior officer for training from RDD or MWSSB
1 Accounts Officer
1 MIS Coordinator
2 data entry operators
2 filing clerks
Other Support staff
Government-NGO Task Force
Consultants for evaluating construction quality, health communication,
impact evaluation and management



- 58 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 21
Base Cost Estimates and Procurement
Local  ~ForJ jn  Totl  Share In   Procureaent
Descri otl on                          I n W ion --    Taxee       kh
1) Local Consultants
300 MVH at Re 40,000             12.0      -   12.0    0.6        Other
2) Offltc Equipmnt                  0.7    0.1    0.1    0.1        LCB
8) Vohiclte                         0.6    0.2    1.0    0.3        ICB
TOTAL                              18.5    0.8   18.8    1.0 (7.2X avg.)
B.  PPMU:  Terms of Reference for
Health Communications, Environmental Sanitation and Training
Terms of Reference fpr Consulting Firm
4.12      The GOH would qmplo, a consulting firm to provide expert staff to
assist the PPMU during project implementation. The consulting firm would be
employed for three to five years and would provide staff according to an agreed
work program.
4.13      Working under the guidance and supervision of the PPMU Director, the
consultants would fully participate in preparing the reports and other
documentation required by the PPMU. The consultants would also provide expert
advice on the implementation of the environmental sanitation and health
communication strategies, apd the preparation and implementation of the training
plan. The consultants would be expected to make frequent field visits to the
target villages and to wQrk closely with the field staff of MWSSB, GSDA, DOPH
and DRD in implementing the project. The training expert would work closely
with the Nasik Training Center as well as with the Public Health Institute in
Nagpur, GSDA and the Taplr Force.
4.14      The consulting firm would be expected to provide the PPMU with about 7
full time individual consultants during project implementation.  During the
first year of the project, three consultants would be provided which would work
with the PPMU toward the development of strategies, a training program, and the
implementation of the NGO action plan. During the second year of the project, 4
additional consultants would be employed in teams of two persons. One team
would be employed for about 4 years and the second team for about 2 years. The
two teams are required because of the large number of villages which need to be
covered under the environmental sanitation and health education components.
4.15      The consulting firm should provide candidates for consideration which
have strong backgrounds in the social sciences, health communications, and
training. The social scientists and health communication experts should have
experience working in rural areas. The training expert should have a strong



-59 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 22
background working with public health engineering. The two consultants employed
during the first year should have a background in the social sciences and
preferably have had experiences working with or for NGOs. The tow teams
employed during the second year should be made up of one social scientist and
one health communications expert for each team.
C. PPMU: Construction Supervision Monitoring
Introduction
4.16      Construction supervision for the water supply schemes will be carried
out by MWSSB. However, there is a need for monitoring/controlling
the supervision activities and the quality of works with the target to improve
both efficiency of the supervisory personnel and the performance of contractors.
In the past, poor construction of works has led to increased costs for repairs
and maintenance. Leakage losses in existing rural water supply systems are so
high that in most cases water supply to consumers can only be maintained for a
few hours during the day. A recent Government of Maharashtra study confirms the
Bank's own experience with respect to supervision and construction quality.
Project Proposal
4.17      The PPMU under RDD would be responsible for construction supervision
monitoring and control. The demand in staff for carrying out this task will
vary in accordance with the number of active construction sites. While
initially only a few construction sites may be available, in the peak season
when all three lots are awarded a total number of 5 to 30 contractors (depending
on how many contractors have been awarded a slice within a lot) may be active at
the same time. Since PPMU will not have the flexibility to increase and
decrease staff in accordance with the construction activity, the Government of
Maharashtra would employ a professional engineering consulting firm and academic
engineering institutions (maximum three) for the first three years of the
project. The consulting firm would be given responsibility for about half the
districts and engineering institutions would be given responsibility for the
remaining districts. At the end of the three year period, the Government of
Maharashtra and the IDA would jointly review the nerformance of these two
categories of consultants and also their evaluations of construction quality and
supervision and determine the level of construction quality monitoring for the
second half of the project.
Base Cost Estimate and Procurement
4.18      Highly qualified and experienced experts of a consultant firm would ae
used to perform this task. The cost below include all overheads of the
consultant firm, travelling and accommodation ccst. It is estimated that about
6 experts would be required in the peak construction period.



-60                               ANNX 1
Page 23
Description                  Local   Foreign Total     Share      Procurement
- in Rs Million -        Taxes      by
Duties
Consultant services
(approx. 250 mm a Re 40000)  9.5      0.5     10        SZ        LCB
Implementation
4.19        The activities of the supervision monitoring and control would have
to be performed in accordance with the construction activities.
TOR Construction Supervision Monitoring
4.20        Introduction.  The Project Planning and Monitoring Unit (PPMU) under
the Rural Development Department (RDD) requests the services of a consultant
firm for assistance in monitoring of construction activities for the Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Project which is financed by World Bank. The actual
construction supervision is carried out by the Maharashtra Water and Sewerage
Board (MMSSB) which is full responsible for this activity. The consultant's
responsibility is restricted to monitoring of these activities.
4.21        Project Area, Period and Intensity of Construction Works.  The
construction activities are spread over 10 Districts of Maharashtra (see
attached map). It is estimated that construction activities start in July 1991
and will be completed in June 1996. There will be about 180 individual village
water supply schemes and 75 large regional schemes. All works will be awarded
in three lots of about equal size, the first lot in June 1991, the second lot
about one year later in June 1992 and the third lot in January 1993. All lots
have approximately 10 slices and a contractor can bid on one or all slices.
Depending on the evaluation for the lowest bidders the number of contractors on
the site at a certain time may vary from about 5 to a maximum of 30 contractors
and the number of construction sites will be a multiple of the number of
contractors. The contractors will have to complete their work within a two to
three year period. Nevertheless there will be a peak construction period after
the award of the third lot.
4.22        Obiectives of the Consultants Assignment.  The objective of the
monitoring and control activities will be to obtain high quality construction
works and a minimum of leakage in the water supply systems thus minimizing
future repair and maintenance works and water fees.
4.23        Scope of Works.  The consultant may have to inspect the works under
construction at least two times in the case of individual village water schemes
and five times in the case of large regional schemes. This would include the
participation in the final commissioning of the works of the particular scheme.
In addition the consultant will be requested to participate in World Bank
missions, make special visits in case problems arise at a construction site,
report to and participate in meetings of the PPMU. The consultant will have to
assign experts in accordance with the construction progress. It is estimated



-61 -                              ANNEX I
Page 24
that in the peak construction period about 6 experts would be necessary to
perform the requested tasks. On the construction mLtes the expert will have tos
(a)   inspect all works completed or under construction and make notes of
all works and materials which are not in accordance with the
specifications
(b)   report on reasons for construction delays
(c)   report on the performance and competence of the local construction
supervisor(s) of MWSSB
(d)   participate in major pressure tests for pipelines
te)   participate in the final commissioning of the works and pressure
test for the whole new system.
4.24        Qualifications.  The experts assigned to the job shall be senior
engineers and have a minimum of 10 years experience in design and supervision of
water supply facilities.
4.25        Consultants Proposal and Bid Evaluation.  The bid submitted to PPMU
shall consist of two parts.
(a)   Part 1 shall be the "technical proposal' which should contain
information about the firm's experience in the water sector, a
proposal of how the consultant intends to organize the field visits,
report writing etc, and the C.V'A of the proposed staff.
(b)   Part 2 of the proposal shall be the price proposal which shall be
based on man months rates and shall include all expenses like
overheads of the firm, travel cost, accommodation. The rate shall
be valid for a period of two years, thereafter an increase in
accordance with inflation can be negotiated.
In the evaluation of bids three factors will be considered: (i) the experience
of the firm; (ii) the C.V's of the proposed staffg (iii) bid price will be taken
into consideration; and (iv) a maximum of 25150/25 points will be attached to
the respective factors in evaluating the bids.
D. Scheme Design: Consultancy Services for Preparation of
Final Design and Tender Documents for Water Supply Schemes
Introduction
4.26        NWSSB is responsible for the preparation of final designs and tender
documents for all piped water supply systems. However, NWSSB is using
consultants to assist them in carrying out the studies and preparing tender
documents.



~ 62 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 25
Description of the Consultancy Services
4.27        Preparation of preliminary and final designs and tender documents
for the water supply schemes included in Phase 1 have been entrusted to
M/s. Kirloskar Consultants, Pune. The consultant is at present completing these
services. Because of the large scope of work and in order to save time, the
final designs including topographical surveys for Phase 2 have been entrusted to
two consultants. These consultants are:
(a)   Kirloskar Consultants, Pune, will prepare the designs for the
schemes in the 6 districts Abmednagar, Aurangabad, Beed, Latur,
Buldhana and Chandrapur.
(b)   Shah Technical Consultants, Pune will prepare the designs for the
remaining four districts Thane, Pune, Satara and Sangli.
4.28        Two small special studies, a survey of the performance of existing
low cost water works (plants designed by Dr. Kardile) in Haharashtra and a
survey of water losses in existing rural water distribution systems has been
entrusted to Professor B.L. Hahabal of Victoria Jubilee Technical Institute,
Bombay. Both studies are at present in progress.
Cost Estimate. Procurement and Retroactive Financing
Local   Foreign   Total    Share in   Procurement
Description                     ---- in Rs Million ----    Taxes        by
Phase 1 studiest
Kirloskar Cons.                  3.80      0.20     4.00       5Z       LCB
Phase 2 studies:
Kirloskar Cons.                  6.70      0.40     7 00       5X       LCB
Shah Tech. Cons.                 6.10      0.30     6.40       St       LCB
Special studiest
V.J.T.I                          0.20      0.00     0.20       5?       Appointment
Grand Total                     16.70      0.90    17.60
Retroactive Financing: 11
Retroactive financing           11.49      0.61    12.10       5?
Financing after project
effectiveness                    5.21      0.29     3.50       5?
1/ MWSB has requested the Bank to finance retroactively consultant charges for
services n-    to the expected date of effectiveness (Mid 1991).



-63 -                              ANNEX I
Page 26
Implementation
4.29        It is expected that the consultants can complete the designs and
tender documents for Phase 2 as follows:
1st. lot December 1991
2nd. lot October 1992
E. Training
6.30        Institutional Responsibility.  The PPMU with assistance from the
Task Force would have overall responsibility for planning and coordinating the
training component. The MWSSB, GSDA and DOPH would have responsibility for
preparing the training program for their respective staff. In the case of
village masons and mechanics, existing training courses should be utilized to
the extent possible.
4.31        Component Description.  There would be five subcomponents for
training.  These would be as followst
(a) PPMU
Mi)    project management training for PPMU staff;
(b) MMSSB
Mi)    strengthening of the Nasik Training Center (NTC) in the MWSSB
through construction of classrooms, laboratories and hostels,
introduction of mobile training units for training field
staff, and improved curriculum development;
(ii)    in-service training for engineering staff of MWSSB and the
zilla parishads to upgrade their skills in management, design,
projec.t preparation and implementation, labor management,
environmental sanitation, O&M and greater social awareness;
liii)    O&M training for field staff involved with piped water supply
schemes;
(iv)    overseas training for higher level engineering and management
staff of MVSSB
(c) DOPH
Ci)    curriculum development and training for BEOH and MPW(M);
tii)    curriculum development and training for other field staff
related to water and sanitation;
Ciii)    orientation workshops for project related staffg



64                                 ANNEX 1
Page 27
(d)   GSDA
Mi)    training in remove sensing and hydrological geophyscial survey
tecniques through short terms courses at various centers in
India and abroad;
(e)   Other Training
(i)    maintenance training for village hand pump mechanics;
(ii)    training for village masons in latrine construction;
(iii)    orientation workshops for local village leaders and other
government staff not employed by the implementing agencies
whose duties would involve them indirectly in the project.
4.32         Implementation.  An annual training plan would be prepared by the
PPMU with inputs from the implementing agencies and would be reviewed as part of
the annual action program prepared for the World Bank.
Base Cost Estimates and Procurement
Description                                                     Share in   Procurement
Local      Forelun    Total    Taxes     by
- -     :In R  i ll on -
I. PPW
(a) PPMU, domestic
se inars, 5 x 4,000         20.0          -       20.0         -      Other
Sub-total I                       20.0         -       20.0
II. MNSS=/ZP
(b) UWSSB, strengthen
RTC
(1) civil works          6,900.0      600.0    9,400.0     900.0    LCB
(11) furnishings and
equIpmnt             7,100.0      400.0    7,500.0     760.0     LCD
(III) mobile van*           900.0       240.0    1,200.0     U80.0    ICB
(iv) equlpmnt for van,      476.0       26.0      600.0      50.0    LCD
(c) NTC materials              952.0      50.0    1,002.0      100.0     LCB
(d) NTC professlonal fee
and per diem             1,706.0      90.0    1,798.0       90.0     Other
(C) Overoes Training              -    3,500.0    0,500.0          -     Othor
Sub-total II                  20,0965.0    9,805.0   29,900.0    2,260.0 (Cx average)
Ill. DOPH
(a) PHI
Cl) professional fe_     1,900.0    100.0      2,000.0    100.0      Oth-r
CIi) material               475.0      25.0       500.0     50.0      LC8
HFWTC materials           475.0      25.0       500.0      50.0      LCD
Orientation Workshops     950.0      50.0     1,000.0    100.0       Other
Sub-total III                    ,600.0    200.0     4,000.0    80.0 (CX average)



- 65-                            ANNEX 1
Page 28
Deecri tlon                                                   Share In  Procurement
Local     Forelan    Total   Taxen      by
z   --In me million ----
IV. Othor Training
(a) Village hand pump mechanics
(I) professional feea   1,000.0       -     1,000.0       -       Other
(ii) materials             760.0    40.0       600.0     60.0     LCB
(b) Village masons
(I) professional fee      200.0       -       200.0        -      Other
(I materials               206.0    15.0       800.0     80.0     LC3
(c) Orientation workshops for local
leaders A other govt. staff
(I) professional fes       200.0       -       200.0        -      Other
(11) *xtrials               96.0      6.0       100.0     10.0     LCB
Sub-total IV                   2,640.0    60.0    2,600.0    120.0 (6X average)
GRAND TOTAL (I-IV)            27,085.0 14,465.0   41,600.0  2,070.0 (6.4X)
F. Community Participation
4.33        Institutional Responsibility.  The PPMU with assistance from the
Task Force would have primary responsibility for ensuring community
participation in the project. The implementing agencies have responsibility for
working with the villages in planning and implementing the project components.
District Project Steering Committees have been established to involve the
relevant government officials at the local level. NGOs are represented on these
committees.
4.34        Component Description.  This component would support grass root NGO
activities such as organizing village water and sanitation committees,
implementing the incentive schemes and assisting the implementing agencies in
organizing communities for participation in the project. This component would
also support pilot schemes identified by the Task Force.
4.35        Implementation.  The planning, and monitoring of activities and
expenditures under this component would be undertaken by the PPNU with
assistance from the Task Force throughout the project implementation period.
BASE COST ESTIMATES AND PROCUREMENT
Description                                                  Share In  Procuremnt
Local     Frglon    Total   Taxes      by
---In RC11111 on
I. PPMU
1) Local Consultants
800 MOH at Re 40,000      12.0         -        12.0    0.6        Other
2) OffIce Equ Ipmnt           0.7       0.1        0.6    0.1        LCB
8) Vehicles                   0.6       0.2        1.0    0.8        iCB
Sub-total I                     18.5       0.8        18.6    1.0 (7.2X average)
I. Community Partiecpation (NOOs)
1) Local Consultants          0.0         -        9.0    0.6
TOTAL I and SI                  22.6       0.2        22.6    1.8 (6C average)



-66 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 29
G. MWSSB/Zilla Parishads/GSDA/RDD
Introduction
4.36        The Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board (MWSSB), the Zilla
Parishads, the Ground Water Survey and Development Agency (GSDA) and the Rural
Development Department (RDD) of the Government of Maharashtra have requested IDA
to finance part of their special needs for office equipment and materials,
technical equipment and transportation.
Cost Estimate and Procurement
4.37        A detailed list of required materials will be submitted at
negotiations. In preliminary discussions during project appraisal a total
amount of Rs.30 million has been earmarked for these purposes.
Local   Foreign   Total    Share in       Procurement
Description                   ---- in Rs Million ----    Taxes
Locally available
equipment and materials       17.00      3.00    20.00        2.0       LCB/LS
Limported equipment            5Q00      S00    10,00         5.0       ICBIIS
Office Buildings              12.70      2.30    lS.00        0.15      LCB
Total                         34.70    10.30    45.00         7.15
(15.9Z average)
Implementation
4.38        It is assumed that the goods will be procured in several small
packages over the whole project period.



- 67 -                        ANNEX 2
INDIA
MAHRAASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Prolect Implementation Schedule
…-------------- :----~----t ----0----- :- -. 
_______-------- - -                               * e2 -   2
--.-  -:-  -  -  -  -   -- -   -    -
---------S   ---- -
_    -   _  S   S  - . ___  tS ~~~ * ~ ~ * ~ 8 S
___ :!            :t4 3.  Sza VS   S:I
____   ,-- t-- a                               I-I-S  I :__
. :z===  5-§  -5--I S               --=='55-5 I-1-i-Fi1 1 
0-l:{-5:-|-L33 -~~~~                                              la
3                                           I- __    FF1 <e~          ~~   i
'. _                  _-___                     ,              S 1
.~~~. _ _U._t.~ _   
'.416,                                           6
^ ~ ~     m _________ .__  _ ___      ___          _    __
*-of                                       I 
pM   - .  ;Z  _  __ --____ s
3                                                      u ee     m  Ii
a.,                            54
.4                     |     R  



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDTA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Project Cost Schedule
POE  MST ESIRTE                               MOEiT MST   E
(in Rs millim)                               (in us  dilli)
OtIPTIW                      MTUL PROME   T ST                  i          TIL PRE  COT             PMDi
TUTI BME FEIU                            TUTAL  NM FVEIM
LC     FC   TUTAL       COST  MST   MST        IC   ECTUTIL        MST  MST   MST
AMY MEW
Flng 1 "illap  us      25.08  4.59   29.67      0.93  1.31 15.47     1.41 0.2   1.67       1.19  1.31 15.47
Rk imial VS    312.91 62.39  375.20     11.74 16.59 16.63    17.57 3,51 21.0       14.97 16.59  16.63
Phase 2 WS.Stbms      m.70 151.11  924.91      28.4  0.90 16.34      3.47 9.09 51.96      36.91 40.90 16.34
:99A Works lEquips.    70.77 16.05  96.82       2.72  3.94 19.4      3.99 0.90  4.3        3.47  3.4 19.
-            works     20.00  5.00   25.00      0.78  1.11 20.00     1.12 0.2  1.0        1.00  1.11 20.00
SANTATIWI                    159.65  8.35  167.00     5.23  7.39  5.00     8.91 0.47  9.30       6.67  7.3   5.00
01UTAL I             161.01 Z47.49 16W.3U      5U.43 71.1i 15.39    76.46 1.94   9.371    M.Z  11.13 15.3y
POWJECT SR9Tt
ScIme dri9gn            5.21  0.29    5.5-      0J7  0@24  5,27    OM2  0,02  0.31        0.22  0.24  5.27
Project uanut unit  13.50  0.30   13.90         0.43  0.61  2.17    0.76 0.02  0.78       0.55  0.61  2.17
P3Juperv.smitoring     9.50  0.50   10.00      0.31  0.44  5.00    0.53 0.03  0.56        0.40  0.44  5.00
USITlrlON BIJILD116:
Training  uAt.Iuuipm.  27.03 14.47   41.50      1.30  1.84 34.97    1.52 O.9   2.33       1.66  1.94 34.8
rn-idt  particitln   9.00  0.00    9.00         0.29  0.40  0.00    0.51 0.00  0.51       0.36  0.40  0.00
MM99ZIILA P.16JD    34.70 10.30   45.00         1.41  1.99 22.89    1.95 0.S  2.53        1.90  1.99 22.89
IELTNH E0CATIOli             92.90  9.10   91.90      2.9   4.06  9.90    4.65 0.51  5.16        3.6   4.06  9.90
OIER CWILTNY YERVICES:
Leak detectim     -   10.80  2.90   13.60       0.43  0.A0 20.59    0.61 0.16  0.76       0.54  0.60 20.59
lPIeSUA/r.rM lI0R.STFF C"'    69.50 12.10   50.60     2.52  3.56 15.01    3.95 0.69  4.53       3.22  3.56 15.01
M1M1 ENIEERINB CST          210.10 37.10  247.20      7.74 10.93 15.01   11.90  2.09 13.99      9.97 10.93 15.01
SB10T1L Z             471.14 15.96  50.10      11.46 2.63  15.:1    Z.47 4.19 41.4-      ZZ.2  24.W 115.
LAN ACJISITIOUs               4.10  0.00    4.10      0.13  0.19  0.00    0.23 0.00  0.23       0.16  0.19  0.00
EBOACTIWE FINCIN6:
Civil works,ut/equipm.  63.10 13.20   76.30     2.39  3.3V  17.30    3.54 0.74  4.29      3.05  3.37 17.30
Cansultants            13.49  0.71   14.20      0.4   0.63  5.00    0.76 0.04  0.90       0.   0.63  5.00
s1T1mL 4               51.69 14.3M    94.W0     19   4.15 14.1       4.M  0.75  OX      31U  4.11  41
NME MOST                   1912.84 34.36 2Z61.20     70.75 100.00 15.41  107.46 19.57 127.03   90.25 100.00 15.41
COHTl0ECIES:
Pbsical (IOX subtotal 1)   136.10 24.75  160.95      5.03       15.39    7.65 1.39  9.04      6.42        15.39
Price (inf .I exmch. rate)   602.75 171.03  773.77  24.21       22.10    1.71. 2.99  4.69     3.33        63.59
aNiuIl. 4             M.85 195.7/  VX4.0z      Zt.Z5        20.9    9.34  4.31 1.14       y.en       41.5X
XTT. PROECT COST           2651.69 544.13 3195.52    100.00       17.03  116.92 23.94 140.76    100.00      1.01



- 69 -                                             ANNME 3
Page 2
Implementation Profile, Inflation Rates and Factors
IPLE?MTATIQN PROFILEIINFLATION RATES AND FACTORS,EXO4WE RATES
DESCRIPTION              YEAR 0 YEAR I YEM  2 YEAR 3 YEM 4 YEAR 5 YER 6 YER7   TOTMAL
1990  1991   12  1993  1994  1995  19%    199
V1EaSItflY SCtHEES:
Phase I Villa   W sX :                    8I    3 0                          I00
Phase 2    .chees          0.00  10.00X 20.00X 25.00X 25.001 20.00X         100?
6SDA Works &Equips.       10.00X 30.001 30.00X 30.00X  O.OO   O.OO         100X
LeaTage repTir works             20.00X 20.00X 20.00? 20.00X 20.00? 0.00?    100X
SANITATION PROM:                       10.00X 20.00? 25.00? 25.00? 20.00? 0.00?    100?
SUIUIA Iw 
PROJECT SIPUT:
Schei  designs            50.00X 50.00X                                      100?
Project uanagmeht unit   10.00? 15.00X 20.00? 20.002 15.00X 15.00? 5.00?    100?
Pr ,ct 94erv.u it.         5.00? 15.00? 20.00X 20.00? 20.00? 15.00?  5.00?    100?
AStlTUtiuJBILDIIE:
Traininm & "t.Ieqi'.    0.00? 20.00? 20.002 20.00? 20.00? 10.00? 10.00?    lOZ
CoinitywaticZ   iw         5.00215.00? 15.00? 20.00? 20.00? 15.002l10.00?    lOO
i'USSJ/ZIUA P., /RO        5.00? 15.00? 15.002 20.00X 20.002 15.00? 10.00?    100O
LTH. EDUCTIM:                     5.00? 15,002 15M0  70W001 200!E  1;Mm! !Q0QK_    100?
OMR CWNSELTNCY SERICES:
Leak detectim onh                20.00? 20.00220.00220.00W20.00X             100?
ZPIGSDA,FFJFH IIN.STAF EST      20.00? 25.002 25.00 10.00210.0010.00?              100?
WEESIIERIIN COST                 10.00220.00? 25.00225.001Z10.00? 10.00?           100
SJUTUTlL 2
LAD ACJISITION:                   5.00230.00X 30.00230.00?  5.002                   100?
REWROCVE FINACINI:
Civil warks,uat/equipm.  100.00?                                             100?
Cnsultants               100.00?                                             lOO1
(in?incl.conting.)                  7    14    21    24    D         13      1     100
ITION (LOC)               8.402 7.00? 7.00? 6.602 6.502 6.50? 6.20? 6.00X
INLATION (FOR)            3.60? 3.60? 3.60? 3.60W  3.60? 3.602 3.602 3.60?
LMAL                             1.09  1.15  1.23  1.31  1.40  1.4   1.58
-FOREIGN                         1.04   1.07  1.U   1.15  1.19  1.24  1.28



- 70 -
ANN1X 3
Page 3
Base Cost by Year (in Rs Million)
BAK COST B YEAR (in Rs illim)
DESCRIPTION                    YEAR I      YAR 2       YEM 3      YEM 4        E  5        EM 6       VEMR 7       TOTAL
1991        199        1993        199         1595        1996        1997
LC    F FC   C          LFC   IC   PC   LC   FC   8C   FC   IC   FC   LC   FC
WATERSIPPLY SDJEfS:
Phase I Village Ns     1.25  0.23  5.02  0.92  7.52  1.38  7.52  1.38  3.76  0.69  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00      29.7
R-iwil 1       15.64  3.12 62.56 12.48 93.84 19.72 93.94 18.72 46.92  9.36  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00     3.2
Phase 2 k.SIchUS       0.00  0.00 77.37 15.11 154.74 30.22 193.43 37.78 193.43 37.79 154.74 30.22  0.00  0.00  924.8
USDA Works &Equips.    7.06  1.61 21.23  4.82 21.23  4.82 21.23  4.92  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00      86.8
Leakaoe repir works    0.00  0.00  4.00  1.00  4.00  1.00  4.00  1.00  4.00  1.00  4.00  1.00  0.00  0.00      25.0
SPNITATION PR06R4M:          0.00  0.00 15.87  0.94 31.73  l.o? 39.66  2.09 39.66  2.09 31.73  1.67  0.00  0.00     167.0
SBTOTAiL 1            23.9   4.95 186.04 33.16 313.07 37.85 3XF.69 65.77 2B7.77 50.91 190.47 32.89  0.00  0.00    l,G.i
PROECT SUPPORT:
Scheme designs         2.61  0.15  2.61  0.15  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00      5.5
Project mnagenmt unit  1.35  0.03  2.03  0.05  2.70  0.06  2.70  0.06  2.03  0.05  2.03  0.05  0.69  0.02      13.8
PINS eT t sO?dJ v. onit.    0.49  0.03  1.43  0.08  1.90  0.10  1.90  0.10  1.90  0.10  1.43  0.09  0.48  0.03  10.0
INSTITuT"IO JILDINS'  
Training & mat./equips.   0.00  0.00  5.41  2.99  5.41  2.89  5.41  2.99  5.41  2.99  2.70  1.45  2.70  1.45   41.5
Cnmity participation   0.45  0.00  1.35  0.00  1.35  0.00  1.90  0.00  1.90  0.00  1.35  0.00  0.90  0.00      9.0
iEB/liLLA PJSiDWRDD   1.74  0.52  5S   !.55  5.21  1.55  6.94  2.06  6.94  2,06  5.21  1.55  3.47  1.03        45.0
HEALTH EDCTION:              4.14  0.46 12.42  1.37 12.42  1.37 16.56  1.92 16.56  1.92 12.42  1.37  8.29  0.91      91.9
OTHER MISLTKICY SERvICES:
Leak detectim survey   0.00  0.00  2.16  0.56  2.16  0.56  2.16  0.56  2.16  0.56  2.16  0.56  0.00  0.00      13.6
ZP/SSDA/DOPH INCR.STAFF COST   13.70  2.42 17.13  3.03 17.13  3.03  6.95  1.21  6.85  1.21  6.85  1.21  0.00  0.00   80.6
15  ENGINERINS COST         21.01  3.71 42.02  7.42 52.53  9.29 52.53  9.29 21.01  3.71 21.01  3.71  0.00  0.00     247.2
SUBTOTAL 2            45.47  7.30 91.74 17.07 100.79 18.82 96.84 17.98 64.65 12.40 55.15  Y.s6 16.55  3.43    55.1
556.1
LAtID AUISITION:             0.21  0.00  1.23  0.00  1.23  0.00  1.23  0.00  0.21  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00      4.1
RETROACTIVE FICING:
Civil works,hat/equipm.  63.10 13.20  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  76.3
Consultants           13.49  0.71  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00      14.2
SU8TUTAL 3               76.80 13.91  1.23  0.00  1.23  0.00  1.23  0.00  0.21  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00      94.6
8ASE COST                  146.23 26.16 279.02 52.23 415.09 76.63 457.76 93.75 352.63 63.31 245.62 42.85 16.50  3.43   .2,2612
CONTINGENCIES
-SICAL                   2.40  0.50 18.60  3.52 31.31  5.78 35.97  6.58 28.78  5.09 19.05  3.29  0.00  0.00     160.9
-PRICE lLC)             11.44       45.35       103.01     153.73      151.27      12.44         9.50           602.7
(FC)                     3.29       14.51       30.84       44.13       41.67       33.66        2.94     171.0
5JBUTOTAL 4             13.84  3.78 63.96 18.02 134.31 36.62 18.70 50.70 180.04 46.76 147.49 36.95  9.50  2.94   34.6
934.6
TOTAL MROECT COST          160.07 29.95 342.97 70.25 549.40 113.25 64.45 134.46 532.67 110.07 39.10 79.90 26.01  64.6   3,195.9



ANNEX 3
- 71 -                                            Page 4
Bass Cost by Year (ln USS Million)
ME CT BY YlA (in  S uillion)
DESCRIPTION                  YEAR I      YEAR 2      YEAR 3     YEAR 4      YEMA 5     YEM 6       YEIR I       OTIIL
191        1992        1993       194         1995 '      199N       197
LC    FC   LC   FC   LC   FC   LC   fC   LC   FC   LC   FC   LC   FC
A7ERSlFPLY SGESt
Phase I Villae us     0.07  0.01  0.29  0.05  0.42  0.08  0.42  0.08  0.21  0.04  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   1.7
ReQimal US     0." &  .18      3.1S      5.27  1.05  5.27  1:   2:.  0.53  0.00  0.   0    0.00      .1
Phase2 W6.Schme       0 00 .0   .:    85  8.69  170 108   .2  10 87  2.12  8.6  1.7   0 00 0.0              .
6SWorks FAuipa.       0.40  0.09  1.19  0.27  1.19  0.27  1.19  0.27  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   4.9
Leakag  Q rir iw      0.00  0.00  0.22  0.06  0.22  0.06  0.22  0.06  0.22  0.06  0.22  0.06  0.00  0.00   1.4
SWNITATION                 0.00  0.00  0.89  0.05  1.79  0.09  2.23  0.12  2.23  0.12  1.78  0.09  00  0.00     9.4
UIiUw L I             1.33  0.29 10A  1.4 L   17.3V  3.25 Z.Z1  3.70 16.17  Z.35 10.70  1 .8 0.00 p .yw  W
90.4
PROJECT SPRT:
Schu  duilp           0.15  0.01  0.15  0.01  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.3
Project .mnt utit  0.08  0.00  0.11  0.00  0.15  0.00  0.15  0.00  0.11  0.00  0.11  0.00  0.04  0.00      0.8
Project   .nit.       0.03  0.00  0.08  0.00  0.11  0.01  0.11  0.01  0.11  0.01  0.09  0.00  O.3  0.00   0.6
INSTIUTION 111B
Training & ut./rqulpm.  0.00  0.00  0.30  0.16  0.30  0.16  0.30  0.16  0.30  0.16  0.15  0.08  0.15  0.08  2.3
Camsmityparticz ban   0.03  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.08  0.00  0.10  0.00  0.10  0.00  0.08  0.00  0.05  0.00   0.5
EMSJ/1LLA P./ SDPIID   0.10  0.03  0.29  0.09  0.29  0.09  0.39  0.12  0.39  0.12  0.29  0.09  0.19  0.06  2.5
WELTH EUCATION:             0.23  0.03  0.70  0.08  0.70  0.08  0.93  0.10  0.93  0.10  0.70  0.08  0.47  0.05   5.2
OTHER CON8LTNCY #MCES:
Leak detectim wru     0.00  0.00  0.12  0.03  0.12  0.03  0.12  0.03  0.12  0.03  0.12  0.03  0.00  0.00   0.9
ZP/6SDAIDOPH 14R.STWF COSt    0.77  0.14  0.96  0.17  0.96  0.17  0.38  0.07  0.39  0.07  0.39  0.07  0.00  0.00  4.5
NM  EN618IERIN6 COST        1.18  0.21  2.36  0.42  2.95  0.52  2.95  0.52  1.18  0.21  1.18  0.21  0.00  0.00  13.9
sUTA  Z               z.55  0.41  5.15  U.9  3.66  1.06  5.44  l.   3.63  0.70  3.10  0.56  0.93  0.19     1.4
31.4
LAND AC9UISITISN:           0.01  0.00  0.07  0.00  0.07  0.00  0.07  0.00  0.01  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.2
EACTMIVE FINACINS:
Civil Norks,atiequip.   3.54  0.74  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  4.3
Cansultants           0.76  0.04  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.9
bVlTUHL 4    *          4.31  0.17  0.07  0.0w  0.07  0.00  0.07  0.o0  Q.01  0.u  0.00  Q.0W  0.w   .a       5.3
5.3
DASES                       9.22  1.47 15.69  2.93 23.32  4.30 25.72  4.71 19.81  3.56 13.90  2.41  0.93  0.19    127.0
CONrIN8IEBES
PHYSICAL                0.13  0.03  1.05  0.20  1.76  0.32  2.02  0.37  1.62  0.29  1.07  0.19  0.00  0.00    9.0
PRICE (LC)              -0.06      -0.31       -0.11       0.4k        0.77       0.92        0.00            1.7
(FC)                    0.05        0.23       0.52        0.77        0.74       0.61        0.05      3.0
NDluiIL 4               Q.w5  Q.W1  Q.14  0.4  1.65  Q.14  233  1.1;  Z.A   I.0M  1.99  0.50  0.0  Q.u0    1M.r
TOTAL PROJECT COST          8.29  1.55 16.41  3.36 24.S7  5.15 28.15  5.95 22.19  4.59 15.79  3.20  1.01  0.25    140.8
TOTAYEM             ~V.85                   I.i7-          u                   Zb..7 34.00  2&.i5  1a."  1.Z5    140.r
YEARY EXPDIDITUE PROFIL (in 2)    6.99       14.05      21.40       24.15      19.03       13.49       0.89    100.0



- 72-                                       ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Schedule of IDA Disbursements
(in US$ Million)
Sank FinaneIng Year      Disbursement                       Digburureent      Dlebur.emnt
Quarter Ending           In Quarter        Cumulativ        U of Totel        Profil- (M)
1902   Sept. 80, 1991        a.75             8.75              S.41
Dec. 81, 1991         8.75             7.50              8.82               6.3
March 81. 1992        3.7             11.28             10.26
Juno 80, 10m          8.76            15.05             18.69
1908   Sept. 80, 1992        8.76            16.08             17.18
Dec. 81, 1902         8.76            22.61             20.57              18.7
March 81, 19983       5.2             23.42             25.36
June 80, 1998         5.62            84.24             81.16
1994   Sept. 80, 1953        5.82            40.06             86.45
Dec. 81, 1908         6.62            45.68             41.75              21.2
March 81, 1994        6.62            52.50             47.77
Jun. 80, 1994         6.62            59.12             68.79
1995  Sept. 80, 1994         6.62            S6.7S             59.61
Doc. 81, 1994         6.62            72.85             65.68              24.1
March 81, 1095        5.85            77.70             70.70
June 30, 1996         6.856           68.0              75.67
1996   Sept. gO, 1995        5.85            U8.41             60.45
Dec. 81, 1906         6.85            98.70             86.81               19.5
March 31, 1996        8.77            97.52             68.74
June 80, 1996         8.77           101.29             92.17
1997   Sept. 80, 1996        8.77           106.06             95.59
Doc. 81, 1998         8.77           106.62             99.02               18.7
March 81, 1997        0.44           109.20             99.42
June 80, 1907         0.44           109.70             99.62
1906   Sept. 8o, 1997        0.10            109.6             99.91
Doc. 81, 1997         0.10            109.9            100.00                1.0
TOTAL                      109.94                                                 100.0
=N 
NOTE: Numbers may not tally due te rounding.



_73  -                                            ANNEX  4
Page 2
World Bank Financingt Shares
- (in US$ Hillion) -
DESCRIPTION                   LUDK.   TAXES   YEARMI  YEAR2  VWM3  YEAR 4  YEA5    A6   YEAR97                     TOTAL
FWIKIN    NO        1991    199      1993    199     1995    199     1997
WE X    OUTIES
TERSWIPLY SCKfES:
Phase 1 Village NS          90?    9.3X   0.07    0.27    0.41    0.41    0.20    0.00    0.00              1.36
Regional NS         90X   10.3?   0.85    3.40    5.11    5.11    2.55    0.00    0.00             17.02
PWe2  |   g         ~~~~90Xa  20:  83Sg   4:1    1:0   10:150   l8J         8:0    gOO             5
90X    8.0I   0.00    0.23    0.23    0.23      .23    0.23    0.00            1.16
SMNITATIONPOR                       90X    9.4?   0.00    0.77    1.53    1.91    1.91    1.53    0.00              7.65
UIUTL I                                   1r.z,    s.n    16.7i   1Y lO   13.40  1U.1    0.U.             72.th
X of total cost   00.42
PRlOECT SFP08T:
Schem  designs             100?    5.0m   0.15    0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00             0.29
Project managemnt unit     100?    7.2?   0.07    0.11    0.14    0.14    0.11    0.11    0.04             0.72
Project supr.oonit.        100X    5.0?   0.03    0.03    0.11    0.11    0.11    0.08    0.03             0.53
INSTITUTION MUILDI8:
Trainin  &  at./equi*Pm.   100?    6.4?   0.00    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.22    0.22             2.18
Cominit  articipatxo       100?    1.0?   0.03    0.08    0.09    0.10    0.10    0.08    0.05             0.50
ll8S3/ZlA P./6SD            qX90?   15.9?   0.10    0.29    0.29    0.38    0.38    0.29    0.19           1.91
HIATH EDUCATION:                   100X   11.9?   0.23    0.68    0.69    0.91    0.91    0.68    0.45              4.55
OTR COTSLLTARCY SERVICES:
Leak detection survey      100?   16.5?   0.00    0.13    0.13    0.13    0.13    0.13    0.00             0.64
ZP/6SDA/DOPH INCR.STAFF COST        73?    0.0?   0.66    0.83    0.83    0.33    0.33    0.33    0.00             3.32
SSD E NINERIN COST                  53?    0.0    0.73    1.47    1.84    1.84    0.73    0.73    0.00             7.35
;UIJUTOlL Z                               low     4.zr    C.M      4.3     3.2w    23.    u.wy            ".ll0
2 of total cost  70.17
LAND ACQUISITION:                    OX
RETROACTIVE FINACIN:
Civil works,mat/equipm.     90?   13.12   3.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00             3.35
Consultants                100?    5.0X   0.76    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00             0.76
wutIL u                 -                      4.11    U.W     0.UU    U.W0    U.W0      .00    U.W             4.11
Z of total cost  77.34
OST                                               7.37   14.16   21.25   23.58   18.64   12.81    0.98            98.79
CONTIN6CIES
PHYSICAL                       90?   10.0?   0.13    1.01    1.69    1.94    1.54    1.02    0.00              7.32
-PRICE                          90?   10.0?   0.00   -0.07    0.33    0.96    1.22    1.24    0.11              3.80
B1U01AL 4                                      0.13    0.U4    Z.0Z    Z.1     2.716   .2b6  o0.11             11.1l
X of total cost  81.00
ToTAL OUDK  FINCIN6                               7.50   15.11   23.27   26.48   21.40   15.06    1.0             109.90
2 of total project cost  78.08



- 74 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
RETROACTIVE FINANCING
Introduction
1.          The following works and goods would qualify for retroactive
financing (expenditure after April 30, 1990):
_     ongoing contacts in regional schemes which will be included in the
project. LCB procurement arrangements have been checked and found
satisfactory. A time slice of 1 year prior to effectiveness of
the IDA project will be considered for financing
-     supply of hand pumps.  Bids under LCB piocedure for a first lot of
pumps will be invited. Contract award is expected in March 1991
and delivery is expected before credit effectiveness
-     supply of drilling rigs.  Bids under ICB procedure will be
invited.  Award is expected in April. Approximatelj 20X of the
contract value will be spent prior to credit effectiveness
-     drilling of borewells and hydrofracturing of wells carried out by
GSDA prior to credit effectiveness. It is proposed to finance a
portion of the operating and materials cost
-     water source development for the 8 draught stricken villages of
the proposed pilot project. GSDA will carry out part of these
works prior to credit effectiveness
-     mobilization advance payment for the proposed first large civil
works contract, to be procured under ICB. Award is expected in
June 1991
-     consultancy services for project preparation.



ANNEX S
P?8g 2
- 75 -
Base Cost Estimates
Description                                                            Total
(Re. M)
A) Civil works, material and equipments
Ongoing civil works contracts:
Agreement B1/18 (SE) 89-90 - Sangli
Total value of contractP Rs. 1,162,789
Proposed for retroactive financing                                 1.04
Agreement B1117 (SE) 89-90 - Sangli
Total value of c#ntract Rs. 3,682,576
Proposed for retroactive financing                                 3.41
Agreement B2/22 (SE) 89-90 - Sangli
Total value of contract Rs. 4,752,000
Proposed for retroactive financing                                 3.61
Agreement B2162 90-90 - Pune
Total value of contract Rs. 1,400,195
Proposed for retroactive financing                                 1.40
Supply of hand pumps (first lot)                                   4.40
Supply of drilling rigs (advance payment)                          6.30
Drilling of borewells (by GSDA)                                   11.00
Water source development for pilot villages (by GSDA)              1.10
Mobilization advance payment for proposed civil
works contract                                                    44.00
Total for A)                                                          76.26



ANNX 5
- 76-                               Page  3
B) Consulting Services
M/s Kirloskar, final design Phase 1
Total contract value Re 4 million
Proposed for retroactive financing                              4.00
Final design Phase 2
Estimate for retroactive financing                              4.10
M/s Shah Technical Consultants, final design Phase 2
Total ccatract value Rs 6.3 million
Estimate for retroactive financing                              3.80
VJTI Technical Institute, Special Studies
Total contract value Re. 0.2 million
Estimate for retroactive financing                              0.20
Progressive Research Aid (PRA)
Total cointract value Rs 1.1 million
Proposed for retroactive financing                              1.10
Health Study
Total contract value Re. 3.0 million
Proposed for retroactive financing                              1.00
Total for B)                                                          14.20



- - - -                                            - - m "-
-77-                                ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
IMAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING GUIDELINES
1.        The following guidelines should be used by the PPMU in its reports
to the World Bank. Sections I and II below would be sarnt in a report to the
Bank on a quarterly basis. Section II would be completed every six months.
Program Progress
2.        This section applies to all componentss  rural water supply,
environmental sanitation, health education and institutional strengthening.
(a) investment, programming and/or physical targets accomplished during
the reporting period, separately for each component;
(b) a comparison of the actual progres6 of implementation at the end of
the reporting period with the original forecast of progress in the
staff Appraisal Report and the Annual Action Plan;
(c) actual or contemplated material deviations from the original plans
or schedules and the annual action plan:
'd) other changes, events or condition which would materially delay
implementation or increase its costs;
(e) the expected dates of completion of principal physical elements of
the project, such as the civil works;
(f) summary of the reports on the quality of construction supervision
prepared by the engineering consulting firm.
Financial Progress
(a)  schedule of actual and estimated cost estimates and disburseiaents
during the reporting period;
(b) comparison of actual p.-ogress at the end of the reporting period
with the original forecast of progress in the Staff Appraisal Report
and the Annual Action Plan;
(c) list of disbursement applications and payment certificates;
(d) list of all contracts with all basic data and showing payment
progress;
(e) record of funds required for maintenance of water supply 8s emes and
a schedule of collections by district and by scheme.



mum.       m-                    m m -  -- --  * - M -  =----    v
-78 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 2
Progress Toward Achieving_Obiectives
3.        In order to measure the progress being made toward achieving the
overall project objectives of improving health and productivity, the PPNU
would need to identify 10-15 key project social indicators which would be
agreed with the BAnk. Some of these indicators would be measurable during the
early years of the project buy many would not be used until after the
completion of construction of the first phase water supply schemes. The
indicators should be selected in a way which would provide the project
management with information and analysis to guide their decision making with
respect to implementation. After the selection of indicators, a list of
factors would be identified which would measure the indicators. These factors
would require sample field surveys and would be contained in a short
questionnaire which will be developed as part of the monitoring system. There
is a computer monitoring system already developed to analyze the factors and
measure the indicators which will be made available to the PPHU.
4.        The indicators could include the following:
(a)  water quality
(b)   use of new water supply sources
(c)  water consumption
(d)  hand washing
(e)  health of women
(f)   health of children
(g)   use of latrines
(h)   disposal of wabte water
.i)   time saved by women
(j)   incidence of water related diseases
(k)   awareness of health education messages



- 79-                             AMNN   ?
Page i
INDIA
HMARAS(TRA RU-a" WAiT SUPPLY & ENhVIRONNETAL SANITA-ZION PROJECT
Financial Analyses of District Schemes
A. District Finances
1.          The State of Maharashtra has a three tier district government
structure comprising Zilla Parishads, Panchayat Samitis and Gram Panchayats.
These three bodies derive their functions, duties and powers from the Bombay
Village Panchayat Act (1958) and the Maharashtra Parishads and Panchayat
Samitis Act (1961). Essentially, a Zilla Parishad is the District-level
administration, the Panchayat Samitis represent intermediate levels of
District administration, and the Gram Panchayats each administer a number of
villages. From the standpoint of realizing income and utilizing it for
constructing of maintaining public works, only the Zilla Parishad and Gram
Panchayats are significant.
2.          A Zilla Parishad derives revenues from business taxes, from road
and bridge tolls, and from various license fees and stamp duties. It also
receives part of the State-levied cesses on land and irrigation water within
its jurisdiction. A Zilla Parishad also derives income from *agency charges%,
whereby they may charge certain State departments 32 of the cost of capital
works which they may execute on behalf of the department. It also may derive
income from property rentals and from interest earned on its cash balances.
In addition, a Zilla Parishad receives State grants from the construction of
public works. In practice, the major part of a Zilla Parishad's income is
derived from agency charges, interest income and its share of the State-levied
cesses. In the Pune District, for example, these sources represented some 50O
of income in FY 1988, with State public works grants amounting to another 25X.
3.          The principal sources of revenue for a Gram Panchayat is the house
tax, which is based on assessed real property values. Typically, this tax
represents from 5O0 to 752 of a Gram Panchayat's income. Other revenues such
as light taxes, building rentals on shares of State-levied land cesses tend to
be minor by comparison. Aside from the house tax, a Gram Panchayat's income
is largely grants from the Zilla Parishad from small works such as latrines.
4.          A Gram Panchayat collects small annual fees from households who
are serviced by public standposts, to help meet the costs of maintaining
drinking water schemes. They also are empowered to levy water charges, within
statutory limits, on households which have house taps. Hence, the
administration of water fees and charges did receive much attention by Gram
Panchayats. However, with design criteria and policies now encouraging house
taps, these fees and charges will become a significant source of revenue for
the operation and maintenance of village schemes (including the village
portions of regional schemes).



-8-                                ANNEX8 
Page 2
5.          In cases where villages must be supplied water through regional,
or other large schemes requiring extensive conveyance, pumping, storage or
treatment works, the Zilla Parishad must bear the costs of operating and
maintaining works up to village boundaries. The State government has
recognized the importance of ensuring that the district's set aside sufficient
funds to cover these costs. In 1986 the State issued a Government Order that
required the Zilla Parashads to create a separate 'Fund for Maintenance and
Repairs of Rural Drinking Water Supply Works". Under this order the Zilla
Parashad must credit to the Fund not less than 202 of its regular income, to
be used solely for maintenance of water supply works.
B. Government Subsidies
6.          Rural water supply and sanitation works in Maharashtra, as in
other Indian States, tend to be heavily subsidized through State and Central
Government programs. Capital costs of water supply schemes, whether
constructed by Zilla Parashads or MWSSB, are covered by State grants.
Similarly, the cost of village handpumps to meet basic needs is covered by
grants. Large but partial subsidies are provided for village drainage schemes
and for household latrines.
7.          The various subsidies for rural water supply and sanitation
facilities can be supported given that these services are essential to public
health; that the capital costs often are relatively high given the village
populations which the facilities serve; and that poverty is widespread in
rural areas. Financial analyses during project preparation showed that unless
water charges to village households were set substantially higher than what
urban domestic households pay, it is not feasible to expect recovery of piped
water supply capital costs for rural schemes -- especially for the very
expensive regional schemes. Also, it was judged that attempts to reduce
drainage and latrine subsidies only for works under an IDA-financed project
would have the consequence of reducing latrine demand, and actually undermine
the health improvement objectives of the project. Hence, the project aims to
ensure that household water charges would be sufficient to cover village-level
operation and maintenance of the schemes by the Gram Panchayats; and that
reasonable levels of credits to the statutory water supply maintenance funds
of the Zilla Parashads would be sufficient to support larger schemes works
beyond the villages.
C. Financing of Operations and Maintenance
8.          The DRD/GOM has agreed to levying and collecting house tap and
public standpost charges to support the operation and maintenance (O&M) of
village water supply schemes. Essentially, DRD/GOM will set village-specific
charges based on estimates of actual O&M costs. Such charges would be set
between minimum and maximum statutory limits. The current limits are being
reviewed by the DRDIGOM, with intention of increasing them to ensure their
adequacy. In the case of regional water supply schemes where especially high
O&M costs could not be fully covered by maximum statutory charges, sufficient
amounts from Zilla Parishad general income would be deposited in the Zilla



-81-                               ANNEX 7
Page 3
Parishads' statutory water supply maintenance fund to cover such costs.
Collection of house tap and public standpost charges would be twice a year,
timed to coincide with harvesting periods.
9.          A district specific financial analyses suggests that the
governments proposals are reasonable. House tap charges in the order of Rs.
200 per year, and public standpost charges of about Rs. 80 per year should be
sufficient to cover O&M costs of the large majority of village schemes in the
project districts. These levels of charges represent the high end of present
statutory limits.   With similar rates being charged in villages served by
regional schemes, the analyses also shows that additional amounts needed in
the district water supply maintenance funds for regional scheme O&M in the
districts should not be significantly more than the current statutory minimum
of 20Z of district income. In three of the more drought-prone districts the
funds may require about 282 to 302 of income, while in the other seven
districts the needed amounts are expected to vary between 202 and 262.
10.         The financial analysis also reveals that major annual adjustments
over the next five or six years are not likely to be needed to cover operating
cost price inflation. The effects of such price inflation will tend to be
offset by revenue from increased house taps resulting from forecasted village
population increases.



.Il..,  Il                                      I         *-II          |                           I I                 -  -.   -- - -  -
-82-                                                         ANNEX7
Page 4
l"ll0
RUAL HAMTE DIULY NOl EWIREMAL WVITITIE NU  IN MA              )
DITICT a PIN                                O1M   W T IWNUM         J (EICIT) 3STAM            (h.'10I
km2      3m    1m              95       1990      1m        1m        29        200
VILLIAE sa1.,
MIR            4   1.40       .91       .74       .02  4    .32) 4   1.71) 4   2.07) 4   L711 l   4.13)
HIITIEl        I  12.52) 1  12.21) 1  12.1)  I          14.60  I  15.13) I  I035) I  17.59 1   1N.9 2  2I.3)
IlLAUE            15.41     21.20     22.12      21.71     21.13     23.9      19.92     19.1m     1L.
613            4   7.391 1   5.90  I   60.4      7.39) 1   6.42) 1   9.50) 4  1.6   1   .I1.")     1.23)
Xwll              11.U      17.35      1379      ILA       13.31     17.9      17.4      20.91      160.
.INIUCIL       1   3.10U 1   5.20)     5.52) 4     U0.   (   7.50  I   Ln91    9 V.93      11.20)1   1 2.71)
.d5      .00        .05       .35       .3        .35        .35       .35       .3
.         .e .5     .3        .3        .35       .3        .3        .35        .
.35       .e5      .3         .35       .35       .35        .35       .5        .
.dl      .e5        .35       .35       .35       .3        .35        .35      .*
.3       .35        .         .to       .3        .3        .01       .35        .3
UITIUAL 1()                  2.171    10.59      10.       12.4       7.51      2.23  1   3.41) I   9.71 410.46)
EUIUU. of I11
KATIN               .3   I 60.7341 010.241 1 1154.27) 1 1=I111 145.711 I 144.0) I 1146211 I 3210
KNILU               .   I 40.39) 4 517.11) I  W.40) 4 590.   I           l .47)    UL2.17) I 7129.3) 1 179.42
IlIUM!              .01  4 150.41) 4 291.14) I 350.15)   409.=  I 464.9)   324.91)    1"..)  0 4620
13TATL 11)                    .0   I 1432U.U  41 14.49  1 2307.   1        1         19.35) I    Jl?.091 I21274) 4 3167.9  4 31.)
CULIIATE  IIPEITIE       4   2.17) I 141.19)1 1797.91) 4 2L3fi (23 21.4   I 044)  27.3    3117.0   ( M).20
WLDIKICIT) FlM
THE DIRICT *
UDWIttEL CTRIUINi
fIUNuRD FR TIE DIUTRICT      2.17   1410.19   IM."    20.13   251.4     300.44   2.D.22   3177.0    3).24
FUI( 40113 UY
1. TARIFF i
_ IT C a U.23  P..
STAMM17  1.1 P.L
2. S1  CMUTIN  a
MTIC  AEIWUS i I1IU
TlAWUT  A t     11  ftSBtl
3. ECTI EFICUI
TM Ms
ppgp Inu



- 83 -
AMI 7
~~~.r t ~~~~~Pago S
R.P:L WS                                 E IPP:l  M. D-WAMWqIAt 9AI'4714 OEZ? :R9Az 23&
USi~ r.    D e!:                                  S1UtlRV 2FE:.!N  919.'.US.;1  / (DE-;c:T) 3?TST.:Ent
_~~~~~~ . ..... _.__.......... ..____
l99;       1r92        1994       :9;5        !996       1997        1930       1997        2000
................ .... . ...  ..... ... ....... . ...  ....... _.__..... __ ......._.__....... ___.__._.... . ..
UM:A2-?P'.7    (       .:21      2.41        2.27       1.55         .6H   1     .241 t    1.24' '   :.11   1    3.17)
XIASW4J.t            6.2'       13.10       14.-9      14.14       14.06       13.97    , 1V.76       13 51      13.27
Plz"4352         (    M.0t) 1.72              1.;   t    .o1S  C    1.64) 1 S.11)          4.I34 f    M.M33  (   1.U4
BRNI0 W CX3          1.;7       :6.44       16.94         .3       14.9M       13.83      12.57      t1.20        9.1
XUWTEFL R.90                     9.47        9.91       9. 6        9.12       6.56        7.93        7.22       6.'t
3v .WfAXP             1.9        4.25        4.M5       3.71        S.10       2.37        1.57         .' 0       .:I )
illlLUPU         I       } 9.42I   6 8.733) 4 9.09)    111.9? t   12.6) I   14.33 1    16.20) :   19.24) 1   "40.47'
9CAUC            I    7.02) I    6.41) t    7.30S1 I    .3) I    9.49) I   11.17   I  12.71) I  14.43: t   16.'01
.         KA1st  i    5.44) I   4.69 I       5.41s)     6.49)       7.nm   t   9.10) t   10.5) 1   12.20) 1   13,MM
KOVA.                 1.10       3.83        I."        2.14         .6?  I      .96) 1    2.  , I    4.13) 4   6.l9'
13-TOTAL II)                     2.77       31.49      29.75       21.22      10.94  I      .25) I   12.49) I  Z.2314 t        . .?7
PMR.M.S.               .00      4.10  1    t.562) C  12.5      166.31) 4 212.30) ( 263.82)     32.24; 1 255.85)
tiRUR                                   4 461.01) (  M2I.92  4  227.91)   20.85' I 3LM   ( .452.81) 4 555.12).
I'.2-TOTAL 13)                   *.0        41.10  ( 5'0.63) 1 347.47. t  394.12) I 491.-   4  62t6.3V) 1 774.:2  t 940.7)
CdOMIGITED OPEAT!?4              2 77       79.59  4    0.81 4 36.251   3 5311) 1 4".60? 4 69.13) 1 799.93) 1 99.04)
ISMMUIM/12E:;iT) FuR
Th  ODSTRSICT
M:D.TICUL N?iN
aEMW1R3  F2a THE O11TAXT          .40         .00     !.fl        326.25     353.19 l    AM.6       69.33       79.95      9W.94
FUN  IM4TR  MPY
MZNTEMANCE)
A69Ij)TI01N 
1. TARIFF I
I0!IEITZ : P9.s.0 PPA.
E61*NPCST a 11.50 P.A.
2. 2 F COISTN
om?_t. ICC rcNcu  To W 611
STAWO  TI ACCRDIE TI ROB161
3. COLLECTION EPFIC:EIICT
BERTIC,  l0
3NiArD0? D S



X       i3333333233  i             133  1  5  
I'    -                                    e     
ii.                      -~~...     ...      
I    ;.....          ..  .       ...
|           . .  .   .      ' 
Li 9i  Et8888st8.a a Li
C    m! |               X lgl.!       Xtil  lklIe                                 .6  s   



- 85 -
ANNEX 7
Page 7
RURL NATEO SUPLY AN ENYINOWWAL SANITATION PWECT  tNAAT)
DISTRICT a TANE                              U Y IRTINS SUPU /           ICIT) SATEMT          (h. 00)
2         1993      194       19        IY        I997      1          199       20e0
YILLAME SCHEME
.0       .00        .e0       .o0       .60       .o0       .e0        .e0      .o0
.00       .60       .60       .e0       .e0       .0        .60       .o        .ee
.00       .60      .00        .o        .o        .0        .          .o        .e
.60       .60       .60       .ee       .eo       .60       .eo        .o0      .6
.00       .e0       .0        .e0       .60       .o0        .0        .0        .0
.e0      .oe        .10       .14       .e0       .16       .50        .50   .2 0
.eo       .60       .60       .90       .ee       .o0       .60        .0I    .19
.ee       .e0      .60        .e0       .6        .e0       .ee       .60        .6
.e0      .60 o      . .       .6        .60       .o 00.e             .60        .60
.110      .e0      .60        .60       .e0       .60       .eo        .eo       .6
.60       .60       .60       .ee       .eo       .e0       .60        .e0       .
SIR-TUTU. IA)                 .60       .60       .60        .eo       .eo       .60       .o        .60       .ee
_     WPURA         .ee    416.3      341.10    315.24    21315    260.1    261.9    23.51    214.19
ASIA                .eo  I 3).23) I 33.3) I 33.90) 1 391.96)   422.17  4 45.74  I 41.93 1 527.19
PCIII               .60  I. 413.99  1 44.31) I 4.43) 1 522.60) I 542.77  £ 1013?  I 654.5) I 701.6
523-TTAt  II)                 .60  I 34.13)   444.59) I 53.1)IO  615.13) L?0.0I) 6 66.11) I 90.98) I 1119.22)
CSlIIATD WIRATINSB            .0       30.15)1  444.59)   53.19) I  1.3)   704.06      00.11)   904.91)  1019.22)
SURPLUSIIIU1FCIt) F
THE DISTRICT 
A3ITIOAL ClUMJtrll
REWIR E     T F IN DIIICT     .60    30.15    444.9        3.1      615.3     704.06    30.11     94.91   109.2
FUI (III hOLY
M.AINTENANC)
AW1n
1. TARlIF 8
IETIC: 11.260 P.L
PTAN01ST   U.0 P.A.
2. Z IF CDIECIMtle
1111WC  ACCMUIE TO Mu1m
I"tAW    UM 1 9 WMBl
3. UCLlSc    EFFICIUIWI
31It   o n
UnI    as 



-86                                                          AINNE  7
Page 8
R    lK II AUPNLY I  EAO    ROlWIL S1ITA110N PD)T I1MM         )
DISTRICT I SATMA                             SIY P TIfh KOM  I IIICIT) STAT T                    (05. O00)
m2         9m      I           91       19        5997      1m         599       20
VILLSE Kiwi
MIl1E          C   3.5) I   1.941 (   2.52) 1   3.10) 4   4.78) I   1.01) 4   7.33) 1   6.72) (  11.25)
S1%wD          4   3.75)     1. l.UI    2.21) i   3.12) 4   4.13)     5.20) 4   4.34) I   7.5) I   6.1)
WAA_Alt            4.30       6.03      3.27       7.75       .09      41.37     5.57     '.7l        3.71
CUUNADI            12.9t     15.79    1u.73       17.29     17.71     16.27      13.77     19.29      9.S1
ULhEAI         I    .451 1   1.70) 4   3.40) I   4.621     1.261 1   1.041   10.01) 1   12.19 14  14.11)
LHMI          I   2.49) I    .50N   I    .1)  15.30)     2.04) I   2.      3.47) 1    4.59) 1   5.31
.00       .00       .00        .00       .00       .00        .00       .tO       .11
.00       .00       .0e       .00        .00       .0o       .0t        .0e       .0
.0        .00       .0o       .0o        .00       .0e        .         .0  o     .0
.0       .00        .00       .ON        .0t       .00        .00       .0        .0
.00       .0        .0         .0        .0        .0         .0        .0        .0
SUB-TOTAL IA)                 1.96     17.15      N1.       12.0       7.1        2.7  4   3.01) I   9.OJ £  1U.72)
RESIO _ 
KNITAL               .00  I 405.93) 4 453.23)   490.00)  525.57) 1 513.01) 4  03.00)5 1 0,6313  1951.07)
.00       .eo       .00        .00       .oo       .oo        .oo       .00       .0
.00       .o0       .oe        .0e       .00       .00        .00       .0        .00
1o1-TtAL  5 )                  .00       405.9) I 453.21) I 490.05 4 125.57) I S.) I   3o.) I  WO.W  (  19.07)
CUlSILIDAID PRTIN             6.9   I 3.0)1 ( 431.75) I 477.10    557.91)    510.49)     0.0) I U.71) 4 7.79)
SIJPLUlIEFICIT) FOR
THE DISTRICT B
ADDITIONAL CTlRIMJIE
RE0IEI FOR THE DISTRICT        .00     M.06    43.75    477.10    517.91    560.49    104.01    u9.71    704.79
FUND (MATOR SWPLY
KAINTENANCE)
ASWehh  a
1. TAIfF F
SUISQTIC a Rt.200 P.A.
gTL905   HRS.  P.A.
2. s OF CtIECTI, t
SOTIC t ACCODI  105191
StAWOST  AWAIDI TO te MUS
3. CVjECT   ItN EFItIC
ETIC a 
n19al



-87 A-M.2
Paso 9
MML NAM  rWY o WINUnTAL UWITATIN PWC IfuIMI
DIIITRIC                                   Nf        fWiTIS iLm     I lFICIT) nTUIn
Iff2        3       341       1"9        99       3"?7       IN       199       2
6110151             .24      3.*       2."       2.65       1.6       .56  1   1.113 1    2.321(   3.63
MiUME             3.5        9.2       11.21 *.u            4.77      2.81       .3  I   1.93      4.74)
UShmIfl        1    .39)     2.07       .91      1.21       .44  1    .413  I   1.34  I   2.35  1  .431
51.3      I4.3      17.43     17.23     14.92     14.4       L."      15.3       14.71
amE               22.71     31.13     32."       33.36     33.5     3L3        33.74       .74     33.71
_                 19.4      24.65     2.44        7.3      247       2433      2LX       24.%    *23.0
CNIEHkI        I    .72)     2.1       2.24       1.24       .19  1   1.13)     2.41)     3.) I    .43)
016111           61.46    1.4        14.44      1549      14.4      IL29      15.9      1.L        9.5l
1111I             34.32     u4.70     46.24      49.V7     70.44     79.42     71.32     71.39     f.U
cm                19.73     27.1t     26.56      19.29     29.39     29.1      29.12     29.7      29.
.5       .5         .         .so       .56       .5        .5        .5         .6
1-7L  IA)                      ,72      e.n     2.u       23.37    397.52    391.01    333.31       7 IN.9   36.39
UWIL  3301
OIIUIPU             .e  I 117.414 )   51.0 I  11 3711  156.24       9 I4.30)   26.94)   224.."9   3 24
CNITlLI             .*  I 369.29  I 33e.n) I  36.21)1  3M4U I 417.3) 4 44.44) I 417.34) 1 si."7)
W1OTL fit                     .e  I 424.641I 419.4) I 533.9  f 57.) f 611.47) I 43) I 7 2.74A) 1 m.1)
CfLI3AID V        3         194.72  I 2V.24)   233.1) I 32671  I 37.3  I 429.441 4471.1  1 527.m 71  16.44)
11WPINPICIT) FM
nIE D3tRItt@ 
mm..L CUTIITIE
INIS FM TNE DIMUCT            .56    22724    33.41    32675 1       M13      429.U4     471.5     S7.77    f.44
FM flow an
1. T -r 
0W1T 11111.1U P.A
n r lPUt 33.5  1.6
2. I IIF  InI I
S.    *MI IICI   U   131
3. Uh1BEI W ICI M
ITIUOT i M



a~~~~ 
!';i  ;   33313332ii.      .               
co 
22i 2s8882 82232
3-            .  .  .   .  .  .   .  8.  .  .    .
'I                                                                       3 ! XYSg8   II FSS   
...........:
liI giIi 888ts888                                               1111111  ^  j   -
jl.  | 1            3 3:  1      u       E              i ji 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



s~~~~~~~~~ ^
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ @
all       ~  ~~~. .. .                          I        
§~~~ XU.888888_                                   i8    
i88828222S8I _            8                u  
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          W                     (011 j!  --8t88S'"  8        o ta
(0  . ~ ~. .   .(.  .  ..  .  .  . 
O    |I  jg -                 I      In    lJ- |i    *'=E *I-                 *   



- 90 -                                                                 NEX 
Page 12
REAL  AMAT   MY  AMO  EIYIIMENTA          tlM.31*10N  MECT  KWA6M14A)
SIRICT i LATIN?                                 SUIY WEI1 INS MOUl   I     PICIT) S9TAt11
192        193        194        15         19"9       1"7        19l        191        200
VIUASE DEIE
SALBARA)             3."       13.4       1S."       13.10      12.0       12.21       11.46      10.63       9.72
CI     IUII         5.73       9.6        9.69       3.9        7.n        6.17       5.74        4.53       3.23
NM              4   5.69) 1   4.221 4   4.51) 4   5.20) 4   5.97) 4   3.39) 4   7.64) 4   6.5831    9.9)
K11A1           1   5.55) 1   4.26) (   4.6) 1   5.45) 1   6.32) 1   7.24) 4   1.22) 4   9.27) (  A.41)
IAYEIU               4.97       3.31       9.07       3.57       7.91       7.20       1.41        5.55       4.61
A11R1A              16.11      22 '7      23.21      23.07      22.71      22.30       21.31      21.26      20.64
1A11K A               .12)      2.72       2.79       2.26        1.61        .92       .17         .661 4    1.56U
.iNl            (   6.25) 1   4.341 4   4.65) 1   5.47) 4   6.38) 1   7.34)            8.37)       9 9.4t) I  I.J70)
"IMAum               2.54       4.92       5.17       4.96       4.66       4.34        S."        3.57       3.12
3631            1   2.61)        .61        .44  4    .50) 4   1.511   2.73) 4   3.7) 4   5.32) 4   6.73)
SALOMON         I   9.32) 4   9.03) 4   9.7) 4  10.") 4   12.16) 4  13.43) 4   14.00)             16.25) 4   17.00)
T-OT1.L (A)                     3.20      40.61      40.70      33.9        25.27      19.21       6.57  4   4.031 4   15.52
REWWL $O
mu*                   .00     191.55     132.5)    1B.76       193.3      200.53     207.21     2X535      219.26
.00        .00        .0         .00        .00        .00        .00        .00        .00
3-T11 113)                       .00     191.55     132.51      136.76     193.       200.3      207.23     213.53     219.26
CIiULIUITED WI TIJU             3.20    2M2.16      223.21     220.45      213.35    219.79      213.85     209.50     2.74
^=81=1CITI FOR
TIE DISTCT *
0tT1llI CtIUTRIUTJU
RE2UIRI FOR TIE DISIIICT         .00        .00        .00         .00        .00        .00        .00        .0         .00
FUIIINTEItwe
_nc I AL2eo P,.A
2. X WFtMM3
E     C   AC*1       Te 1101
mmi |l       "II e  1
TElWlt   2        P0 1
STAIUT  a U.  01



ur nNO  'imi
ElSE IL1913   I U LI
*1U i mm aunusuuuil
*U333 dli '1
1111,1K    4'G1             a)  1'I391
lot ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ liN U0 it.1 00          tl 0
duEl1 'I
*                    * ~~~~(11Ern
alm .MINIK
00       10.     00'      00       or48     W        N                 I o.      l3lSlliOiuIK
see  0.  0.  fe.  0.             W       00.      OD.uuium 'muue
s  131111o6 III
it      *sU      3!         .      Ifh      flU      IL'      ILL      O          U. ut       I
or  o        or.      or       o        o.       or      or       or4
WIN    *I'MI   N'W        LI'W     M'Oi1    WE!.     Will fat          WIN
- U1K13
839 {lll ilhl
"   1"it     "'%t  Lu1    U'^W    U1             W%       1N=        '                 l 
or  or'     or      orevisumm or      orm      orvv     or'      or110101-lU
or      or       or    eo          or      or      eO        ow        or
K'*               * or    or'      ar        r                 r       o
r7m ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~: 16 
or'      or'     or       or'      or1'     or       ee'      or'      or'1  ll
or      or       or'       or      e        or'      or'      or      eor
or'     or       or'      or'      or'      or'      or'      or'      or'
or'     or'      or'      or'      or'      or0'     or       N' 
"or     or       oe       or'      or'      eor      or'      or'      or'
or      or       or'      or'      or       00'       0       or'      or'
or'      or'     or       or'      00       or       or       or'      or'
or'     or       or       or'      or       or       o'       o'       or'
urn h11111
eo00 -1 1W       S1 L               uW OW   HI!      WI!    lIt        l
(000.'" S)   111111 (1131dN  . Uli NIIUSS AEI                             dNM    DL31111
TY51iSV                                ~~~~~-  T 6 -



- 92 -
ANN1 a
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
1.           Two of the main components of the project are the promotion of
environmental facilities, including the disposal of waste water (see
paragraphs 2.18-2.24), and related health education to influence comunnities'
behavior with respect to environmental cleanliness (see paragraphs 2.25-2.30).
The project also inclutdes assurances that all existing dams will be inspected
on a regular basis (see paragraph 2.17) and that when polluted groundwater
sources are discovered during the design of any water supply schemes, the
MWSSB should prepare a plan of action for resolving the problem (paragraph
5.02).
2.          In addition, the Environmental Assessment (EA) carried out under
this project has focused primarily on the area of water quality monitoring. A
consultant reported on water quality and water quality monitoring in rural
areas in Maharashtra as part of project preparation. Hls conclusions were
that the organizational arrangements and competence of personnel in the Public
Health Laboratories (PHL) was generally satisfactory.  The PHLs were generally
understaffed and required some new equipment. Sampling frequency needed to be
increased. The procedures for chlorination need to be improved, particularly
the supply and control of bleaching powder at the local level. The design of
water supply schemes also required improvement in terms of improving the
quality of water delivered, the quality of construction and maintenance of the
schemes to reduce leakages. The recommendations of the consultant have been
incorporated into the project as follows:
(a)   Facilities of the PHLs:  health education component included
upgrading of equipment (see paragraph 2.28);
(b)   Sampling procedures and monitoring chlorination at the local
level: health education component gives increased responsibilitr
to DOPH staff (BEOH and MPW(M)) to assist in collecting samples
and in monitoring the chlorination process (see paragraph 2.28);
(c)   Improvements in the designs of water supply schemest  improved
design criteria for piped water supply schemes have been
incorporated into project preparation (see paragraph 2.10);
(d)   Reduction of leakages:  a leakage survey and leakage repair work
would be undertaken during project implementation and the health
education component will include messages to the community to
reduce breakages and water wastage (see paragraph 2.15).



-93                                ANNEX 9
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Proiect Supervision Plan
1.            Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities.   The staff inputs are
indicated in the table below.
2.             Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.  The PPMU would provide major
inputs into the supervision of the project. See Annex 1, Componenet 4(A) for a
detailed description of the PPMU. See Annex 6 for a description of the Project
Monitoring Guidelines.
Approximate                                                    Expatriate               Staff
Dates                                                          Skill                    Input
(Month/Year)           Activities                              RequIrements              (a)
04/91                  Supervision Mission                     Engineer                   4.0
Review role of PPMU and                Sociologist
engineering designs.
05/92                  Supervislon Mission                     Engineer                   6.0
Review start-up and                    Sociologist
implementation arrangements.           Training Specialist
11/92                  Supervision Mission                     Engineer                   4.0
To coincide with preparation           Sociologist
of annual action program.
05/98                  Supervision Mission                     Engineer                   4.0
Revliw implementation                  Sociologist
progress.
11/98                  Supervision Mission                     Engineer                  10.0
Mid-term review of                     Sociologist
software components.                   Training Specialist
Health Communication
Financial Analysts
05/94                  Supervision Mission                     Enginoor
To review implementation               Sociologist                4.0
progress.
11/94                  Supervision Mission                     Engineer                   6.0
To coincide with preparation           Sociologist
of annual action program.              Training Specialist
1996                   Two supervision missions.               Engineer                   4.0
Sociologist
1996                   Two supervision missions.               Engineer                   4.0
Sociologist
1997                   Two supervision missions                Engineer                   6.0
(including one to prepare              Sociologist
PCR).                                  Financial Analest



- 94 -                          ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Hand-over Resolutions for Water Supply and Drainage Schemes
A. Zilla Parishad Hand-over Resolution on Water and Drainage Facilities
The responsibility of maintenance of rural water supply and
drainage schemes lies with local bodies, i.e., Zilla Parishads or Village
Panchayats. In case of regional water supply schemes, covering groups of
villages, the Zilla Parishad will maintain the works from the source up to and
including the service reservoirs of individual villages. The system beyond
the service reservoir will be maintained by the respective Village Panchayat
or Municipal Council in respect of works in that town.
All Zilla Parishad should, therefore, enter into an agreement with
Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board (MMSSB) incorporating, inter alia,
the following points:
1.          The Zilla Parishad is prepared to accept the regional water supply
scheme for                                                             Villages
in                               , Taluka of                   District,
estimated to cost Rs. ____              _      . All documents related to the
design of said scheme will be handed over to the Zilla Parishad by the
implementing agency following the commissioning date.
2.          The Zilla Parishad will take over and operate and maintain the
works of this regional water supply scheme from source up to and including
service reservoirs of the individual villages, after the scheme is
commissioned.
3.          The hand over date would be the commissioning date.  The
commissioning date is the date upon which the scheme is completed by the
contractor (the date upon shich the contractor leaves the site).
4.          Prior to the commissioning, there would be an inspection period of
about 3 months which would require joint inspection of the scheme by the
MWSSB, the Zilla Parishad/Village Panchayats, the contractor and a fourth
party to be designated by the Chief Executive Officer of the District.
5.          MWSSB will provide in the contract that for one j'qar after
commissioning, the contractor would be liable to carry out &11 repairs which
would be necessary due to faulty construction.



-95-                         ANNEX 10
Page 2
6.          For the regional water supply schemes, the Zilla Parishad would
collect fees from the villages based on bulk charges for water supplied.
Should the bulk charges not cover all operation and maintenance charges, the
Zilla Parishad should make up the shortfall from their rural water supply
maintenance funds.
7.          The Zilla Parishad upon taking over the scheme will make the
arrangements for treatment and chlorination of the water, regular cleaning of
the storage tanks, and chemical and bacteriological analysis of the water
throughout the system, from source to the household.
8.          The Zilla Parishad/Village Panchayat would make a capital
contribution to the cost of sullage drainage schemes in those villages where
soak pits would not be appropriate due to soil condition, population
congestion or some other factor. The Zilla Parishad/Village Panchayat would
agree to take a loan from the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India for
this purpose.
9.          The Zilla Parishad would sign a hand over agreement with the
Village Panchayats regarding the maintenance of any drainage schemes which are
constructed with the water supply scheme andlor the construction of soak pits
by each household with a private connection.  The drainage maintenance
agreement should require the Village Panchayat to provide for all maintenance
requirements including the cost of sweepers and carts for refuse removal and
the cost of major and minor repairs, particularly following the monsoon
season.
10.         The Block Extension Officer, Health would certify that health
conditions were being maintained for the installation of individual house
connections, that soak pits have been constructed by such private houpsholds,
and would certify that hygienic conditions are maintained through adequate
drainage around all water sources including wells, reservoirs, standposts and
private connections, and soak pits.
11.         The Village Panchayats would establish water and sanitation
committees who would meet regularly and would be responsible for ensuring
village level operation and maintenance is carried out and adequate
arrangements are made for sanitation and drainage.



-96 -                          ANNEX 10
Page 3
B. Village Panchayat and Municipal Council
Hand-over Resolution on Water and Drainage Facilities
The responsibility of ma!.ntenance of rural water supply schemes
lies vith local bodies, i.e., Zilla Parishads, Village Panchayats, Municipal
Councils. In case of regional water supply schemes, covering a group of
villages, the Zilla Parishad will maintain the works from the source up to and
including the service reservoir of individual villages. The system beyond the
service reservoir will be maintained by the respective village panchayat or
municipal council in respect of works in that town. For individual water
supply schemes, the Village Panchayats have full responsibility for operation
and maintenance of all facilities.
All Village Panchayats and Municipal Councils included in the
project, should, therefore, sign an agreement with the Maharashtra Water
Supply and Sewerage Board (MWSSB) or the Zilla Parishad Engineering Wing,
incorporating, inter alia, the following points:
1.          The Village Panchayat/Municipal Council will accept the
regionallindividual water supply scheme for                            Village in
Taluka, of                         district, estimated
to cost Rs.               . All documents related to the design of the
individual schemes would be handed over to the Village Panchayat by the
[Implementing Agency] following the date of commissioning.
2.          The Municipal Council is prepared to pay the required total
capital contribution of Rs.          _ which would be made in       equal
installments over a period of                          in installment payments
of Rs.
3.          The Municipal Council is prepared to undertake a loan for this
purpose from the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India to the extent of
Re._     _
4.          The Village Panchayat/Municipal Council agrees to take over, and
operate and maintain the work beyond the service reservoir for the regional
scheme or the entire individual water supply scheme.
5.          The hand over date will be the commissioning date.  The
commissioning date is the date the scheme is completed and the contractor
leaves the site.
6.          Prior to the commissioning date, there would be an inspection
period of about 3 months which would require a joint inspection of the scheme
by the implementing agency, the Village Panchayat/Municipal Council, the
contractor and a fourth party designated by the Chief Executive Office of the
district.



- 97 -                         ANNEX 10
Page 4
7.          The [Implementing Agency] will provide in the contract that within
one year after commissioning, the contractor would be liable to carry out all
repairs which would be necessary due to faulty construction.
8.          For the regional schemes, the Village Panchayat/Municipal Council
will recover the full cost of maintenance including payment of bulk supply of
water to the Zilla Parishad through ger-eral water taxes for stand post users
and private house connection tariffs. The rates of such taxes and tariffs
will be increased as and when required to cover the maintenance costs.
9.          For individual schemes, the Village Panchayat will recover the
full cost of operation and maintenance through general water taxes for stand
post users and private house connection tariffs. The rates of such taxes and
tariffs will be increased as and when required to cover operation and
maintenance costs.
10.         All houses seeking private connections would be required to
construct and maintain a soak pit except where villages conditions require a
sullage drainage system. This would be certified by the Block Extension
Officer, Health. Zilla Parishad Engineers would be responsible for
determining if the such a system is needed. Should a sullage drainage system
be necessary, the Village Panchayat would be required to accept full
responsibility for drainage maintenance including the cost of sweepers and
carts for disposal of refuse and the cost of major and minor repairs,
particularly following the monsoon season.
11.         Before releasing water through the distribution system, the
Village Panchayat/Municipal Council will ensure that all private connections
be at sufficient height to avoid contamination of water supply.
12.         The Village Municipal Water and Sanitation Committee will meet
regularly and will be responsible for, in consultation with the local water
supply engineer and Department of Public Health officials, ensuring that the
system is being operated and maintained properly and that adequate
arrangements have been made for sanitation and drainage.
13.         The Village Panchayat/Municipal Council will also be responsible
fort
(a)   ensuring hygienic conditions are maintained through adequate
drainage around all water sources, public and private, and soak
pits;
(b)   ensuring garbage and street waste disposal is away from all
habitation;



- 98 -                         ANNEX 10
Page 5
14.         Whenever the Village Panchayat/Municipal Council authorizes new
private cornections, the Department of Public health Officer must provide a
"no objection" certificate indicating that a soak pit has been constructed and
that the site for the connection meets health requirements. The local water
engineer must also certify that the additional connection would not adversely
affect the equitable distribution of water within the village.



20'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
ARAAJA AU J A R 
\   X"   V .  1 ,    5JAGA>                                                                                   NIONETLSAIAINNRJC
,4 A A 11 / A ar  <                                                                                                  { 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    Rogionol Scee _ond Numbor of Villogos (225 oilIng..blffd
2IK                                                                                                                             State Boundoris                                           I
) v_- t~~~~~~~~~~ILOAlOIIUS1 0   20                                                        5  0, 40  0,120  140  60 _ .Vti-



