Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18745
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2234-IN)
December 21, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 21, 1998)
Currency Unit   =  Indian Rupee (Rs)
US$ 1.00        =  Rs 42.6
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOPH      -   Department of Public Health
DPMU    -   District Project Monitoring Unit
GOI       -   Government of India
GOM       -   Government of Maharashtra
GP        -   Gram Panchayat
GSDA      -   Groundwater Surveys and Development Agency
IEC       -   Information, Education and Communication Bureau
MJP       -   Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran
NGO       -  Non-Governmental Organization
O&M       -   Operation and Maintenance
PPMU      -   Project Planning and Monitoring Unit
SAR       -   Staff Appraisal Report
WSSD      -   Water Supply & Sanitation Department
VWC           Village Water Supply and Sanitation Committee
ZP        -  Zilla Parishad
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:  Edwin R. Lim
Sector Managers:  Ridwan Ali & Michael Baxter
Staff Member:     Inds Fraile



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2234-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ......................................................... iv
Evaluation Summary ..........................................................                                v
Part I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ....................................................l
B. Achievement of Objectives ...................................................                   2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................................7
D. Project Sustainability ....................................................8
E. Bank Performance .                                                                            II
F. Borrower Performance ................................................... 13
G. Assessment of Outcome ...................................................                      15
H. Future Operation ...................................................                          16
1.  Key Lessons Learned ................................................... 17
PART 11 - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment ...................................................                19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ...................................................          21
Table 3: Project Timetable .................................................   ..                22
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ......... 22
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .......................................... 23
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ................................................... 24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .......... ......................................... 25
Table 8A: Project Costs ................................................... 26
Table 8B: Project Financing .....            .............................................. 26
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................           27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...................................................          28
Table I1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................. 30
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................         31
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ...................................................           32
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire ...................................................                    34
B. Borrower's Evaluation ...................................................                     57
C. Maps: IBRD No. 22833R Maharashtra Rural Water Supply
and Environmental Sanitation Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2234-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Maharashtra Rural Water
Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project in India, for which Credit 2234-IN in the amount
of SDR 76.40 million equivalent was approved on May 2, 1991 and made effective on July 31,
1991. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998 following a six-month extension. Final
disbursement took place on November 23, 1998, at which time a balance of SDR 6.99 million
was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Inds Fraile, the task team leader, reporting to the South
Asia Rural Development Sector Unit (SASRD) and reviewed by Mr. Abhyankar (SASRD), the
team leader; Mr. Herman van Wersch (SASRD); and Ms. Jennifer Sara (AFTU2) as peer
reviewer. The Borrower provided comments that are included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervisionlcompletion
mission, from July 6-20, 1998. It also takes into account a review of material in the project file.
The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by: (a) providing the Bank with
information on implementation and operation results; (b) participating in the completion
mission; (c) providing feedback on the quality of the Bank's contribution from project
identification to supervision; (d) preparing its own final evaluation report on the project; and
(e) providing comments on the Bank staff's draft ICR.



v
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2234-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Introduction. The Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation project,
implemented between 1991 and 1998, was the first Bank-supported project in India which aimed to
deliver rural water supply, environmental sanitation and health education in an integrated manner; this
approach has since become standard and was adopted in the Government of India (GOI) sector strategy.
Lessons learned during the implementation of this project contributed to improving the design of
participatory approaches in subsequent Bank-supported rural water supply and sanitation projects in
Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objective of the project was to raise the standard of living in rural areas through
improved health and productivity, by expanding access to potable rural water supply systems and
environmental sanitation facilities. The project would also develop replicable models for coordinating
water, environmental sanitation and health communication programs elsewhere and strengthen the
institutional capacity to promote improved environmental sanitation. The improvements of health and
productivity would be achieved through the following measures: (a) more equitable distribution of safe
water through improved design standards and community involvement; (b) improved reliability of
water supply and drainage schemes through an upgrading of skills of the community and government
officials and improved cost recovery for operation and maintenance (O&M); (c) increased public and
private investments in environmental sanitation; and (d) greater community awareness of the causes of
water-related health problems and the need for a cleaner environment through a health communications
program.
3.    The project objectives were clear and in line with GOI's sector policies and the Bank's sector
assistance strategy for India. In hindsight, the objectives were ambitious in light of the Government of
Maharashtra (GOM)'s lack of experience in integrated service delivery and participatory processes in
this sector.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Achievement of Project Objectives. The project's physical targets to expand access to potable
water supply and environmental sanitation facilities have been substantially achieved: The Piped-Water
Supply Program will benefit, as planned in the SAR, about 1.7 million people. At project closure, out
of a total of 560 villages in ten project districts, construction has been completed in 337 villages (60%)
and is close to completion in an additional 165 villages (30%). The appraisal target for the Handpump
Program has been slightly surpassed; about 4,200 handpumps have been installed benefiting a
population of about 600,000 people. The Latrine Construction Program surpassed the SAR target of
80,000 latrines. The Drainage Program envisaged construction of small surface drains in about 75 large
villages. At project closure progress was insignificant, primarily due to delays in formulating the
strategy and low demand from local governments before the new piped-water supply schemes entered
into operation. Still, the project successfully promoted the concept of private soakpits.



vi
5.    The project has provided more equitable distribution of safe 'water supply and improved
reliability of the water supply service through increased dependability of water sources, improved
design criteria and higher construction quality. However water supply remains somewhat irregular due
to erratic and inadequate electrical supply to pumping stations at the water source. While the highly-
subsidized latrine program was a success, the output of the drainage program was negligible. The
project has thus partially achieved increased public and private investment in environmental sanitation,
mostly with public funds. Moreover, despite substantial delays in implementation, the project has
generated greater community awareness of the causes of water-related health problems and the need for
a cleaner environment through a successful health awareness campaign carried out by public health
officials and NGOs.
6.    Project Sustainability. Sustainability is considered uncertain, especially regarding the
regional piped-water schemes, because of: (a) the project's tight design parameters causing premature
strain on the capacity of the systems; (b) unwillingness of some district Zilla Parishads (ZPs) and
village Gram Panchayats (GPs) to take over the piped-water supply schemes; (c) weak technical and
financial capacity of the ZPs and the GPs regarding O&M of the water supply and sanitation facilities;
(d) poor water demand management at the village level; (e) poor periformance of ZPs in collecting
water charges from GPs; (f) tariff-setting rigidities that may prevent full recovery of O&M costs in
some instances; (g) uncertainty regarding timely tariff increases in the future; (h) poor incentives at the
ZP and GP level to carry out preventive maintenance of the piped-waiter schemes since they were
neither involved in scheme planning and implementation nor contributed to the capital costs; and (i)
deficient supervision of drainage and latrine construction in some instances. The handpump and the
single-village water schemes seem to have greater chances of sustainability than the regional schemes
because the GPs are solely responsible for O&M and better cost recovery has been observed. During
project implementation, water tariffs have been substantially increased, thereby somewhat improving
the chances of sustainable operation of the piped-water schemes.
7.    Sector Policies. The project failed to develop replicable models for coordinating water,
environmental sanitation and health communication programs but contributed to an improvement in the
formulation of GOM's sector policies. The project helped GOM and the implementing agencies to
appreciate the role of communities in sustainable operation of rural water supply systems and to
increase awareness about the health benefits associated with hygiene education and village sanitation.
GOM gained insights into the complexities of managing regional water supply schemes and other key
sectoral issues. This increased understanding led to State-wide policy initiatives such as creation of a
separate Water Supply and Sanitation Department; raising of water tariffs; creation of Village Water
Supply Funds; launching of a massive State-wide latrine construction program; formation of Village
Water Committees; improving system design approaches; introducing third-party supervision of
construction; establishing a water quality monitoring system; and creation of Water Management Units
in five districts. The project also piloted 24-hours supply, contracting out O&M to private parties, and
scheme-level management by the concerned communities through cooperative societies.
8.    Financial Objectives. The project has partially improved cost recovery for O&M of rural
water supply systems. Government of Maharashtra increased the minimum and maximum tariff levels
for rural water supply in 1997 by about four times, after remaining unchanged for 15 years. Actual
water tariffs are fixed by the GPs, within the band specified by GOM. GOM also promulgated rules
which require each GP to constitute a separate Village Water Supply Fund (VWSF) to be used for
meeting the O&M requirements of drinking water of the village community and related works.
9.    The level of tariffs set up by the GPs in the schemes which have already been handed over to
them are barely sufficient to cover O&M costs. Although there is room for improvement, the collection
rate of GPs in the single-village schemes is acceptable (it ranges from 75% to more than 90%). For



vii
regional schemes, the project required GOM to cause each ZP participating in the project to transfer
sufficient revenues each year to the District Maintenance Fund for annual O&M costs of the facilities
under its responsibility. Since the performance of the ZPs in collecting water bills from GPs is very
poor, the O&M expenses of the regional schemes are a financial burden on the ZPs, making some of
them reluctant to take over the new facilities from the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP), the State
engineering agency that built them.
10.   Institutional Objectives. The project only partially achieved the objectives of community
participation and upgrading of skills on O&M of water and drainage facilities of the community and
government officials at the local level. Due to delays in developing the training strategy, training of
village water committee members, village water persons, field staff from MJP and the ZPs, NGOs and
health workers has been going only since June 1995, about four years after project effectiveness.
11.   Project Cost, Disbursements and Implementation Timetable. The Credit was closed on June
30, 1998 following a six-month extension. Implementation of the bulk of the investments (i.e. the
piped-water supply component) is delayed by about one year over project closure. The community
participation, environmental sanitation and health education components suffered major start-up delays.
The Project Planning and Monitoring Unit (PPMU) estimates that the total expenditure on the project
will be about Rs 5,042 million, which compares with the appraisal estimate of Rs 3195.8 million (US$
140.8 million equivalent). The increase in project cost, in rupee terms, is mainly due to a substantial
increase in cost of piped-water supply schemes resulting from higher bid prices, price escalation, and
additional works. Final disbursement took place on November 23, 1998, at which time SDR 69.4
million (US$97.5 million equivalent) or about 91% of the original principal amount of the Credit had
been disbursed and the undisbursed balance of SDR 6.99 million was cancelled.
12.   Key Factors Affecting Achievement of the Major Objectives. First, the project design was
poor. The main design flaws are: (i) the community participation model was not fully developed by
project effectiveness and was not integrated into the other project activities; (ii) the institutional and
financial capacity of the local government bodies to operate the schemes was not adequately appraised;
and (iii) the institutional complexity of regional water scheme management was underestimated.
Second, the agency in charge of coordinating project execution (PPMU) was very weak for most of the
implementation period. Third, GOM accorded low implementation priority to the community
participation, environmental sanitation and health education components.
13.   Borrower and Bank Performance. Government of India and GOM's performance during
project preparation was satisfactory. GOM adopted an integrated approach to water supply,
environmental sanitation and health education and fruitfully cooperated with the Bank's team during
this stage. The Bank's performance during preparation was marginally satisfactory and during
appraisal unsatisfactory. While the project design had obvious strengths, such as introducing
beneficiary participation and NGO involvement, and bringing an integrated approach to water supply,
environmental sanitation and health education for the first time in a Bank-supported project in India, the
design of key institutional, financial and economic aspects was flawed, as stated in the previous
paragraph. The project economic analysis was poor.
14.   Performance of GOM during implementation was unsatisfactory, although in the end GOM has
made progress on almost all fronts, i.e. sector policy, technical and financial issues (para 38 of ICR).
The Bank's performance during supervision was moderately satisfactory. The project was adequately
followed up throughout. Supervision was generally proactive, albeit by current standards this project
would have been classified as problem project much earlier. In retrospect, it seems that the Bank
should have given more attention, earlier on in project implementation, to sustainability issues and the
institutional and financial arrangements for O&M of the schemes, especially for the regional schemes.



viii
However, this was hardly possible because, given the lack of ownerslhip on the part of GOM and the
inadequate capacity of the PPMU, most of the energy of successive supervision missions for about four
years was focussed on the same issues, i.e. strengthening a poorly peirforrning PPMIJ and developing
strategies for the community participation, health communications and environmental sanitation
components. In the last two years, once project implementation improved, the Bank supervision could
finally focus on achieving the stated development objectives.
15.   Project Outcome. The overall outcome of the project is marginally satisfactory. The project
fostered sound policy initiatives, substantially achieved several project objectives, and will ultimately
meet the physical targets of the major components. However, the results were not fully satisfactory
because institutional and financial shortcomings threaten sustainability of the achieved benefits.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
16.   Future Operation. The district governments (ZPs) are responsible for O&M of the common
assets of the regional piped-water supply facilities. Parameters to monitor the performance of the
piped-water supply schemes were agreed with the ICR mission. GOM intends to continue monitoring
the performance of the systems through the ZPs. GOM is developing, approaches to improve the
performance of ZPs in collecting water bills from GPs such as the issuing separate water bills to GPs
every month, and making mandatory the creation of separate accounting and budgeting head for each
regional scheme in the ZP's books accounts rather than having just one head of water supply
maintenance for the entire district. Operation of some regional schemes has been contracted out to the
private sector.
17.   Key Lessons Learned
*     Attention should be given up front in project preparation and implementation to the institutional
and financial arrangements for O&M of the new facilities.
-     The entity responsible for overall coordination of implementation of a project involving various
agencies should be fully staffed prior to implementation, have control at the operational level,
and be empowered to approve key project milestones and impose penalties for non-adherence
to these milestones.
*     The community participation arrangements should be clearly defined prior to project appraisal
and fully integrated into all other project activities.
*     Planning of water supply and sanitation facilities should have a long-term horizon (say 30
years) and investments should be planned to allow for infrastructure to be built in a phased
manner, as needs develop and resources permit.
*     The respective roles of government agencies (MJP and GSDA), communities, NGOs and local
governments (GPs and ZPs) in the planning, implementation and O&M of water and sanitation
facilities should be clearly defined during project preparation.
*     Criteria for the selection of NGOs should be clear, well targeted and transparent, and agreed by
project appraisal.
*     Adequate orientation and capacity building for the staff of the public sector agencies and NGOs
involved should be made available as early as possible during project implementation.
*     In order to ensure affordability of the piped regional water schtemes, lower-cost alternatives
should be energetically pursued and users' willingness to pay should be assessed at an early
stage.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2234-IN)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   ASSESSMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.   Introduction. The Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
project (MRWSES), implemented between 1991 and 1998, was the first Bank-supported
project in India which aimed to deliver rural water supply, environmental sanitation and
health education in an integrated manner; this approach has since become standard in Bank-
assisted projects. It has also been adopted in the Government of India (GOI) sector strategy.
As an additional innovative feature, it was also envisaged that NGOs would play a key role
in the planning and implementation of the health communications and environmental
sanitation components.
2.    Project Objectives. The main objective of the project was to raise the standard of
living in rural areas through improved health and productivity, by expanding access to
potable rural water supply systems and environmental sanitation facilities. The project
would also develop replicable models for coordinating water, environmental sanitation and
health communication programs elsewhere and strengthen the institutional capacity to
promote improved environmental sanitation. The improvements of health and productivity
would be achieved through the following measures:
a) more equitable distribution of safe water through improved design standards, taking
into account residential patterns, and community involvement, particularly of the
rural poor, in the identification of schemes and the siting of standposts and
handpumps;
b) improved reliability of water supply and drainage schemes through an upgrading of
skills of the comrnunity and government officials at the local level, clarification of
responsibilities for Operation and Maintenance (O&M), improved cost recovery for
O&M to provide adequate funding and increased involvement of the community in
maintenance;
c) increased public and private investment in environmental sanitation through
programs to increase latrine usage, the provision of small-scale drains and improved
solid waste management; and



2
d) greater community awareness of the causes of water-related health problems and the
need for a cleaner environment through a health commulications program targeted
mainly toward women, adolescents, and children.
3.    Evaluation of Objectives. The project objectives were clear and in line with GOI's
sector policies and the Bank's sector assistance strategy for India. In hindsight, the
objectives were ambitious in light of the Government of Maharashtra (GOM)'s lack of
experience in integrated service delivery and participatory processes in this sector. The
financial and cost recovery objectives were in line with the Bank's standards prevailing at the
time but would be considered insufficient under current standards for free-standing projects in
this sector. Based on today's better knowledge about social intermediation and NGO
involvement, the project objectives could have been more clear and detailed in terms of
community participation. Considering the novelty to GOM of an integrated approach,
community participation and NGO involvement, this project bore substantial risks.
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
4.    Expanding access to potable water supply and environmental sanitation
facilities. The project's physical targets have been substantially achieved in the main
components.
a) Piped-Water Supply Program. The target has been substantially achieved. The
scope of the piped-water supply component was reduced during project
implementation from 660 villages in the SAR to 560 villages, mainly due to failure
of some of the initially-identified water sources. However, since the villages
selected in Phase II were larger than anticipated, the total number of beneficiaries
will be as targeted in the SAR about 1.7 million people. At project closure, out of a
total of 560 villages in ten project districts, construction lhas been completed in 337
villages (60%) and is close to completion in an additional 165 villages (30%). Full
completion in these 165 villages is only pending on minor civil works or the securing
of electrical connections for the pumping stations. Construction in the remaining 58
villages (about 10%) will be progressively completed, with GOM's own funds, by
the end of 1999.
Status         Individual    Regional Schemes            Total
Village    No. of     No. of     No. of   No. of Villages
Schemes    Schemes    Villages    Schemes   P% of total)
Completed                 60         29         277        89       337 (60%)
To be completed:
By 31/12/98    71         45        483         116      554 (99%)
By 31/03/99    72         47        488         119      560 (100%)
Handed over to ZPsl &     48         13         190        61       238 (42%)
GPs2
Zilla Parishad.
2   Gramn Panchayat.



3
Delays in obtaining administrative approvals, inadequate procurement packaging,
land acquisition issues and insufficient source yields are the main causes of delay.
The actual per capita supply is less than design supply due to intermittent power
supply, higher-than-projected population growth, and yield limitations of the water
source. Because of these factors as well as poor demand management, the duration
of water supply is only 1-2 hrs per day in many cases, below the design standard of 3
hrs twice a day. Private connections3 are an option in the piped-water schemes for
those willing to pay.
b) Handpump program. The appraisal target has been slightly surpassed. This
component comprised drilling of some 1700 borewells and installing handpumps on
them, hydrofracturing over 1000 existing borewells, replacing 1300 broken-down
handpumps and procurement of some state-of-the-art equipment (drilling rigs and
instruments for hydrogeological surveys). The original program was completed in
1995. At project closure, about 4,200 handpumps have been installed benefiting a
population of about 600,000 people in 506 villages and 1024 hamlets. The achieved
level of service is one borewell for 150 persons.
c) Latrine program. The latrine construction program surpassed the SAR target of
80,000 latrines in about 2,100 villages of the ten project districts. As of the end of
May 1998, the number of latrines constructed in the 560 project villages (i.e. covered
under the piped-water supply program) was reported to be nearly 24,000 against the
planned number of 25,000 (96% achievement). In addition, about 121,283 latrines
have been constructed in non-project villages. A GOM's State-wide program to
promote latrine construction contributed to achieve this impressive quantitative
result, but quality of design and construction is uneven.
d) Drainage program. Drainage construction was insignificant; however, the project
successfully promoted the concept of private soakpits, and over 5,859 soakpits have
been constructed by the beneficiaries in the project villages. The project envisaged
construction of small surface drains in about 75 large villages (i.e. population >
5,000). In practice, this program did not really take off till almost the last year of the
project. At project closure, some 3 Km of drains were constructed in 34 project
villages. This was primarily due to delays in formulating the environmental
sanitation strategy and low demand from local governments before the new piped-
water supply schemes entered into operation.
5.    More equitable distribution of safe water supply. This objective will be
substantially achieved. Unlike regular government schemes, project schemes were designed
to cover the entire village area, including the associated hamlets. Distribution pressures are
generally satisfactory, even though they are not always equitable, particularly in multi-
3  Unmetered.



4
village schemes. The location of standposts and handpumps in the villages was decided in
consultation with the villagers.
6.    Improved reliability of water supply and drainage schemes. This objective will
be partially achieved. The project has brought about considerable improvements in the
water supply service because of increased dependability of water sources, improved design
criteria and better construction quality. In addition, the formal commitment of the
communities to take over O&M of the schemes, along with training of village maintenance
workers and district-level officials for O&M of water supply schemes, weighs in favor of
greater reliability of performance of the schemes. However, water supply remains somewhat
irregular due to erratic and inadequate electrical supply to pumping stations at the water
source. Moreover, sustainability of the improved service is doubtful because the technical
and financial capacity of the local government bodies remains poor, especially to manage
regional schemes. These factors, compounded by unsuccessful social intermediation,
explain why a number of schemes have not been taken over by the local bodies on schedule.
7.    Increased public and private investment in environmiental sanitation. This
objective will be partially achieved, mostly with public funds. Beneficiaries were supposed
to contribute to the cost of both household latrines and public drainage facilities, still their
contribution has not been very significant. The latrine construction took off after GOM's
subsidy was increased from the Rs 1,500 per latrine initially agreed to Rs 2,500. In addition,
the ZPs provided a subsidy of Rs 1,000 per latrine, therefore the beneficiaries' contribution
was minimal. The outcome in terms of drainage construction and solid waste facilities was
negligible. Nevertheless, the project successfully promoted the concept of private soak-pits
at the owners' expense.
8.    Greater community awareness of the causes of water-related health problems
and the need for a cleaner environment. Despite substantial delays in implementation of
related activities, this objective is likely4 to be achieved because of a successful health
awareness campaign carried out by public health officials and the NGOs.
9.    Sector Policies. The project aimed at developing replicable models for coordinating
water, environmental sanitation and health communication programs. This objective has not
been accomplished. The project's delivery system had some design flaws, as explained in
paragraph 15 below. Nonetheless, lessons learned during the implementation of this project
contributed to improving the design of participatory approaches for delivering water,
environmental sanitation and health education in subsequent Bank-supported projects in
Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh.
10.   The project also had a positive impact on GOM's sector policies. The project helped
GOM and the implementing agencies to appreciate the role of communities in sustainable
operation of rural water supply systems and to increase awareness about the health benefits
associated with hygiene education and village sanitation. GOM gained insights into the
4  This assessment is solely based on mission field visits because no independent evaluation has been carried out so far.



5
complexities of managing regional water supply schemes and other key sectoral issues. This
increased understanding led to State-wide policy initiatives such as creation of a separate
Water Supply and Sanitation Department; raising of water tariffs; creation of Village Water
Funds; launching of massive State-wide latrine construction program; formation of Village
Water Committees; and creation of water management units in five districts. The project
also piloted 24-hour supply; contracting out O&M to private parties; and scheme-level
management by the concerned communities through a society. Full operationalization of
these initiatives may take a while. Further improvements to the administrative procedures
and greater support to capacity-building initiatives are badly needed, but these are steps in
the right direction.
11.   Financial Objectives. The financial objective of improved cost recovery for O&M
has been partially achieved. The project required GOM to cause each Gram Panchayat'
(GP) participating in the project to set and collect water tariffs at levels to cover O&M costs
of the village water supply schemes and hand-pumps, including appropriate bulk water
charges for the regional schemes. GOM accomplished the following albeit with considerable
delays:
a) GOM revised the minimum and maximum tariff levels for private, domestic and
non-domestic rural water supply on 6th March, 1997 after remaining unchanged for
15 years. For water supplied through public standpipes (PSP) the minimum tariff
was raised by more than four times to Rs 75 per annum, as against 3 1/2 times for
domestic private connection to Rs 360 per annum for 12-inch connection. Actual
water tariffs are fixed by the GPs, within the band specified by GOM.
b) GOM promulgated rules known as "The Maharashtra Village Water Supply Fund
Rules, 1997". These rules require each GP to constitute a Village Water Supply Fund
(VWSF) with 35% of the land revenue received as a grant from GOM, water tariffs,
and fees for private connections to be used for meeting the requirements of drinking
water of the village community and related works. GOM also prescribed accounting
and auditing procedures in respect of this fund; in particular, the VWSF must be in a
separate account from the other resources of the GP.
12.   The level of tariffs set up by the local government bodies (i.e. GPs and ZPs) in the
schemes which have already been handed over to them are barely sufficient to cover O&M
costs6. Although there is room for improvement, the collection rate of GPs in the single-
village schemes is acceptable' (it varies from 75% to more than 90%). For regional
schemes, the project required GOM to cause each Zilla Parishad8 (ZP) participating in the
project to transfer sufficient revenues each year to the District Maintenance Fund for annual
5   Lowest level of local government in rural areas. In Maharashtra, in most cases, each village has a Gram Panchayat.
6   Excluding preventive maintenance.
7  Assessment based on mission field visits. It would be advisable for WSSD to carry out a more comprehensive and
systematic analysis.
s   Local government body at the district level.



6
O&M costs of the facilities under its responsibility. The ZPs which have taken over the
regional water schemes charge a bulk rate of Rs 1.80 per m3 to the concerned villages to
cover O&M expenses of the common facilities9. The performance of the ZPs in collecting
water bills from GPs is very poor; GPs are not regular in paying the ZP and have large
outstanding balances due to the ZP. The O&M expenses of the regional schemes are thus a
financial burden on the ZPs and some ZPs, especially if they are in a weak financial
position, are reluctant to take over the schemes from the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran'0
(MJP)I'. It should be noted that the project design did not aim at achieving full O&M cost
recovery in the regional schemes where especially high O&M costs could not be fully
covered by maximum statutory charges. The provision of government grants to cover
capital costs and portions of the O&M costs for regional schemes was considered justified
because of: (a) the supply of potable water being essential to public health; (b) relatively
high capital costs, given the small size of villages served; (c) absence of industry in rural
areas for cross-subsidizing; and (d) widespread poverty in rural areas (SAR paras. 4.04-
4.06).
13.   Institutional Objectives. The project only partially achieved the objectives of
community participation and upgrading of skills of the community and government officials
at the local level. The community participation component was expected to be a critical
delivery mechanism for health education and for the formation of social capital. Although
Village Water Supply and Sanitation Committees (VWSCs) and Mahila Mandals (women' s
associations) have been established in 523 of the 542 villages in which the NGOs are
working, and the members of 520 VWSCs have visited the facilities of their water supply
schemes, community involvement came only late in project implementation and its scope
was limited to the operational phase of the new systems.
14.   Training of village water committee members, village water persons, field staff from
MJP and the ZPs, NGOs and health workers has been going on since June 1995, about four
years after project effectiveness, as per a strategy prepared by the project's training
consultants. The total number of persons that have received training adds up to about 63,000
(62,000 village water persons, 500 masons, and 275 Junior Engineers and other staff). Most
of the training efforts focused on technical aspects and techniques for obtaining community
participation and financial issues received very little attention. FParticipation of ZPs staff in
the O&M training program was grossly inadequate.
15.   Adequacy of project design. The project design was not fully appropriate for
achieving the stated objectives and the criteria for judging the achievement of objectives
were not clearly specified, nor quantified, in the SAR. The main design flaws are: (a) the
community participation concept was not fully developed by project effectiveness and was
not integrated into the other project activities; (b) the technical aLnd financial capacity of the
9 It normally includes the intake, water treatment plant, and transmission mains ulp to the boundary of each village.
10 The State engineering agency responsible for implementation of the piped-water supply component.
1  Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran.



7
local government bodies to operate the schemes was not adequately appraised; and (c) the
institutional complexity of regional water scheme management was underestimated.
16.   Project Cost and Disbursements. PPMU estimates that the total expenditure on the
project will be Rs 5,042 million, which compares with the appraisal estimate of Rs 3195.8
million (US$ 140.8 million equivalent). The increase in project cost, in rupee terms, is
mainly due to a substantial increase in cost of piped-water supply schemes resulting from
higher bid prices, price escalation, and inclusion of additional works. The final
disbursement took place on November 23, 1998, at which time SDR 69.4 million (US$97.5
million equivalent) or about 91% of the original principal amount of the Credit had been
disbursed and the undisbursed balance of SDR 6.99 million (US$9.69 million equivalent)
was cancelled.
17.   Project Net Present Value (NPV). Neither a NPV nor an economic rate of return
were estimated at appraisal because it was argued that the primary objective of the project
was to reduce the incidence of water-related diseases and any attempt to select and quantify
meaningful health benefits would likely be only approximate and incomplete. Also, the
methodology would be open to challenge. Similarly, using time saved by women in hauling
water, as a means of measuring economic benefits, would represent only a small share of the
actual benefits expected. The calculation of women's time would be equally incomplete and
the methodology inexact. Finally, it was considered that, even though water tariffs were
often used as a proxy for benefits in rural water supply projects, this approach did not reflect
any of the true benefits which were health related or social in nature. This view does not
prevail at present. Currently, an economic evaluation is carried out for most stand-alone
rural water supply and sanitation projects, mainly on the basis of quantifiable benefits
associated to time savings in fetching water and increased water consumed by the users.
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
18.   This section highlights the major factors that affected achievement of the project
objectives.
19.   Poor project design. The design of the community participation, environmental
sanitation and health communication components was not sufficiently prepared at project
approval. Community participation was never integrated into other project activities and
was treated as an add-on to be implemented by a different agency from that responsible for
scheme construction. Therefore, the timing of community participation interventions was
inappropriate, considerably reducing their potential positive impact on cost recovery and
project sustainability. The design also neglected the institutional complexity of multiple
implementing agencies and the intrinsic social, technical and financial complexities of the
regional schemes (serving 85% of the project villages). There is little or no discussion in the
SAR about institutional capacity of the local government bodies to take over the
responsibilities envisaged under the project (such as technical capacity to operate the
regional schemes, issues about the performance in tariff collection, and financial
management of water supply assets) or possible alternative institutional models. The needs



8
for institutional strengthening were not properly assessed either. These factors contributed
to the limited project achievements regarding the financial and institutional objectives.
20.   Weak Project Planning and Monitoring Unit (PPMU). During the first few years
of implementation, the PPMU was understaffed, under-equipped, and did not have
satisfactory office space. Therefore, it failed to provide the leadership required in a complex
project like this. Several supervision missions singled out this factor as the main cause of
delays in implementation and of unsatisfactory performance. Finally, GOM strengthened
the PPMU by appointing a project director relieved of other major responsibilities in the
department and by providing office space. Towards the end, the performance of the PPMU
was satisfactory, although it was never given optimal powers in managing the project.
21.   GOM according low implementation priority to the community participation,
environmental sanitation and health education components. GOM's lukewarm support
to these activities, especially during the first four years of implementation, is an important
reason for major start-up delays. While this risk was identified in the SAR, measures
conceived to mitigate it (such as the creation of a short-lived GC)M-NGO Task Force) could
not make up for the lack of Borrower's ownership. Support for these activities grew
considerably in the last two years, especially after a State-wide effort was mounted to
expand the latrine program.
22.   Implementation Delays in the piped-water supply conaponent. The bulk of
project investments was for construction of piped-water supply systems in ten districts of
Maharashtra. Implementation of this component is delayed by about one year over project
closure and by about one year and a half over the original closinlg date. The main factors
causing this delay are: (a) procurement delays; (b) modifications in scheme design due to
changes in project villages, failure of initially identified water sources or site conditions; (c)
delays of 6 to 15 months to obtain GOM's administrative approvals, including passing
scheme resolutions by the ZPs to participate in the project, permissions from other
departments on water abstraction, transfer of Government land, power supply connections,
identification of alternate sources by the Groundwater Surveys and Development Agency
(GSDA) when the first source failed, etc.; (d) delays in the flow of fimds from GOM to
MJP; and (e) poor contractor performance (in 4 of 35 contracts). Overall, contract awards
were delayed from 6 months to 2.5 years, as compared to the SAR estimate. Final delays
have been reduced by speeding up construction; work under 11 contracts will be completed
before the date stipulated in the contracts.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.   Project sustainability is considered uncertain, especially regarding the regional
piped-water schemes, because of: (a) the project's tight design parameters causing
premature strain on the capacity of the systems; (b) unwillingness of some ZPs and GPs to
take over the piped-water supply schemes; (c) weak technical and financial capacity of the
ZPs and the GPs regarding O&M of the water supply and sanitation facilities; (d) poor



9
water demand management at the village level'2; (e) poor performance of ZPs in collecting
water bills from GPs; (f) tariff setting rigidities that may prevent full recovery of O&M
costs in some instances; (g) uncertainty regarding timely tariff increases in the future; (h)
poor incentives at the ZPs and GPs level to carry out preventive maintenance of the piped-
water schemes since they were neither involved in scheme planning and implementation nor
contributed to the capital costs; and (i) deficient supervision of drainage and latrine
construction in some instances. The sustainability of the handpump program is likely
because the handpumps are being handed over to the ZP/community for maintenance and
because of the simplicity of the India Mark III handpumps installed. Most of the handpump
repairs can be carried out at the village level with minimum outside support. The single-
village water schemes also seem to have greater chances of sustainability than the regional
schemes because the GPs are solely responsible for O&M and better cost recovery has been
observed. However, the GPs are technically and financially weak, thus the issues of poor
demand management and preventive maintenance are common to all piped systems. During
project implementation, water tariffs have been substantially increased, somewhat improving
the chances of sustainable operation of the piped-water schemes. However, the
sustainability of the benefits achieved by the project will be negatively affected by the
following institutional and financial issues.
24.   Tight design parameters. The project brought about improved design approaches
to take into account the needs of livestock and the demand for private connections.
Nevertheless, the design horizon (2007, i.e. about 15 years) used for the piped-water supply
schemes is too short, considering that completed systems have been in operation only for
about two years and that many schemes are yet to be completed. This will strain the
capacity of the systems. Before considering costly investments for augmentation, other
options to extend the useful life of the project investments should be explored, even though
these may increase the operating costs per unit produced and the financial burden on the ZPs
and GPs.
25.   Reluctance of some GPs and ZPs to take over the new water supply schemes.
GPs and ZPs, particularly in the more backward districts, are reluctant to take over the
schemes because of lack of technical capacity and of financial resources for O&M. Some
local governments also complain about leakage in the systems, mostly in the previously
existing distribution pipes, and refuse to take over the schemes until the distribution network
is replaced. Meanwhile, water supply is provided free of charge by MJP for long periods
and the users get accustomed to a higher service level without paying for it.
26.   Weak technical and financial management capacity of the local government
bodies. Quality of management of O&M of schemes already taken over by the ZPs and GPs
has been mixed. Deficiencies observed include: conditions at public standposts are
sometimes unsanitary due to poor drainage disposal arrangements; leakage from the
distribution system; wastage from public water points (taps stolen, removed); and
12  Many standposts do not have taps; poor materials are often used for household connections; and price signals are not
used to reduce the demand for private connections when water availability is a constraint.



10
unacceptable water quality. Problems are more acute in the regional schemes where, in
some cases, the water treatment units are being bypassed, supply amongst the participating
villages is inequitable, duration of supply from the treatment plant is insufficient due to
interruptions in electrical supply, and water leakage from feeder mains is not always
promptly attended to. Determined efforts by GOM are required to build the management
capacity of the local bodies and to improve the collection of sufficient user charges to meet
(already subsidized) O&M costs.
27.   Poor performance of ZPs in collecting water bills from GPs. The GPs have
considerable arrears with the ZPs. Currently, the ZPs are not adequately monitoring and
handling billing and collection. As a result, GPs do not regard water charges as a liability to
be paid to ZPs.
28.   Tariff increases. By prescribing a ceiling for water supply tariffs, GOM has
blocked the ability of GPs and ZPs to adequately meet the O&M costs of water supply
schemes in cases where such costs exceed the revenue even at the maximum tariff level.
Furthermore, unless this threshold is periodically increased to take into account inflationary
cost increases, it could become a serious obstacle for sustainable operation of the new
facilities. Moreover, additional increases may be needed to phase out current subsidies. At
present, GOM is subsidizing the O&M of rural water supply to a significant extent. For
example, electric power tariffs charged for rural water are about one third (1/3) of the normal
tariff and charges are based on the capacity of the pump and not on consumption. Most of
these subsidies are hidden in nature and escape budgetary scrutiny by legislature. Given the
negative fiscal impact of these subsidies, they will be difficult to maintain over time, as new
schemes come into operation. GOM should, over time, progressively reduce these subsidies
and, in the short run, consider linking the quantum of subsidy with the performance of
ZPs/GPs in maintaining the VWS assets.
29.   Poor incentives at the ZP and GP level to carry out preventive maintenance.
Since the capital cost of the water supply scheme is fully funded by GOM grants, it is likely
that ZPs and GPs will have very little stake in maintaining these assets in satisfactory
operating condition. Normal tendency amongst the local governments is to request GOM to
rehabilitate and increase the capacity of non performing schemes. ZPs and GPs, therefore,
would tend to have a breakdown maintenance policy instead of aLn adequate preventive
maintenance policy. Unless ZPs and GPs contribute towards the capital cost of a scheme --
thus creating a stake in the asset, it will be reasonable to assume that adequate preventive
maintenance will not be undertaken. In drainage works, GPs are required to contribute 30%
of the capital cost. In the few project villages where drains have been constructed, GPs have
met this requirement by appropriating funds from external sources instead of raising the
contributions from the community.
30.   Further, current regulations fail to address the issue of adequate maintenance,
particularly preventive maintenance, of water supply schemes. Although district
maintenance funds have been established at the ZPs, resources are limited. The GPs are left
to maintain the schemes out of available resources in the VWS Fund. As a result, only those



11
maintenance works which can be funded out of the available balance in the VWS Fund will
be undertaken by GPs. The level of maintenance is likely to be sub-optimal, thus leading in
the long run to faster wear and tear and a reduced life span of the assets.
31.   Sanitation. Sustainability of the latrines is likely, as the beneficiary households bear
the responsibility for maintaining them. A district-wise survey of the overall government
latrine program has shown that the rate of usage of latrines is generally quite high, with
notable exceptions. Only in a few villages (concentrated in a few districts), the rate of usage
is below 50%. Operation and maintenance instructions have been provided orally to the
households by NGOs, supplemented by written material. Gram Sevaks'3, who are located in
the GPs and are close to the villagers, are being trained to assist on these aspects (e.g. to
switch between pits when one is full). Concerning the maintenance of the drains, the main
problem is the lack of funds and low priority accorded by the local government bodies.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
32.   The Bank's performance at the identification stage was satisfactory. The Bank
team engaged in a dialogue from early 1988 with several candidate States (primarily
Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal), under the overall coordination of
GOI, and pursued project preparation according to the level of preparedness in each State.
This dialogue led to the Maharashtra project and subsequent Bank-assisted projects. The
Kamataka Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project was approved in 1993;
and the Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project in 1996.
Lessons leamed during the early implementation of the Maharashtra project contributed to
improving the design of participatory approaches in the subsequent projects.
33.   The Bank's performance during preparation was marginally satisfactory. The
project design had obvious strengths, such as introducing beneficiary participation and NGO
involvement, and bringing an integrated approach to water supply, environmental sanitation
and health education for the first time in a Bank supported project in India'4. However, the
design had also flaws in key institutional, financial and economic aspects. The
implementation details of the community participation, environmental sanitation and health
communications components were insufficiently defined in the SAR and poorly integrated
into the other project activities. The project planning and monitoring unit as designed was
unable to cope with the complexities of coordinating several components implemented by
different government departments or agencies in a large geographical area. The institutional
complexity of regional water scheme management was underestimated. There is no
evidence that ZPs and GPs were consulted during project preparation about beneficiary
willingness to pay. The NGOs were supposed to create consumer awareness, assist in the
3  Extension officers that support the functioning of the Gram Panchayats as Secretaries. They are responsible for
record keeping.
4  DANIDA and the Netherlands pioneered the efforts to linking rural water supply, sanitation and health education
programs in India.



12
fornation of village water supply and sanitation committees (VWCs), and inform the
villagers of the committees role and responsibilities with regard to O&M of the systems.
Implementation experience subsequently proved that the NGOs lacked knowledge regarding
the O&M of water and sanitation facilities and needed extensive training to carry out the
above responsibilities. It must be recognized, though, that some of these flaws were due to
the innovative nature of the project. In particular, the ability of the NGOs to develop the
implementation strategies of the environmental sanitation, health education and community
participation components was overestimated.
34.   Aspects of the design which have had positive impacts are the procurement
procedures and the third-party supervision of construction, which have brought about
improved quality of construction. In view of the result, MJP has adopted some of these
principles to all their works, regardless of the source of financing.
35.   The Bank's performance at appraisal was unsatisfactory. Appraisal of the
institutional arrangements for O&M was scanty. The SAR envisaged that the schemes
would be handed over to the local government bodies (ZPs and GPs) for O&M, yet the Bank
failed to properly appraise their technical and financial capacity. As long as it was also
envisaged that VWCs would be formed in the villages with piped-water supp]y, their role
vis-a-vis the GPs were not defined. The project economic analysis was poor. Even allowing
for the fact that an economic analysis of the investments was nct warranted and that the
main benefits were social and health in nature, at least an analysis of the fiscal impact should
have been carried out.
36.   The Bank's performance during supervision was marginally satisfactory. The
project was adequately followed up throughout. The team skill mix was adequate, although
given the innovative nature of the project, it would have been desirable to have greater
continuity of the social scientists in the team, and more intensive inputs from this area of
expertise during the first two years of implementation. The supervision of the
environmental sanitation components improved substantially when a low-cost sanitation
specialist joined the team. The large procurement packages proimoted by the Bank had to be
modified subsequently because they were not suited to the scattered locations of rural water
supply schemes, partially contributing to the delays in implemenitation of the piped-water
supply schemes. Supervision was generally proactive, albeit that by current standards this
project would have been classified as problem project much earlier (by December 1993,
serious problems were quite apparent in the back-to-office reports and Aide-M[emoires but
the Form 590 showed satisfactory ratings until early 1996). In retrospect, it seems that the
Bank should have given more attention, early on in project implementation, to sustainability
issues and the institutional and financial arrangements for O&M of the schemes, especially
for the regional schemes. However, this was hardly possible because, given the lack of
ownership on the part of GOM and the inadequate capacity of the PPMU, most of the energy
of successive supervision missions for about four years were focussed on the same issues:
i.e. strengthening a poorly performing PPMU and developing strategies for the community
participation, health communications and environmental sanitation components. Successive
agreements with GOM resulted in little visible incremental improvements but, finally,



13
enabled satisfactory implementation progress during the last few years of execution,
catching up part of the delays of previous years in some components. In the last two years,
once project implementation improved, the Bank supervision could finally focus on
achieving the development objectives. The main aim of GOM's Action Plan of December
15, 1997 for the project extension was to strengthen the focus on the sustainability of the
water supply and sanitation facilities constructed or soon to be completed.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Borrower performance during project preparation
37.   GOI's and GOM's performance during project preparation was satisfactory.
While GOI provided overall coordination with the Bank, GOM had the main responsibility
for project preparation. GOM adopted an integrated approach to water supply,
environmental sanitation and health education and fruitfully cooperated with the Bank's
team during this stage. The technical designs of Phase-I villages were well prepared,
although it should have been anticipated the need for a longer-term planning horizon (2007
was too short). In addition, the water source dependability should have been more critically
assessed at this stage. In a number of cases, the original source was later found to be not
reliable, and major modifications to the designs, with considerable cost variations, were
needed during implementation, at the time when the contractors had already initiated
construction.
Borrower performance during project implementation
38.   GOM's performance during implementation was unsatisfactory. The magnitude of
the implementation delays compromised the achievement of the project developmental
objectives although, finally, GOM has made some progress on almost all fronts, i.e. sector
policy, technical and financial issues. GOM's initiatives include: (a) creating a separate
Water Supply and Sanitation Department; (b) launching massive training programs for
routine O&M of water supply schemes; (c) creating a Water Resources Authority to address
inter-sectoral water allocation issues; (d) piloting service contracts for O&M; (e) piloting
community management of regional schemes through the formation of cooperative societies;
(f) launching a massive State-wide latrine program; (g) improving design approaches; (h)
introducing third-party supervision of construction; (i) establishing a water quality
monitoring system; (j) forming village water funds; and (k) substantially raising water
tariffs. Moreover, GOM complied with all major credit covenants (see Table 10), although
sometimes only partially (e.g. GOM causing each GP participating in the project to set and
collect water tariffs at levels to cover O&M costs) or with delays (e.g. timely obtaining water
abstraction permits; handing over of schemes to ZPs; and submitting a strategy on
environmental sanitation and health education programs). An overview of the performance of
the main State agencies involved follows:
* PPMU's perfonnance. As mentioned above, the PPMU was weak during the first
years of implementation and GOM failed to promptly address this problem.



14
Furthermore, the PPMU was not adequately empowered to ensure integration of
multiple activities at the village level and effective collaboration amongst numerous
actors at the various levels (i.e. ZPs, GPs, VWCs, MJP, GSDA, DPMUs, Department
of Public Health, Irrigation Department, empowered committees, NGOs,
consultants, etc.). The implementing agencies did not require PPMU's approval of
key milestones, nor were they subject to sanctions by the PPMU for non-adherence
to the milestones. Because of its subordinate position, thLe PPMU could not prevent
bureaucratic delays in obtaining approvals from the implementing departments.
*  MJP's performance in engineering and construction was satisfactory. However, its
technical capacity was hampered by delays which were beyond its control, i.e. delays
in ensuring administrative approvals, seeking water abstraction permits from the
Irrigation Department, and obtaining groundwater use permits from GSDA. Delays
were more significant prior to construction, which by-and-large progressed according
to schedule, except in a few cases where the contractor performed poorly.
*  GSDA's performance in implementing the handpump program has been fully
satisfactory.
*  The performance of the ZPs and District Project Monitoring Units (DPMUs) was
rather poor due to their late involvement, limited capacity and the lack of definition
of their respective roles and accountabilities in the project design.
39.   Late introduction of Community Participation, Health Education, Training and
Environmental Sanitation. Low priority accorded by GOM for almost four years to
implementation of these components; lack of familiarity with an integrated approach;
unsuccessful involvement of NGOs in strategic planning; and poor performance of the
consultants recruited to prepare strategies for these components are the main causes of the
delays on the Borrower side. The major start-up delays in the execution of these
components have reduced their positive impact. The strategy for community participation,
health education and environmental sanitation was developed only in 1996 by the Health
Education and Community Participation sub-unit of the PPMU, following the recognition of
unsatisfactory performance of the consultant that had been recruited to carry out this task.
*  Community participation. The NGOs' performance was umeven. The selection
criteria for the NGOs were not very transparent. The short duration of the contracts
and the poor remuneration made it difficult for the NGOs to recruit and retain
qualified staff. Essentially, the NGOs were treated as minor contractors rather than
partners in development.
*  Health Education. The Department of Public Health did some excellent work in the
hygiene awareness program during the last two years of project implementation.
*  Training. The performance of the training consultants has. been adequate. The
programs have contributed substantially to skills development at the grassroots level.
However, some of these (such as those for NGOs and Graim Sevaks) have been
launched only recently and will need to be completed before they confer full benefits.



15
* Environmental Sanitation. During the last few years of implementation, GOM has
accorded high priority to the latrine program, which particularly benefits women.
Performance has been impressive in terms of the numbers constructed, although this
has been achieved with very high subsidies. GOM's performance in the construction
of drains and provision of refuse bins has been deficient. Consequently, the critical
integration of water supply and environmental sanitation components has been
deficient.
40.   Funds Flow. In the absence of well-defined procedures for flow of funds from
GOM to the implementing agencies, in the beginning, there were considerable delays in fund
releases, especially to MJP. However, towards the end of the project, GOM constituted an
inter-departmental committee to oversee the flow of funds to various implementing agencies
which did improve the situation.
41.   Monitoring and Evaluation suffered from inadequate attention. As a result it was
unsatisfactory. Monitoring the performance of the various agencies involved and the NGOs
has been a difficult task for the PPMU. While there is an institutional set-up for regular
meetings and periodic reports generated for the attention of the Director, PPMU,
compilation, analysis and feedback on the basis of these reports was delayed because the
Unit only had a single computer.
42.   Unduly delayed compensation payments for land acquired under the Project.
There was no resettlement under this project but some land was needed for the construction
of the piped-water supply systems. At project closing, only 72 out of a total of 330 affected
owners had been fully compensated. All outstanding cases are being processed but delays
have been experienced because of extremely cumbersome procedures and lack of priority
given to this matter by the MJP and the PPMU.
43.   GOI's role during implementation of the project was limited to the release of
credit proceeds to GOM, which was generally timely.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.   The overall outcome of the project is marginally satisfactory. Despite all the delays
and difficulties, the physical targets of the major components will be met and several project
objectives have been substantially achieved. The project fostered sound policy initiatives
(see para 38) and also increased awareness in GOM regarding the importance of capacity
building and participation of the users in scheme planning and implementation for
sustainable operation of the rural water supply and sanitation facilities. The policy makers
and the communities are now more aware of the importance of proper handling of water,
personal hygiene, and safe disposal of excreta and sullage water to obtain the health benefits
associated to increased availability of safe water. However, this increased understanding has
only found limited application since GOM has recently launched a massive Tanker-Free
Village Program characterized by a top-down approach, deficient cost recovery policies and
I



16
disregard for sustainability of the assets created. Moreover the project could not deliver
fully satisfactory development results because of institutional and financial shortcomings.
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
45.   Institutional arrangements. The district governments (ZPs) are responsible for
O&M of the common assets of the regional piped-water supply ifacilities. VWCs have been
created in the project villages to assist the GPs regarding the O&M of the new facilities
within the village boundaries. The weaknesses of this setting have been summarized above.
GOM is aware of the issues threatening sustainable operation of the piped-water supply
assets and is taking some actions to address them, including preparation of O&M manuals
for ZPs and GPs; training of ZPs and GPs staff; revision of the Z'Ps' financial and
accounting procedures for collection of water tariffs; drafting standard contracts for
contracting out O&M for up to five years to private operators; and exploring possible
reforms of institutional arrangements for O&M of regional schemes.
46.   Parameters to monitor the performance of the piped-water supply schemes were
agreed with the ICR mission. GOM intends to continue monitoring the performance of the
systems through the ZPs.
47.   Sanitation. Maintenance of latrines is the responsibility of individual households
and is not expected to be an issue because relevant information has been widely provided by
the NGOs and the Gram Sevaks have received various rounds of training. In some cases
though, maintenance problems may appear with septic tanks, andl with twin-pit latrines
constructed without following proper designs (e.g. pans that do not have the correct slope).
Maintenance of the village drains is even more problematic. GOM is considering a proposal
to amend the State Panchayat Act to provide for the levy of a cess to fund the maintenance
of drains by GPs. GOM has indicated that it will utilize the services of NGOs to improve
drain maintenance in the villages through facilitation of voluntary labor contributions by
villagers.
48.   Financial Issues. GOM is developing plans to improve the performance of ZPs in
collecting water bills from GPs. One such plan is that the ZPs should issue a separate water
bill to GPs every month. Furthermore, GOM is thinking to make mandatory the creation of
separate accounting and budgeting head for each regional scheme in the ZPs' books of
accounts rather than having just one head of water supply maintenance for the entire district.
This would facilitate measurement of performance of each regional scheme.
49.   GOM might consider further measures to improve sustainability in this sector, such
as incorporating in the user charge a contribution to future capital investments for
replacement or scheme improvement, progressive phasing out of GOM subsidies for O&M,
and reducing subsidies for latrines as per the GOI line ministry's guidelines. As demand for
latrines grows, the high levels of subsidy provided by GOM do not seem fiscally sustainable.



17
50.   Contracting Out. Operation of some regional schemes has been contracted out.
Preliminary results are positive, on account of cost savings and less strain on scarce
technical capabilities at the ZP level. Some difficulties have also been observed (e.g. poor
performance of the contractor with the lowest bid) which indicate that the bidding
documents need to be improved and the length of the contracts extended (in most cases
contracts are only for one year). GOM is taking steps to address these problems and MJP is
drafting standard contracts that will be distributed to the ZPs.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
51.   Key lessons learned from the project relevant for future operations are:
*  Attention should be given to the institutional and financial arrangements for O&M of
the new facilities up front in project preparation and implementation, especially in
the case of regional piped-water supply schemes.
*  Most capacity building efforts under the project were addressed to the members of
the VWCs, however their role in the future, once the support structure provided by
the project disappears, is uncertain. Should the capacity-building efforts have been
addressed to the GPs instead, so that synergies with other sectors would emerge?
Studies are needed to better understand the benefits of the VWC and its role versus
the GP after a few years of operation.
*  The unit or agency responsible for overall coordination of implementation of an
integrated project involving various agencies should have control at the operational
level, and be empowered to approve key project milestones and impose penalties for
non-adherence to the milestones. It should also have its logistic arrangements and
key staff in place prior to project implementation.
*  The community participation arrangements should be clearly defined prior to project
appraisal and fully integrated into all other project activities. Moreover,
beneficiaries' capacity has to be built through social intermediation to enable their
meaningful participation in the project.
*  Planning of water supply and sanitation facilities should have a long-term horizon
(say 30 years) and investments should be planned to allow for infrastructure to be
built in a phased manner, as needs develop and resources permit. Feasibility studies
to identify least-cost solutions should be carried out before detailed engineering
designs are developed.
*  An integrated watershed management approach should be applied to the
identification of rural water supply sources, and dependability of the water sources
should be confirmed prior to calling for bids.



18
* The respective roles of government agencies (MJP and GS]DA), communities, NGOs
and local governments (GPs and ZPs) in the planning, imp]lementation and O&M of
water and sanitation facilities should be clearly defined duting project preparation.
* Criteria for the selection of participating NGOs should be clear, well targeted and
transparent, and agreed by project appraisal.
* Adequate training for the staff of the agencies involved ancl the NGOs should be
made available as early as possible during project implementation.
* Upfront beneficiaries' commitment through capital cost contribution increases the
chances of sustainability and reduces the demand for higher levels of service. When
the local governments (GPs and ZPs) only finance O&M costs, their incentive is to
neglect preventive maintenance and to promote private connections because they
increase the potential revenue via tariffs, but this may strain the capacity of the
systems and lead to premature obsolescence of the capital investments.
* In order to ensure affordability of the piped regional water schemes, lower-cost
alternatives should be energetically pursued and users' wil]l[ingness to pay should be
assessed at an early stage.
* An adequate M&E system should be operational as early as possible in project
implementation.



19
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2234-IN)
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial    Partial     Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                  n             oo
Sector Policies                              V/  
Financial Objectives            n             I             a               O
Institutional Development                                   a
Physical Objectives            ,/                                          ElI
Poverty Reduction                                           I               /
Gender Issues                                E l
Community Participation                       /             0               0
Environmental Objectives        a            I              0               0
Public Sector Management        0            I              0               0
Private Sector Development        ]          E l                           1'
Other (specify)                1]             0             Cl 
B. Project Sustainability        Likely              Unlikely              Uncertain
0                    0                      1



20
Highly                     Marginally
C. Bank Performance              satisfactory Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                 o            a/              o             E
Preparation Assistance        El             E]             / V
Appraisal                                    E a                          /
Supervision                    :             I]
Highly                     Marginally
D. Borrower Performance       satisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                                 El EDl
Implementation                E             EEl                          V/
Covenant Compliance            a                                         Ea 
Operation (if applicable)      aD/                                       E
Highly   Satisfactory  Marginally  Unsatisfactory  Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome      satisfactory         Satisfactory           unsatisfactory
El         El          /          El          E



21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                  Purpose                 Year of      Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Bombay Water Supply &      Water supply and conveyance sewers  1974      Completed
Sewerage Project (Cr.390-IN)  in Greater Bombay
2. Second Bombay Water        Water supply and waste water       1979        Completed
Supply & Sewerage Project   treatment and disposal in Greater
(Cr.842-IN)                Bombay
3. Third Bombay Water Supply   Expand water supply by 455 mld in   1987     Completed
& Sewerage Project         Greater Bombay
(Ln.2769-IN) (Cr. 1750-IN)
4. Maharashtra Water Supply   Water Supply and Sewerage in      1979        Completed
Project (Cr.899-IN)        Thane-Kalyan-bhiwandi sub-region
Following Operations
1. Karnataka Rural Water      To improve health and productivity   1993     Ongoing
Supply & Environmental     through improved access to potable
Sanitation Project         water supply and environmental
(Cr.2483-IN)               sanitation facilities in rural areas.
2. Uttar Pradesh Rural Water  To deliver sustainable health and  1996       Ongoing
Supply & Environmental     hygiene benefits to the rural
Sanitation Project (Ln.4056-   population through improvements in
IN) (Cr.2763-IN)           water supply and environmental
sanitation services.
3. Bombay Sewerage Disposal   Sewerage disposal through deep    1995        Ongoing
Project (Ln.3924-IN)       marine outfalls and aerated lagoons



22
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned            Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    -                    August, 1989
Preparation                                   -                    October 12, 1989
Appraisal                                     October 22, 1990     October 22, 1990
Negotiations                                  February 18, 1991    February 28, 1991
Board Presentation                            March 26, 1991       May 2, 1991
Signing                                                            June 5, 1991
Effectiveness                                                      July31, 1991
Mid-term review                                                    February 14, 1995
Credit Closing                                December 31, 1997   June 30, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(thousands)
_____________________    FY-92    FY-93    FY-94    FY-95    FY-96    FY-97   FY-98   FY-99
Appraisal Estimate (US$)  15,050    34,240    59,120    83,050   101,290   109,700  109,900  109,900
Appraisal Estimate (SDR)  10,459    23,806    41,096    57,735    70,418    76,262   76,400   76,400
Actual (SDR)               5,095    10,637    13,839    18,495    27,653    45,407   57,350   69,407
Actual as % of Estimate    48.71    44.68     33.68     32.03     39.27     59.54    75.07    90.84
Date of Final Disbursement: November 23, 1998



23
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/              Estimated                   Actual
President's Report
NA                         NA                          NA
II. Modified Indicators (if
applicable)                                                                  l
1. Construction Works:
No. of Villages with Piped-
water Supply Schemes
Completed                             560                         337
No. of Handpumps Installed           4,000                      4,167
No. of Latrines Constructed         80,000                     121,283
No. of Villages Drainage
Schemes Completed                      75                          34
2. InstitutionalActivities:
No. of Trained People                 NA                        63,000
No. of Village Water Supply
Committees Constituted                 660                         560
NA = Not Available



24
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key Operating Indicators in
SAR/President's Report               Definition                         Unit
1. water quality                NA                               NA
2.  use of new water supply
sources
3.  water consumption
4.  hand washing
5.  health of women
6.  health of children
7.  use of latrines
8.  disposal of waste water
9.  time saved by women
10. incidence of water related
diseases
I 1. awareness of health education
messages
II. Modified Indicators for Future
Operation (if Applicable)                                                      l
1. quantity of water produced   1. output from water treatment   1. Million litters
vis-a-vis design supply         plant or source pumping station vis-  per day (Mld)
a-vis design supply
2.  quantity of water supplied  2.  daily supply at each village  2. Mld.
against design supply measured
from the bulk meters
3.  average duration of daily                                    3. hours
water supply in the village against
design duration
4.  O&M cost recovery           4.  annual collection from water    4. %
taxes against annual O&M costs per
scheme
5. water quality                5.  water samples not meeting    5. %
acceptable standards
NA = Not Available



25
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                       at Appraisal/Redefined  Status    Impact of Study
1. Preparation of pre appraisal report                   Completed
2. Preparation of pre appraisal report                   Completed
for Phase-I
3. Preparation of Phase-II of Project                    Completed
(6 districts)
4. Preparation of project reports for                    Completed
Phase-Il schemes including
Preparation of D.T.P.
5. Assessment of System Losses                           Completed
6. Checking of RCC Designs Phase-I                       Completed
7. Evaluation of bid for Package- I                      Completed
Additional Work
8. Evaluation of bid for Package-II                      Completed
9. Evaluation of bids for Package-III                    Completed
10. Consultancy for scrutiny,                            Completed
evaluation of prequalification of
application for Package-IV
11. Leak Assessment Pilot project                        Completed
12. Evaluation of bids for Package-IV                    Completed
13. R.C.C. Design Checking of                            Completed
Schemes Package-IV
14. Protection of Water Sources
15. Community Participation                              Completed
Management



26
Table 8A: Project Costs
Cumulative Expenditure   Latest Estimate to Complete
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)   Up to 6/98 (US$M))    Works as of 12/98 (in USSM)
Local  Foreign           Local Foreign          Local  Foreign
Item                Costs   costs   Total  Costs  costs   Total  Costs   costs    Total
1. Piped Water Supply Schemes       66.83    13.06   79.88  71.12   13.89  85.01    65.80   12.86       78.65
2. HandpumpProgram                    5.07    1.14    6.22   3.18    0.72   3.90    3.23    0.73         3.96
3. Sanitation Program                 8.91    0.47    9.38   6.34    0.33   6.67    10.07    0.53       10.60
4. Project Support                    1.58    0.07     1.65   4.82    0.21   5.03    6.29    0.28        6.57
5. Institution Building               3.98    1.39    5.37   0.27    0.10   0.37      1.36    0.48       1.84
6. Health Education                   4.65    0.51     5.16   0.97    0.11    1.07    1.29    0.14       1.43
7. Other Consulting Services          0.61    0.16    0.77   0.27    0.07   0.34    0.30    0.08         0.38
8. ZP/GSDA/DOPH Incremental Staff
Salaries                              3.85    0.68    4.53   0.48    0.08   0.57      1.08    0.19       1.27
9. MJP'sEngineeringCosts             11.80    2.08    13.88  13.24    2.33   15.57   11.65    2.05      13.71
10. Land Acquisition                 0.23             0.23   0.42        -   0.42    0.14                0.14
TOTAL Base Costs  107.51    19.56  127.07 100.65   18.31  118.96  100.31    18.25      118.56
Physical Contingencies                7.60    1.40    9.00       0                    3.96    0.73       4.69
Price Contingencies                   1.70    3.00    4.70       0                    6.97    12.30     19.27
TOTALPROJECTCOSTS   116.81   23.96   140.77            0                  118.26   24.26    142.51
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Latest Estimate to Complete Works
as of December 1998 (US$M)
Local    Foreign       Total      Local       Foreign        Total
Source                           Costs      Costs                   Costs       Costs
IDA                                86.00       23.90      109.90       87.04         24.26       111.30
Government of Maharashtra          26.80                   26.80       27.13                      27.13
District Governments                2.00                    2.00        2.07                       2.07
Household Contribution              2.00                    2.00        2.02                       2.02
TOTAL                            116.80       23.90     140.70       118.26         24.26      142.51



27
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
NEITHER A NET PRESENT VALUE NOR AN ECONOMIC RATE OF
RETURN (ERR) WERE ESTIMATED AT APPRAISAL (PLEASE REFER TO
PARA 6 OF THE ICR)



28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenanits
India
Maharashtra Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project
Agreement  Section   Covenant Present  Original   Revised            Description of                   Comments
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment         Covenant
date      date
Credit Ag. 4.01      1        C                           GOI to ensure records are maintained iln compliance.
of all SOEs and audits are carried out
of all records including special
Account and submitted to the
Association within 9 months of the
end of each fiscal year.
Proj. Ag.  4.01      1        CD                          GOM to cause PPMU to maintain
records of all project expenditures
and provide audit reports within 9
months after the end of each fiscal
year.
Proj. Ag.  2.01      5        C                           GOM shall submit each year by      An Action Plan for the Extension
December 31, an annual action plan   of the Project period was
for the following year for all project  furnished on Dec. 15, 1997.
components including status of land   Status of land acquisition
acquisition.                      furnished separately to the
2.01      5        CP                           GOM shall employ consultants for   Consultants employed for
evaluation of construction quality and supervision of water supply
supervision of WS and drainage    works.
works.
2.01      5        C                            GOM shall employ consultants for   In compliance.
monitoring health communication.
2.01      5        SOON                         GOM shall employ consultants for   The Bank gave comments on
carrying out impact evaluations.  draft TOR for this study which
GOM is committed to carry out
with its own funds in the near
fuiture.
2.01      5        C                            GOM shall employ cornsultants for   In compliance.
support for organization
management.
2.01      9        C                            GOM shall ensure regular inspection  In compliance.
and evaluation of dam safety.
2.01      5        CD                           GOM shall by May 31, 1992, submit In compliance.
a strategy report on environmental
sanitation and health education
programs.
2.01      5        C                            GOM shall ensure that all water   In compliance.
abstraction permits in respect of
surface water schemes are obtained in
a timely manner.



29
Agreement   Section   Covenant Present  Original   Revised                   Description of                      Comments
type     stau   fulfillment fulfillment              Covenant
date       date
2.01       5         CP                              GOM shall cause the Board to          All water supply schemes
transfer all WS schemes constructed   completed have been handed
under the project to the Zilla        over to Zilla Panchayats/ Gramr
Panchayats or Gram Parishads as the  Parishads.
case may be for O&M.
2.01       2         CP                              GOM shall cause each Gram              Water tariffs have been set up to
Panchayat participating in the project cover O&M costs in the water
to set and collect water tariffs at   supply schemes which have been
levels to cover O&M costs.            handed over to ZPs/GPs. In the
regional schemes, concerned
Panchayats are charged by the
ZPs to cover maintenance costs
of common facilities but
payments are not being made on
a regular basis and the GPs have
thus large outstanding balances.
2.01       2         C                               GOM shall cause each Zilla Parishad  For regional schemes taken over
participating in the project to transfer by the ZPs. maintenance funds
sufficient revenue each year to the   for O&M of common facilities
District Maintenance fund for annual have been established. Gram
O&M  costs for regional water supply  Panchayats are responsible for
O&M csts or rgionl waer spplymaintenance of facilities
schemes under its responsibility.     provided in the village and a
separate Village Water Fund has
been established in each village.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                 8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                  10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds           11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                    allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                         13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC=   not complied with



30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
NO SIGNIFICANT LACK OF COMPLIANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE BANK
OPERATIONAL MANUAL/STATEMENT (OD OR OP/BP) WAS NOTICED.



31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                          Planned         Revised         Actual 1/
Project Cyclel
Weeks J US$   Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal               NA      NA       NA      NA    186.0   319.8
Appraisal - Negotiations               NA      NA       NA      NA      42.3    84.5
Negotiations through Board Approval    NA      NA       NA      NA      12.8    39.6
Supervision                            NA      NA       NA      NA    126.3   297.3
Completion                            16.8      56    18.5   47.9        9.2    28.2
TOTAL                                 NA      NA       NA      NA    376.5   769.3
I/As of December 21, 1998



32
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions;
Performance Rating
Number   Days           Specialized         Im plemen-   Development
Stage of      Month/      of       in           Staff Skills         tation       Objectives     Types of
Project Cycle    Year    Persons   Field          Represented           Status                     Problems
Through Appraisal   Feb-89     6        10    SOC, ENG, SE, FIN, CD         -              -
June-89     2        5      SOC, ENG                     -             -            -
Oct-89     7        9      ENG, TNG, CD, FIN,           -             -            -
PROC, FA
Mar-90     10        10    ENG, FA, SOC, PROC,           _             _
CD, SE
Appraisal through    Oct-90    10       16    ENG, FA, SOC, HS, SE          -              -            -
Board Approval
Mar-91     3         8     SOC,TNG,SE
Aug-91      4        5     SOC, ENG, FIN
Supervision        Mar-92      3        3      ENG, SOC                     HS            HS
Apr-93     3         3     ENG, HS, ECON                 S             S            M
July-93     3        3     ENG, HS                       S              S
Oct-93     4        4      ENG                           S             S
Feb-94     6         8     ENG, SOC                      S             S
May-94      4        5      ENG, SOC                      S             S
Mar-95      4        10    SE, UP, SOC                   S              S
Not in OIS         June-95      1        3     SE
Jan-96     3        10    SE, COM                       U              S            E
Aug-96      3        9     SE, CD                        U              S            E
Dec-96     4         9     FIN, SAN, SE, CD              U             U           M, E
May-97      6        11    PROC, SAN, SE, FA,             S             S
SOC
Sept-97     5        9     SAN, SE, SOC, GW,             S              S
TNG
Mar-98      6        12    SE, ECON, SOC, SAN,           S              S
DISB
Completion         July-98     6        13    SE, SOC, SAN, DISB,---
PRO



33
Staff Skills:
ENG = Engineer                SOC = Sociologist                     HS = Health Scientist
ECON = Economist              UP= Urban Planner                     SE = Sanitation Engineer
COM = Communication Spec.    FIN = Finance/Inst. Spec.              SAN = Sanitation Spec.
CD = Community Dev. Spec.     PROC = Procurement Spec.              FA = Financial Analyst
GW = Ground Water Spec.       TNG = Training Spec.                  DISB = Disbursement Spec.
Key:
HS= Highly Satisfactory       S = Satisfactory
U  Unsatisfactory             HU = Highly Unsatisfactory
M   Managerial                E = Environmental



34                        Appendix A
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
SANITATION PROJECT (Credit 2234-IN)
Implementation Completion Mission: July 6-20, 1998
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission"5 visited Maharashtra from July 6 to 20, 1998 to carry out a
final supervision mission of the above project, in combination with an implementation
completion review. The mission met with Government of Maharashtra officials from the
Water Supply & Sanitation Department; the Project Planning and Monitoring Unit (PPMU);
the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP); the Groundwater Surveys and Development
Agency (GSD); the Department of Public Health (DOPH); and the Information, Education
and Communication (IEC) Bureau. The mission undertook field visits along with staff of the
PPMU, District Project Monitoring Units (DPMU), MJP, DOPH and NGOs and covered 15
project villages from the districts of Aurangabad (2), Beed (2), Ahmednagar (2), Pune (1),
Thane (3), Satara (2) and Sangli (3). The mission thanks all these officials for their courtesy
and cooperation throughout. Upon return to New Delhi, the mission met with officials from
the Department of Economic Affairs, Government of India (GOI) and from the Rajiv Gandhi
National Drinking Water Mission, Ministry of Rural Areas & Emaployment, GOI. This Aide-
Memoire summarizes the mission findings and recommendations.
SUMMARY OF MAIN FINDINGS
2.    Background. The project was approved by the Board on May 2, 1991 for a Credit
of SDR 76.4 million and was closed on June 30, 1998 following a six-month extension. As
of 14th July 1998, US$ 80.7 million equivalent (or 75% of the original principal amount of
the credit) has been disbursed. On the basis of PPMU's expenditure estimates, the
cumulative eligible disbursements by project closing are about US$98 million, and thus
about US$8.2 million are likely to be canceled. The mission noted that no withdrawal
applications will be processed by the Bank after October 31, 1998.
3.    Country and Sector Context. This was the first project in India to integrate rural
water supply, environmental sanitation and health education in a single operation; this
approach has since become the standard intervention and was adopted in the GOI sector
strategy. It was also envisaged that NGOs would play a key role in the planning and
implementation of the health communications and environmental sanitation components.
GOM has introduced some reforms across the State inspired by this project, such as giving
legal status to Village Water Supply Funds, revising water tariffs, and piloting service
contracts for operation and maintenance of regional water supply schemes. GOM has
requested Bank's support for a follow on operation to build on this experience and to carry
out large investments in this sector. Despite protracted discussioins, however, agreement has
15 Mme/Messrs. Ines Fraile, G.V.Abhyankar, P.C. Mohan, Sanjay Vani, S. Krishnan, and V.R. lyer



35                           Appendix A
not been reached between the Bank and GOM on the key elements for reform. The main
issues are the level of capital cost recovery from the users and the top-down approach of
GOM's Water-Tanker-Free-Village Program.
4.     Project Achievements. At project closure, the physical targets of the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) for the piped water supply component have been substantially but
not fully achieved due to implementation delays: out of a total of 560 villages, construction
has been completed in 337 villages (60%) and is close to completion in an additional 165
(30%); the remaining will be progressively completed with GOM funds by the end of 1999.
The field visits indicate that, where the schemes are in operation, the investments have
brought about benefits in terms of increased water availability, time savings for fetching
water and decreased incidence of water borne diseases, although these benefits have not
been quantitatively assessed. Ultimately, the completed piped water supply schemes will
benefit about 1.7 million people, as envisaged at appraisal. While the borewell and latrine
programs have surpassed the SAR targets, very little progress has been achieved in drainage
construction.
5.    Despite substantial start-up delays in implementation, the recruitment of NGOs to
facilitate community participation, the health communication, training and environmental
sanitation components seem to have had positive impacts. They have created awareness
about the role of the Zilla Parishads (ZPs) and GPs in the operation and maintenance (O&M)
of water supply schemes, and have successfully promoted latrine construction and adequate
hygiene practices. These are preliminary findings, since no independent evaluation of any of
these components has been carried out so far. GOM will carry out an impact evaluation
study of this project; the Bank has given comments on the corresponding draft terms of
reference.
6.     Sustainability. During project implementation, water tariffs have been substantially
increased, somewhat improving the chances of sustainable operation of the piped water
schemes. However, the benefits achieved by the project could be short-lived unless GOM
takes more determined action to address the following remaining institutional and financial
issues:
*  unwillingness of some ZPs and GPs to take over the piped water supply schemes;
*  weak technical and financial skills in the ZPs and GPs regarding O&M of the schemes;
*  tariff setting rigidities that may prevent full recovery of O&M costs in some instances;
*  poor water demand management at the village level'6;
*  poor performance of ZPs in collecting water bills from GPs in the regional schemes;
16Many standposts do not have taps; poor materials are often used for household connections; and price signals are not
used to reduce the demand for private connections when water availability is a constraint (it was observed that the
difference between the water tax for households with private connection and for those using the public standposts is
often small, e.g. Rs. 360/year and Rs 120/year respectively.



36                        Appendix A
* poor incentives at the ZPs and GPs level to carry out preventive maintenance of the
piped water schemes since they do not contribute to the capital costs; and
* deficient supervision of drainage and latrine construction in some instances.
7.    Problems are more acute in the 85% of the project villages served through regional
water schemes, which are more complex to operate. In retrospect, it seems that both GOM
and the Bank, should have given more attention early on in project implementation to the
institutional and financial arrangements for O&M of the schemes, especially for the regional
schemes. GOM is aware of the issues mentioned above and is taLking some actions to
address them, including preparation of O&M manuals for ZPs and GPs; training of ZPs and
GPs staff; revision of the ZPs' financial and accounting procedures for collection of water
tariffs; drafting standard contracts for contracting out O&M for up to five years to private
operators; and exploring possible reforms of institutional arrangements for O&M of regional
schemes. The mission encourages GOM to speedily carry out such initiatives.
8.    The mission also welcomes GOM's decision to continue its support to the PPMU
and key unfinished project activities until the end of 1998, including the contracts with the
NGOs, the training activities, the impact evaluation study and other consultancies providing
assistance with the handing-over process. It is also essential that GOM maintains some
support beyond that date to facilitate the handing-over of the unfinished piped water supply
schemes. Finally, the mission encourages GOM to consider further measures to improve
sustainability in this sector, such as contributions to capital investments by the beneficiaries,
progressive phasing out of GOM subsidies for O&M, and reducing subsidies for latrines as
per GOI guidelines.
9.    Borrower's Views on Implementation Performance. GOM and the PPMU believe
that their overall performance has been satisfactory. Regardless of implementation delays,
most project objectives have been achieved. Also the Water Supply and Sanitation
Department, including MJP, has been strengthened as a result of participating in the project.
The main area of concern is the O&M of regional schemes. The Bank's performance is
satisfactory, although supervision should have given more emphaLsis to sustainability issues
early on during project implementation.
10.   The Mission's Views on Implementation Performance.. Implementation of the
piped water supply schemes was moderately satisfactory because of delays in the
administrative approvals and procurement processes. The Bank also contributed to the
delays by recommending large procurement packages which did not seem suitable to local
conditions. Huge start-up delays (of three/four years) in the community participation, health
education, training and environmental sanitation components have reduced their positive
impacts. Lack of familiarity on the part of the Bank and the Borrower with this integrated
approach, poor definition of implementation details in the SAR, low implementation priority
accorded by GOM during the first years of implementation, unsuc cessful involvement of
NGOs in strategic planning, inadequate criteria for selection of the NGOs, and poor
performance of the consultants recruited to prepare strategies for these components are the



37                         Appendix A
main causes of the delays. The PPMU was fairly weak during the first years of
implementation and has had very limited powers in project management throughout.
11.   GOM's Action Plan for the Extension Period. The main aim of the Action Plan
was to strengthen the focus on the sustainability of the water supply and sanitation facilities
constructed or soon to be completed, while the physical targets for piped water supply
schemes envisaged in the SAR were attained. Implementation of the Action Plan remains
delayed but progress since the last mission has been satisfactory. The district Task Forces
have re-visited all completed schemes and have drafted action plans of mixed quality to
address the issues that hamper proper operation of the systems'7. The individual action plans
are now being reviewed by the PPMU. Since some issues are common to several schemes,
the PPMU is preparing guidelines to address these problems and to clarify the roles of the
different actors involved. It is expected that GOM will support the implementation of the
action plans and will provide adequate support and supervision for the handing-over of
unfinished schemes.
SUMMARY OF AGREED ACTIONS
Action                            By when         By Whom
Send draft ICR to GOM for comments                  mid-Sept. 1998    Bank
Send to the Bank the final Borrower's ICR           Sept. 30, 1998    PPMU
Submit to the Bank withdrawal applications for eligible  October 31, 1998    PPMU
expenditures incurred up to June 30, 1998
Maintain support to PPMU and DPMUs                  December 31, 1998  GOM
Address issues identified by the District Task Forces in the    December 31, 1998  PPMU, MJP,
completed schemes                                                     DPMU
Issue & distribute final ICR                        December 31, 1998  Bank
Send to the Bank Project and SOE Audit accounts of 1997-98  December 31, 1998  PPMU
Make available adequate funds (about Rs 500 million) and    March 31, 1999  GOM, MJP
complete unfinished piped water supply works
Complete unfinished drainage works                  March 31, 1999    ZPs, GPs
Complete compensation payments of land acquisition  June 30, 1999     GOM
Continue support to the PPMU and DPMUs for proper hand-  till handing-over is  GOM
over to ZPs and GPs of unfinished water supply schemes  completed
Send to the Bank Project and SOE Audit accounts of 1998-99  December 31, 1999  PPMU
17 This does not include village requests for expansion of the systems to cover new settlements.



38                         Appendix A
STATUS AT PROJECT CLOSURE
PIPED WATER SUPPLY
12.   Physical Progress. The project scope was reduced during project implementation
from 660 villages in the SAR to 560 villages. However, since the villages selected in Phase
2 were larger than anticipated, the beneficiary population remained the same at about 1.7
million. At project closure, the physical objectives of this component have been
substantially achieved: out of a total of 560 villages, construction has been completed in 337
villages (60%) and is close to completion in additional 165 (30%). Full completion of the
piped water supply schemes in these 165 villages is only pending on minor civil works or
securing electrical connections for the pumping stations. They should be completed within
three months.
13.   Construction of unfinished schemes in the remaining 58 villages (about 10 %) is well
advanced. These schemes suffered delays due to the termination of contract with one
contractor land acquisition problems, insufficient source yields and local political conflicts.
MJP estimates that these schemes will be completed by March 31, 1999, including a 3-
month trial-run period. The table below shows a quarterly forecast of the number of
schemes that will be commissioned in the following months.
Status        Individual     Regional Schemes              Total
Village    No. of      No. of      No. of    No. of Villages
Schemes    Schemes      Villages   Schemes    (% of total)
Completed              60          29         277          89        337 (60%)
To be completed:
By 30/09/98   68          40          449         108       517 (90%)
By31/12/98    71          45          483         116       554 (99%)
By 31/03/99   72          47          488         119       560 (100%)
Handed over            48          13          190         61        238 (42%)
14.   MJP estimates that eligible expenditure on piped water supply schemes (PWS) at
project closure is Rs 3070 million (including some Rs 75 m yet to be paid) and total
expenditure at completion of all schemes will be about Rs 3600 million (a 70% cost overrun
compared to the SAR cost estimate of Rs 2130 million). GOM will fully finance the
expenditure after the project closing date, about Rs 530 million. 'lhe explanatory factors of
the increased costs are: higher bid prices (50 %); price escalation during construction (25
%); additional works (15 %); and changes in the design (10 %).



39                          Appendix A
15.   Handing-over of Schemes. Out of 89 schemes completed, MJP has handed over 61
schemes (70%) covering 238 villages to the ZPs and GPs. Normally, the handing over
should take place after the three-months trial-run. Some reasons that explain MJP's
problems in handing over completed schemes are:
*  Since water tariffs are not collected immediately after commissioning, the users get
accustomed to a higher level of service without paying for it;
*  If the ZP does not take over, MJP automatically runs the scheme using GOM's
investment funds. Also, MJP cannot discontinue water supply even when water charges
are not paid by the ZPs or the GPs, because of political pressure (water as a social good);
*  Lack of technical and management capacity at the ZP level to operate large and complex
multi-village schemes;
* Insufficient resources at the ZP level to cover O&M expenses'8 and reluctance to collect
water charges from the beneficiaries and/or the GPs;
*  Ineffective social intermediation by NGOs and insufficient efforts by DPMUs;
*  Lack of ownership by the ZP, GP and the community because they have not contributed
to the capital costs nor have been involved in scheme planning and implementation,
choice of service level and technology; and
*  GP's or ZP's dissatisfaction because of problems with the water sources identified after
commissioning, poor quality of construction, difficulties with land acquisition, demands
for additional works or for repairing existing scheme components
16.   Leak Detection. The project made a budget provision to undertake a leak detection
and repairs (LD & R) program in 150 project villages having existing piped systems, with
assistance from consultants. However, MJP's efforts to recruit consultants failed because the
consultants failed to propose methodologies appropriate to rural systems and their offers had
very high price (more than the cost of full replacement by new pipes). In fact, provision of
drinking water to rural population through piped systems is a relatively recent development
in India. Simple and cost effective methods to undertake LD & R in rural systems are yet to
be established. Therefore, MJP in consultation with the Bank, decided to carry out only a
pilot study to develop and test suitable methodologies and then implement the program in-
house, using trained engineers. The pilot study with consultant assistance was successfully
completed in 1994. At project closure, MJP has completed the LD & R program in another
15 villages. MJP intends to reinforce its focus on this important aspect of scheme
sustainability and complete the work in all the 150 villages by Mar-99. Under the
circumstances, the mission felt that this project objective has been partially met.
17.   Protection of Water Sources. In response to earlier mission's recommendation,
MJP has recruited a consultant (NEERI) to visit the water sources of all the 119 piped water
schemes to undertake their quantitative and qualitative assessment, identify potential risk of
pollution, recommend an action plan to protect these water sources against pollution and
provide guidelines to MJP for necessary proactive monitoring of water quality at source.
18 In most cases, the ZPs collect water charges from the GPs only once a year; however operating expenses are daily or
monthly. If the financial situation of the ZP is not very sound, there can be a cash flow problem.



40                        Appendix A
The consultants study began in Mar-98 and is scheduled for completion in Oct-98. The
mission requested PPMU to send a copy of the consultant's report when available.
18.   Pilot 24 hrs Experiment. MJP has carried out an interesting pilot experiment to
provide continuous water supply in two of the project villages where the water source is
abundant (Sulewadi in Satara and Patoda in Beed). Both villages have requested MJP to
discontinue the experiment because of the following reasons: the additional resources
needed (staff, electricity and chemicals) were not affordable; lack of continuous electric
supply to run the pumps; insanitary conditions at the public water points; wastage and
misuse of water because of lack of domestic metering; and concern that continued supply
would generate low demand for private connections and thus reduce potential revenues.
19.   The mission visited Sulewadi, where the scheme had been handed over a few months
ago, and its findings are not fully consistent with the above concerns. The GP reported that
demand for private connections is growing. The standposts had taps installed. Service
interruptions are rare, as opposed to Patoda (visited by the previous mission), because power
supply is fairly reliable. During the discussions, it was observed ithat many villagers like the
convenience of continuous supply but do not know all its benefits (improved water quality)
and lack the capacity or willingness to deal with necessary complementary arrangements to
limit wastage or provide adequate drainage at the standposts. The GP was concerned about
increased operating costs but had no objective base to estimate the cost savings'9 (there is
only one pumping operator). Since the system has been handed over, the VWSC and the GP
will take a decision on whether to suspend the continuous supply. In any case, the ZP
should continue monitoring the pattern of consumption and sharing the results with the GP
to facilitate decision making. The mission compliments GOM for undertaking this rare
experiment.
20.   Water Quality Monitoring and Surveillance. The improvements to the quality
monitoring system suggested by the last mission have not been irnplemented.
21.   Compensation Payment for Land Acquired. Since last mission only marginal
improvement in the numbers of total compensation paid (which have risen from 51 to 72)
have been achieved. Out of a total of 330 cases, about 173 are through Section-4 and
awaiting Section-6 notification. GOM expects that by June 1999 payments would have been
made in all the remaining cases. The mission expressed its serious concern regarding the
long delays that continue to occur in paying compensation to private land owners whose
land had been acquired for the project during the past 4-5 years. The mission will highlight
this serious shortcoming in the ICR, currently under preparation.
BOREWELL PROGRAM
22.   The Ground Water Survey and Development Agency (GSDA) of the GOM was
responsible for implementing this component. Physical objectives of this component have
19 It may well happen that the savings with only a few hours of supply per day would be below the GP's expectations.



41                       Appendix A
been fully achieved. These included drilling of some 2700 borewells and installing
handpumps on them, hydrofracturing over 1000 existing borewells and procurement of some
state-of-the-art equipment (drilling rigs and instruments for hydrogeological surveys).
GSDA estimates that over 500,000 population has benefited from these programs. The
achieved level of service is one borewell for 150 persons. Implementation was in line with
the schedule prepared at appraisal.
23.   At closure, only one item of this subcomponent remains unfinished, i.e. GSDA's
office building at Pune. Construction started in November 1997, following considerable
startup delays. The scheduled date for completion is Sep-99.
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION
24.   Latrines. As of end of May 1998, the number of latrines constructed in the 560
project villages was reported to be nearly 24,000 against the planned number of 25,000
(96% achievement). As advised by the Sept.-Oct. 1997 mission, GOM has concentrated on
consolidating the gains in the project villages. Consequently, no more latrines have been
constructed in the non-project villages, beyond what was constructed until February 1998
(121,283). Overall, the SAR target of 80,000 latrines has been exceeded.
25.   Drainage. The project envisaged construction of small surface drains for about 75
large (population > 5000) project villages. It also envisaged promotion and construction of
household soak-pits where the soil conditions were favorable for percolation of waste water
in the ground. The SAR provided a budget of Rs 72 million. The capital cost sharing
formula for drainage was the same as GOM's formula for construction of drains under its
own program (GOM 60 %: ZP 10 %: GP 30 % ). At project closure, about 2,600 metres of
drains have been constructed in 34 project villages of 5 districts. Only about Rs 1.3 million
(less than 2 % of the budget allocated), have been utilized at closure. Thus, the achievement
of this component has been negligible. The main reasons of slow progress have been: (a)
low priority given to this activity by GOM for the first three years of the project; (b)
ambitious and expensive designs initially prepared by the consultants; unaffordable to the
villagers; and (c) low level of interest and capacity on the part of the ZPs and GPs who were
responsible for its implementation. The demand for drainage construction by the GPs has
developed only after increased water supply was made available thus creating greater
problems with sullage water disposal. Construction has started when the designs were
phased according to the degree of priority, reducing costs to an affordable level. The PPMU
intends to continue the drainage construction program in these 34 villages after project
closure and complete it by March 1999.
26.   Solid Waste & Soakpits. The program for installation of dustbins in large villages
envisaged at appraisal was not implemented due to lack of demand from the villages and
lack of promotion by GOM. However, PPMU successfully promoted the concept of private
soak-pits and over 5,859 soakpits have been constructed by the beneficiaries in the project
villages using their own resources.



42                       Appendix A
27.   Credit Utilization. In financial terms, against the SAR provision of Rs 167 million
and the project mid-terrn provision of Rs 375 million (Rs 175m for latrines and 200m for
drainage), the expenditure reported until May 98 is a little over Rs 69 million. However, the
actual expenditure figures as at the end of June 98 are expected to be higher.
28.  Implementation of GOM's Action Plan of Dec-97. The District Task Forces have
completed sanitation surveys in the 280 villages where water supply schemes have been
completed. Preparation of sanitation plans based on the surveys are reported to be in process
by the Task Forces in consultation with Village Water Supply Committees (VWSC). This
process is expected to be completed by August 98. Thereafter, the plans will be approved,
executing and supervising agencies will be identified, a reporting system will be established,
and the plans implemented. Because of delays in the preparation of plans, their
implementation will now extend beyond the project closing date.
29.   Field Visits. The Gram Sevaks who have received training in environmental
sanitation greatly value the exposure and appear to be strongly motivated to improve
sanitation in the villages under their charge. The NGOs are discouraging the construction of
septic tanks wherever lower cost alternatives are feasible, but GOM continues to provide
subsidy for their construction against the recommendation of successive missions.
Deficiencies in maintenance of drains have been observed, even in the case of recently
constructed drains (in Sarole). The design and supervision of the work by the ZP
engineering staff has also been deficient in this case. Instead of improving sanitation, it is
apparently worsening the situation.
30.   Actions Agreed with the Previous Mission. The PPMUJ has made good progress in
the training of Gram Sevaks to supervise latrine construction. Details of other activities are
in Annex 2.
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
31.   Handing-Over Process. The PPMU has recruited a consultant to prepare guidelines
and assist in following up the handing-over of completed schemes.
32.   Support by the NGOs. The community participation component was conceived as
a critical delivery mechanism for health education and for the formation of social capital.
The mission is pleased to note that VWSCs and Mahila Mandals have been established in
523 of the 542 villages in which the NGOs are working, and the water supply schemes have
been explained to 520 VWSCs. The GPs and VWSC members are aware about their role in
O&M of the schemes, except in the most backward districts, where MJP has been unable to
hand over the schemes. Collection of water tariffs started in 244 villages and separate bank
accounts have been opened for water supply in all project villages. However, the knowledge
at the village level of the rules governing the Village Water Fund (such as joint operation by
the Sarpanch and Gram Sevak) is limited. The mission also observed that in most instances,
the NGO and the project block district officer (BDO) had a good working relationship.
However, in institutionally sustainable terrns, this may not augur well for post-project



43                       Appendix A
activities as the regular BDO tends to be somewhat marginalized in the process. Overall,
given the late start made regarding the selection of NGOs, the mission feels that relatively
good progress has been made since 1995-96 in meeting the objectives of the community
participation component. GOM has extended the contracts of the 43 concerned NGOs till
end- 1998.
33.   After a sharp decline in training in Community Participation, as reported in April
1998, the HEO and concerned BDOs have restarted this training.
34.   The mission recommends that the PPMU organize a workshop to capture and
disseminate the Lessons Learned in selecting, training and working with NGOs for social
intermediation in this project.
35.   The revised expenditure for this component was Rs. 53 million, of which an
expenditure of Rs. 20.23 million was recorded by the end of the FY. Anticipated additional
expenditure till credit closing is Rs. 10 million.
36.   Village Action Plan by the District Task Forces. The field visits indicate that the
task forces re-visiting the schemes have conducted the audit jointly with the villagers, and
documented the findings of the villages as well.
HEALTH EDUCATION
37.   Notwithstanding the very late implementation start, the health education component
has performed well in the 10 districts of project implementation. This observation is made
on the basis of field visits made to several regional and single village schemes (see Annex
2). In all the villages visited, the community stakeholders had grasped the significance of the
6 basic water and sanitation messages being propagated. This was especially true of the
women and schoolchildren. The Information, Education and Communication (IEC) print
materials have been disseminated extensively and the non-print media vehicles being used
(Lok kalakars, films) have proved popular and effective in communicating messages.
Quantitatively, a large number of activities have been carried out (these are detailed in the
PPMU's Status Report, 30 June 1998 and include wall paintings, posters, calendars,
exhibition sets, prabhat pheries, folk media, film shows, demonstrations of soakpits,
compost pits, etc.). The IEC Bureau has developed communication tools related to
environmental sanitation, as recommended by previous missions. Finally, major efforts
have been made on training: about 653 staff from the ZPs and the NGOs; some 3,228 water
committee members, AWWs, Mahila Mandal members, Tarun Mandal members; and 163
folk artists, puppeteers, folk singers, painters, etc. have been trained in health education.
38.  Impact Evaluation. The mission recommends that a detailed evaluation be
commissioned to understand the impact of on-going IEC activities and modify them, if
needed, to achieve greater impact.



44                       Appendix A
39.   The revised expenditure on this component was Rs. 50.75 million of which Rs. 38.15
million was spent by the end of the FY. The anticipated additional expenditure till credit
closing is not yet available.
TRAINING
40.   Summary of Findings. As of March 31, 1998, about 1,152 persons had been trained
at the NRTC, Nashik. These courses included both technical and managerial courses, with
the former predominating. The latter includes Personality Development courses and
Objective-oriented Project Planning. The projected number of batches was 148, of which
approximately 115 have been already conducted; 33 are planned for the 1998/99 period. 400
operational staff should benefit of this training. The number of ZP staff attending training
continues to be low (147 of the 1,152 mentioned); the ZP staff may accord low priority to
training because they report to a different department.
41.   As planned at appraisal, strengthening of MJP's training center at Nashik has been
substantially completed at project closure. The infrastructure facilities (workshop,
classrooms, test-models, equipment, etc.) have been enhanced, training capacity has been
doubled and the training programs now cover most aspects of water supply engineering and
O&M. A few unfinished items of infrastructure strengthening are scheduled for completion
by Dec-98 (estimated cost Rs 29 million, expenditure at closure = Rs 26 million). As the
GSDA training center is still under construction, GSDA staff continue to be trained out of
the state.
42.   Public Health training has been imparted as scheduled by DOPH through the
HFWTCs and MO-DTTs. The average percentage of trainees against projected numbers is
approximately 77%. The Community Participation training has not been consistently
delivered, apparently because of the BDO's work load and shortage of staff.
43.   The modules created by the consultants for training are generally satisfactory and
were prepared in consultation with the beneficiaries. The consultants have also built in a
process for measuring the impact of training by visiting the trainee a few months subsequent
to the training and by questioning his/her supervisor. The mission recommends that an
evaluation of how the training helped improve the quality of work be carried out.
44.   The "Sustainability Development of RWS Schemes- formation of Task Force " is a
very useful workshop, and the table on the role of various categories of persons for
sustainable water and environmental sanitation schemes should be publicized as widely as
possible, especially at the village level (in Marathi) so that people's roles and responsibilities
become as transparent as possible.
45.   Actions Agreed with the Previous Mission have been executed (extension of
contract of training consultants and refocus training for the hand-over process) except the
strengthening of the PPMU training cell.



45                       Appendix A
46.   The revised expenditure for this component was Rs. 65 million, of which Rs. 38.38
million was spent. The anticipated expenditure till Credit closing was Rs. 3 million.
DISBURSEMENTS, CREDIT UTILIZATION AND AUDIT
47.   Disbursements: As of 14th July 1998, US $ 80.7 million equivalent, which is 75%
of the original principal amount of the credit, has been disbursed. PPMU anticipates that by
31st October 1998 further disbursement amounting to about US$ 17 million would be made.
Thus, the estimated amount of credit unused would be US$ 8.2 million (about 7.5% of the
original credit amount).
48.   Total Project Costs: PPMU estimates that the total expenditure on the project will
be Rs 4410.2 million, which compares with appraisal estimate of Rs 3195.8 million (US$
140.8 million equivalent). The increase in project cost, in rupee terms, is mainly due to
substantial increase in cost of piped water supply schemes resulting from higher bid prices,
price escalation, and additional works.
49.   Audits. Article IV in the Project Agreement required GOM to furnish to the Bank
audited project financial statements and an audit report thereon within nine months from the
date of each financial year. GOM did comply with this financial covenant albeit with
significant delays. For example, audited financial statements and audit report for the year
1996-97 which were due by 31st December, 1997 were not received until July 20th, 1998.
This resulted in discontinuation of use of SOE procedure for withdrawal of credit.
ECONOMIC BENEFITS
50.   The field visits show that the project has rendered substantial benefits. Since the new
schemes began operating, women in the villages of Sangli and Satara are saving at least 2-4
hours and up to 8 hours in fetching water. In most cases, at least part of this time is used for
productive activities. Also, the quantity of water consumed has substantially increased
(doubled or tripled). In all the villages, health conditions have reportedly improved.
Villages with guinea worm prior to the project are now free of such disease. Although
villagers were unable to estimate the savings in medication costs, benefits in terms of time
savings of the active population are likely. Moreover, villagers with cows have seen their
revenue increase due to two factors: i) reduction in medication costs, and ii) increase in milk
production because the families can breed greater number of cows and, in some instances,
can breed hybrid species which require more water and produce more milk. Finally, some of
these villages were supplied through water tanks at great cost during the summer months,
post-project, this expenditure is no longer there.
51.   GOM's impact evaluation study could quantify these benefits in some sample
villages to estimate the rate of return of these investments; the SAR had not included an
economic evaluation of the proposed investments.



46                       Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE
VIEWS OF THE BORROWER
52.   Overall Performance. GOM and the PPMU believe that their overall performance
has been satisfactory. Regardless of start-up delays most project objectives have been
achieved. The main area of concern is the O&M of regional schemes
53.   Piped Water Supply Schemes. GOM and MJP feels that all the designed objectives
of the project have been substantially achieved. This was an innovative project with an
integrated approach to water supply, health education and environmental sanitation and was
spread over a large area of Maharashtra. The Water Supply and Sanitation Department of
GOM has improved its own functioning as a result of its participation in the project. Key
aspects of the Bank's procurement procedures have been adopted by MJP in their regular
program. One of the greatest contributions of the project was the third party supervision of
construction. This has improved the quality of construction in the project schemes. MJP is
also considering to use this principle for their regular program.
54.   Borewell Program. GSDA feels that the project helped it to pilot some innovative
and unconventional technologies ( e.g. hydrofracturing). The institutional strengthening has
also been achieved through acquisition of modem technologies, equipment and staff
training. Drawing on success from the project, GSDA now has a regular hydrofracturing
program for the whole state.
VIEWS OF THE MISSION
55.   Overall Performance. The PPMU was fairly weak during the first years of
implementation and has had very limited powers in project management throughout. The
resources were directly channeled to the implementing agencies (MJP, GSDA, DOPU, etc.).
56.   Piped Water Supply Schemes. GOM's implementation performance was
moderately satisfactory since it was delayed compared to schedule. Delays were more
significant prior to construction, which by-en-large progressed according to schedule, due to
administrative approvals and, more importantly, delays in procurement. It took some time
for MJP to become familiar with some innovative features brought about by the Bank's
procurement guidelines. The Bank also contributed to the delays by recommending large
procurement packages. The local contractors were not used to the large size of the packages
and it was difficult to obtain bids. Finally, some modifications to the contract packaging
were needed.
57.   Though the SAR envisaged that the schemes would be handed-over to the local
government bodies (ZPs and GPs) for O&M, the Bank failed to accurately appraise the
institutional capacity of these bodies. In retrospect, it seems that both GOM and the Bank,
should have given more attention early on in project implementation to the institutional and
financial arrangements for O&M of the schemes, especially for the regional schemes. Part
of this deficiency is to be blamed on GOM's failure to strengthen a poorly performing
PPMU and to develop strategies for the community participation, health education and



47                        Appendix A
environmental sanitation components. These issues focused most of the energy of
successive supervision missions for about four years.
58.   Borewell program. The GSDA's performance has been fully satisfactory.
59.   Community Participation, Health Education, Training and Environmental
Sanitation. Huge start-up delays (of about three years) in these components have reduced
their positive impacts. The strategy for the community participation, health education and
environmental sanitation was developed (unsatisfactorily) only in early 1995. The revised
final strategy prepared by the contractor in February 1996 was also rejected by GOM and
IDA, and the services of the contractor were sought to be terminated in early 1996. The final
strategy was developed only subsequent to this by the Health Education and Community
Participation sub-unit of the PPMU. The performance of the training consultants has been
adequate. The programs have contributed substantially to skills development at the grass
root level. However, some of these (such as those for NGOs and Gram Sevaks) have been
launched only recently and will need to be completed before they confer full benefits.
60.   Lack of familiarity on the part of the Bank and the Borrower with this integrated
approach, poor definition of implementation details in the SAR, low implementation priority
accorded by GOM during the first three/four years of implementation, unsuccessful
involvement of NGOs in strategic planning and poor performance of the consultants
recruited to prepare strategies for these components are the main causes of the delays. The
risk of GOM's according low implementation priority to these components was clearly
identified in the SAR, but measures to address it were inadequate. The capacity of the
NGOs to play a key role in the planning and implementation of the health communications
and environmental sanitation components was overestimated in the SAR. Finally, both, the
Bank and GOM are responsible for not delineating clear and adequate procedures of
selection of NGOs and of consultants to prepare strategies for these components at the outset
and subsequently, for not taking timely action regarding ineffective performance by the
consultant.
61.   Latrines. During the last few years of implementation GOM has accorded high
priority to the latrine program, which particularly benefits women. Performance has
consequently been impressive in terms of the numbers constructed, although this has been
achieved with very high subsidies. As demand grows, the high level of subsidy provided by
GOM do not seem fiscally sustainable. The mission recommends that GOM reduce the level
of subsidy and eliminate the existing subsidies to higher income households as per GOI
guidelines. Moreover, issues persist such as: use of inappropriate technology (e.g.
construction of septic tanks where lower cost technologies are feasible); inadequate tqchnical
supervision; lack of training of NGOs and others concerned; and insufficient effort to
procure pans with the right slope for two-pit latrines. While GOM has taken actions to
address these issues, the results need to be closely monitored to ensure an efficient product.
62.   Drainage and solid waste. GOM performance in the construction of drains and
provision of refuse bins is deficient. Consequently, integration of water supply and



48                        Appendix A
environmental sanitation components has not been achieved. In particular, the problems
caused by waste water stagnation are likely to intensify in the villages receiving additional
water as a result of the project, in the absence of proper drainage.
63.   Funds Flow. In the absence of well-defined procedures for flow of funds from
GOM to the implementing agencies, in the beginning, there were considerable delays in
release of funds to various agencies, more importantly, to the MJP. However, towards the
end of the project, GOM constituted an inter-departmental committee to oversee the flow of
funds to various implementing agencies which did improve the situation.
64.   Monitoring and Evaluation tended to be weak and not dlone in a timely manner.
The performance of the NGOs has been uneven and monitoring their performance has been a
difficult task for the PPMU. While there is an institutional set-up for monthly meetings with
the NGOs and monthly reports generated for the attention of the ]Director, PPMU,
compilation, analysis and feedback on the basis of these reports is delayed since the Unit has
a single computer.
OPERATIONAL PLAN AND SUSTAINABIL][TY ISSUES
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR O&M OF PIPED WATER SCHEMES
65.   Based on the mission field visits, information provided by the PPMU, and the
findings of the District Task Forces, the following issues affecting sustainability of schemes
currently operated by the local government bodies (ZPs and GPs ) have been identified:
66.   MJP's tight design parameters. The project design horizon (2007) is clearly too
short, considering that completed systems have been in operation only for about two years
and that many schemes are yet to be completed. This will strain the capacity of the systems.
Before considering costly investments for augmentation, other options should be explored,
such as installation of stand-by diesel pumps to extend the number of hours of pumping up
to 24 hours (poor power availability now limits the maximum number of hours of pumping
to 8-16 hours/day). This would increase the useful life of the project investments although it
would increase the financial burden on the ZPs and GPs. The ZPs and GPs would have to
cover the capital investment of the additional pump and the increased operating costs per
unit produced.
67.   The per capita supply is less than design supply due to higher than projected
population growth and/or yield limitations of the water source. Because of these factors and
poor demand management, the duration of water supply is in many cases far below ( 1-2 hrs)
the design duration (of 3 hrs twice a day). Although the project has brought about great
improvements in the regularity of service, water supply remains somewhat irregular due to
irregular and inadequate electrical supply to pumping stations at the water source. The
distribution pressures are generally satisfactory but not always equitable (particularly in
multi-village schemes).



49                        Appendix A
68.   Weak technical and financial management capacity of the local government
bodies. The quality of management of O&M of schemes already taken over by the ZPs and
GPs has been mixed. The deficiencies observed include: conditions at public standpost are
sometimes insanitary due to poor drainage disposal arrangements; leakage from the
distribution system; wastage from public water points (taps stolen, removed); and
unacceptable water quality. This threatens the sustainability of scheme operations.
Problems are more acute in the regional schemes where, in some cases, the water treatment
units are being bypassed, supply amongst the participating villages is inequitable, duration
of supply from the treatment plant is insufficient due to interruptions in electrical supply,
and water leakage from feeder mains are not promptly attended to. Determined efforts by
GOM are required to build the management capacity of the local bodies and to improve the
collection of sufficient user charges to meet (already subsidized) O&M costs.
69.   Contracting Out. The operation of some regional schemes has been contracted out.
Preliminary results are positive, since there are cost savings and less strain on scarce
technical capabilities at the ZP level. Some difficulties have also been observed (e.g. poor
performance of the contractor with the lowest bid) which indicate that the bidding
documents need to be improved and the length of the contracts extended (in most cases
contracts are only for one year). GOM is taking steps to address these problems and MJP is
drafting standard contracts that will be distributed to the ZPs.
FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR O&M OF PIPED WATER SCHEMES
70.   Financial Covenants Compliance. The Project Agreement (Schedule 2, section 8)
required GOM to cause each Gram Panchayat (GP) participating in the project to set and
collect water tariffs, from private house taps and public stand-posts, for village water supply
schemes and hand-pumps at levels to cover operation and maintenance costs of such
schemes (including bulk water charges related to regional schemes). GOM accomplished the
following albeit with considerable delays:
*  GOM revised the minimum and maximum tariff levels for private, domestic and non-
domestic rural water supply on 6th March, 1997, after remaining unchanged for 15 years.
The last tariff revision had been made in June 1982. For water supplied through public
standpipes (PSP) the minimum tariff was raised by more than four times (from Rs 18 per
annum to Rs 75 per annum) as against 3 1/2 times for private connection ( for 12 inch
connection from Rs 101 per annum to Rs 360 per annum). It may be noted that actual
water tariffs are fixed by the GPs, within the band specified by GOM.
*  GOM promulgated rules known as "The Maharashtra Village Water Supply Fund Rules,
1997". These rules require each GP to constitute a Village Water Supply Fund (VWSF).
The fund is to be used for meeting the requirements of drinking water of the village
community and related works. The source of funds for this VWSF are 35% of the land
revenue received as a grant from GOM, water tariffs, fees for private connections. GOM
has also prescribed accounting and auditing procedures in respect of this fund.



50                        Appendix A
71.   District Maintenance Fund. The Project Agreement (Schedule 3, section 9)
required GOM to cause each ZP participating in the project to transfer sufficient revenues
(including all those derived from bulk water charges) each year to the District Maintenance
Fund. In this regard, GOM already had the necessary legislation. However, the rules fail to
address the issue of adequate (and preventive) maintenance of regional water supply
schemes.
72.   Agreements with previous mission. PPMU intended to recruit JPS consultants to
further study financial issues of O&M of regional water schemes, however this initiative has
failed to materialize.
73.   Issues having a negative impact on sustainability. Sustainability will remain
uncertain unless GOM takes determined action to address the following issues:
(i)  By prescribing maximum threshold for water supply tariflfs, GOM has blocked the
ability of GPs to adequately meet O&M costs of water supply schemes in cases where
such costs exceed the revenue even at the maximum tariff level.
(ii)  The current regulations fail to address the issue of adequate maintenance, particularly
preventive maintenance, of water supply schemes. GPs are left to maintain the
schemes out of available resources in the VWS Fund. As a result only those
maintenance works which can be funded out of available balance in the VWS Fund
will be undertaken by GPs. The level of maintenance would be below the optimum,
thus leading in the long run to faster wear and tear and reduced life span of the assets.
(iii) Since the capital cost of the water supply scheme is fully funded by GOM grants, it is
likely that GPs will have very little stake in maintaining these assets in very good
condition. The normal tendency amongst the GPs would be to assume that the
government will implement a new scheme if the current scheme fails. GPs, therefore,
would tend to have a breakdown maintenance policy instead of an adequate
maintenance policy. Unless GPs contribute towards the capital cost of a scheme --
thus creating a stake in the asset-- it will be reasonable to assume that adequate and
preventive maintenance will generally be ignored. In drainage works, GPs are
required to contribute 30% of the capital cost. In the few project villages where drains
have been constructed, GPs met this requirement by appropriating funds from their
own funds instead of raising the contributions from the community.
(iv)  The performance of ZPs in collecting water bills from GPs, in respect of regional
schemes, has been very poor. GOM will need to address this issue rather urgently.
GOM is developing some ideas in this regard. One of them is that ZPs should issue a
separate water bill to GPs every month. Currently, no water bills are issued by ZPs; as
a result, GPs do not regard water charges as a liability to be paid to ZPs. Secondly,
GOM is considering making mandatory the creation of separate accounting and
budgeting head for each regional scheme in the ZP's books accounts rather than



51                        Appendix A
having just one head of water supply maintenance for the entire district. This would
facilitate measurement of performance of each regional scheme.
(v)  GOM is subsidizing O&M of rural water supply to a significant extent (refer to the
mission Aide-Memoire of March 1998). For example, electric power tariffs are about
one third (1/3) of the normal tariff. Moreover, charges are based on the capacity of
the pump and not on consumption. Most of these subsidies are hidden in nature and
escape budgetary scrutiny by legislature. GOM should, in the long run, progressively
reduce these subsidies and, in the short run, consider linking the quantum of subsidy
with the performance of ZPs/GPs in maintaining the VWS assets.
(vi)  Another important aspect GOM will have to consider is the role of the ZPs/GPs in the
implementation of schemes. Once GOM adopts the policy of capital cost contribution
by ZPs/GPs, the ZPs/GPs may demand greater say in the design and implementation
of schemes. Perhaps some flexibility should be introduced in the current procedures
to allow the ZPs or the GPs to handle procurement and supervision of construction in
some instances, with MJP's technical advise.
INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS OF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION COMPONENT
74.   Latrine program. Sustainability is likely as the households will be maintaining
them. Operation and maintenance instructions have been provided orally to the households
by NGOs and will be supplemented by written material which has since been produced.
Gram Sevaks who are located in the Grarn Panchayats and are close to the people are being
trained to assist the people when needed (e.g. to change pits when they are filled).
75.   Drains. One of the main problems is the lack of funds for maintenance. GOM is
therefore considering a proposal to amend the Panchayat Act to provide for the levy of a cess
to fund the maintenance of drains by GPs. GOM will also utilize the services of NGOs to
improve drain maintenance in the villages through voluntary labor contributions by
villagers. Further, to improve the quality of construction of new drains, consultants are
proposed to be engaged to provide technical assistance and supervision.
76.   GOM will need to ensure that the village sanitation plans are prepared and
implemented effectively. The Zilla Parishads and Gram Panchayats will apparently be
responsible for environmental sanitation activities when the PPMU and DPMUs cease to
exist. GOM will issue clear and detailed instructions to ZPs and GPs on this subject to
secure continued and sufficient attention to these activities. Based on the results of GOM's
impact evaluation study, additional actions might be considered by GOM to enhance
sustainability.



52                        Appendix A
PROGRAM FOR ICR PREPARATION AND BORROWER INPUTS
77.   The mission discussed with the GOM and PPMU the objectives and content of the
implementation completion report (ICR). The mission thanks GOM officials for their
cooperation in furnishing necessary information. The Bank will send a draft (ICR) to GOM
for review by mid-September 1998. GOM's contribution should be completed and sent to
the Bank by September 30, 1998.
Washington, August 5, 1998



53                        Appendix A
ANNEX 1: ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION
Details on Progress on Actions Agreed with the Previous Mission.
(a) GOM was requested to secure proper maintenance of existing drains before new drains
are sanctioned. GOM is considering a proposal to amend the Village Panchayat Act to
provide for the levy of a sanitation cess as a source of funds to the gram panchayats for
maintenance of drains. While this will be useful in the long term, the mission suggested
that, in the short term, the NGOs should be advised to motivate the villagers to keep the
drains clean through voluntary labor or other means. GOM has agreed to the suggestion;
(b) The training of Gram Sevaks and the field staff of NGOs on enviromnental sanitation is
underway. Ninety-three gram sevaks have been trained out of 318 working in the project
area. Similarly, 28 members of the staff of NGOs have been trained out of 128 who need
training. The remaining persons are planned to be trained by the end of August 1998. This
initiative should enhance the sustainability of the sanitation component.
(c) The training of masons and junior engineers (JEs) who have not yet received training
will be organized after collecting data on those who need to be trained. The objective is to
cover all villages and JEs. According to information provided by PPMU, 492 masons and
225 junior engineers have received training so far;
(d) PPMU has identified three suppliers of pans and traps conforming to prescribed designs
and specifications and has informed Zps of the suppliers, adding that no subsidy will be
provided if the right pans and traps are not used. The suppliers identified are: Subhash
Ceramics, Amravati; Sheetal Ceramics, Ahmedabad; and Mapuskar Institute, Pune. GOM
has also advised ZPs to set up sanitary marts for which UNICEF assistance is available;
(e) PPMU has advised DPMUs and NGOs not to encourage the construction of septic tanks.
However, subsidy for septic tanks has not been withdrawn;
(f) Material on use and maintenance of latrines has been produced by the Health Education
Bureau and distributed to project villages;
(g) The previous mission's recommendation to promote sanitation through messages on TV
and radio is under consideration of GOM;
(h) The previous mission had suggested an evaluation of the program. This is yet to be
organized. In the meanwhile, GOM has taken action to revise the training curriculum based
on the findings of an evaluation of the training programs organized through UNICEF.



54                       Appendix A
Field Visit
The mission, accompanied by officers of PPMU, DPMU, MJP aLnd ZP, visited the villages of
Vadavli and Sonale in Thane district as also the office of the DP'MU. The key observations
were as follows:
(a) The gram sevaks who have received training in environmental sanitation greatly value
the exposure and appear to be strongly motivated to improve sanitation in the villages under
their charge;
(b) The DPMU is without the BDO for nearly a year now and is hardly effective;
(c) The NGO has announced that, for the latrine program, a subsidy of Rs 1,000 per latrine
would be provided by the ZP (in addition to Rs 2,500 provided by GOM); the ZP has not
however provided the subsidy;
(d) The NGO indicated that while it was discouraging the construction of septic tanks
wherever lower cost alternatives were feasible, subsidy continued to be provided by GOM to
those who constructed septic tanks. This obvious contradiction needs to be removed through
a clear policy and guidelines to NGOs and other field levels; and,
(e) The drain constructed recently in Sarole village has several deficiencies. It is choked in
some stretches with rubble and rubbish. Sullage is stagnating and there is mosquito
breeding. Instead of improving sanitation, it is apparently worsening the situation. The
design and supervision of the work by the ZP engineering staff has been deficient.



55                        Appendix A
ANNEX 2: HEALTH EDUCATION, COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATION, AND TRAINING FIELD VISIT
The Communications Specialist visited 4 regional schemes (Shedgaon, Thane dt.,
Chandanapuri and Kadit, Ahmednagar dt., and Katpur, Aurangabad dt., ) and 3 single village
schemes ( Rohatwadi and Wasanwadi, Beed dt., and Gallebargaon, Aurangabad dt.) as well
as the Nashik Research and Training Center. The main observations are as follows.
1. In all the villages visited, the VWSCS and Mahila Mandals seemed active participants in
water and sanitation activities; in virtually all, both the VWSCs and Mahila Mandals had
kept scrupulous minutes of their monthly meetings; there was evidence of regular interaction
between the 2 bodies.
2. The communities were uniformly willing to pay the water tax as long as service was
regular. On more than one occasion, representatives of the Mahila Mandal made the
connection between improved health and the provision of treated water by saying that they
used to pay more to the doctors for treatment of diarrhea before the regular supply of water.
3. There was evidence that the lower-income households were not being marginalized in the
scheme, with allowances being made for their inability to make lump sum payments - for
example, a family earning approximately Rs. 4,000 a year was allowed to pay in
installments. However, there was no suggestion anywhere of accessing water without
payment.
4. The contractor is emerging as a new institutional player at the village level. On one
occasion, when the ZP did not respond to a water main break, the contractor stepped in to
repair the leak.
5. Village water persons had been appointed in all the villages and proved competent in
testing the quality of water. Their salaries ranged from Rs. 350-Rs. 800.
6. Sarpanches and Gram Sevaks seemed committed to maintaining the water supply and
environmental sanitation schemes.
7. Evidence suggests that the Gram Panchayats have been energized and are giving the lead
to BDOs and NGOs. This could result in the formation of a Community-based Organization
(CBO) that substitutes for NGOs.
8. The relationship between GPs and the ZP seems to be problematic and a threat to more
effective decentralization - an alternative mechanism such as the formation of societies, even
for large groups of villages, will need to be investigated.
9. The performance of NGOs has been uneven. Also, the formula of paying the NGO Rs. 10
per person does not seem to have any practical basis. It would perhaps have been more
useful to have ascertained budgets on the basis of consultation and negotiation.



56                        Appendix A
10. With the end of the project, the impression gained from the villages visited is that the
concept of water as an economic good has come to stay, especially in the minds of women.
It seems likely that interest in water and sanitation activities will survive the project.
11. Virtually everywhere, the incidence of diarrhea has diminished considerably. Medical
Officers and MPWs (M) have been asked to provide statistics to empirically substantiate this
change.
12. There seemed to be a good demand for latrines with the VWSCs and Mahila Mandals
active in this regard.
13. IEC materials such as posters, wall messages and calendars were in evidence in all
villages. The 6 water and sanitation messages seem well-understood. The use of long-
handled ladles was, however, the exception rather than the rule. It would be useful and
create more ownership if inputs from village-level stakeholders were factored into the
materials created. It would also be useful to write about real people and interview them as
part of the effort to document and disseminate the lessons learned across the project districts.
This could be a useful motivational factor for the non-project districts.
14. All the MPWs(M) interviewed indicated that they were spending more time on water and
sanitation activities than before. However, this may not last after the project closes.
15. There seems to be a growing demand for private connections. However, the Village
Water Person and VWSCs will need to curb.wastage from these connections.
16. No women masons or plumbers have been trained to date.
17. While the NRTC seemed to be delivering close to the targeted number of courses, with a
reasonably good mix of technical and non-technical courses, there is a need for the Center to
document and disseminate information on the processes and outcomes of training initiatives
across the project districts



57                        Appendix B
BORROWER'S EVALUATION
MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
(Cr. No. 2234-IN)
The Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project was
approved on June 5, 1991. The original project was estimated to cost Rs. 3195.8 million or
US $ 140.7 million equivalent. Net project cost, exclusive of contingencies was estimated at
US $ 127.03 million. Nearly 1100 villages were to be benefited in 10 districts of Maharashtra.
Main component of the project was the piped water supply schemes which was estimated to
cost US$89 million. Other components included sanitation, health education, community
participation and institutional strengthening. In addition nearly 1700 boreholes were to be
drilled and 1000 existing borewells were to be hydrofractured to provide benefits to small
villages/vastis. Under the Sanitation component construction of 80000 individual latrines was
taken up and drains in larger villages. Due to various reasons, chief amongst them being lack
of adequate source, some of the schemes had to be dropped leaving 119 schemes to be
completed benefiting close to 1100,000 people in 558 villages and two towns.
Main objectives of the project was to raise the productivity level of people by
improving their standard of living through better access to drinking water supply and
environmental sanitation facilities. In the areas where the schemes have been completed, this
objective has largely been achieved. A survey conducted by the World Bank to assess impact
of the project, has clearly pointed out that the users of the water supply schemes now have
access to assured and safe water supply. The distance and hence the time required earlier in
fetching water have also been greatly reduced. The greatest beneficiaries of this have been
women. Unfortunately, at the beginning of the project a baseline survey was not carried out
to compare the pre-and post- project scenario. However, a quick assessment of the villages
reveals that the incidence of waterbome diseases has been substantially reduced. This is
amply supported by the evidence at the Primary Health Centres, which has shown a marked
reduction in the extent of morbidity in the project areas.
(A): Major achievements of the Project:
1.    Shift from access to water to Access to Health:-
Water hitherto was looked upon as an end in itself. Implementation strategy therefore
revolved around making this commodity available. Its quality and sustained availability did
not receive its due attention. The Project looked upon water as a means to an end i.e.
improving the health status of the people thereby raising their standard of living on a
sustained basis. The Project thus made an attempt to evolve an appropriate institutional
structure for ensuring good quality construction, its proper maintenance so as to deliver
sustained water supply and monitoring of the quality of the water supplied.



58                       Appendix B
2.   Improved quality of construction:-
This was achieved by following the World Bank Procurement guidelines. A single
contract for execution of the entire water Supply scheme including a 3 month trial run,
apportionment of specific responsibility on the contractor to deliver good quality output,
restrictions on post tender negotiations and third party inspection went a long way in ensuring
better quality of construction. The MJP functionaries have been benefited by the interaction
with Indian and overseas experts in the field.
3.   Integration of Water Supply and Sanitation:-
The project emphasised that availability of safe and adequate water may not be enough
to provide sustained health benefits. Unless the users are educated to properly handle the
good quality water and also to look after its safe disposal , making the water available may not
minimise serious health hazard. Through the Village Water and Sanitation Committees,
people were educated, as an integral part of the Project, about the importance of personal
hygiene and need for improving village sanitation.
4.    Greater appreciation of the role of community in Rural Water Supply:.
In the past, water supply was considered to be an engineering problem. The project,
however, greatly changed the perception of the implementing agencies. In the course of the
Project, they realised that involvement of the user community during various stages of the
scheme execution could lead to greater sustainability. In villages where community identified
itself closely with the progress, the incidence of illegal connections, breakages of standposts,
etc. were perceptibly less. At the same time, general level of satisfaction of the villagers with
the scheme was much higher. This resulted in greater water tax recoveries, both in value and
percentage terms.
5.   Impact on Government's policies:-
5.1   The World Bank Project has provided an opportunity to gain insights into the Water
Sector. A series of initiatives were taken by the Govermment of Maharashtra during the
project implementation. The major impact was felt in 1995 with the publication of the White
Paper on Drinking Water which indicated the present status and future direction. Many
important policy initiations followed this. A few of them are listed below.
(1) Creation of separate Water Supply and Sanitation Department,
(2) Formation of Statutory Village Water Committee,
(3) Raising of Water tariff rates,
(4) Raising of per capita norms of Water Supply Schemes,
(5) Provision for household connection in the scheme,
(6) Creation of Village Water Fund,
(7) Creation of Water Management Unit in five districts,
(8) Re-organisation of Water Supply Board (Now MJP),
(9) Enhancement of the powers of the Field Officers,
(10) Launching of massive Latrine Construction Programme,
(11) System for Water Quality Monitoring established,
(12) Third Party Inspections.



59                       Appendix B
5.2   For the last six years with the benefit of close association with the project, the project
has helped in bringing to the centre stage issue of providing safe and sustainable Water
Supply and Sanitation services to the people of Maharashtra. Apart from triggering a series of
reforms in the Water and Sanitation Sector, the Project brought about a high level of political
commitment that the State Government is now willing to commit almost six times its past
annual allocation every year over the next three years. On the Sanitation front the political
leadership has realised its importance in improving the health system of the people which
resulted in setting up of an ambitious programme of latrine construction. The Water Supply
Sector is thus receiving highest priority in Government. High level politicians are taking
interest in the activity. A Water Resources Development Authority has also been set up
which is headed by the Chief Minister of Maharashtra and the Secretaries of the concerned
Departments are the members. The committee deals with problems relating to water issues
like allocations/permissions. The permissions are granted at various levels depending upon
quantum of water allocation required with respect to the capacities of storages. As a policy
the underground sources are first exploited and if these are not adequate then only surface
water sources are considered. While giving water allocation storages available as well as
under construction are considered so that the Water Supply Project gets the allocation from
the nearest source. The implementation of Water Supply Project is synchronised with the
construction of on-going storages so that availability of water is ensured at completion stage
of the project. As such there is now dynamic situation prevailing for dealing water supply
activity.
5.3   To make the scheme self-sustaining multi disciplinary task force have been formed to
go into the financial operational and technical aspects of the Scheme. The task forces visit the
completed and handed over schemes to address the issues pertaining to the above aspects and
an action plan is prepared and implemented. Realising the complexities of RRWS Schemes
the Government is now considering to evolve a suitable institutional structure for the
management of operation and maintenance of RRWS. Standard bid documents have been
developed for the contracts of management of 0 & M of RRWS Schemes so that there is
standard procedure in all the districts in contracting of 0 & M of the Schemes. In the
implementation of the schemes, the contractors being a part they are also involved in the
training process and training programmes were arranged for the contractors at Regional level
and also a book giving suitable guidelines to help the contractors has been published by the
MJP.
6.    Quick decision making:-
The project enabled creation of a number of high powered committees such as the
Empowered Committee, State and District level Steering Committees, Review Committee,
Fund Release Committee, etc. These greatly facilitated quick decision making on important
policy issues. It also provided a good forum for resolving interdepartmental issues.
7.    Training and capacity building:-
For the first time in the Water and Sanitation Sector, massive training and capacity
building initiatives were taken involving not only the official machinery but also village
masons involved in rural sanitation, and the Village Water Persons for routine operation and
maintenance of the water supply schemes in the villages. Nearly 62000 village water persons



60                       Appendix B
have been trained in this massive exercise. Even the communities were imparted basic
education in personal hygiene, environmental sanitation and financial management of their
water supply schemes.
( B )  Shortcomings in the Project
1.   Institutional structure:-
The project has been implemented through a large number of agencies, with the Water
Supply & Sanitation Depth. as the overall Co-ordinating Authority, at the State level. The
Director, PUMP has been in charge of the Planning and Monitoring functions. The
Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran has executed the Water Supply Schemes while the ZPs have
been responsible for the health and Environmental Sanitation aspects, including enlisting of
community participation through NGOs.  Though the project envisaged an integrated
approach, the multiplicity of implementing agencies made its achievement somewhat difficult.
There is however, a strong argument in favour of this approach. The Project did
assume that replicability of the new approach depended largely on the existing institutional
structure.  So it was attempted to operate through the existing institutional apparatus.
Operationally independent project structure might have facilitated a better final outcome but
may have failed in being replicable.
(a)  PPMU:-
The Project Planning and Monitoring Unit was to act as thie nodal authority at the State
level whose function was not only to monitor the project implementation but also co-ordinate
amongst the large number of implementing agencies. The structure of PPMU should,
therefore, have been lean but highly result oriented. In a way it should have been different
from a typical Government Office. Greater number of experts could have been drawn not
only from Government establishment but also from outside.
For the purpose of the Project, it would have been desirable to authorise the PPMU to
approve modifications in design, approving the milestones, impose penalties for non
adherence to milestones , approving the rates for extra items, etc. This would have made the
PPMU largely responsible for timely completion of the project.
(b)  DPMU:-
This was the weakest link in the Project. The DPMU was headed by a BDO. He was
assisted by a Deputy Accountant and a Clerk. BDO's job comprised co-ordination with
various departments and also getting community participation and health education activities
implemented through the NGOs. Lack of experience of working with NGOs made it difficult
for the DPMUs to get the best out of the NGOs. There did exist a certain level of distrust
between the Government staff and NGOs. Making the DPMUs a part of the establishment of
PPMU, greater reach in the rural areas through adequate supporting field staff and insistence
of fixed tenure of 3 years for them and the field staff would have ensured qualitatively better
performance.



61                       Appendix B
(c) VWSC:-
This was the forum around which the entire Community Participation activities were
structured. Though the creation of VWSC's did prevent, to some extent, the political
influences from interfering with the logical and generally beneficial processes, where it
succeeded, it did raise doubts about the future role -of the VWSC's vis-a-vis the village
Panchayats, who are ultimately responsible for taking over the schemes. The Village
Panchayats should have been made partners right from the initial stages of execution of the
Water Supply Schemes.
2.    Late appreciation of the complexities involved in the Regional Water Supply
Schemes:-
As per the existing policy, the regional or Multi-village schemes are to be handed over
to the Zilla Parishads for day to day maintenance. Within the Zilla Parishad, there is no
specialised authority to look after these schemes. The Water Supply Department engages
itself in the construction of new schemes and 0 & M aspects of the existing schemes remain
largely neglected. Only towards the end of the Project, the need for making proper
institutional, technical and financial arrangements was appreciated. The process of getting
them to be in place, therefore, had to spill over beyond the Project closing date.
3 .    Inadequate Consultations with the Community:-
Consultations with the Community here were restricted to passing of resolutions in the
Gram Panchayats for taking over the schemes after their completion and fixing of locations
for standposts. Participation of the Community right from scheme selection till final execution
would have ensured timely completion. Besides, the schemes may have proved to be less
expensive.
4.    Late introduction of Health Education and Sanitation:-
It has been the experience that unless water supply commences, health and sanitation
activities do not receive due attention of the communities. However, with the available
means of water supply, existing hygiene behaviour and general environmental sanitation
could be improved. In fact, this can be the main theme before the Village Water and
Sanitation Committee, around which they can organise themselves. In the Project, apart from
identifying the location of the standposts, the community did not have any meaningful role to
perform. Under such circumstances, sustaining their initiative over the project period proved
to be an uphill task.
5.   Inadequate initial preparations:-
The Project has been executed in two phases. In the initial phase, the schemes which
were ready were taken up for execution immediately. However, other villages for which
detailed investigations were required to be carried out took a fairly long time. This was
mainly due to the delay on the part of the Zilla ParishadsNillage Panchayats to pass
resolutions to agree on taking the subsequent responsibility of operation and maintenance of
the schemes. Difficulties in obtaining various permissions viz: from the Irrigation and Forest
departments did add up to the delays.



62                        Appendix B
6.    Lack of ownership of the Project:-
There are numerous agencies involved in the Project all of which discharge their own
responsibilities. However, none of them is in a position to fully owned the Projects. So it is
difficult to assign success or failure of a Project to one single authority/agency. Existence of
such a single controlling authority at operational level could have helped in visualising the
ultimate goal of the schemes by every agency involved.
7.    Limited availability of NGOs in the field of Water and Sanitation:-
This has been a serious handicap during Project implementation as the NGOs were to
play a pivotal role in community mobilisation. In their absence, NGOs experienced in related
field were assigned this responsibility. They were found wanting, particularly in case of
voluntary agencies where the reasons for their existence did not match the objectives of the
Project. Quite often this has resulted in a loss of their special commitments.
Areas of concern:- Overall, the experience brings out certain aspects needing more
attention in future, such as -
(i)    High cost of operation and Maintenance.
(ii)  Inadequate Institutional, Financial and Technical Support Systems with the
Zilla Parishads.
(iii)  Frequent power failure in the rural areas. This could affect schemes which
presuppose long hours of availability of electric supply.
(iv)   Weak financial position of the Zilla Parishads/Village Panchayats.
(v)   Use of old distribution systems in some cases, which if faulty could negate the gains of
good quality water availability.
(vi)   Over utilisation of water sources leading to shortages during summer.
(vii)  Unwillingness on the part of the local bodies to increase tariff rates and
improve recoveries.
(viii) Non-availability of experienced contractors in the rural areas to take over the
management of Regional Water Supply Schemes.
(ix)   Lack of effective communication and convergence of view points between the
Village Panchayats and Village Water Committees.
(x)   Delay in paying compensation for lands acquired under the Project schemes.
(xi)   Unreliability of underground water sources in individual village schemes.
Suggestions for future Projects:- From the experience of the Project, the following
suggestions can be made-
(a)   Works related:
(i)    Considerable delays occur due to the process of pre-qualifications. It would be
advisable to devise means for minimising the delays such as making tender notices
more elaborate, and holding pre-bid conference and post-qualifications.
(ii)   The facility to amend the offer even at the last moment can be misused. This needs to
be suitably revised.



63                        Appendix B
(iii) Just as there exists a provision for Levying penalty for delay in execution, there
should be an incentive for the contractors for completing the works before time.
(iv)   There needs to be a clear understanding regarding the methodology for working out
payments towards extra items and excess quantities.
(b)  Scheme design:
(i)   Schemes should be designed with their ultimate operational and financial
sustainability in view.
(ii)   User Community needs to be given an opportunity to suggest various options and
make an appropriate choice or combination of choices from such alternatives.
(iii)  A clear distinction in approach is necessary for Regional and Individual schemes.
(iv)   Regional schemes be taken up with reliable sources only, preferably surface water
sources.
(c)  Implementation related:
(i)    The authority which is ultimately going to be responsible for maintenance of the
scheme, should be closely involved during the implementation phase. Ideally, such
authority should be assigned the responsibility of deciding the implementation agency.
(ii)  Implementation schedule need to be scientifically drawn up to ensure that the scheme
does not take unduly long to be completed.
(iii)  Scheme level committees be formed to monitor implementation schedule.
(iv)   The implementation agencies should be trained to facilitate better community
interface.
(v)   Strengthening of the monitoring agency is necessary to follow-up on the reports of the
third party inspection consultants. This may also help qualitatively improve the
performance of the consultants.
(vi)  Support be given to PPMU for monitoring land acquisition cases, by posting an officer
of Deputy Collector's level.
(d)   O & Mrelated:
(i)   Large Regional schemes should be handled by independent corporate bodies.
(ii)   Level of subsidisation, if any, should be based on recovery performance. To
ensure this, a regulatory body may have to be created.
(iii)  Greater incentives need to be built into the system to ensure better maintenance of
schemes. In the existing system, the local bodies cannot hope to get adequate
assistance for maintenance from the government. Instead, tendency is to neglect
routine maintenance which results in failure of the system much earlier that expected.
Then such a replacement is being fully assisted by the government. This approach
needs a shift to maintenance based incentives.
(e)   Finance & Accounts related:
(i)   Improved operational efficiency is possible only through financial discipline. The
corporate bodies managing the regional water supply schemes should be run on
commercial lines. A commercial view can promote improved customer service at the
same time rationalise costs.



64                       Appendix B
(ii)   At the village level, separate accounts for village water fund and grampanchayat funds
should be done away with. It would be possible to integrate both the accounts without
compromising on the principle behind their creation.
(f) Community related:
(i)   Village based organisations(VBOs) such as the youth mandals or mahila mandals be
given a greater role in community mobilisation. Thus the interface of the NGOs with
the community needs to be reduced. NGOs, being inadequate in number should play
an important role in building capacities of such VBOs.
(ii)   Selection of villages should be based on the desire of the community to improve its
own standard of living.  Even before executing the water supply scheme, the
community can take initiatives in creating awareness about personal hygiene and
environmental sanitation within the available means.
(iii) Large and smaller villages should be treated differently in the way community is to be
involved.
In conclusion it can be said that the Maharashtra Rural water Supply & Environmental
Sanitation Project has succeeded in providing a viable model subject to some refinements.
Some of the features are already incorporated in the newer generation projects such as the
ones being executed in Uttar Pradesh and Kamataka. India being demographically so diverse,
successful models elsewhere, cannot be implemented as they are. Besides, it will have to be
seen if the structures created and found to be efficient under the watchful eye of the
government and the World Bank can actually stand the enormous pressure it may have to
sustain due to the sheer magnitude of the task. The success of this Project lies in its
performance in real life situation. Conclusions drawn from it may help to provide a better
vision for the future of the Water supply and sanitation sector in Maharashtra.



65                    Appendix B
GOVERNMENT OF MAHARASHTRA
Dr. Bhagawan Sahai,             D.O.No.P.A.,J.S./WS-1 1/98
Jt. Secy. & Director.           Water Supply & Sanitation Deptt.,
Mantralaya, Mumbai-400 032.
14th December, 1998.
Dear Madam,
This is with reference to our telephonic conversation today. We have
received a copy of the letter from Mr. Abhyankar dated 16.11.98, addressed to
Mr. Jha, Deputy Secretary, DEA, Govt. of India, along with a Draft
Implementation Completion Report in respect of Maharashtra Rural Water
Supply & Environmental Sanitation Project (Cr.2234-IN).
Kindly find enclosed herewith our comments on the Draft Implementation
Completion Report.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
Encl: As above.                           (Bhagwan Sahai)
Ms. Ines Fraile,
Task Manager,
The World Bank,
1818, H. Street, N.W.,
Washington D.C.204 33
U.S.A.
C.C. 1) Mr. Abhas Kumar Jha,Deputy Secretary ( Fund Bank ), DEA, Ministry
of Finance, 32 A North Block, New Delhi 110 001
2) Mr. G.V. Abhyankar, Sanitary Engineer, World bank, 70 Lodi Estate, New
Delhi.



66                        Appendix B
COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT ICR
1.    We are not in agreement with the view expressed in the first line of para 7 of the
Evaluation Summary--- sector policies- repeated at the beginning of para 9, page 4, of the
main text of the ICR. We find it difficult to agree with the conclusion that the project
implementation has not succeeded in developing a replicable model. GOM is of the view that
the project in Maharashtra has demonstrated implementation of a co-ordinated Water Supply,
Environmental Sanitation and Health Education programme, which can be implemented
elsewhere with suitable situation specific adaptations.
2.    With respect to item (c) under para 12 of the Evaluation Summary, GOM is not in
agreement with the view expressed. The slow progress under community participation,
Environmental Sanitation and Health Education Components during the initial period was not
because of low priority of GOM. Rather it was because of inclusion of these components with
the water supply schemes for the first time in the State as a new learning experience and,
therefore, there were start-up delays.
3.    Under para 14 of the Evaluation Summary, the view expressed has contradictions.
Since the project was a new learning experience for the GOM, speed of the progress achieved
under the project has been relatively slow. However, as mentioned in the Evaluation
Summary, good progress has been made on all fronts during the project implementation.
Therefore, viewed overall, the performance of GOM during project implementation cannot be
termed to be unsatisfactory.
4.    Also, with respect to the opinion mentioned in second half of para 14 of the Evaluation
Summary, to the effect that there was lack of ownership on the part of GOM for the project,
GOM does not at all agree with this opinion. The.opinion has no factual basis whatsoever.
Within the institutional and legal arrangements in place, the GOM has implemented the
project in all earnestness with a sense of full ownership of the project. This needs to be
appreciated fully.
5.    With respect to last portion of para 6 on page 4 of the ICR, GOM is not in agreement
with the view expressed in the line: quote "Moreover, sustainability of the improved service is
doubtful because of poor technical and financial capacity of local government bodies,
especially to manage regional schemes". Because of the interventions made during the project
implementation, GOM is of the view that sustainability of the i:mproved services is likely to
be a success to a large extent.
6.    The GOM subsidy for latrine construction (i.e Rs.2500/-), does not cover 100% of the
costs. Therefore, in para 7, page 4 the percentage mentioned as 100% of the costs is not
correct, the correct figure is about 60 % of the costs.
7.    With respect to para 23, page 8, GOM feels that there are fairly high chances of the
Water Supply Schemes, completed project, proving sustainable in the long run.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 22833R
73                    7      ** /           75                     79                    77                     99                   79                     B
M  A  D  H  Y A              P R A  D  E S H
IN__        T. VA-o                                                                       T.& 8...                            l
GUJARAT                                         i                                                                 t                                             C
-21o -*< hu                                                                            l       e                                                                                                 219 Wgoo  12i   t  '  ,   >  21
i  ~           ~      ~       ~~    ~~~ XJopo /<   ('7akX,--                                                a9;le                  $0               
-20s  ~    id    :  A,  B1Cikv/         X    2      AURAN BA                                                                                               (3)/        Gohh o 
3 ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    9     >(rogi(               0              _.        -                                 -                CSt Es oA0og ,  ' 
m  *A4haitl6} );'s ~~~Aroobo                                                                                                          ChwondiTS=y ropUdrn 
aa 0  7CB    5/ r~} 48&oE.Jh- (
(3) 0  10     0  *odM-d. *.'                              0'
-~ ~ ~~~ A II b   ,'--? 5o _    Hir i               B "e A1                                            I i ''~  9sm                                         M'bed     S     is a!zi
T. A-X~               X^        5 {1f>-j'L                     9r ydrdr                                                                  POETAE  ITIT
Riogn  E<oJwb2 NMBR  VLAGAS R  TWSSFVDB
;'3tTt   /Ahmdno glore   *DDSTRCTAPAL
fi  SSSiD-Fi:r!,       'j ~Bt *srt    10 5 00(SAT AIA
S.          ro .o .,oP~                              o                 KO LOEES-                                             AO-OD
a'~ ~~~~~~~~-                    ,.'                                rh) ,^O Ospo,cdb -h -e Desigd 'ni of rh Wo ld9n AO  RIRAS
KA
A~                                               - s  ugr   l /tII .O tv     g{o 18W,/ akGop r                   DISTTBUDIARE
7Th RBotioI(121,                                of9 ' u                              MAAAHR   RURALe  WAE  SUPPLY ANDDAIE
'.   G Of.; A;
72                                                                                  ENVIRONMENTA SANIT N PO J
| -                        ' 19CEMEtR 199WS                                                                                                          S
A NUMBE R OFVA lE   RTON  EVDE
BOMBAY,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HTSEEE(O   IAOS2TWS
"le P   E  0  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*DITIT A A
Alib.9~~~~~~~~~~~~ LOEES                                                                                          "'MJO  OD
-                                           'TP-      0g,9  (,~r'~doo~DSTITBSORR
a-' 0oS,d:'SAEBDRE
OOA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q
7)5         74                      75~~~~~~~~~~~Uh    ...79 d



