Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2234 IN
         (Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and Environmental
                        Sanitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                       STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                        Dated June 5, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2234 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF
MAHARASHTRA, acting by its Governor (Maharashtra).
      WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between India, acting by its President (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seventy-six million four hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 76,400,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Maharashtra agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
      WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "District Maintenance Fund" means the Fund for
Maintenance and Repairs of Rural Drinking Water Supply
Works in respect of each Zilla Parishad; and
      (b)   "Dams" means the existing irrigation dams from
which water will be extracted for the purposes of
domestic water use under the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Maharashtra declares its commit-
ment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Associa-
tion and Maharashtra shall otherwise agree, Maharashtra
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
      Section 2.03. Maharashtra shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and sched-
ules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisi-
tion, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) Maharashtra shall, at the request
of the Association, exchange views with the Association
with regard to the progress of the Project, the perfor-
mance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   Maharashtra shall promptly inform the Associa-
tion of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the perfor-
mance by Maharashtra of its obligations under this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  3
              Management and Operations of the Board
      Section 3.01. Maharashtra shall cause the Board to
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and
public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by compe-
tent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. Maharashtra shall cause the Board at
all times to operate and maintain its plant, machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineer-
ing, financial and public utility practices.
      Section 3.03. Maharashtra shall cause the Board to
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) Maharashtra shall maintain, or
cause PPMU to maintain, records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project.
      (b)   Maharashtra shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred
                   to in paragraph (a) above for each fi-
                   nancial year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consis-
                   tently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later
                   than nine months after the end of each
                   such year, (A) certified copies of its
                   records and accounts relating to the
                   Project for such year as so audited, and
                   (B) the report of such audit by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Association shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
            (iii)        furnish to the Association such
                         other information concerning said
                         records and accounts as well as the
                         audit thereof, as the Association
                         shall from time to time reasonably
                         request.
                         ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Development Credit
Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations
of the Association and of Maharashtra thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
Page  4
            (i)    the date on which the Development Credit
                   Agreement shall terminate in accordance
                   with its terms; or
            (ii)   the date 20 years after the date of this
                   Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
in accordance with its terms before the date specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify Maharashtra of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding
any cancellation or suspension under the General Condi-
tions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or
permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:           Telex:
                   INDEVAS             248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                        64145 (WUI) or
                                       197688 (TRT)
      For Maharashtra:
            Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra
            Department of Rural Development
            Sachivalya, Bombay, Maharashtra
            Cable address:           Telex:
                   SACHIVALYA                953 1182443
                   Bombay
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra
may be taken or executed by any Secretary to the Govern-
ment of Maharashtra or such other person or persons as
Maharashtra shall designate in writing, and Maharashtra
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original,
Page  5
and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                   STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                   By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for the construction of water supply schemes
shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of
the Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufac-
tured in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, Maharashtra may
grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph
5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Testing devices for the public health laboratories
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 in an aggregate, may
Page  6
be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evalua-
tion and comparison of bids obtained from at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II
of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55,
2.56 thereof).
2.    Contracts for civil works and equipment and materi-
als estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 and
$200,000 each, or less, respectively, may be procured on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, provided, however, that the aggregate of such
procurement shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,000,0-
00 for civil works and $8,000,000 for equipment and
materials.
3.    Contracts for small items estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 each, or less, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $3,000,000 may be procured on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a
list of at least three suppliers, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Works relating to borewells drilling and latrine
construction, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$12,700,000 in aggregate, may be carried out by force
account.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement
Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as
provided in Part A.2  hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works
and equipment and materials estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 and $300,000 or more, respec-
tively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
Page  7
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist Maharashtra in carrying out the
Project, Maharashtra shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with princi-
ples and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    Maharashtra shall ensure that water supply schemes
to be carried out under the Project shall be designed in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association for
review by December 31 each year, commencing December 31,
1991, an annual action program for the following year for
investments in rural water supply, environmental sanita-
tion, health education, training and technical assistance
under the Project, and status of land acquisition
required for such investments.
3.    (a)   In order to assist PPMU in implementation of
the Project, Maharashtra shall employ consultants for the
following activities:
            (i)    evaluation on a regular basis of con-
                   struction quality and supervision of
                   water supply schemes and drainage works;
            (ii)   monitoring of health communications;
            (iii)        carrying out of impact evaluations;
                         and
            (iv)   support for organization management.
      (b)   Consultants at (i) above shall be appointed no
later than October 1, 1991 and others as and when
necessary.
4.    Maharashtra shall ensure regular inspection and
evaluation of the Dams in accordance with sound engineer-
ing practices.
5.    Maharashtra shall prepare and furnish to the
Association, no later than May 31, 1992, reports on
Maharashtra's strategy on environmental sanitation and
health education programs to be carried out under the
Project, and shall implement such elements of said
strategy as shall be agreed upon between Maharashtra and
the Association.
6.    Maharashtra shall ensure that all the water extrac-
tion permits in respect of surface water supply schemes
to be constructed under the Project are issued by its
Department of Irrigation in a timely manner.
7.    Maharashtra shall cause the Board to transfer all
water supply schemes constructed under the Project to the
local Zilla Parishads or the Gram Panchayats, as the case
may be, for operation and maintenance of said schemes.
Page  8
8.    Maharashtra shall cause each Gram Panchayat partici-
pating in the project to set and collect water tariffs,
from private house taps and public standposts, for
village water supply schemes and handpumps at levels to
cover operation and maintenance costs of such schemes
(including bulk water charges related to regional
schemes).
9.    Maharashtra shall cause each Zilla Parishad partici-
pating in the project to transfer sufficient revenues
(including all those derived from bulk water charges)
each year to the District Maintenance Fund to ensure
coverage of annual operation and maintenance costs for
those portions of regional water supply schemes for which
it is responsible.
