Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7305
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LN. 1718-GR)
June 23, 1988
Agriculture Operations
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its  tents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIF         -      Cost, Insurance and Freiglst
DGF         -      Directorate General of Forests
EEC         -      European Economic Community
ERR         -      Economic Rate of Return
GDP         -      Gross Domestic Product
OECD        -      Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development
PCR         -      Project Completion Report
PPMO        -      Project Planning and Management Office
RPDS        -      Regional Policy and Development Service
SAR         -      Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP        -      United Nations Development Program



]FOR OMfCIAL USE ONLY
TM WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. Z0433
U.S.A.
0*e d Oft,toCefwal
opwatoN evAutmt
June 23, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Greece Integrated
Forestry Development Proiect (Loan 1718-GR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Greece Integrated Forestry Development
Project (Loan 1718-GR)' prepared by the Borrower together with an Overview
prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.
Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department
has not been made.
Attachment
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforance 
of their official duties. Its contents may not othefwise be disclosed without Wotid Btank authorintion. 



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE
NEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1718-GR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ....  .     .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . .   . .i
Basic Data Sheet. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
Evaluation Summary . .                 . . . . . . . . . . . .          iii
PROJECT COMPLETION OVERVIEW MEMORANDUM. . . . . . . . . . . .
I.  Introduction . . . . . .    .        .   .       .   .            1
II.  Project Processing .            . . . . . . . . . .  .            4
III.  Project Implementation.   . .   . . . .   . .   .   .   .         7
IV.  Project Impact. . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .     .   .           13
V.  Institutional Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            18
VI.  Conclusions and Lessons Learned . .   . .  . .   . . . .         21
ANNEX 1 - Tables to Overview Memorandum
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (Borrower) .         . . . . . .  .
Part I - Overall Project
I.  Introduction. . . .                            . . . .           33
II.  Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal . .            35
III.  Project Implementation . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .            44
IV.  Operating Performance .... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  74
V.  Costs, Benefits and Economic Post Evaluation. . . . .            76
VI.  Institutional Perforimance and Development . . . . . .           93
VII.  Conclusions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          .       95
Part II - Village Infrastructure Development
I.  Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal . .           119
II.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .          122
III.  Survey Analysis .... ..           .     . . -      .---.        130
IV.  Conclusions . .           ... . .  . . . *..             -      140
ANNEXES A-B
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the perfowmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
Part III - Credit for Logging Equipment
I.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        157
II.  What the Project Comprises . . . . . . . . . . . . .         157
III.  Funds for logging equipment procurement. . . . . . .         159
IV. Terms of Subloans. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          159
V. Procurement of machinery . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          160
VI.  Implementation of the Project - Part B . . . . . . .         160
VII.  Procurement of equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         162
VIII.  Procurement cost of logging equipment. . . . . . . .         163
IX. Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          164
X. A. B. G. performance and development . . . . . . . .          165
XI. Approval and disbursed subloans. . . . . . . . . . .          165
XII   Benefit and economic post evaluation . . . . . . . .         166
TABLES I-II
MIAP
IBRD 1403lRl



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LN. 1718-GR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Integrated
Forestry Development Project in Greece, for which Loan 1718-GR in the amount
of US$25.0 million was approved on June 5, 1979.  The Loan was fully
disbursed, and the date of final disbursem-nt was February 28, 1986. The Loan
was closed nine months behind schedule on March 31, 1986.
The PCR was prepared by the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture,
Ministry of National Economy and the Agricultural Bank of Greece. A Project
Performance Overview Memorandum was prepared by the Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office to discuss various matters not fully covered in
the Borrower PCR. The Overview Memorandum alsc compares actual developments
with appraisal estimates and highlights the principal achievements, issues and
lessons learned. The PCR and Overview Memorandum are based in part on a
review of the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the Loan
Agreement of July 9, 1979, correspondence with the Borrower, internal Bank
memoranda on project issues as contained in relevant Bank files, as well as
interviews %ith officials both in the Bank and in Greece who have been
associated with the project.
The draft overview was sent to the Borrower for comments on
April 12, 1988. Replies received from the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Agricultural Bank of Greece acknowledged that they had no comments to make.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



- Li -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 1718-GR
KEY PROJECT DATA ~~~BASIC DATA SHEET
APPRAISAL                         Actul or                  Acta% o
ITEM                       ESTiMATE                      Estimated Actual               ApD.Est.
Total Projet Cost (USS Milion)                    144.6                                        120.8       84%
Loan Amount (USS MiNion)                           25.0                                         25.0      100%
Amount CanceUed (USS Million)                         0                                            0
O    ot Board Apprval                            6/5/79                                       615/79
OD of Loan Agrement                                                                          7/9/79
t of Etfsciveness                                1/7/80 First Extension .7/111/80
Second Extension.                  12/31/80
Third Extenslon   ..  .      ........  3/31/81
Fourth Extension   .   . ........ .   6/30/81
Final  . .7/31/81
Date Physc Components Compet                   12/31/84                                    12/31/85
Proportion then Completed                         100%                                         100%       100%
Clokg Date                                      6/30/85                                     3/31/86
Ecnontl Rate of Retum                             21.2%                                        19.0%      89.6%
Institutional Performance                                                                 Satisfactory
Technica Perfornance                                                                             Gow
Number of Direct Beneficiaries                   50.000                                Prblv. 450.0O0     <100%
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS                     _____F _____   ____                 Y__
I  FY 80      FY 81      FY 82       FY 83     FY 84      FY85        FY86
Appraisal Estimate (USS Million)         1.2         6.9       12.7       17.5       21.3       25.0
Actual (USS Million)                     0.0         0.0        1.8        6.9       13.8       17.2       25.0
Acul as Percent of Estimate             0.0%*    0.0%        14.2%      39.4%      64.8       68.8%j   100.0%
MISSION   DATA__ _ _                         __ _ ___ _                     __ _ _ _
DATE      No. of    Mandays   Spcatne.  Perform.                 Types Of
_MO./YR.   Persons   in Fleld  Rorntd. /a Ratina  lb  Trend  Ic Prbims. /d
Identification-- by Bank               11/77     1          9           A
1/78     1          5          e
Preparation-GOG + Consutants            8/78
Preappralsal                            9/78     6          21       A.B.D.G
Appras                                 12/78     5          19      A,B,C,O,E
Supervision I                          11/79     1          8           A          1          2
SupeNision II                           3/80     1          10          a          2          2         O,F
Superviion III                         10/80     2          17         A,B         2          2        P.F,M
Supevislon IV                           5/81     1          10          A          2          2        P.F,M
Superviion V                            9/81     1          12          B          2          1         F.M
Supervison VI                           6/82     2          5          A.B         2          2         F,M
Supervilsion Vll                       10/82     1          5           B          2          1         F.M
Supervison Vill                         2/83     2          9          B.F         2          2         F.M
Supevn IX                               8/83     1          3           F          2          2         F,M
Supervision X                          10/83     2          14         S,F         2          1         F,M
Supervision Xl                          2/84     1          7           B          2          1          M
SupeNision Xli                         10/84     2          11         B,F         2          1          M
Supervision Xil                        3/85     2     j   10          B.F         2          2          M
I_; tl/85       2          7         B.F         2          2          MP
OTHER PROJECT DATA                                    _
Borrower                         The Helhnic State
Execuw  Agences                   MWsres of Agricultusre. and National Economy and Agrictural Bank of Geece
Fiscl Year of Borower            January 1 to December 31
Name of Currency (abbredation)    Drachma (Or)
Currency Exchnge Ree:
Appr  Year                     USS 1.00 . nr 36.7
Intvenig Years-Average        USS 1.00 a Dr 87.7
ComdoAion Year                 u   1.00 - Dr 150.0
/a A - Economist; B - Forester; C - Rural Deveopmem Specialst;
D - CMl Enghe r: E - Pasture Mangement Specast
F a A uturalist; and G - Forest Induaties Spealist
/b I . Prblem Free or Minor Prblem; 2- Moderate Problm; and
3 M ajor Problems
/c 1 m Improvn; 2 - Statinary; and 3 . Deterirang
Id T . Tehnical F - Finanidal: M . Maoeriak and O . Other



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE
DITEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LN. 1718-GR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.       The Integrated Forestry Development Project was the fourteenth loan
to Greece by the Bank and the fifth in the agriculture sector-three of the
other four were for irrigation, and one was for regional development. Greece
graduated from Bank lending in 1979.
Objectives
2.       The Integrated Forestry Development Project, located in continental
western and north-western Greece and the Peloponnesus was designed to:
firstly, increase wood productioi. from underutilized forests of western and
north-western Greece; secondly, to assist Government in developing a sound
long-term strategy for forest resource development; thirdly to provide for
more permanent employment and improved qluality of life to retain workers in
forest villages; and fourthly, to build up local capabilities to prepare
projects suitable for external financing. Project components included:
infrastructural development of forest areas including roads and fire control
measures; establishment of industrial plantations; pilot mechanization
plantation research--for which UNDP financed the technical assistance and
training components; range management research; provision of machinery loans
and training for forest operators; a village infrastructure development
program; and a Forestry Sector Strategy Study and a Regional Development Study.
Implementation Experience
3.       The project, at an estimated cost of US$144.6 million was appraised
in December 1978, and the Bank loan for US$25.0 million was signed on July 9,
1979. Cofinancing was provided by the Tokai Bank for US$25.0 million. The
project finally became effective, after four extensions, on July 31, 1981.
Delays occurred in Government obtaining parliamentary ratification and,
thereafter, in establishing the froject office and appointing the Project
Manager and Accountant. This was exacerbated by a change in Government which
occurred in 1980. Despite these early delays, and the effect of inflation and
fall in the value of the drachma (Dr) relative to the US dollar, the project
has achieved most of its objectives. The project closing date was extended
once to March 31, 1986 and the funds available under the loan have been fully
utilized. Internal inflation substantially exceeded appraisal expectations
and as a result total project costs were Drs 11,599 million as against Drs
5,307 million estimated at appraisal--an increase of 119%. However, on



- iv -
account of the drachma falling against the dollar over the life of the
project, total costs in dollar terms were US$120.82 million against an
estimated 144.6--a decrease of 17X. The economic rate of return, excluding
the non-directly proluctive village development program, was 19S as against
21.2% estimated at appraisal. This lower than expected ERR was principally
due to the poor quality of sawlops produced anA the diminishing demand for
pulpwood by the Greek particle board industry because of national economic
difficulties. However, these negative factors have been largely offset by
increases in commercial fuelwood production. This overview considers the
PCR's ERR to have been overestimated for reasons stated in paras 4.11 - 4.12,
and it is likely that the more correct figure would be about l., excluding
the nonquantified benefits.
Results
4.       The project may be regarded as a successful venture in support of
increasing the productivity of Greece's forest lands thus helping the national
economy--both from the short- and long-term points of view. The project was
soundly conceived by both Government and the Bank. Initially, the project
experienced difficulties--particularly in regard to matters affected by
bureaucratic procedures sL-. as: parliamentary ratification of the Loan which
was a condition of effectiveness; procurement procedures; budgeting; and
overall decision making. In due course, however, the Government provided
stronger commitment and support to the project. The project has
satisfactorily completed both short- and long-term objectives. The former
(which, nevertheless have important long-term implications) included: a
reafforestation program; support for nursery production; training of forest
workers and operators; loans to forest operators for forest exploitation
equipment, including heavy machinery; and infrastructural works including
roads and fire control measures. In addition, a village development program
has provided an enhanced living environment for those engaged in the forestry
sector. Long-term project components, satisfactorily completed, include: the
sector strategy study (but note reservations in para. 3.03 and 6.03); pilot
range management program; and pilot plantation research. The Bank/Government
relationship has been constructive and effective throughout implementation
though there were differences of approach in regard to the co.duct of the
Sector Strategy Study. The Bank responded positively to Government's request
for amendment to the loan agreement to allow for: expansion of the project
area since reafforestation proposals were constricted by grazier rights in the
originally defined area; adjustment of the allocation of loan proceeds and the
percentage to be disbursed on account of the drachma/dollar exchange rate
changes; and the extension of the project closing date to allow fuller
utilization of the loan proceeds.



- v -
Sustinabity
5.       The project has provided the potential for long-term improved
productivity from Greece's forest lands whilst, at the same time, onslring
protection for the environmental and amenity use aspects of these natural
resources; it is understood that proposals on those subjects are to be
included in the next five-year development plan, commencing 1989. The Fector
Strategy Study provides the base to future planning and management of these
resources though it is not certain that Government will use the base that. has
been developed. The rangeland and plantation research programs, carried out
under the project, provide valuable bases of knowledge which may now be
developed into practical applicatiou. Furthermore, Government has declarea
its intention to maintain these important research programs in the future.
The positive impact of the infrastructural features carried out under the
project 'tas provided Government with the justification for their maintenance
and expansion. The successful village development Drogram has demonstrated
the importance of linking the development of human capital to sectorl1
productivity targets. The concept, which is closely linked to the 'regional
development' philosophy has already been accepted by Government, following the
successful implementation of the Evros Development Project (Ln. 1457-GR).
Findngd and Lessons
6.       The principal points are:
-    More consideration should have been shown to Greek sensitivities
wnen designing the approach to be followed for the Sector
Strategy Study.
-    A more detailed and more clearly defined component for ensuring
effective socio-economic evaluation should have been built in to
the project.
-    More realistic assumptions should have been made in regard to
speed in procurement of goods and services in view of the
experiences of past, Bank-; nded projects in the agriculture
sector.
_    The advantages of developing human capital in parallel with
efforts to increase produrtion from the forestry sector has been
clearly demonstrated through the village development program.
This has helped to improve the standard of living of rural
comrminities, dependent for their livelihood on forest lands and,
thereby, stabilize the forestry labor resource which otherwise
would have continued to emigrate from rural areas to the
detriment of the industry.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION OVERVIEW MEMORANDUM
I INTRODUCTION
1.01     Forestry in the Economy.  Forests cover about 2.5 million ha or 20%
of Greece's total land area. About 1.8 million ha of these are exploitable
forests, with a growing stock estimated at 134 million m3 and net annual
increment around 4 million m3. Coniferous forests make up about 60% of the
total growing stock but only 25% of current annual wood removals; the
remainder is accounted for by broadleaved trees. Nearly two thirds of the
total forest area is owned by the State, and the balance is owned by
communities, monasteries, various organizations and private groups or
individuals, or jointly by the State and other owners. Although industrial
roundwood production contributes only about 2% of agricultural GDP, forest
products form an important element of indigenous consumption. Fuelwood
accounts for a high percentage of rural energy consumption, supplying
villagers' basic needs for heating and cooking. Forests also play a vital
role in protecting Greece's watersheds, thereby preventing soil erosion and
ensuring a sustained flow of irrigation and drinking water for farmers and
urban dwellers situated downstream. The forest areas constitute a very
significant dry weather grazing reserve for villagers' livestock. They also
provide the bulk of the country's hunting and inland recreational areas, sites
for national parks and wildlife reserves and habitat, for example, for a
significant portion of Greece's 739 species of endemic plants.
1.02     Forest areas include some of the least developed parts of Greece and
contain most of the poorest people, who directly benefit from forestry
development. Out qf a population of 9.2 million in Greece, about 2.5 million
live in rural areas, of whom nearly half a million people live in mountain
villages located in or close to the forest areas and depending partly on
forestry employment for their livelihood. Forestry provides nearly 3 million
mandays of direct employment to more than 40,000 persons annually (an average
of 75 mandays per person)   About 90% of these workers are empl-iyed
seasonally, mostly in logging operations, for an average of 50 days in the
year. In mountain regions, forestry typically provides work for over 20% of
the village work force. For those who work in both agriculture and forestry,
the latter usually accounts for about half the family income. The per capita
incomes and access to social facilities of these people are substantially
lower than the national average; a large majority fall in the rela.tive poverty
target group with incomes less than US$1120 per capita.



- 2 -
1.03     The forestry policy of Greece aims, inter alia, at reducing the trade
deficit in forest products through intensification of production from natural
forests, expansion of forest industries' capacity, and the establishment of
new forest plantations, particularly of fast-growing species.
1.04     In 1979, the trade deticit in forest products was in the order of
US$230 million, of which some 50% represented pulp and paper. In 1979, a
deficit of some US$450 million was forecast for 1985, with a caution that the
amount would be considerably greater by the end of the century unless wood
supplies to industry were substantially increased. The trends in imports,
exports, consumption and local production, 1950-1983, are set out in Annex 1,
Table 3.  These reveal a continuing deficit in the order of 1.0 to 2.0 m3
roundwood equivalent between the consumption and production of wood products
other than fuelwood, the consumption of which continues to decline. In dollar
terms, imports of wood products in 1983 were valued at US$346 million, against
exports of US$52 million. The adverse situation is further emphasized by the
predicted consumption of wood products for the years 1983-2007, during which
time progressively higher consumption is expected for all products except
fuelwood.
1.05     Bank involvement in the AgricL.tural Sector.  The Integrated Forestry
Development Project was .he first Bank loan for forestry to Greece. However,
the Bank has made four loans to Greece in the agricultural sector all of which
have now been closed. In June 1971 the first loan, of US$25 million, was made
for a Groundwater Development Project (Ln. 75s.-GR);'' in June 1974, the Bank
lent US$30 million for the Nestos and Yannitsa Irrigation Project (Ln.
99l-GR);2' in October 1975, the Bank lent US$40 million for the East Vermion
Irrigation Project (Ln. 1165-GR);3' and in June 1977, the Bank lent US$35
million for the Evros Development Project (Ln. 1457-GR). This fourth project
was closed in December 1982 and a Project Completion Report was issued on
March 31, 1987.
1.06     The Evros Development Project, in the far north eastern part of the
country, had inter-relating components to the Integrated Forestry Project
under review, since the fotmer had a forestry component involving provision of
forestry ii. rastructure and reforestation and, subsequently, incorporating
significant environmental aspects. The Evros Project also had provision for
infrastructural support for rural communities to improve their standard of
living, thereby making rural life more attractive and thus reducing emigration
which otherwise threatened agricultural productivity in this underdeveloped
part of Greece. The Evros Project Completion Report concludes that the
project was broadly successful, with the forestry component showing, for the
roads and reforestation sub-components, rates of return of 17% and 33%
respectively. Although the rural development benefits could not be
quantified, the PCR indicated that the quality of rural life improved
I'  PPAR No. 5093 of May 24, 1984.
2/ PCR No. 5542 of March 18, 1985.
3/ PCR No. 6266 of June 19, 1986.



- 3 -
considerably as a result of the infrastructural developments under the
project; emigration was, at least stemmed; and, as a result of the improved
living conditions, external entrepreneurs in the city were attracted to invest
la these rural areas in, for instance, high standard housing.



-4-
I. PROJECT PROCESSING
2.01     Project Identification.  The Integrated Forestry Development Project
was identified by two Bank missions that visited Greece in November 1977 and
January 1978. GOG originally wanted a small, localized project and agreed to
the wider concept of forestry development within the wider context of the
national economic framework, as envisaged by the Bank, only after considerable
discussion. Preparation was carried out by the Government of Greece with the
assistance of a Finnish consultancy firm, funded by OECD. The report, issued
on July 7, 1978, was well prepared. The Bank assisted throughout the
preparation process, especially in regard to the preparation of terms of
reference for the consultants. The project was appraised in December 1978,
following a preappraisal in September of that year.
2.02     Prolect Obiectives and Description.  The principal objectives of the
project were to: (i) save foreign exchange by increasing wood production from
underutilized forests of western and northwestern Greece; (ii) introduce
mechanized logging and more intensive forest management systems, and assist
the Directorate General of Forests (DGF) in the Ministry of Agriculture in
formulating a sound long-term strategy for forest resource development
(including forest industries); (iii) provide more permanent employment and
improved quality of life and thereby to retain workers in forest villages; and
(iv) build up local capabilities for preparation of projects for external
financing. Selection of the project area was influenced by Government's
objectives of creating rural employment in the poorer mountainous areas of the
country and introducing intensive extraction and reforestation operations into
as large an area of forests as possible during the next decade.
2.03     Project Components.  The main components of the project were:
-    construction of about 3,500 km and improvement of about 2,000 km
of forest roads, and provision of maintenance equipment;
-    credit for provision of logging equipment and communal housing
and transport facilities for about 3,000 workers and forestry
staff;
-    intensitied forestry management, including modernization and
expansion of three nurseries, establishment of about 16,000 ha
of industrial plantations, and provision of fire protection
equipment and works;
-    infrastructure investments in 37 selected forest villages; and
-    training and research programs and studies, including:
i) training and demonstration in mechanized logging methods;



- 5 -
ii) pilot industrial plantation research;
iii) a sectoral development strategy study; and
iv) a regional development study.
2.04     Project Area, Topographv, Climate, Population and Land Use.  The
project area comprises continental western and northwestern Greece and the
Peloponnesus, covering a land area of about five million ha, or about 40% of
the country. Commercial forests cover about 680,000 ha of this area, with
some 580,000 ha classified as suitable for commercial log extraction. About
two thirds of the commercial forests are in the continental part of the
project area, and one third in the Peloponnesus. Topography in the
continental part of the project area is characterized by the Pindus Mountain
range, which runs in a northwest-southeast direction from the Albanian border
to the Gulf of Korinth. Most forests are located at higher elevations (above
1,000 m) of this mountain range, where topography is rugged and slopes are
steep, which makes extraction of timber difficult. In the Peloponnesus, the
topography is somewhat gentler than in the north, though very rugged mountains
are found in some areas. Soils from metamorphic and sedimentary rocks are the
most important forest soils. Climate in the area is temperate, but
considerable variations occur at different elevations. In the main forest
areas the annual rainfall ranges from 800 to 1,600 mm, mostly in late fall and
winter. Because the highest temperatures and driest periods coincide, moisture
deficiency in the soils is severe towards the fall (September). Rains are
often torrential, which, together with rough topography, high soil erodibility
and abusive land use pattern, are conducive to severe erosion. Mean annual
temperatures in the main forest areas are around 10° C, with an increase of
some 20 - 30 C from north to south and highest values around 190 -
230 C. Sub-zero temperatures are common during winter in all forest areas,
and snow occurs frequently, even in the Peloponnesus. Total population of the
project area is estimated at about 1.9 million (about half of which is in the
Peloponnesus), living in nearly 5,000 towns and villages. Steady emigration
due to lack of employment opportunities and poor living conditions has caused
a serious dearth of experienced and willing labor in all major forest regions
of the project area. Land Use: where topography, soils and rainfall permit,
land in the project area is used for permanent agriculture. However, the
traditional and most extensive land use is grazing (mainly sheep and goats).
A long history of grazing and fires associated with it to improve forage
production, have caused a drastic reduction of high forest area, severe
deterioration of the low vegetation cover and large-scale erosion.
2.05     Project Costs and Financing.  The total estimated cost of the project
was US$14t,.6 million, with a foreign exchange component of about US$49.0
million. The financing plan was as follows:
AMOUNT                  I
D Dr million  USS  millionl      %
IBRD                                             917.5          25.0          17.3
Tokal Bank Ltd                                   917.5          25.0          17.3
Govemment                                      3.148.8          85.8          59.3
Agricubtural Bank of Greece                       77.1           2.1           1.5
Seneflca                                        245.9            6.7           4.6
TOTAL                                         5,306.8         144.6         100.0



- 6 -
2.06     Loan Nesotiations.  No major issues were raised during loan
negotiations, which were held in Washington in April 1979.
2.07     The loan was approved on June 5, 1979, signed on July 9, 197' and
became effective on June 30,1981. The deadline for project effectiveness date
had to be extended four times from the original date of January 7, 1980, due
in part to a change in Government but, principally, to delays in Government
obtaining parliamentary ratification and, thereafter, in establishing the
project office and appointing the Project Manager and Accountant.
Consequently, implementation was delayed, and project costs also rose beyond
expectations, primarily as a result of inflation.



-7-
m. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.01     Administration.  A small Project Planning and Management Office
(PPMO) was established, in October, 1979, within the Directorate General of
Forests which is part of the Ministry of Agriculture; PPMO has worked
effectively throughout the project life in coordinating the forestry
components of the project. Within the Ministry of National Economy, the
exieting Regional Policy and Development Service effectively coordinated the
rural development subcomponents of the project. The credit component was well
supervised by a Credit Officer responsible for forestry in the Agricultural
Bank of Greece. A Project Steering Committee, chaired by a senior official of
the Ministry of National Economy, provided cohesiveness in resolving project
problems and in providing overall direction.
3.02     Pilot Plantation Research.  UNDP provided cofinancing (US$1.2
million) for the technical assistance element of this component which was
termed "Mechanized Reforestation" by UNDP. Technical assistance was provided
by FAO for project management, mechanization and economic evaluation. Whilst,
ultimately, this assistance was effectively utilized, serious delays in
procurement of heavy machinery (funded by the Bank) delayed the start of
operations by two and, in some cases, three seasons. As a result, the overall
program was not fully completed and, despite UNDP's extension of project
financing by one year, impact evaluation was restricted by the delay in pilot
plantation establishment. Difficulties were also experienced in obtaining
counterpart staff, particularly at sub-professional level. A terminal review,
conducted in September 1986 by UNDP/FAO/IBRD, considered the program to have
been successful and its future expansion justified. Mechanized reforestation
was found to provide the means to reclaim mismanaged land, and to raise and
sustain this productivity in perpetuity. Of the nine immediate program
objectives six were satisfactorily completed, two partially completed and
one--road construction, harvesting and fire control--was not undertaken by the
project since Government carried out the work from its own resources but as
part of the project. Research work on combining wood production from
plantations with pasture improvement--an issue of particular importance in the
management of Greek forest lands, has not kept pace with other objectives and
work on this subject should receive high priority in the future. Government
has confirmed its decision to retain the overall program initiated by the
project.
3.03     Forest and Forest Industries Sectoral "evelopment Strategy Stud.
This component was central to project concept since it was envisaged at
appraisal that policy decisions made by Government as a result of the Strategy
Study's recommendations would determine the future development and utilization
of Greek forest lands over ensuing decades. The Bank had proposed and it was
agreed by Government during negotiations to use internationally recruited
consultants (totalling about 5 man years) to assist Government in conducting



- 8 -
the study in order to introduce the most up-to-date thinking on forest land
development and to provide an independent viewpoint on resource use which was
not moulded by past custom. However, subsequently, following a change in
Government, resistance to the use of internationally recruited consultants
increased, and protrac~ed discussions and correspondence ensued between the
Bank and Government. The study was finally conducted by a core group of Greek
specialists drawn from the local universities, research organizations and
forest industries, with contributions from a wide range of officials and
persons experienced in the utilization of forestland resources. Despite the
fact that the Bank did not provide funds for the study, it did contribute
actively through guidance on such matters as terms of reference, scheduling
and periodic review. The report, encompassing the ten management options
examined, has been conscientiously prepared by Greek officials. However, the
Bank maintained a stance throughout that greater objectivity would have been
obtained had, at least, some internationally recruited consultants been
utilized. In addition, the Government failed to allot adequate resources to
the study (most members contributed to the study on a part-time basis), its
results were long delayed (they were not made available until the project had
ended) and it did not review inventory data, forest yield studies and
management plans against field examination of forest areas, nor did it review
pricing systems or structure of taxes and subsidies. Probably the Greek
team's most notable omission in the sub-sector review was its failure to
consider adequately the scope for increasing national wood yields by
intensification of forest management as proposed in the SAR, despite attention
being called to this shortcoming during several Bank missions.
3.04     Forest Roads.  The forest road construction program has been
completed generally as envisaged at appraisal though greater emphasis has been
given to "C" class, new unstabilized roads, as against "B" class stabilized
roads. The reason for this is that increased wood production and quality did
not materialize as expected and the lower standard but greater length of roads
for the same cost was considered to be more appropriate. Construction
performance is summarized in the following table:
ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE PERFORMANCE
INCLUDING NON-STATE FORESTS
______________      _ T    ITOTAL FOR PERIOD 1981-1985 (km)
Actual        Estimated   Act as % of Est
Gravel Surfacing                      755             835            90.42
Road Improvement                      778           1,135            68.55
New Ctss"  Roads          .           731             775            94.32
Now Cis C" Roads                    1,500           1,450           103.45
New Tractor Roads                   2,082           1,260           165.24
Road Maitenance                   19,394           16.417           118.13
3.05     Fire Losses and Protection.  During project implementation, the
incidents of serious fire damage increased considerably throughout Greece and
preventive measures envisaged under the project were accordingly given greater
emphasis, resulting in a much larger expenditure on fire protection measures
and purchase of equipment than estimated at appraisal--in drachma terms 576%



-9-
but 92% in dollar terms (applying the prevailing annual exchange rates to
annual expenditures). However, this expenditure can be justified by the
results of a national survey of fire damage over the period 1980-1985 which
indicated that in the project area the burnt area had decreased 62% during the
period 1983-85 when compared to 1980-82; whereas in the rest of Greece the
burnt area had increased by 29% for the same periods compared.
3.06     Forestry Management.  By December 1985, accelerated establishment of
industrial plantations had exceeded appraisal expectations by 4%--16,527 ha
planted as against 15,900 ha estimated at appraisal. In February,1984 the
Bank responded to Government's request by amending the Loan Agreement to
provide for the 16,000 ha of industrial plantations to be undertaken
"throughout Greece" as against the "project area" as originally envisaged.
This expansion of geographic scope was necessary since the areas available for
planting within the project area were severely restricted by grazier rights
which precluded the original program from being carried out as planned. Of
the 16,527 ha planted, 6,139 ha occurred outside the original project area.
The extent of the "grazier problem" had not been foreseen at the time of
appraisal, either by Government or the Bank, though recognition of the
importance of tackling forestry/grazier interaction was reflected in the
provision of the pilot range management subcomponent. It was also proposed at
appraisal that three forest nurseries would be expanded and modernized.
Expansion did not, in fact, prove necessary; expenditures were, however,
incurred on provision of containers and peat for the paper pot nursery system
which was adopted in several regions with intensive planting programs.
Nursery production was adequate to meet demand.
3.07     Pilot Range Management.  Delays occurred ir. implementing this
component which resulted in some objectives not being fully achieved--notably,
the land classification (rangeland survey) of northern Greece, primarily,
eastern Macedonia. The principal constraint to early and full implementation
of this component was the delay in providing adequate numbers of qualified
staff. In the end, however, the component can be considered very successful.
Effective use was made of international consultancy and external training to
develop a cadre of skilled rangeland improvement staff. Improved practices of
pasture establishment (incorporating fertilization, seeding and control of
undesirable plants) were developed and enthusiasticallv adopted by farmers;
roads were constructed to test the impact on increased production of opening
up summer rangelands to communication and service--the result proved to be
positive; and a construction program of stock watering facilities, and stock
and shepherd housing was completed with enthusiastic grazier response.
Nevertheless, adverse community reaction to fencing and grazing controls
caused these aspects not to be pursued. Grazier communities, for the most
part, did not contribute to the costs of the pilot program but there are
indications that the benefits have been appreciated by these communities and
that, in the future, community commitment and direct financial involvement can
be expected. The officer in charge of the component considered that a
substantial portion of the range improvement costs were recovered by
Government through taxes on meat production which has increased under the
project. It would be safe to conclude that graziers, benefitting through
improved rangeland management tinder the program, became much less dependent



- 10 -
upon forest area grazing, ceased to use tree branches for building
construction, and positively reassessed the financial and social
attractiveness of operating livestock enterprises.
3.08     Logging Training and Demonstration.  This component can also be
regarded as successful in that it fully met its objectives of training
significant numbers of forestry workers (79) and operatives (37) in improved
practices and techniques. Effective use was made of technical assistance
(three Norwegians) in developing an appropriate up-to-date training program;
good quality, cost effective housing and training facilities were constructed
and the calibre of training staff was of a high order.
3.09     Logging.  Provisions for loans to forest operatives through the
Agricultural Bank of Greece were not taken up as expected at the time of
appraisal. Principally, this was on account of the excessive number of
individuals and cooperatives involved in forestry extraction and processing
compared with the quantity of raw material available. This situation made it
difficult for operators to justify the financial viability of purchasing and
operating expensive forestry equipment. Whilst, therefore, demand for credit
for the purchase of smaller equipment, (for example, 192 power chain saws over
the project life), has been quite strong, loans issued for large-scale
equipment- have been few (for example, 44 agricultural tractors with logging
trolleys, 5 agricultural rubber-tired skidders and 11 loading cranes).
Nevertheless, the provision of credit has met a felt need and the component
can be considered successful within the constraints of government policy in
its impact on the numbers of operators permitted to work in the forests (see
above).  It should be added that Government is endeavoring to tackle the
problem by reorganizing the cooperatives, and restricting logging to
cooperative members who are potentially full-time employees in forest
exploitation.
3.10     Village Infrastructure Development.  Conceptually, this component was
correctly identified and incorporated in the project to improve the living
conditions of those engaged in the forest industry, without which there had
been and would continue to be an increasing exodus of forest workers,
particularly the young, from the rural to urban areas. This component can be
counted as successful in all respects in that physical development targets
were generally attained or exceeded; cost was not excessive, considering the
inflationary trends; and significant benefits of an improved standard of
living were brought to communities who otherwise lacked much of the basic
amenities of life, especially in regard to communication with sources of
service, supply and recreation. Furthermore, there is strong indication that
these improvements resulted in direct benefits to the forest industry--not
only in providing encouragement for young forest workers to remain in the
industry but also in attracting new investment into the forestry sector. In
February 1984 the Bank responded to Government request by amending the Loan
Agreement to provide for the number of villages benefitting under the project
to be increased from 37 to 45. This extended village development program was
completed before the project was closed. Within the program, it was realized
by, the Regional Policy and Development Service of the Ministry of National
Economy, which implemented this component, that special impact on improving



- 11 
standards of living was being attained by the construction of connecting roads
and rural access roads. Consequently, with Bank support, expenditures on this
subcomponent relative to other subcomponents were increased considerably above
appraisal estimates. Nevertheless, other village development components were
by no means neglected on account of this special focus on rural roads as shown
in the following table:
PHYSICAL PERFORMANCE AGAINST APPRAISAL ESTIMATES
OF VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
ITEM                 UNIT        ACTUAL    ESTIMATED ACT AS% of ES
Connectng Roads                       km         416.0         124.5           334.1%
Village Streets                       km          92.0          70.1           131.2%
Rural Access Roads                    km          69.0          47.0           146.8%
Water Supply                Villages                40            28           142.9%
Drainage/Sanitation               Covered           22            21           104.8%
Electricity                 Villages                  7           22             31.8%
Other Community Facilities        Covered           39            36           108.3%
3.11     Regional Development Study.  Funds were provided under the project
for a study, to be conducted by the RPDS on regional development in western
Greece. This study would have aimed primarily at the preparation of a
regional development project along the lines of the Evros Development Project
(Ln. 1457-GR) for which, at that time, Government had signed a Loan Agreement
with the Bank. The concept of regional development appeared promising, as
embodied in the Evros Project--some of the elements in regard to rural
development also being embodied in the village development component of the
project under review. The Evros Project has been considered successful (PCR
dated March 31, 1987) such that the Government has stated its intention of
expanding the development approach used in Evros to other regions of Greece.
In the event, however, the Regional Development Study was not carried out
under the Forestry Project--funds having been provided in the meanwhile for a
much wider ranging study by the EEC through its Integrated Mediterranean
Programs.
3.12     Fellowship Program.  When measured against financial provisions made
under the project for this subcomponent, achievements were disappointing-only
one international study tour and two attendances at symposia materialized
prior to 1985; thereafter, however, 4 trainees attended short-courses, 12
attended FAO/ECE seminars, and 20 trainees went on study tours. Difficulties
in achieving adequate language competence have been cited as a major problem.
However, the inherent lack of commitment to the use of the fellowship program
(i.e. apprehension by Government as to the benefits relative to cost) appears
to have been the most significant fa:tor in the less-than-expected utilization
of fellowship funds.
3.13     Project Evaluation.  The appointment of persons responsible and
establishment of evaluation mechanisms for the forestry and village
development components did not receive attention until late in project life.
As a result, the surveys conducted lacked sufficient depth, though they were
useful in providing some indicators of project benefits. At appraisal,



- 12 -
evaluation was given only limited attention--the function being contained
within the general duties of the PPMO. Had more specific attention been given
together with detailed proposals of staffing and funding, greater and earlier
attention would likely have been given to this important function.



- 13 -
IV. PROJECT IMPACT
Forest hnp t
4.01     The positive impact of the project on the development of forest lands
in Greece has been considerable. Physically, the project has been responsible
for the valuable addition to the sector of some 16,527 ha of reafforestation.
Infrastructure (particularly roads and fire prevention and control measures)
provided under the project already has, and will continue to have, important
long-term implications for cost effectiveness and the increase in productivity
from the sector. The training of forest workers and operators is also
yielding benefits by introducing modern techniques to personnel involved in
the industry, thereby realizing greater personal gain, and, in turn,
stabilizing the workforce.
4.02     The most significant potential impact of the project lies in the use
that Government may make of the Sector Strategy Study. Whilst the Bank still
has reservations as to whether, in fact, the most beneficial choice may have
been selected for future sector strategy, the study nevertheless points to the
better utilization of forest lands in all its wide-ranging aspects and
implications. Since the study was completed much later than anticipated, no
direct impact can be recorded during the life of the project. However, in the
long-term, impact would be considerable.
4.03     Hitherto, a major deterrent to increased forestry development has
been the incursion into forest lands of graziers, managing their flocks and
grazing lands with little thought given to environmental conservation or to
increased productivity that would benefit them personally. Through the
project's pilot pasture improvement program, improved practices have been
introduced, inventories of grazing areas prepared and the foundation laid for
a national campaign leading towards safeguarding and optimizing the use of
both forest and rangelands, in addition to pointing the way to increased
profits for graziers, and releasing large areas of land without harm to the
forestry sector. Whilst, therefore, the project has only pointed the way
through this pilot program, the long-term impact for developing a better
grazier/forestry synergy is considerable.
4.04     The project has also conducted successfully, with UNDP assistance, a
most important exercise to determine improved practices of mechanized
reafforestation. This research will be a continuing one to determine the
optimum methodologies for reafforestation in the various ecological areas of
Greece, encompassing, not only good forest lands, but also degenerated or
topographically difficult areas. The impact of the research already conducted
should be considerable and all foresters are currently beirg encouraged by the
Forest Service to take note of what has been achieved P-.a to determine its
immediate applicability in different localities. The long-term impact in
increasing the forest area and its productivity is also expected to be
considerable as forestry sector strategies develop.



- 14 -
4.05     The Village Development Program has undoubtedly achieved a
significant and long lasting impact on a number of mountain communities whose
primary source of income comes from forest lands. Not only has the project
brought to these communities a better standard of living through the provision
of infrastructure leading to improved amenities, but also increased economic
wealth has followed this greater accessibility. The project has clearly
demonstrated the advantages of developing human capital in parallel with
sectoral production development, rather than simply seeking to attain
increased production targets.
4.06     Production.  The following table shows production trends between
1980-1985, the targets being based on existing management plans--not on
enhanced felling regimes expected to be introduced as a result of the Sector
Strategy Study:
PRODUCTION OF FOREST PRODUCTS ('000 cu.m.)
1980-1985
PRODUCT          Actual    Estimated           %
Sawlogs              1,617         2,979        54.3%
Pulpwood               301         1,113        27.0%
Fuelwood             1.804           727       248.1%
Free Collected       3,671  Not Estimated Not Calculated
TOTAL               7,393         4,819       1 53.4%
The principal reason for the shortfalls in industrial wood production are the
poor quality of sawlogs and the diminishing demand for pulpwood (chipwood) by
the Greek particle board industry. The latter (comprising ten particle board
mills and one fibreboard factory) have operated at only 50-60% capacity
because of national economic difficulties and have been increasing their use
of sawmill waste and privately produced poplar wood at the expense of
coniferous chipwood. Industrial wood shortfalls under the project have, in
fact, been compensated to a degree by increases in commercial fuelwood
production.
Economic Impact
4.07     Project Beneficiaries.  The population directly benefitting from the
project have not been quantified. However, it is most likely that, at the
least, numbers of beneficiaries anticipated at appraisal have been attained or
exceeded. Thus, benefits are likely to have accrued to about 20,000 non-State
forest owners, including communities, organizations and private individuals.
At appraisal, it was estimated that about 30,000 forest villagers, logging
cooperative members and equipment operators in the project area (including
some of the poorest regions of Greece) would gain fromi improved infrastructure
facilities, better access to markets and jobs, training in mechanized methods,
and higher incomes (for example through pasture development). This number has
almost certainly been considerably exceeded since the number of villages
directly targetted at appraisal for infrastructural development was 37
whereas, in fact, 45 villages have received these benefits (an increase of
18%).



- 15 -
4.08     Benefits.  The main quantifiable project benefits are the increases
in wood production. At appraisal, it was estimated that wood production would
increase from about 700,000 m3 iti 1980 to about 1.9 million m3 by 1995--an
increase of about 1.2 million m3.  Incremental production was estimated to
come mainly from sawlogs and pulpwood (about 90%) while the balance 10% was
expected to come from firewoods. The PCR, pr-?ired by the Government,
estimates that production in 1980 was already about 1.1 million i3 the main
difference between the PCR estimate and the SAR estimate being the free
collected firewood (about 500,000 m3) included in the PCR but not estimated
at appraisal. Based on actual production up to 1985, the PCR projects that by
1995 total production will reach only about 1.7 million m3--an increase of
about 600,000 m3 compared with an incremental 1.2 million m3 estimated at
appraisal. The incremental production is expected to come mainly from
firewood (about 80b)--the balance of 20X coming from sawlogs and pulpwood.  It
can be concluded that project induced incremental production is expected to
remain substantially below appraisal estimates not only in terms of quantity
of wood produced but also in terms of its quality.-I  Comparison of SAR and
PCR estimates of project induced wood production are presented in Annex 1,
Table 5.
4.09     Prices:  Prices used in the PCR's economic analysis for 1980-1985
were derived from the actual annual CIF values of similar types of wood
imported into Greece during the same period. Firewood prices were assumed to
be equal to the finanicial prices prevailing in the respective years. Economic
prices in the PCR have been expressed in constant 1979 currency values (using
the agricultural price index) to compare them with the SAR economic price
estimates (see Annex 1, Table 6). Constant prices of all types of wood
products used in the PCR were higher than SAR estimates. It is worth noting,
however, that prices of firewood are only about 202 of the prices of pulpwood
and sawlogs.
4.10     Economic Evaluation:  The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) estimated in
the PCR has been based on physical incremental output and economic prices for
1980-85 as indicated in paras. 4.08 and 4.09. Prices beyond 1985 are assumed
to remain constant (at 1985 price levels) while incremental production is
expected to increase as shown in Annex 1, Table 5. The calculation of ERR in
the PCR did not include operation and maintenance, equipment replacement and
village infrastructure development costs. On this basis, the ERR was
estimated at 19b compared with the 21% estimated at appraisal; the latter,
however, included O&M and equipment replacement costs. If all investments but
equipment replacement costs were included, the ERR brought ou in the PCR
would be 14b against 18% estimated at appraisal.
It should be noted, however, that the development option selected in the
Sector Strategy Study requires early increases in forest production of
5% for fuelwood and 25% for industrial wood.



- 16 -
4.11     The PCR does not provide the basic information used for ERR
calculation and consequently no attempt was made to revise it for this
overview. However, the following observations are worth noting:
1.   Project induced incremental production is only about 50Z of SAR
estimates.
2.   Actual incremental production cowis mainly from firewood, a low
quality wood, instead of from sawlogs as expected at appraisal.
3.   Although actual unit prices are higher than the prices estimated
at appraisal, actual firewood price is only about 50% of the
expected SAR sawlog price. Therefore, higher actual prices
compensate, only partially, for the loss of benefits due to a
lower than expected quantity and quality of incremental wood
production.
4.   PCR economic calculation did not include operation and
maintenance costs nor did it include equipment replacement
costs. SAR annual operation and maintenance costs were
estimated at about 102 of annual investment costs.
4.12     Based on the above observations, it could be concluded that the ERR
in the PCR appears to have been overestimated, taking into account that at
appraisal the ERR was estimated at 211, and sensitivity tests indicated that a
30% decrease in project benefits would drop it to 12%. Because, at present,
it is estimated that project benefits are about 252 lower than estimated at
appraisal, it is quite likely for the actual ERR to be about 12%.L' The
project has, however, brought about substantial long-term unquantified
benefits that would more than offset the low rate of return.
4.13     Some of these unquantified benefits are listed below:
1.   The Sector Strategy Study is expected to have a substantial
long-term impact on improved utilization of forest lands.
However, because the study was not completed until the end of
the project, its direct impact has not been quantified (see
para. 4.06).
2.   The extensive road network, of various classes, constructed
under the project's forestry and village development program has
had considerable nonquantifiable benefits such as:
-    promotion of industrial development, e.g., timber
processing plants;
Since this is our last operation in Greece and we are no longer sending
operational missions, a separate mission to recalculate the PCR's ERR was
not considered worthwhile.



- 17 -
-    improved access to the leisure and amenity resources of
forest lands; and
-    improved access to schools and markets for isolated
communities situated in and around forest areas.
3.   The village development program has improved the standard of
living of rural conmunities dependent, principally, for their
livelihood on forest lands, and has thereby helped to stem the
outflow of forest labor fro.a these communities. Similar
benefits have been made available under the project to logging
workers through the provision of perwanent, semi-permanent and
mobile accommodation.
4.   The project has already had considerable beneficial impact on
environmental protection and has laid down the basis for a
national campaign to protect, but yet optimize the use of, both
forests and rangelands through:
-    introduction of appropriate, mechanized reforestation
techniques on degraded and steep, erodable lands;
-    development of improved grazing management practices,
thereby improving the income of graziers and reducing
damage to forest lands from fires and inappropriate grazing
practices.
5.   The project has developed the basic research to determine the
optimum methodologies for reforestation in the various
ecological areas of Greece.
4.14     It can be justifiably concluded that the project has substantially
and satisfactorily met its overall objectives.



- 18 -
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
5.01     The head of the Project Planning and Monitoring Office (PPMO) was
appointed prior to Loan negotiations. The timing of his appointment plus his
knowledge and involvement in the preparation and appraisal of the project gave
strength to the subsequent functioning of the unit and to the coordination of
the project as a whole. PPMO, though modestly staffed, operated competently
throughout project life to good effect. There was also good continuity of
officials concerned with project implementation in the Regional Planning and
Development Service of the Ministry of National Economy. The post of Credit
Officer responsible for administering the project component in the
Agricultural Bank of Greece was held by the same official throughout the
project life. The position of Chairmanship of the Project Steering Committee
was, however, occupied by a number of officials occupying the post over
project life. Overall, the project has received good direction and
administrative support. The continuity and commitment of key executive staff
has been an important contributory factor in the general attainment of project
goals and objectives. The project has successfully strengthened and supported
existing institutions, no new bodies being created. This would have an
important contributory effect to long-term sustainability.
5.02     The establishment of PPMO, specific to project requirements, has
also, as envisaged at appraisal, provided the Directorate of the Forest
Service with a a planning office able to undertake work in arranging other
external loans for the forestry sector--notably from the EEC. PPMO's
experience in handling the Bank Loan has assisted this process. Similarly,
the Regional Planning and Development Service of the Ministry of National
Economy has been able to draw upon its experiences with the Forestry Project
Loan when negotiating other loans--notably, from the EEC--for regional
development programs.
5.03     PPMO's performance in the submission of progress and annual reports
has been satisfactory. Compliance with conditions requiring submission of
audit reports has also been satisfactory.
5.04     The principal problems which have detracted from project performance
have nearly all been due to issues of bureaucratic procedure, as under:
-    Declaration of effectiveness was delayed four times from
January 7, 1980 to July 31, 1981--a period of 18 months. This
was due, in part, to a change in Government but, principally, to
the delay in obtaining parliamentary approval for the project.
-    Whilst correct procurement procedures were followed, in line
with the Bank's guidelines, the bureaucratic process, whereby
evaluation and award decisions passed through a series of
committees resulting in long delays, seriously retarding project



- 19 -
progress--most notably in the procurement of heavy machinery for
the pilot plantation research program.
In the early life of the project, local funding provision
through the annual budget proved a deterrent to project
progress. Allocations were not made until well into each season
and, initially, sums provided were not adequate to meet
requirements.
This delay in provision of local funding particularly affected
civil works constructions. The effective construction season in
most parts of the project area is limited to about 7 months and
with delay in receiving funds from the annual budget leading to
delay in awarding local contracts, it became difficult for
contractors to meet annual construction programs in the time
available.
In the case of the Village Development Program, the works were
carried out by the various Nomarchies (Regional authorities) and
accounts were maintained at this level. Considerible
difficulties were experienced by RPDS under this system firstly
in obtaining the necessary supporting documentation to validate
withdrawal applications to the Bank, and secondly, in monitoring
actual physical and financial performance against appraisal
expectations.
-    The delays that occurred in conducting and finalizing the
Forestry Sector Strategy Study were due: in the first instance,
to Government's apparent reluctance to proceed with the study;
secondly, to protracted discussions and correspondence between
Government and the Bank as to how and by whom the study was to
be undertaken; thirdly, to lengthy procedures for review of the
core group's recommendations and decision making; and fourthly,
to the Government ignoring advice offered by Bank missions
regarding examination of increased offtake alternatives.
-    The delay and inadequate utilization of the consultant and
fellowship program was due to Government's view that benefits
would not be commensurate with cost.
5.05     Operation and Kaintenance and Continuity.  In general, operation and
maintenance has been satisfactorily carried out during project life, whether
this relates to maintenance of vehicles, machinery, and equipment, or to
construction of civil works, such as roads and infrastructural facilities.
Government has stated its commitment to continuing with the research program
relating to mechanized industrial plantation establishment. It has also
acknowledged the value of regional development programs as demonstrated by,
for instance, the Evros Development Project, which incorporates, inter alia,
infrastructural development for rural communities, similar to that carried out
in the project under review (para. 3.10). It is most likely, therefore, that
Government will maintain and expand on infrastructure development initiated



- 20 -
under the Village Development Program of the Forestry Project. Proposals under
the Forestry Sector Strategy Study are to be incorporated in Government's next
five-year development plan, commencing in 1989.
Performance of the Bank
5.06     There were 13 project supervision missions between November, 1979 and
November 1985 (i.e., an average interval of 6 months); missions have included
staff of the following specializations: economist (also combining with
financial analyst), forester, and agriculturalist. Continuity of supervision
personnel has been good and the specialists involved more than adequate to
review the implementation of the various project components.
5.07     The project, as appraised by the Bank, was well conceived in its
approach to the development of the forestry sector in Greece. Appropriate
emphasis and support was given to increased wood production, research,
infrastructural development, training, the integrated needs of grazing and
forestry, and improving the standard of living of rural communities dependent
upon the forestry economy for their livelihood. Special emphasis was placed
on the long-term needs of the forestry sector through the conduct of the
Sector Strategy Study. The Bank responded positively and effectively to
mid-term circumstances that had arisen, by amending the loan agreement at
Government request, to provide: increased disbursement percentages and
reallocation of the proceeds of the loan which had been affected by large
changes in the drachma/dollar exchange rate; expansion of the area in which
reafforestation was to take place, in view of the difficulties due to grazier
rights in reafforesting the area originally designated; and cancelling the
Regional Development Study which was undertaken under EEC funding.
5.08     Bank/Government relations were good throughout the project though
reconciliatiou of viewpoint on the approach to the conduct of the Sector
Strategy Study was never achieved even though a spirit of cooperation
prevailed until project completion on the basis of a mutual agreement to
disagree. The Bank cooperated closely with UNDP and FAO in regard to the
implementation of the Pilot Plantation Research component. The Bank
participated in tripartite reviews at mid-term and at the completion of the
component.
5.09     Environmental Issues.  The project, by its nature, was sensitive to
environmental issues and various components directly addressed problems
leading to environment improvement. The successfully conducted Pilot
Plantation Research program developed techniques for reforestation of
degenerated and eroded land. The Pilot Range Management Program successfully
indicated techniques that could be utilized in improving rangeland use,
reducing erosion, and increasing productivity for graziers whilst at the same
time reducing the detrimental effect of uncontrolled grazing in forest lands.
The Fire Control Program successfully reduced the losses of forestry resources
in the project area due to fire damage. The Village Development Program
greatly improved the living conditions of rural people dependent upon forestry
for their livelihood and at the same time addressed such environment issues as
torrent control through appropriate civil works construction. Above all, the
Forestry Sector Strategy Study has provided Government with the tool for
directing its future development of forest lands to the benefit not only of
the economy but of the environment.



- 21 -
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
6.01     The project was approved in June, 1979 and was expected to be
completed by December, 1984. In practice, however, completion was delayed by
one year to December, 1985 which reflects the 18 month delay in declaring Loan
effectiveness due to a change of Government and the c,nsequent delay in
obtaining parliamentary ratification of the Loan Agreement. The project can
be regarded as generally successful in supporting and strengthening the
existing forestry sector and in laying the foundations for its long-term
development; however, there have been some problems in implementation as
indicated in the following paragraphs.
6.02     The bureaucratic procedures (particularly in regard to such issues as
procurement, local staff recruitment and local funding) which resulted in
delayed implementation of a number of project components might have been more
fully recognized at appraisal, especially since similar procedural problems
had delayed implementation in other Bank projects in the agriculture sector in
Greece. Whilst it is doubtful whether an improved situation could have been
created through covenanted requirements,'' allowance could have been made
for the likelihood of cumbersome bureaucratic procedures by extending project
life over six rather than five years. This would also have resulted in more
realistic estimates of project costs.
6.03     The most contentious issue that arose during project implementation
was in regard to the employment of an internationally recruited firm to
conduct, in conjunction with Greek officials of the Forestry Service, the
Forestry Sector Strategy Study. The Bank's initial insistence that the study
necessitated the recruitment of a firm of international consultants may have
been an excessively demanding stance which did not give adequate consideration
to Greek views that suitable expertise was available in the country, or to the
relatively higher cost of employing international consultants. Furthermore,
the Bank focused on the prime reason for the study as being wood production
and its industrialization to the exclusion of all other forestry problems.
The quality of the study that was produced, entirely from Greek contributions
was detailed in its review of the state of existing forestry and in its
in-depth examination of those alternatives selected for the development and
protection of forest sector resources. Nevertheless, in spite of an agreed
outline of study content that included all original plus additional items of
In an effort to speed procurement, it was agreed at negotiations, that
the Forest Service and RPDS would be exempt from regulations requiring
procurement through the Ministry of Trade. In the event, because of
PPMO's inexperience in this field, procurement through the Ministry of
Trade was continued.



- 22 -
significance to the forestry sector, the final report excluded several
important subjects, identified at appraisal, that should have been addressed
(para. 3.03). This overview concludes that, by excluding international
consultancy, the study lacked in detached objectivity and lost an opportunity
to take adequate consideration of international experiences gained in recent
years in the field of forestry development and to draw on special expertise in
forest management practices. Had the Bank adopted a more flexible stance on
consultancy in the first instance it is conceivable that, at least, a modest
use might have been made of this technical assistance facility.
6.04     Evaluation.  This aspect was inadequately considered at appraisal
and, as a result, little was achieved beyond some sampling late in project
life in both the forestry and village development components. No on-going,
in-depth evaluations or special studies were conducted to ascertain the impact
of project investments. Consequently, in this overview reliance had to be
placed on subjective judgements in assessing project impact to a greater
extent than is desirable. Since the project has important implications for
long-term development of the forestry sector this weakness is unfortunate.



- 23 -
ikTEGRAtED FORESIRI  f84iLL-4tMEht PROJECT                                     ALUNI&A  I
ACTUL PROJECt COSTS COWAREOTO APPRAISAL ESIMATES                                       Table  I
1    .L  |;CiGN  I 7-TALI   LOXAL  I FORON    TOTAL   Fn fn  To Ct
JEC        lETC Z  t     f     f     l    s.T  I    ...j.2L.. J ... ....        'UtIlollo ISSI ....   Percatt  P-mtI
1Cviii  Wotk*                                      
-Wnf Roads StiRe P4a&            4ACt   I r.003    313   2          ? ' 0  1       '° 5     1i5s  40       123'.
4797                           Is23   1 120  185  1t 8  303  3894%.   21 C
mn-Sti roaas             ACIt     20         1  1 616            0.8       0.5       1 13  35 .   %
__________________________   ~~E I  121 I      88      215.         3 S       2 4       S.9    40    '41%
SU0aWLcammAcROM                      AOl   I8180   1S2.0   2.988.0          I1.8       8.0      19.8  40 4%    13 7".
'    1    .      S20   i.327 8                   1.42                    25. E_ _  39.2 0%
ESt      18.2      136       31.8       0 5       0.4       0.9 44 4%    0.6%
Nursiel               Act
ESt      607        0.3      81.0       1.6       00        1.   0.0%     I 1,
Sd. PrpwUl oa  FarngrV  ACt
Est      89 6      7o       160.0       2.4       1 9        .  44 2%    30%'.
Pt"                   AVt
Est    I59.0        0.0    t59.0        4.3       0.0       4.3  0.0%     3 0%
PnFq a  WediN         Act
_st     94 1        0.0      94.0       2 6       0.0       2.8  00%      1 8%
$5 -lotew  PFwtaant   estmotJ   --- Act  3,134.0    428.0  3.82.0           23.1       4.7      278  16.9%    19.2%
EST    4215       84.3    5058         1 1t4      2.3      137  I6.8%    9 S%
Prto Prctscton Watts                 ACt    5ig90      183.0    702.0        3.7       1.0       4.7  2t 3%    3.3%6
Est      53 4      17.1     70 5        I s       0.4       1.9  21 1%    1 3.
Suuhngs: LoOgglO Workers a watous    Act
(houaa  alt)                         esa      a9 f      26.7     t6 .3       2.4       0.7       3.1  22.6%    2.1%
FoPrsty Wowtrt a Staff     Act
_   E    13.11      1.4      14.5      0.3        0.1       0.4 25.0%    0 3%
.Suh.to-aw ANW.                              140 01     400      180.0       0.9       0.3       1.2  250%    0.8%
_________________________  Est         02.7      28       130? 8      27        08 3.'         22 9%    2 4%
Vdtg9 iMrSutur.: RAds am St.mw       Acd
0DW                                 FM Es  375 7    1 92.1    567.6       103        5.2    1t5.  33.S%    '0 7%
Waet Sippy. OWnap. a Swa. Act
Est     66 1      28.3      94.4        1.8      0.8       2.6  30.8%     I 8%
Otme Cotmtnr Petd   ACt
est      825      353      Ita    2;,    2        to 3:     2    13%      22S
SUD-rtom  m4ago Intrafca.rf Oeolapmnt Act   2.997 9      0.0  2.S97 9       19.3       0.0       9.3   0%    13 3%
____________________________   OEst  524 3   255 7     '80(l0     14  31     70       211.31  32.%    47
Piot Ratnito  niGit                  ACt      57 2      24 0     1 t 2       0.8       0.2       1.0 20.0%    0.7%
_   Est     70 A       32      83.         20        04        24  867%    I
sub-towa Clvil Wafts                 Act 8,704.1  i,827.0 10,531.1         $9.6       14.2      73.  19.2%   81.0%
Est 1.979.1    919,3 ;.898. ..J,L S              5.1      r9.0 t 1.8.   54.6%
Uhhinery A Equipuwat
ROSCIMA    tu1.i Act                          28.0    244 0      270.0       02        0.9       1.1 81.8%    0.8%
Est      16.6      90.3    106.9        0.4       2.5       29  86 2%    2.0%
Maclmo M80mance                      Act       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0  0.0%     0 0%
Est       2.S      10.1      12.6       0.0       0.3       0.3 100.0%    0 2%
Ptnta,: LOwgin                       Act    1070         0.0    107.0        0.0       0.0       0.0  0.0%     0.0%
est      35.9      7 3      1072        1.0       1 S       2.9 65.5%    2.0%
mwamwya Tools             Act      34.S    120.4    155.0         0.3       0.7       1 .0  70.0%    0.7%
eat       2.7      10 7      13.4       0.1       0.2       0.3 68.7%    0.2%
Nusrfy EqL a Imtim  M.   ACt        8.0      16.0      24.0       0.0       0.2       0.2 100.0%    0.1%
Est       I 0       1.7       2.7       0.0       0.1       0.1 100.0%    0.1%
Plkee Pla,imtunResewd     PA       17.8      90.2    108.         0.1       0.6       0.  85.7%    0.5%
.,E  ,   S.       34,O      39 34.t 7  0S.        0.9       1.1 81.8%    0.8S
Subt-m   Ptumla                      ACt     187.4    228.8    394.0         0.41      1 .       1.9  78.9%    1.3%
._______  Est       5.453   j,1 r 1   163.        .3        J1        4 4   to.5$    3.0%
Fir PreiaO on                        Ad       47.6      6         14.   0.     5        .4       1.9  73.7%    1.3%
Ebt      19.0      47.6      6.8        0.        1.3       1.8  72.2%    1 2%
Ttu'_t Vtnis: Ln   Penrsda          API        9.0      41.0      50.0       0.        0.2       0.  68.7      0.2%
Est      10.4     36.1      48.         0.3       1.0       1.3 40.0%    0.9%
fotm Pesou          Act       0.6       7.2       7.        0.        0.1       0.1 100.0%    0.1%
Est                * 16.8   22.8                  0 .4      0.1  88.rs    0.4%
Sub.aI rTeatw? vstuce                A P       9.6      48 2      87.8       0.1       0.3       0.  75.0%    0.3%
.______________________________  Pit  18.4  52    1   89.        0.5               ,     .    4  1  7   1  3%4
Itggs' Teemqng                       Aet       0.0      46 0      46.        0.1       0.2       0.3  66.7%    0 2%
ENt       2.4     '0 9       13.3       0.1       0.3       0.4  75.0%    0.3%
PiotRatgeMosau                       Act       0.4       0.6 1|     .        0.0       0.1       0.1 100.0%    0 1%
Est       0.5       44       4.        0.0       0.1       01 100 0%    0 1%
Pmoisct Admtrntan                    Ae        0.0       0.0       0.        0.0       0.0       0.0  0.0%     0.0%
S">tett tbehitt4tZ * XzpletrwntEA e   0tl°      5;-       S.        0.0       0.        GI 500.       0.1S
sub-tolet UaCkuty A Eqtuipment       A      8631.2    632.2    683.4         1.3       4.4       5.7  77.2%    3.9%
Eg  ..    .3 _  339.4    44.7,    2.             9.2 . 2.t  7Z.7S   8.3%
Lwam    TrM    a Oemaitton           Aet       2.9       7.0       9.9       0.1       0.0       0.1  0.0%     0.1%
Eat      28.5     12.3      40.8       0.6       0.3        1.1 27.3%    0.8%
PCOt P_ajtn RtSth                    Att       S.0      65.0      73.0       0.1       0.4       0.5  60.0S    0.3%
Est       1.3      13.6     14.9        0.0       0.4       0.4 100.0%    0.3%
P8oIReng.I1Uig   t                   Act      13.4       3.4      18.8       0.9       0.2       1A  18.2%    0.8%
Est      14.2       8.5     22.7       0.        0.2       0.6  33.3%    0.4%
D_eftnmrvt Sesg Sltw                 Act       2.0       3.0       5.0       0.4       0.6       1.0 80.0%    0.7%
ENt       8.7      13.9     22.6        0.2       0.4       0.6  66.7%    0.4%
Regional Ovelapnt Stud               AO        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0  0.0%     0.0%
Est      82.6      45.01    97.         1.        1.2       2.7 44.4%    t 9%
PMaect AdinIttItyUtltt               Pd       80.0       0.       60.0       0.5       0.0       0.5  0.0%     0.3%
Est      83.5       0.0      23.        2.:       0.q       2.:  0.0% S
Svb.tafal 6Wves                    Act  t10.3        76.4    184.1        2.0       1.2       3.2 37.8%    2.2%
Est   is&.& .,,.3.   282.1  ____,,J-2                    L._ 3        J5 JL 
TOWt Os". CAst                            9,091.6  2,537.6 11,599.3        62.9      19.8        2.  23.9%   57.2%
__________________________   *'t ~_. 27Z . 2t  1.2152.1  ,aj n3 a  .... .J. ,  ,,,,,j6.  ., .. IL   I L a2 l  8 Li.2
Co en a  Plt                         ENt    264.9    139.2    404.1          7.2      3i        11.0  34.5%    7.6%
Pulas                    E,t    972.0    307.4  1.279.4         26.5       6.4      34.j 24.t%   24.1%
Sb  .on.Jf I 42 4.6  1,883.5           3*I, 121;   4,.  2.8S   31.7%
OltAlZtTOTAL                         A4  9,06t86   52537.6 11.599.2        62.9      1.0    682.7 2.9$  87.2$
LE2       k' Ja3L.  ,* t .7                 ,,,,,49      144.6 3lJ e          %



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1718-GRI
Appraisal Revised Estimates and Actual Cumulative Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement at End of Ouarter
IB0 Fiscal Year                         ------  Revised Estimates or Actual Disbursements ---------------                Actual Disbursed Compared
and Ouarter             Appraisal   Oct.  1983  Feb. 1984   Sept. 1984  Mar, 1985   QC=      I    Mar, 1986                to Aporaisal Estimate
------------------------------------ (-US5  illion)    -----   ----- ------------(
September 30. 1979          0.0          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0                          0.0
December 31. 1979           0.1          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0                          0.0
March 31, 1980              0.6          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0                          0.0
June 30, 1980               1.2          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0                          0.0
September 30. 1980          1.8          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0                           0.0
December 31. 1980           2.8          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0                          0.0
March 31, 1981              5.0          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0                          0.0
June 30, 1981               6.9          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0                           0.0
September 30, 1981          7.5          0.2          0.2       J.2          0.2          0.2           0.2                          2.7
December 31. 1981           8.6          1.i          1.0       1.0          1.0          1.0           1.0                          11.6
Harch 31, 1982             10.8          1.3          1.3       1.3          1.3          1.3           1.3                          12.0
June 30, 1982              12.7          1.8          1.8       1.8          1.8          1.8           1.8                          14.2
198
September 30. 1982         13.3          4.2          4.2       4.2            2          4.2           4.2                         31.6
December 31. 1982          14.2          4.8          4.a       4.8          4.8          4.8           4.8                         33.8
March 31. 1983             16.0          S.6          5.6       5.6          5.6          5.6           5.6                         35.0
June 30, 1983              17.5          6.9          6.9       6 9          6.9          6.9           6.9                         39.4
1im
September 30, 1983         18.0          8.2          8.2       8.2          8.2          8.2           8.2                         45.6
December 31, 1983          18.6         11.2          9.0       9.0          9.0          9.0           9.0                         48.4
March 31, 1984             20.1         13.0         10.2      10.2         10.2         10.2          10.2                         49.3
June 30, 1984              21.3         16.0         13.8      13.8         13.8         13.8          13.8                         54.9
1I98
September 30. 1984         21.7         18.0         15.7      13.7         13.7         13.7          13.7                         63.1
December 31, 1984          22.2         22.0         10.5      15.0         14.6         14.6          14.6                         65.8
March 31, 1985             23.7         23.0         20.7      16.5         15.1         15.1          15.1                         63.7
June 30, 1985              25.0         25.0         22.0      18.5         17.1         17.2          17.2                         68.8                I T
1i9                                                                                                                                                       K
September 30, 198S                                             21.5         20.1         20.0         20.0                          80.0
December 31, 1985                                              23.5         23.5         25.0          25.0                        100.0
March 31, 1986                                                                                         25.0                         100.0
" Extension c7 Closing Date from June 30, 1985 to March 31. 1986.



- 25 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                          ANNEX I
GREECE                                   Table 3
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LN. 1718-GR)
TRADE, CONSUPPTICN AND PRMUCIION OF
WOD PRMXCTS, GREEC 1950-1983
A)  UATITIES IN ROUMX0OOD EQ VALEHT (1 000 mfr)Y|
__      _ CoNStLPTION         I          PRDCTION
YEAR  MIP TS  EXPORTS              OTHER                           OTHER
FUELIdOOD    WOW      TMTAL   FUELWOOD    WOWD        TOTAL.
PRMICTS                        PRODJCTS
s190     894      6.3    3827       1 095       4 922    3827         207      4 034
190      8r,4     3.9    3 757      1 201       4 958    3 757        331      4 ON
1970   1 831      28.2    2 156     2 359       4517    2 52          561      2 713
1975   1 825      99.2    1 792     2 453       4245    1 78          728      2 U1
1980   2 018    252.3    1 929      2 547       4476     1 92         785      n713
1981   1 698    228.6     1 955     2 607       4562    1 953       1 137      3 090
1982   2 043    232.4    2 01       2 572       4582    2 009         762      2 771
1983   2 38      158.9    1 8       2 992      847      1 878         842      2 718
mr  cubic mstm rourdwimd equivalent
_8) VALUES IN DRACH3AS (MILLION)
WEAR    CURRENT PRICES    COMTANT 980 PRICES  EXPORTs
I'PORTS   EXPORTS  - PPOTS   EXPRS   M
(1)     (2)       (3)        (4)       (5)       (7)
1950     142.5      13.5   1 177.4      111.6    9.47
1950   1 058.7     237.5   4 937.8   1 110.6   22.48
197    2 855.1     253.8  10 859.8      965.2    8.89
1975   7 728.0     702.0  16 442.8   1 493.6    9.08
190  16 738.7   3 658.2  16 738.7   3 56B.2   21.85
199   18 398.8   4 444.3  14 789.8   3 572.6   24.16
1982  24 341.4   4 877.1  16 173.7   3 240.8   20.04
1983  30 428.8   4 567.7  16 774.4   2 516.0   15.01
(Veau of' 1983 Inxnzt a US$ 346 millian 0 USS1   drs 87.89)
Source: UNDP Forestry Development and Reforestation Project Findings and
Recommendations, Rome 1986.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LN. 1718-GR)
FIVE-YEARLY PREDICTIONS OF CONSUMPTION OF WOOD PRODUCTS FOR THE PERIOD 1983-2007
\    PRODUCT    FIREWOOD  INDUSTRIAL       SAWN           PLYWOOD     PARTICLEBOARD       PAPER         WOODPULP
WOOD           WOOD            AND            AND             AND
PERIOD  \' r141 N'r                              M'r            VENEERS      FIBREBOARD      PAPERBOARD       Thousand
____________  ____________  ____________               M 'r   .       M'r             Tons           tons
1983-1987      9 542 036       6 714 414      7 522 918        878 227      2 399 881       2 604 735        593.0
1988-1992      9 104 72i       7 774 892      8 090 338        952 674      2 814 190       3 004 135        654.0
1993-1997      8 801 955       8 875 631      8 689 183      1 002 196      3 217 390       3 403 555        715.0
1998-2002      8 592 341       9 984 374      9 351 215      1 028.395      3 611 785       3 802 935        776.0
2003-2007      8 447 218      11 159 891     10 036 437      1 038 833      4 013 571       4 202 335        837.0
/ M'r - roundvood equivalent
Source:  Strategic Study for Development of Greek Forestry and Wood Industry.  Paper MS 84 12 'International and
Greek Markets for Forest Products'.  Ministry of Agriculture, Forest Service, Athens. March 1985.
Source: UNDP Forestry Development and Reforestation Project Findings and Recommendations, Rome 1986.



GREECE
PROJECT rCMPLETION REPDRT
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Proiect Area Production
(000 m3)
Appraisal Estimates 11                                                     PCR Estimates 11
1980        1985        1995    IXIremntal l99JI 198                    l(80         1985         l99S 1i          IncrMnt l U3i9S198
ooom  I                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~00005 
.'wlogs                   442         561        1035            593     134                       295           250           400                  106       35
Pulpwood                   141         230         653           512      363                       43            40             70                  27       62
firewood                   115         128         220           105      191                      235           240           S00                  265      113
free collection                                                                                    In_  _u                                          i n1
TOTAL                                                                                                     IO 919  JIM  12U m  JA3  JAIL  12   121       12
LI From SAR 2425GE Table 4.1
2  Ditvision of Planning and Studies. Section of Forest Statistics.  tinistry of Agriculture, 1980 and 1985 are actual production figures whilp 1995 is
estimated production based on actual reforestation and yields.
aC



- 28 -                                           Annex  1
Table 6
6REECE
INTEGRATED   FORESTRY  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
APPRAISAL VERSUS PCR OUTPUT PRICES USED IN ECONOMIC ANALYSIS-Y
1980        1981        1982         1953        1994        1985
PCR CURRENT PRICES-/
Sawlogs
Coniferous               6,140        9,247       7,581       8,545       10,014      16,230
Oroadleave              10,042       11,384      12,529       15,026      16,414      25,041
Pulpwood                     7,439        9,086       8,462       9,623       13,993      15,215
Fuelwoods                     1,568       1,611       1,736        2,136       2,543       3,790
AGR. PROD. PRICE INDEX          1.201       1.525       1.801        2.227       2.689       3.215
PCR CONSTANT PRICES 3/
Sawlogs
Coniferous               5,112        6,064       4,209       3,937        3,725       5,048
Droadleave               9,361        7,465       6,957       6,747        6,850       7,789
Pulpwood                   6,193        5,959       4,710       4,321        5,169       4,733
Fuelwoods                     1,306       1,056         964          960         946       1,179
SAR CONSTANT PRICES
Sawlogs
Coniferous               2,232        2,296       2,364       2,431        2,501       2,570
Broadleave               1,893        1,947       2,004       2,060        2,119       2,180
Pulpwood
Coniferous                 743          747         750         753          757         760
Droadleave                 783          786         790         793          796         900
Fuelwoods                      933          935         938         940          943         945
PCRISAR PRICES
Sawlogs
Coniferous                 229%         2641        1781        1591         1491        1961
Oroadleave                 4421         3832        3472        3282         3231        3571
PtL-puood                    8341         791         6201        5741         6932        6232
fuelvoods                       1401        1131        1031         1021        1002        1252
11 In 1979 currency values
21 Prices were derived from actu.! CIF import values. Transport costs to project area ere deducted from CIF prices.
31 Current prices deflated using the Agricultural Price Induad



-29-
- *                  INTEGrATED LFORE1TRY' DEVELOPMkENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1718 GR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
i6.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
ilthens,           March      1987.
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~
I                          ~~~~~Athens,        M'arch 1 987,
-.5.,....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-31-
HE.LEWIC- R&PUBLIC
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
.''      DIVISION OF PLANNING AND STUDIES
__ PROJECT PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT OFFICE
p.
'G R E E C E
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
p"RT 7.
IJ
Athens, June 1986 



- 33--
REPORT 24 THE UFO.YC^ 'OC.MPLETION
I. - INTRODUCrION
1.1  The project comprises an integrated development program
in the forestry sub-sector and is intended to assist in
exploiting the underutilized forest resources of continental,
western and northwestern Greece and reducing dependence on
imported wood products. It is included in the frames of
5-years program for National Forestry Development.
1.2. First responsibility for the execution of the forestry
development program was entrusted to the ex-General Directo-
rate of Forests, which.disposed well qualified expereienced
staff in all-project area and was capable to perform sati-
sfactorily this role.  The staff working outside the Athens
headquarters was more than sufficient in comparison with
.      the other countries,  Each forest district is a separate
administrative unit responsible for its own forest management
-, . ~plan, *the mar~keting of forest p-oducts and the operation of
the infrastructure works in its area of jurisdiction.
Nevertheless, the final financial control and policy guidance
are centralized to the Forest Headquarters in Athens.-    -
In order to facilitate overall control and monitor project
progress a Project Planning and Management Office (P.P.M.O.)
was set up in the Directorate of Planning and Forest Develop-.
mnene Studies which was responsible for coordinating the
execution of project work by the Forest Service.
'In addition to the Project .Planning and Management Office
(P.P.M.O.) was set one Project Steering Committee which
provided overall policy directions and coordinated the
activities among the various project components and
implementing gagenciiese ~                              -    .
1.3  The project consisted the following complementary components :
(i) construction of about 3,500 km and improvement of about
2,000 km of forest roads and provisions of maintenance



- 34 -
-qu.pment ;  (i4 )porovit3ior. of loggina equiOent and cc.r.a
houzinq and transport facillties fOr about r,|C0 workers a-.d
--forestry staff ;  (iii) intensified forest-managencnt,           --
in   ding mc e_rrza Lion and expansion of three nurseries,
establishment of about 6,000 ha of industrial plantations,
and fire protection equipment supply and works ;  (iv) infra-
structure investments in about 37 selected forest villages ;
and (v) training and research programs and studies, including :
(a) training and demonstration of mechanized logging methods,
(b) pilot industrial plantation research, (c) a pilot range
management program (d) a sectoral development strategy
study and the project represents the start of an accelerated
program of long-term forest and forest industries development.
It is expected to bring the forests into full production by
1995 and lead in future to complementary investntents in
additional sawmill, woodboard panel and pulp manufacturing
capacity both within and outside the project area, The
implement'ation period of five and a half year is the mini.mum
necessary to begin to realize benefits of the new logging,
planting and other forest managg' .emnt practices being
introduced unider the project.
1.4  Tite financing sourdes for the projecc was the World Bank
with, an amount of 25,000,000 drs.
The Japanese Bank Tokai with an amount of US $ 25,000,000 ;
the Agricultural Bank of Greece witt an amount of US $ 2.1
million and the beneficiaries with an amount of US $ 6.7 million.
1.5  The information source which were used for the elaboration
of the present report were the following:
-  The project staff appraisal report.
-  The annual accounts of works of thle Cerntral Forest Service.
-  The annual worl; progrcss repprts of the P.P.M.O to World
Bank.
- The World anik' s coituncnts on4 the above rcports.



- 35 -
II.  PROJi-CT IDACNTIICATION, PFEPa.aTtrNO A1D AP?9RAIS.AL
--2.; Origin
2.1.1 The Ministry of Coordination in its effort to
find financir.g sources proposed to the Forest
Service, which has an important investment plan
to examine a loan agreement with the World Bank
in order to contribute to the improvement of the
foreign exchange disposals for the country.
2.1.2 The Forest Service agreed at first and the
Ministry of Coordination proposed to the World
Bank to examine the possibilities-for granting
- a Loan to finance the Greek forestry at the
beginning of 1978.
-  , v The elaboration of the report on Loan granting
was entrusted through the.Technical -Assistance..
of O.E.C.D. (which undertook part of the cost).
to the finish Firm'Jaako Poyry and was executed
.in collaborating with the ex General Forestry
*   Division's and World Bank's-staff.
'2.1.3  As far as the feasibility report is one complete
-.  ~ , study, which reccrded the forest resources and
'included excellent proposals for their ekploitatibo.'-
2.2  Preparation and Ap'praisal Report
2.2.1 The Project was prepared by the finish Firm
Jaako Poyry Ltd., was financed by O.E.C.D. and
was worked on the base of technical specifications
prepared by foresters of the World Bank in January
1978.
The Consultants started the field works in May
-     1978. 'n c6ntiniuice tdr&esfitatfkes 6of the-
Government and of the above firm were met in Athens
on May 18th, 1978, to detcrmine the teclnical
specifications and to figure out the exact type
of the report to be used-as the base for the
appraisal report.  On 14th and 15th September 1978



- 36 -
representatives of the Norld Bank cam-e to Athens
and collaborated with responsibtes of the ex
..          aGeneral Division of Forests as far as the greek
X -               works for the comnletion of  the studv.  By the
foreign experts a recommendation was done,
because of the time period limits, to elaborate
one study which would cor.3ist the Final Study of
the Project and the Appraisal Report.
The study was proposed to be elaborated at the
siege of the World Bank Jn collaboration with the
representative..of Jako Poyry and foresters of-the
ex General Division of Forests.
On April 16, 1979, the negociations were realized
in Washington for the loan agreement. On June 5,
1979, the Bank notified to the Greek Government
the approval of the loan and the agreement of the
loan granting was signed in Washington on July 9,
1979.
2.2.2. For the ammendments to the study of Jako Poyry
realized possibly by the Bank may be justified
by it.
:   2.2.3  ThM coimients, if there are, they should be
presented by the World Bank.
2.3  Objectives
The project alms to :  (i) save foreign exchange by
increasing wood production from underutilized forests
of western and northliestern Greece ;  (ii) introduce
mechanized logging and more intensive forest management
systems, and assist ex DGF in develoring a sound long-
term strattegy for forest rc&source development.(including
forest ind1ustries) ; (iij.) provide more permanent
employment and improved quality of life to retain workers
in forest villages ; and (iv) build up local capabilities
for preparation of projects for external financing.
Selection of tho project area was influenced by Government's



- 37 -
o.,ectives of creating rural emplovment in the poorer
mountainous areas of the country and introducirng
. _intensive extrac-:ion and reforestation qperations -into _
as large an area of Greek forests as possible-during the
*             next decade.  The project has high prioritv in Government's
development plans and is in line with Bank forestry sector
policy.
2.4  Description of the Project
The project complementarv components are :  (i) constru-
ction of about 3,500 km and improvement of about 2,000 km
*of forest roads, and provision of maintenance equipment ;
(ii) provision of logging equipment, and-communal housing
and transport facilities for about 3,000 workers and
forestry staff ;  (iii) intensified forest management,
including modernization and exDansion of threee nurseries,
establislment of-about 16,000 h4 of industrial plantation,
and fore protection eauipment supply and works ;  (iv)
infrastructure investments in abou'- 37 selected forest
villages ; and (v) training and research piograms and
studies, includina ; (a) training and -demonstration in
mechanized logging methods, (b) pilot industrial
plantation research, (c) a pilot range managemen. program,-
-  (d) a sectoral dcvelopment strategy study, and (e) a
reqional development study.
42.4.1  Forest Roads
The project provided construction of a total of
about 2,225 km of new forest truck roads and
1,260 km of tractor roads, as well as improvement
to all-weather standards of about 1,135 km and
gravelling of another 835 km of road surface.
The emphasis was on upgrading at least 60% of
roads in State forests and 40% of roads in non-
State forests to all--weather "B class" standards
(with drainaae ditches, culverts and rock surfacing),
making all-year extraction operations and an
increased rate of wood production possible.



- 38 -
A total of about 775 km roads was provided to be
constructed ard 1,970  km to be improved (for
x example,1 by_ qravel surfacing) to these standards.
As a result, the average length of logging season
was expected to increase from 70-100 working days
at present to 150-200 days per year L 1934. An
additional 1,450 km of lower standard "C class"
truck roads was constructed with little or no
drainage structure or rock surfacing, and serve
essentially as dry weather access roads. The pro-
*ect itself-WoUiid'not finance road building equip-
ment directly under this component ;  it would
reimburse the indirect foreign exchange costs of
equipment hired from private contractors.
However, to assist in strengthening road maintenance
by DGF, the project would finance some maintenance
equipment (includinig bulldozers,-graders and dwuip
trucks), two mobile repair slhops and construction
or modernization of six mechanical workshops.
22.4.2  Logging
In line with its objective the projert provided
to increase the use of mechanical methods of
moving logs (skidding) from stunp to roadside,
the project was provided to finance logging equip-
ment to be purchased by cooperatives and private
operators. This was expected to include about 12
skidders, 87 tractors, 53 logging trolleys, 34
short cable systems and 2 long cable systems.
At .the implementation start- mcchanical skidding
was only practice on a verv limited scale and,
'      in most cases, la)ck of knowledge of efficient use
of-equipment often made it- seem- -uneconomic-.  This
pointed to the need to build up a contractor force    '
with mechanized skidding equipment througlh appro-
priate credit facilities and training and demon-
stration.



- 39 -
Tne project would Lntroduce the agricultural
tractor-togging trollev combination, which is
much cheaper-and-nore cost-effective than-tradi--------
t.n-t'-  -'a -4c1Jated skidders, can be used for other
purpose such as log transnortation, and is relati-
vely easy to service and repair at existing workshop
facilities. It was expected that, as a result of
the credit and training programs under the project
the share of manual-mule methods in all logging
operations would fall from 90% at the start to
about 50% by 1984. The share of mechanical
methods was expected to increase correspondingly.
The private sector would be induced to avail of
credit facilities for ecuipment purchase by
improving the present investment climate through
such changes as    (a) planning extraction
operations to allow skidding contracts covering
at least 3-5 years, with cuts of sufficient volume
to keep equipment operating for at least 150 days
annually ; and (b) organizing work contracts to
allotw both cutting and skidding operations to be
carried out simultaneouslv, thus preventing loss
of time.. The lengthening of logging season with
increased use of mechanized methods (and more
all-weather roads) would be reinforced by improved
housing and transport for workers and forestry
staff;  The project included provision for transport
facilities, including about 84 buses, trucks and
field vehicles, as well as some 20 permanent, 137
semi-permanent and 50 mobile housing facilities
for a total of about 3,000 workers and staff in
forestry and logging activities.
2..4,3:  Forests Manaqement
The project provided to introduce intensified
managaient systems in several kinds of forestry
activities. Regeneration in natural forests
would be supplemented by accelerated establishment



- 40 -
of industrial wood available for domestic
processing and ac.ieve long-term self-sufficiency
in forest products.  The Droiect-would significant-
Iny 4inr -e-e the present planting rate of about
1,000 ha annually in the project area to 4,600 ha
annually by 1984, establishing a tota'. of 15,900 ha
of fast-growing industrial plantations and expanding
and modernizing three nurseries to increase their
annual capacity by about 12 million seedlings.
Greater mechanization in clearing and soil prepa-
ration would be introduced, particularly with devel-
opment of more efficient techniaues under the pilot
research program.  Final species selection would
depend on soil and climlatic conditions as well as
the end use of the plantaion wood.  Emphasis on
conifers was expected, including Pinus nigra,
Pinus radiata, Pinus rinaster and Pseudotsuqa
_ nenziesii (Douglas.fir).  In addition, some. fast-
growing eucalypts for pulpwood might be plantfed.
Both the pilot reseaich program and thLe sectoral
Cevelopment strategy study was expected to influence
the locetion of industrial plantations under the
project, particularly after 1981. ;The project  _
would also introduce an intensified system of
forest fire protection by financing eauipment,
including' 27 fire and tanker trucks,'10 buses and
121 radio units and stations, and works, including
,5 firewatching towers, 500 km of fire breaks, 200 km
of fire tracks (built to 'C' class road standards)
* and 30 water reservoirs. The aim would be to
reduce the number of fires and minimise damages
from fires which do occur, through improvements in
-  7 -- - -prcvention-,-pre--suppres-sion, -detection--and-- -
suppression activities.



- 41 -
2.4.4  Training, Research and Studies
'7- _7-   -    2.4.4.1  Loaaing -Training.q and  emonstration.  As
a complement to the credit component for logging
equipment, the project would assist ex DGF in
intensifying logging training for both forestry
workers and operators as well as technical and
professional forestry staff, with emphasis on the
efficient use of mechanical skidding equipment and
introduction of cableways with clear felling.
Forest District offices would be responsible for
_               selecting logging contractors (both existing and
potential) and ex DGF staff for train-.ng. Stress
would be placed on practical and efficient
"on-the-job" operation and repair of mechanized
-skidding equipment, with an appropriate mix of
3-6 months courses for staff and young operators,
and 1-2 weeks orientation courses for existina
. logging contractors. A total of about 100 operators
and staff were expected to receive training under
this program each year. The program made use of
existing ex DGF buildings and other facilities
at Kalambaka as the base of operations.  Trainees
would form several logging production units,
operating in the same three Forest Districts as
those being used as pilot areas for revision of
management plans, road locations and logging layouts
under the sectoral development strategy study.
The project would finance equipment and three
manyears of consultants (a logging planning adviser
and skidding/cable operating specialists with
experiefce that was not locally available), to
assist in organizing this program and demonstrating
the efficient use of new equipment. Four manyears
of postgraduate fellowships and two manyears of
overseas study tours wyould also be financed for
training abroad of ex bGF personnel in modern
logging  ind forest management nethods.



42-
I.~ ~ ~~*.
2.4.A.2  Pilot Plantation 'esearch.  The project
- included financing for all the ecui4rment and part
''--    ~-of the techn'ical assistance an'd -rainif.g -r'
of a five-year pilot industrial plantation research
program, to be executed by FAO. UNDP proposed to
finance the first three years' technical assistance
and training costs of this program ; funds have
already been allocated and final UNDP approval
was expected shortly.
- 2.4.4.-3 Pilot Range Management. The project
included a pilot program to demonstrate the
-  economics and practioability of various modern
methods of range management, eventually aimed at
protecting the forests from uncontrolled and
destructive grazing. The pilot program would cover
about 20#000 ha around eight villages in the
northern districts of Ariclea, Florina and Kastoria,
with a total population of about 6,000 people and
43,000 livestock head (mostly sheep and goats).
;Th  program would investigate the feasibility of
integrating forestry with livestock through
pasture improvement, rotational grazing and
forage'crop pioduction schemes, and protection of
young. forested areas.  Specific works would include
improvement of 7,400 ha bf'rangelands through
various surface and seeding treatmen-s, establish-
ment of 600 ha of fodder crops for conservation
as hay-and 200 ha of sown pasture on arable land,
and improvement of 13,000 additional ha through
new watering points, fencing, roads and shelters.
The extent to which the project's findings could-
be extended to other parts of Greece would be
determined by a comprehensive survey of grazing
resources in northern Greece which would also be
part of the pilot program.



- 43 -
2.A.A.-4 Forest and Fcrest Industries Sectoral
Develornment Stratecr Study. The project included
-----.----.--a-st-udy-designed-to-car-v -out- an-indepth review-----
of current stocking and growth rates  and-to
investigate the implications of introducting
significant changes in current forest management
practices and harvesting methods, with the object
to increasing woo.d production and eliminating
forest product imports as Quickly as possible and
to justify installation of new industrial capacity.
-The study would look into various options for long-
term development to the-year 2000,.and study the
preliminary economic viability of such major new
*               industries as a chemical pulp mill.  It would also
*- -. include an analysis of the present pricing system
and structure of taxes and subsidies in the
forestry sector, with.recommendations for appro-
priate adjustmehts- to bring about the most-efficient
*  .resource allocation while maintaining adequate
. .incentives.  It would inv-stigate the bedgetary,
training, legal and other policy implications for
Government of accelerated forestry sector devel-
, opment.  The study would also include revision of
sample management plans for three Forest Districts
(representative of the main forest types), incorporat-
ing the proposed modifications to road planning,
forest management and industrial plantation
establishment.



- 44 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
-- 341  Start l1o
3.1.1 Discuss problems and performance during project
start up
The main problem at the project start up was the delay
to the activation of the loan,
So,. the loan agreement was signed on July 7, 1979, and
the loan was activated two years later on July 31,
1981, 
At the beginning the credits provided by the project
were not disposed.  Aiso there was no considerable
number of staff in the Central as well as in the
<Regional Services.
3.2  Ammendments
3.2.1  No serious changes of th.e project have been realised
. during its performance.  Some relatively small
changes are mentioned herebelow :
a/ Because the Drachma-Dollar equivalence has been
changed.and in An other way was not possible the
_    ;  ~bsorption of the loan, the particJpation perce-
ntage of the Bank for Forestry works has been
increased from 20% to 40% since the beginning of
1974.
*            b/  Because the biggest part of the afforestation works
of the country were performed in East Greece the
project areas for reafforestation was extented
to all Greece so that the planned physical targets
can be financed and implemented.
c/  The Strategy study for the development of forestry
and the forest industries was not entrusted to a
foreign Consultant as was provided by the appraisal
report, but to a greek team of consultants with the
participation of foreign consultants in various
special subjects..



- 45 -
3.3 Time Schedule for the Execution of the Project
3.3.1 The works of the project were provided to be executed
within 5 1/2 year starting middle of 1979. Against
what was provided the followina works have been
realised.
3.3.1.1   Forest Roads
In the state forests gravel surfacing has been.
realised for 735 km of forest roads, i.e. a percentage
of 91%. improvements for 732 km forest roads i.e. a
percentage of 70%, construction of B' class roads
621 km i.e. percentage of 86%, construction of C' class
roads 1,092 km i.e. percentage of 128%, new tractor
roads 917 km i.e. a percentage of 78% and maintenance
of 19,394 km of forest roads i.e. a percentage of 118%.
Analysing the above data it results that the goals
have been successfully covered as far as the constru-
ction of C' class roads and maintenances of the.
-road network, while slightly delayed the road surfa-
cings (not required due to rocky soils) and the
constructions of B' class which have beei covered by
roads of C' class which equally c:overed the needs
for the forest products transportation..
In the non-state forest gravel surfacing for 20 km
has been realised. i.e. a percentage of 80%, improvement
for 46 km i.e. a percentage of 49%, construction for
110 km of B' class forest roads i.e. a percentage of
200%, C' class forest road construction 408 km i.e,
68% and new tractor roads for 124 km i.e. 155%,
Analysing ths above data results that th.e goals have
been statisfactorily covered for the construction of
-B' class forest roads and tractor roads while the
other activities- have-beenh -lightly delaycd -(road
e        s i~urfacing, improvements, etc.).
:?urther the above.mentioned physical targets which
have been executed, the below mentioned road machinery
equipment have been purchased : Two crawler tractors



- 46 -
against 14 ones provided, 15 graders against 7 ones,
4 dumpt trucks against 12 ones.
-----ighteen compressors,provided.have r.ot been purchased.
Also the permanent and mobile repair shops have not
been purchased.
The reasons for the above deviations of the equipment
supply was that the Service found more beneficial to
rent crawler tractors, compressors and lorries,  The
same governs the repair shops.|
Generally, it can been mentioned that in the sector
of forest road constructions the goals have been
achieved to a satisfactory degree set at the beginning.
for the project completion.
3.3.31.2   Logging WTorks
The project financed the purchase of logging works
. .* machinery from members of cooperatives and private*.
logging workers. Five(5) articulated agricultural
tractors against 12 planned ones, 44 agricultural
.tractors with logging trolleys against 87 ones,
-2 logging tractors against 53 ones, 192 power sans
against 450 ones, 11 loading cranes against 30 ones,
.    2 vehicles (all purposes) against 40 ones,  3hort
- cable system. long cable systim ahd.debarking machines
were -not -purchased.
*   ^         ;  The purchase of-all the machinery-was not realized
for the following reasons :
a/ Skidding contracts of 3"-5 years duration with
* . sufficient cut were not secured for the logging
workers to cover at least 150 days work annually
for the machines in order to be possible for them
to amortizise the investments.
b/ There was-not in-the project-area-trained young
staff to-operate the logging works machinery.
c/  Lack of roads for the circulation with all the
weather conditions.and tractor roads, fact which
obstacted the extension of the logging works and
their mechanisation,



- 47 -
The Service of course got built forest buildings for
the logging workers to make easy their staying and
_  work ini the-fo6est - 58hses (16forest workers)
against 52 planned ones, 34 permanent store houses
against 20 planned ones, 7 semipermanent wooden against
85 planned ones and 65 mobile houses on wheels against
60 ones.                               .
At the same time 38 busses have been purchasedf for
16 people against 20 and 42 field vehicles against
36 ones for the transportation of forest wc..kers and
the forest staff.
In the fie'ld of logging works the goals were not
fully achieved, but anyhow a serious effort was given
and is hoped that in the future the mechanisation of.
..  - th-e logging works will be accelerated.
3.3.1.3   Forests Management
-Since we believe that the Greek forests have mostly
a protection importance non intensive exploitation of
forests has been realised but the usual one.
Ten thousands three hundred eighty eight (10,388) ha
have been reafforestated against .15,9C0 provided ones.
-    No extension of the three nurseries has been realised
but the needs of the service have been served by the
existing nurseries.
In the field of refforestation better mechanisation
*     methods-have been introduced for the clearing and
preparation of the soil, particularly increasing more.
a beneficial technic with the pilot research project
for economical refforestations (more detailed here
below).
*3.3.1.4   Forest Fire Protection
*         The following forest fire protection works were
implemented in the project area Gtate forests.
6 outlooks vis-a-vis 5 planned, 19 reservois for-
forest-trucks pupplv vis-a-vis 30 planned,-561 forest
road kilometres were constructed vis-a-vis 200 planned



- 48 -
and, also 1,000 fire-breaks vis-a-vis 500 planned.
In parallel, eiaht(8) fire trucks of 10 tons were
procured vis-a-vis 5 planned. 27-fire trucks of 1,7 tons-
vis-a-vis 10 Slanned, 257.portable receivers vis-a-vis
60 planned, 195 vehicle receivers vis-a-vis 50 planned,
25 base radio units vis-a-vis 11 planned, 70 motor-
cycles vis-a-vis 35 planned, 40 personnel vehicles
(jeeps) vis-a-vis 0 planned, 200 lound speakers and
1,000 hatchets.
.The following items were not bought : 12 fire trucks
of 5 tons'(they judged not necessary), 10 busses of
25 passengers (the Service has available other of
16 passengers), 40 chain saws (not needed), 320 back
fire-extinguishers (stocks there were existing) and
100 pair of binoculars.
With the above works and the procured equipment,
the prevent±ve. and repressive forest fightirng measures
were'improved and tle number of fires and damages
-;caused were decreased.
From the following three tables it is worth to be
remarked that the burnt area in the project area, in
1985 (178,345 str.) were eaual to.the averagc one of
the 'previous 5.-years (table 1).
On the other hand, the burnt area in the rest of
Greecc (439,839 str.), at'the same time,were twice
as much as the average of the previous 5-years.
From this fact, it is concluded that the credit
-  -increament, in the forest fighting sector, had had
a positive effect in the project area.



a       ..   .   *,              ;                           *o-/%
COMPARISON.DATA       *
jy:er .f              .-: .*.         OR  FOIMEST  1R1S**
Number-of Fires              Burnt IArea (stremmas) ,    Damages (,000 drs.) #.
ear: ---------,7----------- ^------------*~~~~~~*~~~~~~~   i~
:Project Area:Other Greece:Project Area:Other Greece:Project Area:Other Gr'3ece:
.    J.              .                                    .   ..
':180:      392.:           815  -  '  .11.218  '    219.435 '  4.358.390 *  9.054.00 '
*  ,         .           .        *  .       ..                     .  .     .                . . . ..
:19C81:     408             751      :    525.0-57    .  289.116 : 40.282.864   16.883.546
.!.          .                   . .. .  .   .              .                      ...... .   
:1:82 - 41    3           . 612-    .',   127.562 ,.   146.160 '  8.125.570 , 11.401.607
,         .       :        .             1.74      1.16..
19 833, :3 ;, 49.294. -  146.838  - 3.871.744   10.162.738
:19.84 : .  459             825.  *:  , -60.837           257.7.18    .3.594.455   15.985,347
: .  .,                            *-  *^           ,           ... :     .        .   . 
'1985; ..  446              607     :    178.343 :,.  439.849 ' 10.507.685 , 33.381.326
:-:a                         .       '' -*                  -              :        '-  *
* 2.513          4,203      '  1.051.313 '. 1.499.116 ' 70.740.708 ' 96.868.5574
---- - -     - - - -- - - - --- - - -- - -    -    -         ---   - -   -*1 -h
.I                 .     .  '                       *  .    -
* t *                 %.                   ,.           .         
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                              .    .    ..      .1.....
.   *-   *   -   ,  .   ,  ,   ,.    ,.,.~~~~~~~~~ .    .  . ,  , 
r *t       Pric.                                                    ..' .19, 8I
i . 4 *, '            + l ' * ' *' * * § ' " @ ; * -! ' > > * *t  * 
*- %   *t  6 0bt 1                   * AN *l S **r I _________    *;           ..,., *;



zosze
COZ-IPARISON DATA
FOR  FOREST FIRES-
---------- ------- ----- -----
liumber. of.  1,3urn:t Area      Darnalesk
(9tremmas)   '(#000 drs)
1978          226           45.728       1.918.540
1979        -315           .31.222       2.094.280
'392'      -110.218        -4.35-B.390
1981          4 08      ...:'525.057    40.282.864
7124225      48.654
TOTAL        1.342                               -.074
:'1982            3          127.562        8.125.570
.1983          375                        3.871.744
49.294                                                          LA
1984                        60.837      '3.594.455
1985                       178.345  .:.I 0.507..685
:TOTAL        1.713          416A38    ?6.099.454.-:
A- - - - - - - - - - - -
-Prices 1984.                Y.:
r



.. . . .  .  .  .  ..   .  .  .  .  .  .  .5I P.    .  .  .  .
fl      .
-                                          I
I  r4I                                                          *4   I
--         ~           ~                   '0-_  -o co01
~~ti~~~i         (at  co   I           0           4               *    4   VS 
I1        I 
ni        I 
A~-                       A. *               10 '                     g
5.4:  o~~~  I   'a        ,.-4                  N
'd    ...   .  . . .   ..   .  .  ......        ..   ..  .
I   I      .~~~L                   to.      I'           .3 
OD   I            tn                   0..-    CY.           0 D-
0   :f    WI   Q-4   I         Htn,.                                       N4   I
*  Iz~~~~  .C')  ~~~~c                 - N*           ,.
4*          ..l                                                  Iin .    .     *5
I              I         in                                                       - '  ''_ I   .  f  7:
O~~'J  I   HI             I-.~~c    iN         in'         in        H    Il
m   I  ~~co)       0         C           0          01 
IN         M.        af                    'a.
f..  -    o'     .......       H......          ....')
-. ....-.  I  .~~~~1J    :.4~~         O           'a        tn  .
I  co I             0to       0o         I                     0
(h                        t~~  n         an0        fi
I   O~~~  1  0   0.         N   ~~~~N            N.
..   IG)    1    9                  0                    HW0
IN  I    -q r N       .0.4                 Cy  0      a ti 
I  4                  0    M o           C          0         N -  I.
I    H I    VI~                                              NI yl4  J   J W    D g 44 1
C)I      .-       
.I ., I                               .                        -  



- 52 -
3.3.1.5   Training, Research, Studi?s
- iRoging Traininc
As a supplemnht of th  criedits granted to the loging
equipment procurement, the project helped the ex-
Directorate General of Forests to intensify the
logging training of the forest workers and operators
as well as the technical and professional forestry
staff with emphasis on the efficient use of mechanical
skidding equipments and introduction of cable ways
with clear felling.
The full program involved logging and harvesting
works mechanization subjects and lasted one year,
since August 1980 to end of August 1981.
The partial training programs were attended by various
categories Forest Service staff as well as individuals
employed in similar works.
As educational staff, in the whole program , three
foreign consultants (Norvegians), invited especially
.for this purpose, were employed.
The theoritical and practical work was performed in
Germar. and English, while the simultaneous translation
in Greek for the trainee was made by the forester
Mr..N.Git-sis. who, in comc cases, were helped by otiher
colleagues.
The partial programs were 10 and were attented by
116 people of the following categories :
A. Forest Service Staff
a/ Foresters            44
b/ Forest Technologists 19
c/ Operators            16
79
B, Individuals, Members of Forest Cooperatives
a/ Foresters            11
-b/ Operators           12
c/ Cutters              14
37



- 53 -
Generally, the whole program was successfully imple-
mented and training was judged as especially sati-
sfactory.  The trainees knew modern-methods-inJlogging
-*- -- an%d hsavas".ag works planning and technical impleme-
ntation.
They were being informed about every modern means
existing in this sector.
They, also, had the opportunity to study the cases
of application of various methods and the uses of
various installations and means, in the Greek forest
sector. The entire education of trainees was consi-
dered as complete course and they acquired the ability
to organize a modern logging and harvesting work in
the forests.
Post graduate fellowships in logging and forest mana-
gement modern methods were not granted.
;-   Pilot Plantation Research
The project financed all the machinery (Annex I) and
part of requirements in techpical assistance and
education. In the proje6t frame 12 educational trips
of Greek foresters (totallv 190 man-weeks) were
realized.        '
-     --   The research program included the foilowing activities :
*  Three areas in Nigrita, 3revena and'Nafpactos
*     were selected and respectively 330 ha, 220 ha and
10 ha were planted, by the end of 1985 (table 1).
.' .        .  A series of experimental areas in Nigrita (5)
'           and in Grevena were established for acqiring.
experience in plantation establishment technics.
.  In cooperation with the Athens Forest Research
Institute, the critiria for fast growing site
selection, were defined.
'  .A series of experiment areas in Nigrita (7), in
Grevena (4) and in Nafpaktos (1) were established
to test local and exotic species.
The existing data, as far as the P.nigra is
concerned, were used for creation of information



-  54                                              l
about the growth and Droduction of some species
important for plantations. As far as the
-.p'naster is concerned permanent trial areas
were established in Nigrita.
Two texperimental areas were established in
Nigrita for collection of technical data and
economy aspects of combination between wood and
grazing.
In cooperation with the Forest Research Institute,
'information and evaluations about road constru-
ction and wood harvesting were collected.
A project information collection svstem were
established and a provisional cost-benefit analysis
were made for plantation works economic evaluation.
In the end of the year, directions will be given
about Industria'  9l-aLLUIi piui.alCily dllU Uillwiiunt,
based on work results.
Finally, help was given to land mapping project
and to range vegetation improvement project.
C  ~~   -  .    ..        ..       *--
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .



- 55 -
Table 1
OneratiOrL-F w4hich took place in the three lRefor-estation Akreas  .-
_     -~ - of the P_rjcct "7o_es. Development-Reforestation"
(area irn Ha)
A. NIGRITA
1. Land Clearing                   330
2. Ripping/Subsoiling               86
3, Disc-Harrowing                  164,
4. Tine-Ridging (Planting Lines)  102
5. Weeding                         225
6, Planting                        330
B. GREVENA
1,  Land Clearing                  200
2. Ripping/Subsoiling      .       193
3. Disc-Harrowing-                 150
4, Tine-Ridging                    200
.5 Slope M4odification              24
6. Plantatina                .     200
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C, NA.FPAK1VOS            . .    .
-        1,  Land Clearing                    3
2,  Slope Modification               6
3, Time Ridging.                     2
4. Planting                          8



- 56 -
- .Range Manacement Pilot Project
A 5-year pilot program for integrated development of
rangelands in 10 village comuunittes of-Central-Western
Macedonia, Greece, was carried out to the benefit of
livestock industry, forestrv and of the mountain economy
in general.  The villages were : Theodoraki, Notia,
Thiriopetra, Loutralki and Apsalos of the Forest Office
of Aridea ; Lakka of the Forest Office of Edessa ;
Krystallopigi, Varyko and Ag.Yermanos of the Direction
of Forests of Florina ; and Graniros of the Direction
of Forests of Kastoria, There were 8,000 people in
the villages and 28,60Q ha of rangelands where about
60,000 sheeo, 17,000-goats and 5,500 cattle were grazing.
The program was part of the "Integrated Forestry Develop-
ment Project" which was partially financed by the
World Bank.; it was started in 1980 and terminated
after an l-year extension in 1985.
Based on guidelines written by a W.orld Bank expert,
* they were improved : 23.5 ha with seeding, 452 ha
with weed control and 1.074 ha with mineral fertilizers ;
also,. they were developed'23,3 ha of rotational
pastures and.84.2 ha of bay fields,- Moreover, they
-  wcre constaucted 45 water points, 10 wat3r basins,-
90 km roads, 30 stalls and 41 houses, In addition,
. they were made 134 demonsttations to farmers, 6 seminars
to foresters, and scientific visits abroad while foreign
and Greek experts offered their technical assistance
- to the program, Finally, a special program of surveying
and classifving 407,000 ha of rangelands was carried
'out,
The funds spent in total were 82,388,OOQ drachmas
(based on 1980 prices) and they were distributed as
following    6.4% for rangeland improvem.ent and arable
cropping, 75.6% for engineering works, 14.6% for edu-
cation, technical assistance and operations, and 3.4t
for rangeland survev. Compared to proposals, the
program had a high degree of completion.



-57-
The vegetational improvements which raised the herbage
production bv 2-3 times along with, the engineering
- -works-contributed to a 3-S5-increase-in,'nimtlaiumbeisi -
and to an 1-8% in milk production in all animal species,
as well as to an 8-37% increase in cattle and goat
production on the average for the 10 villages I also,
they affected favorably the shepherdsp forestry and
the general village economy, Moreover, the program
belped in developing skilled range management staff,
In the successful application of new technology, in
the collection of information regarding the cost of
improvements, in the aqquisition of rangeland improvement
experience, in the more active participation of the
shepherds and the Community Councils to rangeland
development and in the realization of the importance
of the farming lands to the livsetock production in
each Community.
It is concluded that the proper improvement of range-
lands constitutes a decisive-factor in the development
of livestock economy and in the integrated use of
mountain forest lands.
Project implementation was not cons-isting of equal
perts. - lthough. the ranqeland improvement component
was nearly implemented completely that is'as it had
planned, some parts had a smaller degree of implementa-
tion. Thus, the rangeland survey of the Northern
Greece remained unfinished, the special research
programs did not start at all, and the implementation
of regular management on Communities' rangelands was
unable to make some progress beyond the first steps
because 6f not complete organization of the special
units by permanent staff of exclusive occupation in
the rangeland forest units. On the other hand, some
basical targets of the program and especially the
reduplication of rangeland production, compared with
pre-project situation, was proved verv optimistic, at
least within a 5-year period of time.



- 58 -
In spite of th4s, and because the improvements 'range-
land in the Cormnunities were the main part of the
Project, it.must be concluded that the prcgram was
com'pletalu imniemented and it achieved its targets.
The results extracted are so interesting and the
experience acquired so important, that it can lawfully
be said that this project was one of the most sucess-
fyl projects of the Ministry of Agriculture and a
pilot program for the develonment and improvement of
the rangelands all-over the Country.
Especially for the various project sectors the main
points-conclusions were the following :
Vegetation Improvement
Application of fertilizers, control of
undasirable species arid introduction of desirable
ones by seeding presented imuortant possibilities
for the rangeland production  increment (2-3 times).
But it was found out that the above measures
ought to have been applied in almost fertile lands,
while the animals grazing ought to have been
controlled after the construction of the main
infrastructure works (e.g. roads and waterpoints).
.-.-.a -  .mong, the three methods applied,- the appli-
cation of fertilizers was the least -expensive,
the easiest and most impressive.  On the other hand,
seeding was the most expeilsive, the most difficult,
.              but the most effective as well.  However, the
control of undesirable species had had the interim
characteristicts of the above mentioned two methods.
The required grazing control, after the
completion of the works, to which the stock-breeders
strongly reacted,-was the nmain obstacle in the
implementation of vcgetation Improvement methods.
This reaction was due to the status of common use
of the public and co.mmunal rangelands, which, if
not amended, an imp?ortant program for improvemexit
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 59 -
of these areas is not possible to qo ahead.
In any case, it was found out that if properly
-  planned, the application of fertilizer& can be -
done, without grazing prohibition. On-the other
hand, seeding needs fencing for protection and
success.
Vegetation improvement and, especially,
undesirable species control together with the
seeding of desirable ones, in some Communities,
led the so-called "landless" farmers to claim the
improved rangelands as farms. The acceptance of
this claim, destrictive for the rangelands develop-
ment, was avoided owing to the strong reaction of
the stock-breeders, of the Community and of the
Public Services.                             .
. Farmn Improvement - - '  --   :  -
The program of creation of arid grazing
pasture in private-owned farms, through free
..granting seeds by the State, had after a proper
propaganda, significant effect among the stock-
breeders.  However, this policy stroke against the
fact that, in the Communities of the prograin, the
stock-breeders had no big agTijultural ict so as
to dispose a part of this for pasture.  Consequently,
this program could have a significant success in
Comnunities and among stock-breeders with a fairly
big agricultural lot.
On the contrary, it was found out that the
creation of harvesting pastures for foader production
was more desirable to the Communities stock-breeders,       t
apparently because of the small agricultural lots
-  and of-the ne6d f6r-'th deii'elopmnt of fodder    .
production for the winter months.                           |
Infrastructure ¶lorks
The access roads were the most needed infra-
structure works in every Community and they absorbed



- 60 -
the most of the program credits. ?rom structural
o- int of view, it was the easiest work for the
Services ,-compared -with-the--other --infrastructure
works.
Ho-ever, it was found out that the C' class
roads construction - as they are usually constructed
- is not effective in ground with loose underground
(not lime-stone), where the construction of suppor-
ting works and the road maintenance is enforced
by the facts.
The animal watering works were especially
needed to Communities with rangelands without
survace waters (lime-stone rocks).  However, their
cost varied in accordance with t.he kind of work,
the rainwater-basins being the most expensive,
It was found out that significant savings in the
rangeland improvement credits can be assured, if
the right selection of watering works (that fits to
each case) is done and simple and chcap constructions
are preferred.
The stock-breeders strongly reached to fencing
es'tablishment in the 'commuidtv of 7ariko, not
taking into account the fenc,ing importance for.
regular management application. Nevertheless, in
other Communities and especially'in those with
summer-rangelands and transhumant stock-breeding
thit proposal for rangelands fencing was favorably
discussed. It means that fencing is not impossibl,e
in Greece, if st.ock breeders are properly and
under certain circumstances informed,
Shelters and staff houses were proved very
--popular, e_specially.in -Co=munitiesi witW'summer
rangelands and transhuman stocl--breeders, who move
their families together with their animals.  In
these Communities, the replacement of improvised
and primitive huts bv modernized houses significally
affected the psychology of stock-breeders.



-61-
The entire construction of infrastructure
works on force account was proved safe and econo-
-...  mical but relatively slow procedure.  On the         _
contrary,- the total entrustment-of-the -works -to
the contractors was faster but more expensive and
less safe for the quality of works compared with
the force account procedure. Furthermore, it was
found out that it was impossible for the contractors
to be found for works which would be done in remote
and inaccessible areas.  Based on this experience
the result that was extracted is that works must
be done on force account, but some phases or part
of works maybe given to contractors. This mixed
system will assure more speed than the un-mixed
one of force account and better control of the
contractor quality works.
.    Trcrinig
The emp )yment of foresters, forest technolo-
gists, firemen, etc., within the program in a
permanent base increased in an important degree
not only the knowledge, but'also their ability to
s'olve the current administrativp and technical
problen.s related to the rangelands management.
On the contrary, where the employment, especially
* of foresters was not-permanent and parallel to
other subjects, their efficiency was reduced.
.   This finding shows how needed is tho exlusive staff
employment in this subject and how necessary is
the creation of office or section of'rangeland
management in every Forest District,
Survey of Rangelands
The rangeland survey of Northern Greece was
proved of significant importance because of the
big and valuable collected data which will drasti-
cally help in the lay out of the future policy of
improvement and management of these areas,



-62-
Impacts or. Stock-Breeders
The impact of the program on -:.e Community
stock-breeders was decesive. 'Seiver" ]f  ck-breeders.
*   * who were planning to sell their animals  because
of not developing the natural rangelands changed
their minds, after the comencement of the program.
Some increased the number of.animals and others
*    g bought agricultural cars in order to improve their
lives, after the road construction.
The main cause for the decesive impact of
-    the program to the Conmunities stock-breeding
activities was the fact that all the improvements
was implemented in the relatively small time of
a 5-years period, which, psychological effects
as wzell.  This finding' is very important and shllows
that, if the same works were implemented in lQ or
15 years,.At would not'have the same impact.
For this reason, it is preferable the existing
credits in every Fores't D.istrict to be concentrated
only in same Communities every year, where a syste-
matic rangeland, improvement will be implemented
instead of the distribution to more Communities
for I'social.policy" reasons..      -.      -      ,
The stock-breeder's requirements in rangeland
improvement works were jproved endless.  After the
fullfilment of one requiremen't, another was instantly
projected.  On the other hand, their claims the
state to care even for works, which they themselves
could do, for example the cleaning of the water-
*     point's bends were usually exaggerated.  Yet, in.
some Communities, people did not offer to help in
work construction even payed. -'This atttittide of
stock-breeders to wait everiything from the State
is due bv one part, to historical reasons. However,
*    the main reason is the status of rangeland use,
in accordance which the stock-breeders of every



- 63 -
Community have the right of use, but m oblication
'or protection or improvement of rangelands.
The--improvement of-rangelands-and-there
productivity led some stock-breeders to the
number of animals increament, which was a displeasant
development in Communities with already big number
of animals. This development shows that the Service
that makes the rangeland improvements, should have
as well the possibility to control the number of
animals ; otherwise a wicked cycle is created.
In spite of th*. program's provisions the
grazing.rights to be increased because of the
improvements, it did not became possible to be
achieved due to the lack of proper mechanism and
mainly because of the stock-breeder's certain
reaction.
,    Impact on Forestry
The program imipact on forests were also
significant. After the rangelands production
improvement and the water-points and shelter constru-
ction, animals,were going less and less to the
neighbouring forests, whereas the construction of
staff houses stopped .he-tree-brancches and ti,tiber
demand from the forests for hut construction.
Several roads helped, also, in remoted forest
access, which helped in their namagement starting.
Full adjustment of the relations between forest
and stock-breeding will be achieved after the
application of management plans in every Community,
1 mpact on' Animal' Production
-Although the project investm,ent per unit'
of rangeland surface were relatively small (211 drs
per stremma in 5-years period in constant prices
1980) its impact On animal. prodqcts production
was in eithler case significant.  Thus, milk and
cattle beaf production increased by 8% and the goat



- 64 -
meat production by 34% approximately in the 10
Communities. On the contrary, the increament of
goat milk .and sheep meat woere positive.but not _
notable, whereas the sheep milk production was
negative. However, the differences among the
Communities were important, whereas the relatively
higher investnient made in some Communities has not,
necesarily,been transformed in positive increament
of animal products.
These evolutions show that the animal
production in Communities is affected not onlv by
the rangelands and their improvement. but also
by other facts e.g. animal product prices, animal
foods prices, stock-breeders demographic situation,
animal health treatment,      tribe productivity
etc,
I1pLpact on Mountainous Economy
Apart from the animal product increament,
the project had significant impacts on the General
Economv of every Community and the wider area.
* These impacts, which are referring to the unemp)oy-
ment, to stock-breeders, life improvement ctuality,
C, -   -    ; to other resources development .(e.g, Games, Tourism,
.etc.) will consist subject of special'worls.
lIntegrated Land Use
The project was a real pilot project of
a               integrated land use,  The improvenent works were
implemented in the most productive parts of the
rangelands, where the stock-breeding was concentrated.
The reduction of grazing pressure to less.
productive parts.and naturally to forests, came as
a result of the above works. Thus, the land use
was more reasonable with favorable impact to
erosion and to maintenance of the natural ecosystems.
In parallel, the agricultural lands with the arid
grazing .rangelands and the fodder production farms



- 65 -
were included in the stock-breeding development,
, resultinc in covering animal nutricious needs
-   - - during the-winter-critica-lp6rpd.1=
This fact shows that the agricultural areas
should be necessarily incorporated in the stock-
breeding development projects of every mountainous
and semi-mountainous Communities of the Country.
3.3.1,6   Strategy Study for the Development of
Forestry and Forest Industries it Greece
'KHistorical Background
A comprehensive planning approach for the development
of the greek forest resources in close connection with
the manufacturing facilities was visualised by the
forest service during the late '70s. The conceptual
novelty was the endorsement of the-principal-that-only -
a concurrent development of the primarv and secondary
-  gsectors cculd sensibly provide a concrete solution
not found so far despite the 'numerous attempts taken.
Since both activities are closely interdependant only
.  ,        parallel progress might ju3tify investments.
The coming accession of the country to EEC with its
foreseen ecoi,omic reDercussion-and the fina4ncial'  -
support of forestry by international sources then
under negotiations was also stressed as reason for
.evaluating the 'performances and formulating the
necessary measures for making the sectors more
productive.
One of the projects under negotiation, as mentioned
above, was the "International Forestry Development
Project" to-be financed by the World Bank and the
,       opportunify to-have-a-study setting the-proper expansion
ori.entation and policy measures included in the project
was not missed.
.The study as an indispensable componbnt of the project
was designed to investigate ways for increasing the



- 66 -
the forest production, introducing undated silvicultu-
ral methods, evaluating alternative longterm develcp--
-ment-strategies and- improving the employiment and--.--
living condition of the population.
- Study Team Selection
The first draft of the terms of reference for the
study p:epared by the World Bank's personnel was
reviewed, modified and completed by specialized
scientists of the Forest Service, the Forest Research
Institutes and the Forestry School of the Aristotelian
University., The final text enjoyed the consensus of
the Government and the World Bank.;-----,
It was decided that the study should be carried out
by a consulting firm with international experience
which in rea; terms had to perform research, analysis
and presentations of the follo-4i.ng comorr-nts- -   -
a/ Forest resources and management: methods.
b/ Forest harvesting systems.
c/ .Existing, planned forests industries and
market assessment for forest products.
d/ Alternative proposals for industrial development.
e/ Policy proposals for accelerated develbpmcnt
of forsstry and fcrest Industries.-       - -  --
Those thoughts and intentions were announced to the
international cmmunity by special press advertisement,
"Development Forum" publication and letters to the
Embassies of the World Bank member countries.
The response to the announcement was reasonably high,
more than 30 companies submitted their qualifications.
However only one firm met t  legal and technical
requirement. This fact led the administration to
reco-nsider thle cas, '' '_. '            ''.=    .
After deep examination and exhaustive consultations
it was decided to-form a basic team of scientists for
ca:rrying out the studv. The involvement of consulting
firms or individual cxperts was by no mean excluded.



- 67 -
The basic team initiallv composed of a forest economist,
an expert in forestry works and a wood technologist
-al-lmembers of -
Research Institute of Thessaloniki. The team was
soon enriched with the professors of forests economics
and forest industries as well as a forester private
industrial consultant.
The investigation of all aspects of forestry and under
a wider perspective than what it was initially thought
led after the formation of the framework to the employ-
ment of about 50 more specialists and experienced
scientists who undertook the responsibility for
composing the particular chapters of the study.
A number of working paper was prepared initially.
-  Main Contents of the Stud
*  '.    Existing Situation
Describes *the current status of forestry
and forest industries including natural and
economic conditions,  Special emphasis is given
to the'indirect benefits of forestry as well as
research, investments, market conditions and
.'the social dimensions of. both activities,-     -     -
.    Trends and Prospects
Provides an analysis of the nresent and
future market trends along with the factors affecting
them on a worldwide level.  The prospects for
* technological improvements in the field of harvest-
ing and stadardization of forest products and the
future demand of indirect benefits and services
from the forests are also taken into consideration,
.-.  ... 0 . . . . ... .. Objectives -. Alternatives _ _  _  _    .  .
The'long objectives'of forestry based on the
given forest policv were accepted to be *
Increased production of goods-(wood, resin,
fodder, water.. etc.).



- 68 -
. Extension of forest area in order to
provide social and environmental services.
_ Improvement of living conditions for the
j    -                -mountainous population and- regional. develop-
ment.
|  Protection of forest and natural environment.
* '   Especially for the forest industry the fore-
seen targets assumed to be :
I  Covering the market reauirements,
F -ull utilization of the pr,imary forest
production.
, Increasing of the added value.
Socio-econdmic regional development.
Based upon'the objectives the team developed
four alternative pr9grams :
1st : Condinuation of the existing situation.
2nd : Reestablishment of the standing volume
and general improvement of forest
lands,
3rd ; Productive z6ne formation and piroducti-
vity increase,
.4th : Present capabilities of forestry
:                 '   development.
,  ongterm Developmenrt Program
Exhaustive'analysis showed that the sectoral
development should be based on the 3rd alternative
and given special emphasis to the multiple forest
use without negative effects on wood production.
This could be achieved with the creation of
production zones of different utilization and
intensification,
Two acceleration levels were also taken into
consideration the "intensive" or what is needed to
cover to objectives set whith a total cost of 760
billion drs (25 years) and the "minimal" according
to the financial abilities and costing 560 billion drs



- 69 -
- Suggestions for the Government
The materialization of the program should be chiefly
_ _. _     assignedi -g o tlhe- Ministry-o.f£Agriculture; and- placed-.-----
under the jurisdiction of a Vice-Minister exclusively
employed for forestry.  However a number of other
agencies (like the Ministries of National Economy,
Defence,' Interior, etc.)'should actively participate.
The major financial and legal measures might be listed
as follows :
At least 2%'of the total public capital invest-
-ent must be'allocated to forestry.
'          , The forest'protection need new_legal framework
'   -    and to be placed under the sole responsibility
-of the Ministry of Agricul'ture
i A national land cadaster is urgently needed.
i Special investment insentives for regional
. '        '      forest industries.- 
.                             =   E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
Land-classification and regulation of use
changes.
* forest Service-cooperation in any public work
-    design.
:   Redesign of education currictla and estahlishment
-    '~  '; -.  of specializations,.    -
. Special emphasis con research.
. Every activity related to forestry 'and forest
industries should take into account the proposal
.of the present study.
The project had made provisions for procurement of          l
large quantities of ecquipment, by the ex-Directorate
General of Forests, during the first 3 1/2 years.
Annex I shows the-'natural units of implemented works
and procured equipment and in Annex III the'granting
* *.  :--funds--for t'e-above7atiivties;vi vavis;-iirS-tfihe"'   nned
ones.



-70-
3.3.2 The delays in the oroject implementation were due
to the following reasons :
_~~-    .   -.    =  _ . .     ~ - . - -     - - - - - - - - - . - - - -   -   - -
- .i.2.i  AS tar as the procurementSare concerned
to the bureaucrati.c procedures of the
Ministry of Commerce.
3.3.2.2   As far as the public works are concerned
to the inadequate financing in the first
years of.the project implementation.
3.3.2.3   As far as the Forest Strategy Study is
concerned, to the change of the way of
the study elaboration..
3.3.3  During the project implementation a lot of big fires
took place in the projact-area, especially in 1981
.and 1985, so that large forest areas were burnt and
it was necessary the budget of expenses to be modified.
-   Thus, procurement of bigger auantities in forest
P*rotection equipment took place as well as construction
of more fire-protective works,
3.3,4  The project did not had negative effect to the eco-
.   . .    system of foiests,. Although intensifdcaticn to timber
extraction happened, forestry operations contticted
according to sound silvicultural and cutting practices,
The fire protection, pilot range management and
. .        industrial plantation components had a significant
*           favorable impact on conserving forest resourccs and
on erosion and +oreqit control.  No adverse effect on
the water regime occured from changing one forest
crop (natural forest) to another (fast-growing planta-
tions) in areas where industrial plantations were
*.    concentrated,



_ 71 -
3.4  Repcrtirng
The Project Planning and Management Office (P.P.M.O.) satisfa-
-  -  ctorily correspornded -to submitting of .worx  progress -repar-t-a-
and reports of Ministry of FJnance for realized expenses of
the project.  The reports submitted, by time order, their
content and the time covered are shown in the Table that
follows.
3.5  Procurements
3.5.1  The machinery and vehicles procured, by the Forest
Service, for transports, road maintenance, training,
forest protection and other purposes-'(with some
exeption marked below) were procured following interna-
tional competitive.bidding procedures and in accordance.
with t1i6 Bank's guidelines,
For local manufacturers of egquipmentraad 'mCteria-
allowed a 15% margin of preference or the applicable
-  customs duty, whichever was less.
Equipment bulked to the extent possible, and bidding
documents for contracts exceeding US $ 100,000 cleared
with Bank before tendering.
Equipment which could not be'suitably bulked ahd other
.-small items costing less than US-$ 50,000 .eachup to
a total limit of US $ 1.5 million procured by ex-
Directorate General of Forests, through local competi-
tive procedures, with solicitation.of bids from at
least three suppliers in each case. Foreign firms
were well represented in Greece and were allowed to
participate in local competitive bidding.-
The main problem found out during the project imple-
mentation was the fact that procurements had been
included in-the-procuremenit uniform stateprogram of
t-the Ministry of Commerce and it was not possible for
th' Ministry of Agriculture to Implement the procurements
without the interference pf the Ministry of Conimerce.
This fact had a unfavorable impact on equipment



TABLE OF REPORTS SUBMITTED
:p:Date o
:Submission *Time Period Covered:                 Report Content
Submissio              .                                                      . .
1: 18. 9.80  :lst Semester i98  :,Work Progress Report
2: 29.12.8.0  :Sep.-Oct. 1980       n             It
3: 18. 2.8;  :1281               ,T~aining Works and Rangelands Program
4: 2. 5.81  :1980 and 1981       :Accounts 1980 and Program 1981
5: 12. 5.81  :Jan.-Mar. 1981      Work Progress Report
6: 25. 8.81  :2nd Quarter 1981 " ""
7  18.17L.81  :3rd        1931      n 
8: 30..L0.81  :1980              :Auditing Certificates of Ministrv of Finance,
9- 3.12.81  :1982                :Work and Procurement Program 1982
:10:  1. 2.82  :1982               :Pilot Range Management Program
:11:  3. 6.82  :1981         .      Work Progress Report
12  16. 7.82  :1981-1982          :'ork Progress for 1981 and Rangeland Program.
for 1982                                   I
:13: 16. 9.82  :1st Semester 3982  :w1ork Pr6gress Report                                    -J
14: 11.11.82  :1981                :Auditing Certificates of Ministry of Finance' 
:15: 25. 4.83  :1982               :Work Progress Report                        :
:16: 25. 4.83  :1983               :Work and Procurement Program 1983            |
:17: 11.11.83  :1982         ;      Auditing Certificates of Ministry of Finance:
:18:  6. 2.84  :1983                Work Progress Report
:19:.30. 4.84  :1983               :Range Management Works Report
:20:. 3. 9.84   1983               :Auditing Certificates of Ministrv of Finance'
:21: 25.10.84  :1st, 2nd and 3rd  :'Work Progress ReportC'
Quarter 1984.                                                   i
:22: 29. 3.85  :1984-1985          :Annual Work Progress for 1984 and Program
for 1985
:23: 23. 4.85   1984         '    :Range Management Work Progress Report
:24: 25. 9.85  :1984              a:Auditing Certificates of Ministry of Finance
:25: 30. 9.85  :1985               :Work Progress Report
26: 25.'6.86. :1985               :Auditing Certificates of Ministry of Finance
i - A- -- - - --  - - -- - - -- - - --- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - ,  S
1.:
i . i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



- 73 -
procurement, which had a significant delay (the.time
between the competition notification and the eauipment
_  ._ ~____..dellvry was 1 to 2_vears).          _
_ - _.  The pilot plantaton' pr - am could h6t''StAi         n'
because of this delay in the procurement of the special
equipment.
In Annex I are shown the equipment which had planned
to be bought, the procured ones and the allocated
sums of money.
3.6  Cost
3.6.1  The total expenses for. the project,--including natural
contigencies and the prospective price rise, had
been calculated to drs 5,307 million (US $ 144.6 or
.  : o34%)..  The expenses budgets were based in June, 1979,
prices.             ,       .  _ _ _
The na:tural units. contigencies had been calculated
i in 10%. and for services and equipment 5%.  The prospe-
ctive price rise were 12% for 1979, 11% for 1980,
and 10% each year for the last years.
As far as the expenses in foreign exchange are
.  concerned a 7% increament' had been foreseen for public
,;work.e andca 6% for equipment and services.          _
The realized expenses bv activity vis-a-vis the fore-
seen are summarized in the Table below and'explained
in details in Annex II.
*3.6.2  The deviations occured are due firstly to high infla-
* .    tion rates, during the project implementation time,
which camoup to the following sums :
18%.in 1979, 24% in 1980, 24% in 1981, 21% in 1982,
21%,in 1983, 18% in 1984 and 19% in 1985 and secondly
. ,to changeL Q  dracheae-d.Qll.ar-equival,en.e,...           . '
-  - -         §She as in 1979 the drachmae--dollar equivalence was
1 US$ = 37 Drs., in 1980 became 1 US $ = 40 Drs.,
.in t81 1 US $   5 S5 Drs.i in 1982 1 US $ =-63. Drs.,
in 1983 1 US $ a 95 Drs., in 1984 1 US $   123 Drs.
and in 1985 1 US $ = 150 Drs,



- 74 -
3.7  Financing.
.3.7.1  The loan amount of US $ 25 million-was-tatally=absorbed
-   f'in accordance with the project provisions.  Also, the
loan from the Japaneese Bank TOKAI consisting of
US $ 25 million was granted on October 13, 1981.
' TJ Xhe Greek State corresponded to its obligations,
*    disposing the sum of drs. ll.763.6 million for the
project.
*   The beneficiaries from the-non-state forestry works
works had a portional contribution.
*     beviations from .the project p;0visions did not occur.
3.7.2  The ex-Directorate General 'of Forests with a slow
rate in the first years but accelerated in the last
ones submitted the loan diabursement applications .sor
the total.sum of loan and the Wrorld-Bank with -fast-
rate fulfilledXthe total of applications.
,   I in Annex VI are shown the planned and realized loan
i   ~ withdrawal applications in US $ by time order.
3.8 Per-formance of Consulatants, tontrattors and Suppliers
The consultant employed in the project offered positive
-.. _.services ard-saatisfactcrily helped-in the projeut implemsnta-
tion                         '
The contragtor's and supplier's performance was, also, the'
same satisfactory.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
4.1  Overall Assessment                                               *
-- -                                                   tor caMe..
Generally, the loan absorbance in the forestry sector came
up to a high level.  (It overpassed by  .6 million the
budget).
7



_ _F_ __r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  - --s--_-__---
s,XU                 ro         u          Y  N 0 A 0              APJ             zAtaAK          L s LAOS  
Lsoc.l     S      Foreig                 Total                                                    T__ i o___°__"1_,,,,_t
Z     i    o    1    X    .  I 0 2~~~~~  ~~
's S     E   ,2T0M M SP 1A    A P A Y                              L S   E :Z   S A i O   YY PXA    A O A. H.n.A  .S   
S _.  _ _ _ _ _ _ ; _    _<Sa; >#L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_L_    _ ________         '~~~~~~~UZ (s^ illion)                  _          l*r!  i         qn
S~~~~~ E                        A                       A                 ' L   t 8        'L      r iiJ   !J   
..ANo Ap.tot                             840 ........,d  1.816,0  52t,o 1.152,00   1.327.8  2.968.0     22,0 t2,0 14,2            ?,a  56,2    19,  9 #
.e4reat Rads.
.. C'ltC;CCX; ...... 452~~~,2  3.202,4             144,3  7t9,0          r.6,5    3.9 22, 11,7l'    19,7         309  6,4    15,6 426,1  t   b
...tsnx:lot,ee ........... 72,4                   roo ,   64,9  90,6              137, 3    981,0         2,0     3,4      1,8     3,1  5,a        6,5      47 
.. ,etv'r, .bFl   XwPt    .        ......... 524,3  2-99w,9  255,7             780,0    2.9971,9     14,3   i'%.O    110              L".  21,5 '1    )3 
:-t.~t Ovw-3tS rU"4orw.                  19.1  2 6           100.4    P            119,5   2 7       0    tli4  0,1        2,S     0,9      3.2  t.1  8
MAr.ter.-ace liqUSP=eW:
nse -ct Vot44t4V r pyatO            3559    107   7t.3               -          107.2      207       1,0      O'1    -1,9       -      2.9     0.1 ~
*toops "A& COtYglye  erono4v    .     ........... 119,1    149,6 8t0O  8slf2  ,?O0*           237s8  5s2         1,0      2,1   0'6       595     1,6      40        3A 1v
*ior-er Traspcort eif Houslag. 
-Ar, ,;ib,tl.!'l iht f)thtgC.            t77*3    t1509      108,2      84,0        dOoli     119199         0     09       2,      06      79        5    
.r:ar-i gAnd zuS uds                                                                                        M oS29                  0, 6ee          '0
*-t>-|%-S-XTC ta<.tsvrs   ___84a1     ~~80                       .~>2__3a_          80,0    _?,L_   0,4   _          Z_QS2   0.1   _Z 2_   0.5   ,,,-6_    2
r.':pja inlatssto   o                 2.271,2              t.552,1               3.62s3                  61,9             56*8             9867 ?
U-oe Coat5
;.- 3et.-.As1     vco4w povks&bw........ (11.2t)  264,9      13912                 4"\4I                   ?,2              5s8            11'0              34
*b;-ical Contingencies 011,2%)
xzz # S oraigenci9s (31A4)                          I 
la.;_s;^!.Un~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' *2. -s__  -a A_ ns- _                     i _                         _   |__4__   ~t
v~~~~9 I.,Jp&ust   OYO O&WvopO&  Av0tSaa40rv ( 1,5 r%01. *.  UnA)
;LcludaDS pilot platation N      Ofn   (U;S 1,5 dillLon)
laclv^5A lostIng tr4inim (TU8 1.5 minion), pilot rang-e manasem*nt (WW 3.1 m;ton). aM the 1to studies (MS 3.3 lAo1a).
Z-;ou vnAnywu6 -tau *^atouc vou3vva  ltothtov 25 *ea . &A,.nv                    rm Iaotor xQ; *e6Pouc*
:.:ee:::;ten Vclowuo eb.ut V.%- o3 milLon of t.xe.l WA dlutez.
N-::2 ote                        _;*'-Ot'#Cat- >+ted                             A........ .4MfnOLOVT M........ A-C,tU. ,,5oyl



-76-
CHAPTER V. PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS, COSTS, BENEFITS AND RATE OF RETURN
5.1.  Achievement of targets
The project as a whole has achieved its targets and espe-
cially in increasing wood production, industrializing of
logging works and adopting intensive systems of forest
administration, developing a long term forest exploitation
strategy, improving the life quality in forest villages as
well as staff training for the preparation of projects
financed by external sources.
Concerning the following components, it has been estimated
at the time of appraisal :
i. Forest roads
The construction of 3.500 km forest roads and the im-
provement 2.000 km as well as the provision of main-
tenance equipment and it has been constructed :
Forest roads (Km)        Est.     Act.      achieved %
New forest truck roads  2.225    2.231        100,2
tractor.roads   .        1.260    1.041       .83
improvement to all
weather standards        1.135      778        68,5
gravelling of road
surface                    835      755        90
road maintenance        16.417   19.394       118
Analysing the above table result that the goals have
been satisfactory covered for the construction of the
forest roads and tractor roads, while the other activi-
ties have been slightly delayed (road surfacing, improve-
ments etc).



- 77 -
road maintenance equipment  Est.      Act.    achieved %
crawler tractrs -t4                      -2-       t
graders                       15        7         47
dumpt trucks                   4       12        300
compressors                   18
repair shops                   2
mechanical workshops           6
The above deviations occured, because the ministry of
Agriculture found more economic to rent crawler tractors,
lorries and compressors than to buy new ones. Generally
it can be mentioned that in the sector of forest road
constructions the goals have been achieved to a satisfa-
ctory degree.
!iji. Logging works
The project financed the purchase of logging works
machinery by members of cooperatives and private logging
workers.
item                         Est.     Act.    achieved %
skidders                      12        5          42
agricultur.tractors           87       44          50,5
logging tractors              53        2           4
power saws                   450      192          43
loading cranes                30       11          37
skidding winches              60        -           -
allpurpose vehicles           40        2           5
debarking machines            10        -
short cable systems           34        -
long cabie systems             2
The purchase of the machinery initially estimated was not
realised due to :
a. Skidding contracts covering at least 3-5 years with
cuts of sufficient volume to keep equipment operating
for at-least 150 days annually were not secured.
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~ , * *. * 



- 8 -
b. Lack of trained young staff, to operate the logging
works machinery.                              -_
c. Lack of roads for the circulation with all weather
conditions.
In order to make comfortable the transportation staying
and work in the forest for the logging workers, it was
provided :
Items                    Est.     Act.    achieved %
houses                    52        58        ill
permanent    store        
houses                    20        34        170
semi permanent            85         7          8
mobile houses             60        65        108
busses                    20        38        190
field vehicles            36        42        117
In the field of logging works the goals were not fully
achieved but a serious effort was made and as it was
estimated at the appraisal report the share of mechanical
methods is expected to increase correspondingly in the
future.
;     iii. Forestry_Managemntt
10.388 Ha have been reafforestated against 15.900 initially
forseen (65% achieved). No extension of the three nurseries
has been realised but the needs have been served by the
'      existing nurseries.
Concerning the Forest Fire Protection component the
following forest fire protection works were implemented
-in-the prcject are-state -forests.- 
Items                    Est.    Act.      achieved %
outlooks                   5        6         120
reservoir for forest
trucks                    30       19          63
forest roads             200     561          280
fire breaks              S00   1.000          200
. . ./.. .



- 79 -
iv. Village infrastructure Development Project financed
consttruction of basic infra2tructure.faciit±as--uch
'as connecting roads, vill'age sheets, water supply,
drainage/sanitary schemes and community facilities
in 45 mountainous forest villages in North Western
Greece.
Project Output               Est.     Act.    achieved %
Connecting roads (Km)        124,5    416        334
Village streets               70,1     92        131
rural access roads            47       69        147
water supply works            28        40       143
drainage and sanitation       21        22       105
electricity                   22        7         32
other community facilities   36        39        108
As a conclusion it should be emphasized that most of the
physical development targets have been achieved while the
Project sur passed the Appraisal estimates as far as road
developments are concerned.
TRAINENG, RESEARCH AND STUDIES
NOPilot Range Management                   - -
The project includes a pilot program to demonstrate the
economics and practicability of various modern methods
of range management, eventually aimed at protecting the
forests from uncontrolled and destructive grazing.
Project output           Est.     Act.    achieved %
Pilot range management
Grazing Land Improvement
Pasture seeding          1.600     23          1,5
Sprout Control           1.200    452         38
Fertilizer/Initial       4.500    478         11
Fertilizer/Repeat        3.000    596         20



- 80 -
Arabie-crUPAin1
Rotational Pastures           200       24 1Z-
Hay Production                600       84       14
EncineeriLnB  works
Water points                   44       45      102
Water basins                   47       10       21
Fencing                        20       --       --
Roads                         100       89       89
Stalls                         25       30      120
Housing                        10       41      410
Demonstrations                 40      134      335
Rangeland survey                 -  407.000 ha
Although the most part of the rangeland improvements was
nearly implemented-completely as it had planned, some
parts had a smaller degree of implementation. Thus, the
rangeland survey of the Northern Greece remained unfini-
shed. The special research programs did not start at all,
and the implementation of regular management on Communi-
ties rangelands was unable to make some progress beyond
the first Steps,- due to lack of sufficient organization
of the special units employing permanent staff of exclusive
occupation in the rangeland forest. It has also to be added
that some basical targets of the program and especially the
redoublication of rangeland production, compared with
pre-project situation was proved very optimistic at least
within a 5 year period of time. In spite of this and because
of the improvements of rangeland in the Communities which
were the main part of the project, it must be concluded
that the program have achieved its targets.
.~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ *        .    



- 81 -
vi. The Regional Development Study was not realised due to
the e labora t Qon _f - the. iateg=ated- Xediterranean -Programs- -
which receive financpal assistance fromthe EEC. The
latter cover both the scope and the geographical area
of the Regional Development Study and therefore its
implementation would lead to an undesirable doublication
of efforts.
vii. Pilot Plantation research
The project includes financing of all the equipment and
oart of the-technical assistance and training requirements
of a five-year pilot industrial plantation research program
to be executed by FAO.
Items                     Est.        Act.   . Achieved %
technical assistance  10 man years
fellow'ships           11 man years 3,65manyears    33
overseas trips study   I nman year
Operations which took place in the three reforestation
areas of the project "Forest Development - Reforestation"
*(Area in Ha)
Nigrita Grevena Nafpaktos
Land clearing               330      220       8
Ripping/subsoiling           86      193       -
Disc-Harrowing              164      150       -
Tine-Ridging(Planting
Lines)                      102      200       2
Weeding                     225       -        -
Planting                    330      200       8
Slope Modification                    24       6
S                              . .,/ ..



- 82 -
5.2. Proiect cost
------Project- cost,-anc costoverrunbycomponfit appr-aised-and acftual arei
given in taLle I. Actual cost is higher than appraisal cost
by 121 percent. Total cost reached 11.763 billion drs in-
stead of S.306 at app:aisal. Cost  vy corponent and year
are also given in table II. II
Concluting we can say that the significant cost over-run
i. local currency is mainly due to the higher inflation
rates than originally estimated at appraisal.
The total cost of the village infrastructure Development
Project was drs 2.998 million and represents a cost overrun
of 135% comnared with appraisal estimates, which were about
drs 1.272 million. The cost over-run is mainly due to the
considerable broadening of the project scope, following
the Amendement. The most impartant cost over-run is that
of fire protection works which had an actual cost of 702
million drs instead of 103,7 million drs as in the appraisal.
The reason is that during the project implementation a lot
of big fires took place in the project area, especially in
1931 and 1985, so that large forest areas were burnt and
the budget .of expenses was necessary to be modified. The
procurement of additional quantities in forest protection
.        equipment took elace as well as construction of more fire
protective works, roads etc. We can also remark that the
higher inflation rates than estimated, the revaluation of
*        the U.S. dollar as well as the rocky soil increased the
cost of the unit for work construction and also the prices
of logging and nursery equipment and implements due to the
fact that all this equipment is imported.
. . ./. ..



rJ
- 83 -
TABLE  I    Total nroject cost
(Drs million)
ITEM                              Appraisal  Actual   Cost over-  Actual Sharc
run .V    in total i._
CiviL works                                                      -
Logging roads
State                              1.608,7    2.771       72          23,5
Nonstate                              311,4      197      -36          1,6
Plantation Establishment
Roads
Nurseries
Site preparation and fencing         814,9    3.562      337          30
Planting
pruning and weeding
fire protection works                 103,7      702     576           6
Building_
Logging workers and waterhouses )   188,1        180     - 4           1,5
Forestry workers and staff
Village infrastructure Develop-
ment                                1.271,9    2.997,9   135         .25,4
pilot range management                121,5      121,2   - 0,2         1
Machinery and Egui_me t,
Road Maintenance                      122        270     121,3         2,2
Machine Maintenance                    14L2       -        -
logging                               150,1    . 107     -28           0,9
plantations                            17,6      155     780           1,3
Nursery equipnent and implements        3,3       24      627          0,2
pilot plantation research              46,2      108      133          0,9
Fire protection                        82,8      279     421           2,3
Logging personnel transport
vehicles                               54,2  -   50      - 7,7         0,4
Forestry personnel transrort vehicl. 27,5          7,8   -71*6         0,06
Logging training                       14,9       46     208           0,4
Pilot range Management                  5,7        1     -85            -
Project administration                  6,6       -       -             -
Services
Logging training and demonstration   55,8          9,9   -82           0,08
Pilot plantation research              20,3       73     259           0,6
pilot range management                 22,7       16,8   -25,9         0,14
Development strategy study             26,3        5     -30           0,04
Regional Development Study           123,3        -
Project Administration               123          80     -34           0,6
5.336,7   11.763,6   120,4       100
Data given by the Ministry of Agriculture.



- 84 -
TABL E  II    Project cost by cop_Monent and year
(Million drs)
ITEM
Civil Works                     1980-1981   1982    1983    1984    1985
__dQgg..i g roads..
State                             729        428      419     520     675
non state                          36         25       22      51      63
Plantation Establishment
Roads
Nurseries
Site preparation (and f ncing)   184         112      835   1.100   1.331
i        Planting
Pruning and weeding
Fire protection works              72         43       92     134     361
Buildings housing etc
Logging workers                    22          24      42      60       32
Forestry workers and staff
village infrastructure Develop.  190,7       223,1   350,4   760,3 1.473,1
Pilot Range Management             19  --  19---- -- 2-7       33      18,2
Pachinerv and equirrent
Road Maintenance                  101         32,4    51,9    37,7    47,8
Logging                            21,4       21,4    21,4    21,4.  21,4
Plantations                         1         22       36,1    15,6    80,2
Nursery equipment and
.implements                        -           12  __ 12       -        -
Pilot plantation research           6,6        8,7    25,5    59,7      7,5
E-ire protection Transport
vehicles                                       0,5   186,8     53,5    40,1
Logging personnel                             -        25,5    14,5    17,5
Forestry personnel                                      7,6    -       -
Logging Training                              -         1              45
Pilot Range Management             -          -         0,5     0,5    -
Project Administration                   -         -           -       -
Services
Logging Training and Demonstra-
tion                               .7          2        1      -       -
Pilot Plantation Research          -          -        -       36,5    36,5
Pilot Range management              2,4        2,4      2,8     2,6     3,2
Development strategy study         -
Project Administration             16         16       16      16      16
GRAND TOTAL                     1.408,1      991,5 2.175,5 2.921,3 4.268,5
1. Data given from the Ministry of Agriculture.
2. The total account 'logging' from the Machinery and equipment
has bcen equally divised in every year.



- 85 -
5.3. Project Benefits
*      . - -Project benefits by component are given ri-xtU          -
1. Forest Roads
The objectives in Forest Roads construction have been
satisfactorily achAeved by the construction of B. class
forest roads and tractor roads while the other activi-
ties have been slightly delayed (road surfacing,
improvements).
Concerning the equipment supply some deviation from the
initial targets can be noted. The reason for this was
that the implementing service found more beneficial to
rent crawler tractors,compressors and lorries than
purchase them. We can conclude that the goals have been
achieved resulting in a substantial increase in the
forest output in wood production, income and productivity
of forest workers. Generally, we had a better exploita-.
tion of the forest and an easier collection of the fore-
stry' s products.
2. LoUIn_ works
This component of the project has not fully achieved
his targets but it has succeed a serious effort in the
mechanisation of logging works, which results the cost
reduction or the forestry's products collection, as
well as the access to the difficult to reach areas.
3. Forestry managementLi
a. In the field of refforestation better mechanisation
methods have been introduced for the clearing and pre-
paration of the soil, particularly increasing the use
of a more beneficial technique with the pilot research
project for economic refforestations.
*~~~~~~~ /  I    .



- 86 
b. In the field of Forest Fire Protection with the
_-  _ ..    works achievAd and-th  procure& equipmmnts the   _
preventive and .epressive forest fithting measures
were improved and the number of fires and damages
caused were decreased. The burnt area in the project
area in 1985 (178.345 str.) was equal to the average
one of the previons 5 years. On the other hand, the
burnt area in the rest of Greece (439.839 Str.) was
at the same time twice as much as the average of
the previous 5 years. From this fact, it is concluded
that the incremental credit in the forest fighting
sectors had had   positive effects in the project area.
4.  Village infrastructure Develovment
Regarding the effectiveness of this component of the
project it can-be emphasized that the Project has been
successful in accomplishing its main objectives, namely :
to upgrade the social and technical infrastructure and
improve accessibility for the forest workers living in
relatively remote mountainous villages, thereby helping
to slow down the rate of emigration and retain younger
_-          peopleip. the Project area. .It should be also noted that
valuable experience has been gained by the Regional Policy
and Development service of the Ministry of National Economy
for the design, appraisal, monitoring and evaluation of any
future development projects financed by international
Organizations.
5. TraininaL research and studies
Pilot Range Management
This pilot program for integrated development of range
lands in 10 village communities of central-western
Macedonia Greece, was carried out to the benefit of
livestock industry, forestry and to the mountainous
economy in general.



- 87 -
The results extracted by the achievement of the project
are so interesting and the experience acquired so
important, that it can be said that this project was
one of the most successful projects ot the Ministry
of Agriculture and a pilot program for the development
and improvement of the rangelands all-over the Country.
It is concluded that the proper improvement of rangelands
constitutes a decisive factor in the development of
livestock economy and in the integrated use of mountain
forest lands.
Compared to proposals, the program had a high degree of
completion.
The vegetational improvements which raised the herbage
production by 2-3 times along with the engineering works
contributed to a 3-5% increase in animal numbers and
to an 1-8% in milk production in all animal species
and a 8-37% increase in cattle and goat production on
the average for the 10 villages. They also affected
favorably the forestry and village economy in general.
Moreover the program helped in dev;loping skilled range
management staff in the successful application of-new
technology, in the collection of information regarding
the cost of improvements, in the acquisition of range
land improvement experience, its the more active parti-
cipation of the shepherds and the Community Councils
to rangeland development and in the realization of the
importance of the farming lands to the livestock pro-
duction in each Communities.
Pilot Plantation research
With the achievement of this target a serieSof experimental
areas in Nigrita and in Grevena were established for
acquiring experience in plantation establishment techniques.
In cooperation with the Athens Forest research Institute,
the crite.ia for fast growing site selection were defined.
Series of experiemental areas in Nigrita, in Grevena and
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .*  I. -/   -



- 88 -
in-Nafpaktos were established to test local and
exotic 8peiles-.-The--xis-t-inT  tM-at7to--Was--Uged -
for creation of a databank about the growth and pro-
duction of some species important for plantations.
In cooperation with the Forest Research Institute,
information and evaluation about road construction
implementation and wood harvesting were collected.
A project information collection system was establi-
shed and a provisional cost benefit analysis was made
for plantation works economic evaluation.
Forest and Forest Industries Sectoral Development
Stratega Study
The study as an indispensable component of the project
succeeded in its targets to investigate ways for in-
creasing the forest production introducing updated
iilvicultural methods, evaluating alternative longterm
development strategies and improving the employment
and living condition of the population. Moreover it
should be added that for the realisation of this study
a consulting firm with international experience has not
been used, but the team has been composed by scientists of
the Forest Service, the Forest Research Institutes and
the Forestry School of the Aristotelion University.



-89-
Benefits of the project accrued to a large number of
---people- in- z.,iuc,La rcourstain areas who are well below the country
average in living standards. Survey data collected by the Forest
Authorities gave the following information for the project area :
A. Total project area population : about 2.000.000 people.
B. Number of people (contractors) not members of Forest
Cooperatives, employed in project area forest works the
years:
1978 :  -546           1985 :   690
C.  Number of emnloyed in forest works the years :
1978 :   13,218        1985 :   15,122
D. Total payments of the above employed in million drachmrae
during the years :
1978 :   338           1985 :   1,545
E. Free collected fuelwodd (in M3 ) during the years :
1978 :   210,680 M3   1985 :   213,500 M3
F.  Number of livestock in the project area :
1978         1985
Number of goats;1,041,106    1,465,477
Number of sheep:2,434,653    2,679,957
Number of cattle: 134,880       263,000
G.  Animal products (plus fresh-water fishes) in tons during
the years :
1978                   1985
1,095,897              1,048,575
, . ./ . .-



-90-
H. Sawmill units and staff empolyed during the year :
--1978                  1985
units    577                     567
staff    1,802                    1,858
I. Hotels or Hostels units in the project area during the
year :
1978         1980       1985
908          1,011      1,209
J.  Number of registered pupils during the years :
1973       1985
Elementary              156,695    159,606
Gymnasium                62,705      77,620
High School (Lykeon)     35,512      46,572
K.  Health Stations operated in the project area, during
the years :
1978         1980        1985
404          398         400
L.  Theatrical shows performed in the project area during        ..
the years :
1978                     1985
167                      335
M.  Number of modern houses built in the project area during
the years :
1978                     1985
15,551                   13,660
and totally for the period 1978-1985 : 71,078
N. Number of houses to which maintenance or improvement
works made, during the years :
1978                     1985
6,062                    11,999
and totally for the period 1978-1985 : 39,951



-91-
The years 1978 and 1985 were selected as representative
of the before and after- the- projeet- sit-uation-respect-ively.
One may easily   admit t.hat not all changes are attr4butable
to the project. However, the above information supports the
view that the project has a positive impact on the incomes
and employment of a large part of the population of the
country.
5.4. Economic Rate of Return
The calculation o' the rate of return utilizes projected
wood production levels given in Annex V. Table T-1. Projected
wood production Is expected to increase compared to realized
production during the period 1980-19851) Output prices and
logging costs are also given in Annex VI(Tables T-3 to T-51
The calculation of incremental output (sawlogs; pulpwood,
fuelwood and free collected wood) assumed that the production
level beyond 1985 without the project would remain constant.
Production levels with and without the project are quite
different tnan those assumed at the appraisal (see above).
In the basic run no operation and management was charged
(see Annex 2, Table T-9 of SAR 2425-GR, p. 57). Similarly in
the basic run it was assumed that there would be no investment
beyond 1985, despite the fact that such investment was
included in the appraisal. On the basis of these assumptions
and the data presented in Annex Is Table T-8 the financial
rate of return is 10% without including the investment in
village infrastructure and 6,6% when investment in village
infrastructure is included.
(1) Wood production figures in Table T-2 (Annex V) are in-
consistent with information given in the appraisal (e.g.
Table 5.1 page 35 of Report No 2425 - GR). The reasons
of this divergence have been reported to the Bank in
earlier communications.



-92-
When operation and management cost is charged (see above)
-the -finaneial -rate of return drops to -8% -and -S%--respectively.- -
When benefits from investment in village infrastructure are
included the financial rate of return increases to 7%.
Economic prices used to calculate the econoomic rate of return
were derived from border prices of imports that are given in
Annex I, Table T-5. A divergence of economic from
financial prices is observed while the opposite was expected
in the appraisal.
Using economic prices the rate of return in the basic run
increases to 19% and 15% excluding and including respectively
investment in village infrastructure development. When opera-
tion and management costs are charged, the rate of return is
reduced slightly to 17% and 14% respectively. When village
benefits are included the rate of return -increases to 15%.
,.*/ * .1.



-93-
-'.: T-''>  - : f.r.*e_    * T;'Mr~  ;vr .*w-"'
The ServiCes iznvclved ;n the project implementation worked
eff-ecti-re-,- m.d es-,cially.''
-      The ex-Cirectcrate'Ceneral of Forests with its staff
satisfactorily implemented. the road construction works,
the logging works, the pilot plantation establishment
- and the other activities that is staff training and  '
the Forest and Forest Industries Sectoral Development
Strategy Study.
-  *.The Project Planning and Management Office  (P.P  .O.)
was responsible for the project implementation coordi-
nation by the ex-Directorate General of Forests.
It satisfactorily corresponded to its duties, although
it was not manned with-the staff provided by the
contract.
-     v The Project Steering Committee coordinated the works
of the various Services and solved the different
prdblems appeared during the project implementation.
-      The Forest and Forest Industries Sectoral.Developnent. _
Strategy Studv Tream consisting of scientists, worked
on terms of reference prepared by the World Bank's
personnel, reviewed, modified and completed by specia-
lized scientists of the Forest Service, the Forest
-     Research Institutes and the Forestry School of the
Aristotelian University.
The team implemented the work and the.study was
!    hAnded to the For2st Service.
-The Range ?sanagement Pilot Program was implemented
I      by the ex-Directorate deneral of Forests, in 7 bse
cooperation with the Directorate of Agricultural and
: * Livestock Productioi of: the HilisVtry of Agriculture.
The head of the range program was the Section Chief
of the Range Management Section of the Forest Research
Institute who had the general coordination responsi-
bility for the program whi ch was satisfactorily
implemented.



- 94 -
~-.    The Pilot ?lantation Research was implemented by the
Forest Districts of ?Iigrita, Crevena and NafDaktos
-and thliend cooordination. of a-.special-- cervice-_ u-
_established in Athens for this purpose under the name
"Forest Development-Reforestations".
6.2 Management and Organization|
6.2.1  The total of Services involved worked effectively
and had an important contribution to the project
* .   completion.
6.2.2  The Project Steerins Comnittee helped the Services
involved to correspond to the project requirements
*    -     and solved the various questions arisen.
$ 6.2.3. Cost Recovery v
*    . Cost recovery from livestock owners benefiting from the
range management program has not been established. The
Forest authorities are convinced that it would be extremely
difficult to ask shepherds to pay fees for benefits that.
were getting for free before project implementation. Strum-
*  .  : page revenues-and fees from project area forests, on the:
* .    other band, contribute significantly to the Central Fund
_ ,,...._ - . for-.Agriculturo--  Livestock. and Foreatry Development. Their
.-    . . collection follows rules established before 1ihe project was
, ..   i......implemented.



-95-
VII.  Coxnclusions
---The project had -a suiccessful implermentation and modest cost
over-run due mostly to high inflation'rates. Some cnanges
in the financing of tLe project were also necessary caused
mainly by changes in the exchange rate. Other than the above
two points, the implementation of the project went smoothly.
This is attributable to the experience and quality of the
staff that was involved in project implementation.
The return of the project, however, is lower than expected
at appraisal. The calculated rates of return in the present
pcst-evaluation differ from those at appraisal, especially
the financial one. While the economic rate is higher (appro-
aching, under the assumptions of this calculation, the rate
expected at appraisal), it is mainly due to high economic
prices rather than a project   ihduced increase in output.
The increase in the economic prices, caused by changes in
the exchainge rate, led to a further divergence between finan-
cial and economic prices, despite'appraisal expectations for
the contrary. This trend in prices seems to be in accordance
with views that stress the "protective" rather than the
"productive" character of Greek forests. Upon acceptance of           I
--such views, the investment in the project was a right one,
giving an acceptable rate of return.



[!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                                                                        ii e $[ii|ri|5¢RgliE>5 5s       li  g552ii         1
xt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  . . . . . . . . . .-- . . . .- . . . . . . . .                                     *        . . . . . . . . . .                . ............ . .* .* **. .s . .. . .
"'                                                                                5, Ut           § ["    .t                                       gs*                              $'                    ,,,
' I l | F be @ ,w                                          0                                                                                                                  In 
[ i  '                                                                                          *   ;                                                  .U  ;                                                i*L
I                                                                        U                                 0  I§s-. ~                  -U --
-   .0 ~        ...                                                                                   au
|  . ; $P s * ;c azio  olG z * 0 P  > D 01X -                                       *                                                                                          s      gi
F~~~.........                                ............................. ................................................................. |
S                                                                        a t                                                                                                   a t_  a  srw  <   9   o  v. w    a rD o   = o  zo va   w  s w  w  o  w   @   | .  * -       .a.
.......   .............................. .............   ...........................  .................
*         5-                     as                                                                                                a e t  !  .  -  -  S O  - J.-  ,w
0                                         P                                     *1~~~~~~~~~~~~
a  Si I4                                                                                                  sr Ip  4t                                                        0         | 4wVCCo¢t4V3 . .          "
s...          *~~~~~~~~~I                                                   ITp                            I
* O ~~~~.............................................................                                                           ..........              .......e**v...  ..................9 o '" 3
I                                 I4I
I                                                                                                                                                                                                         . : I*
..........J..........                         .........                      .....  ........X  ........                           ..........              .. ........                      .......
I      9494    9-                   ,.w o4                                                         0 P  ol~ tI    .v 91- 9                       9 F  P  F P                O  "  w                     lS NI     t
3 ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     i             0 o3        t-.     as                          °|s      N^>CV                    ci -  0                    Dsse  O  O 10 X          ' *      3        n.4
F  __ .   _   e  -   _   ...........  t._*t.,  ,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a.e
*                1>"s,           g                                                                                                                                                                               50 ,;bg Do<FIo04a tOOOg°p'W  3tq
MO W.  1   ,                                                                                                                               a
.................................   .......                                                                           .         ............... ..........   -.-                                .      ,.r,.
I        _ ID    ,                     C M       I. D- v                                  1                                                                                    i
_ ._._                 .     .       .._.. _                                                         ._ ,....    ,...                                                     ._._.                               4
la                 CA  *                            S.-       (A                % 9"S .  .-            (D s)o-P ao                  5,sL
5.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k                                                     C             a-                                                        0                            *L  t
MI  W                                                                                S  -s(  p    4  ~O
9-  .         . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OII                                                 S S,
5  0             (I -J~~~L  5   4 05 CO         CD  a S. .- to            SO P.) 9- 9- tO 9- 
a         .  .  .  ..   ..             .   ..  .  .  ..                        ..  .  .            ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  .  .  .   .  .  .  ..   .  .  .  .  .     i
SS                                                                                    II90                     -Jm )93        *3IS                                       933        9..
to  a-      05*                  9.)          0            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         ~~030I  00*  4UD  .J D .D   S    
*                                                                                 0                                                                       0                            I   4   I      2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D    -  S.  o     S.  aI
4A`*                0..          1                    r                                                         D. 0  a  mo..aDoas 
co                                 C, 'm             .        .                          1                     .                                                   55
.. .. .. .  u..   .    ..   ..  ..                    ..   ..  ..   .                                         .   ..  ..   .
*   I..                                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z   c               *1  W5* 44SI  J
*   *  S  51555                    9*~~~0-    L            ,5                 9-5          0       OD          01  co   0j                 A9                      9.95---                      531
00   .  #35  0            09~~~~~~DS.   0100                 us~~"T   tOtC,  a.'a'l.                                    
...........                                                         D                   I-        0m             a,ID   t IIa o--9s                                         A.-    JDORI               s   s   a
0e    C,5                      00 CAS                                         usj  Ws   sal-  DsV asso-sau.                              o  soast c.



- 97 -
.s~    . 0    ,
C14 co .4 0          04 =           C%It    Ot 1f0 tf
dp   I  M  ~4 04         -4 -(O                I 0ClC     0    I
.. _.             ..... .. .           . ..  .      .        _     ...... .    _     _. .
C".            1    .        N    co tom or                     c    aa     o u0~      I
0~~~~0  LO C- 0I                  *4 cod         Ot f  I CD CV t m   I
.                                                                  -II         f1       I
to                0000.00    .................
OS                       00I                  00           **Co l0C:-   tle-a4o*4  I
.~   ¢       ~     OClLf0              C" t-0                   .4 Ci  0 J _1  0   1
0 - .,            to J4.4*0                                                   a #D
0     m0      -                  .4   .4c-0    a
* ir     401.4                                     Cl °I ° °   O  O               C O  O      O  O   I
t4 'O              0 000 O O           O a  00 
im  ~        0 0 00               in 0
.4W          **~~-t0  U7             C4           1  1   011 1 I
_ ~ ~~~~~~t Z  t4             C>          C4 Jo          C- C4   to .4i ztI
.~~~~~~~~~~ to co :s                          H X1~   l~  r
~~~~.. ......   ................................... ,of
oooo                o               0                     1 I
.4.-. ~    n 4
...........................................             ......
oooo0                el0            (C             co      S
.0 om I4                         .n       .4.4.40 .
..    .  .  .  .  ..                           ..  .  .  .  .  .   .    ....
co                00(40 oc                                               c
s W               **0****                 .***41
4m          a~~~~   a. >         Ln4 
.X:    $ 44                                                              I |   .o a
........................................... .................. 
a                     005                             .4 t  o   0  ICl _ * Ic
.   .. t4 : . 4 o  a   ,4                           o
C4.. .. ...... ....................................... I
CD                0000                  00 o  o                00 a
| ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     4 .   rc,u.                                  .4 -            c s           a   
a                                           ~~~~~~~a
,    ~~~~ .m                                                       .4 0o    0(1(40o  4    :
4~~~~~. ~
. .. .,....... ..           ,;..                        .4
!   a 0 oO                          co  (4* o   c4 N         I
.~ ~~~~~r in  I o                     I 1                  N 1      C4 t
II                                                     .3
.~ ~  ~ ~~---- co ............................. 0..............
Ia              o     o    -         0      .4                       m     a
.4 mg 9         A  . 4                    54 
.. .............................
¢ cI~ul                            a V        a ,4    .             " s  1 I
*   i *rI             . .                                 0,  .       0
4)~~~~~~~~~~~~
... ... *. . . . F. 4I
w   ~       b                                                           l
(al  DI                        *e o4 9.       oJ                     -    I
~~~~~~~.......   ....................
4~~~- CU 
*,   W 8S-tdx       t                             )
(D 0-    ( ,54.-  .t4     0    a       o                      4 -
(f'rtOVa0           a-t                 00 o   s           t 2
. ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    (    0 th-X X 74-          
t ~~ S                            4.  t.       _                |
ct  :z a   u.t o  e) o  x    *J  s    t-z  *-t vt   u   @ w: e~~~~~~~~u-
4Z     C)tstt.o Ct     e         O  tt                  |  t 0



t  -yeareav2  r    ea                                          3  3   YVar              4    Fer            T      -T       t 
ItOU            aN.           1980/81                 1981/82                 1982/83        *         93/'                   198'/85
Dre  ~        250              -                     130*        -                                                            130  -250   62              o       I
Di's       -   3.012    -          -         -     -        -        -     -                                -        -                   3,.012
Agr'icul tural Tractar's                                                                                                                                                                &
I            00 
Oire       -   1,987                                                                                                          Nil- -      --    111  y427              J
logrngpq  Trolleys       NSO.     Nil.        2i .           --                      -         -    --    -                                            361I/2
Govie Span. (26iOfl o) cable-                                               -        -         -    -                  --                      -
crane,s epd winches  N4o.       311         1    -         -                                                                                                         I
Dr.               782    -         --                       -        -     -        -        -     -                                -      782-
Sho-rt Span (Ijo0 m) cable
cranes5 and winche   No.        Nil        1I                                                                       -     -        -*             -I-                          i       l
Di's              413    -                                                                   -     --                      -        -       q3
Mqobile Cable Cus-ne    NO.       Nil         1              -        -     -        -         -    -         -        -.             -              -.
Ore        -   2,625S                              .        -        -     -        -        -                                            ,2 
St's - 16 passenger    No.           -        2    -         -              *        2         -    -         *        -     -        -                       2         2  i-.aI
~~SeI4 Yeldvtes    Dr.        -   3,175S                   -                 958        -    -         -                                               50   3,175   30
(Light 1.1111).        No.      Nil2112 
Drz;             .2       -        -         --                      -     -                                            -   1,325    -
Slobile            O~~~~r*         2,625S                                                                                                   -                2,625 
Mobile Oebarkclng
Machine (60 cm)        No.        -         -     -        -        -     -        -        -     -        -         -                                                 
Eltup torill  No..~~~~~il
HM1'ili De-bnrktnp.                                                                                                                                                   
Ki6hine (30 em)        NO.        -              -         -              -        -        -     -        -        -     -                       -
Ti*e-r  oad tig. Crafe  Nto.         -                                                                                                         -              5-
SM.Lcald  Iorprt tractors !,O.       -        -              -        -                        -              -                        3       -     *        3-
Di's       -        -     -        -         r    -         -        -     --                      - 18,60D                    18l,EWo          
Pohbile bawlng N.,.'hlne Nio.        -                       --                      -         -    -         -        -     ---                                       -     -      '31
tilutsr Cli.Iper5a       Now.       -                                                                        -         -    ----
pro        -        -     -        -         r.   -         -        -     -        -        -     -                                            
T.)t.1i t                                661        -        -        -     - 1,0986                                            45.030         -        4- 'I la  1+.  1
--r.1-
i /  *I5'ms'I  n~U~iubloIans



i   Year              I       Mear           2  t   Yea-r           3  :   Yt.ar               I     _____'___
Zteq,      :M~to.:        1980/81               1981/82        a       1982/C3        :   ~ 1983/84                   1984/85 
sDrs:   A   I   E   at          A        E    t   a   A   a C          fa    A   a   £        t       A   a        a         A        a     L
Road P.aintaa..ance rgul*oent
Vul.idozr~r, (14.0 MP
2-R1ad^/R5ppQr)       NO.        -        7    -                                                                -              -                               9
Drs        -  27,737    --                       -        -        -    -                 --                                    r210 7 J7 
BuIldoz-.rs (2(I'p MP
b1aidc./R1PI or)      Mo.        -        7    -         2        -    -                                         -                                     2        7   29
Ors        -3',812    -   7,251            -              -        -    -        -        -     -                -         7.250  39,SA2   18
Graer   (25-35MP   Io.       -        7    -         -        -    -        7        -                                     4        -iS                        21'
Graderaa (125-135 ) e        -  21,831    -          -        -    -  27,683         -     -23,897           -    -47,80WO                             1,3    It..
Gravel Loadersa (70 HP)No.          -       S                             -        4                      5        -             -                                5  £80
Drs        -  12,437    -         -        -    -  12,568                   13,77         -     -        -                 28,3.7  12,4.37  L24
Dump Trtscks
1750 NP& 42c)         Mo.        -        -                     2   2    -      4        -    -         -.      -     -        -                               2   33
Ore               -        -          24,930    -  11,608          -    -        -              -        -             -i1EOd  2%.!iAC    47
CoffVrf;rsors
(Trailer Morunted)   No.         -        -              -      12    -         -      '                                                                       . 
Drs        -                            ,70                        -    -                                -        -    -        - 6,7          -
(Tractor P1iNanted)   No.        -        -     -        -       6     -        -        -     -                -     -        -        -     -                6 
Drs                                    6,615                                                                                          6,61j
"isjcellanpot,a         on.        -        -     -        -        -    -        -        -              -        -    -        -        -     ---                     -
Dvs        -        -    -  25,142         -     -        -        -    -        -        -     -        -                 25,.412 
T4.-tal                 Drs           101,817    -  32,3gb   38,115   -s'l95               -        37.675         -     -47,800-                 l'J**k 1j4J. , '.P   *
P.arhi,so Mai,ntenance Equipment
Nab1l'& Repair Workshop No.        -        2    -         -         - -           -       -              -        -    -        -        -     ---
bra        - 5,250    -           -         -                           -        -        -     -        -                            250  -
Perwmanont Workshop    No.         -        3    -         -         - -          -        -     -        -        -    -        -        -     -        , 
bra            7,875    -         -         - -           -        -    -        -        -     -        -        -    -        - 785 
Tools for rxufstimg
Workiihops            No.        - Various    -          -         -            -                                -     .       -        ,-             -Vazio~aa.
Ore        -   2,625    -         -              -        ---                                            -             -         . 2,625       -
Total   2'              bra         -  15,750    -         -         -                     -     -                 -             -              -is ,7                  - 
2/  Major and smci' maIntenance common]:y undortaken by private enterpr1sas. ccusquontly . there Is nao requiremuent for permanet workaahcpl.
0



*                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Y  ear              I   Year               2:   Year       __ 3           Year,           14      __ __ _                         t-                  I
I tem          t No.; t      1980/81       :        2.981/12       ;t       19283183/814                          1       hA9S14TS_F     I
&Drs:   A   :~~ E       :   A       E   s%         A   : E   :% : A                E    %        A        E   :5 :                     :1
Tanker Trucks.
5 Ton/44WD); I/    so.          -         2    -        -        S     -        '        S             -             -                                        12 
*   Ba              2,112    -         - 882                       7,318    -                                                        415,812       -
(lo Ton/1WDi)         NO.                 I                       2    -        I        21400          -             --                                            6I0.
or*            2,237                   S  ,370      63,  5    *.157 1029,                                                 63037~~ 1376   1460
rire Trucks                                                          . 
(17006J14WO).         lie      -.         2    -.        -        I            27       14675          -.        --                     -     -      21       10  270
o re                6,087    -         -14,810    - 110.580  16,732  661              -                        .      -     -110,,59(i. 37,4'2,  2IS
Buses (25 pesajeger)  No.          -         2    -        -        4              -        4    -        -              -        -       -              -       10. -
*    ra             3,950                   9,3.00                10,870    -         -                                -214.30C    -
IIAwi Radio Units       "a..               12    -         -       12    -~   70          12  583         -       12    -        183    12 1666    1             6(i.l'
D"s              22S                     270    -   2,170        309  702        -, .3142    -       11,WO-   376 2659  1).6*'/(   1,622  632
Mobile Radio Vnlts    No.         -         10    -        -       10    -       70        10  700       2S5      iD  250        t00    10 1000        )..J!.    SG  3w1
D"e               375    -        -      460    -   1,1905       516. 369   1,000       570  .175     7.65'   627 21116  10 fib-   2,538  *: 1 
Base Radio 5thtions   No.         -          2    -   . -           2    -         -        3.   -       25        2 21250       -         2    -       7.          1 27
Ore       -       165    -        -      196    -         -      3140  -     14,1Z9     151 2980         -     276    - 14,136 I1,131)  36b,
aotor Cycles            Moo.       -        7    -         -,       7    -        70      .7;1000         -.       7    -         -             -    * 7',       36 200
*     re       -      262    -         -       15    -   3,962        361 1069        -      398    -         -     1439    -    J,862   1 ,71t.  21-1
cd,alnnsaw              NO.       -          S             -                                88                           -S                                
D ra          -       200    -         -      2140    -              2715    -               3084    -              334    -    i-    ,6            -0
Back-pack Pumps         M..       -        614    -   -            614    -        -      614         -           614    -        -      614         ,  -       32L,    *
Drs       -      2140         -          297         -           3141    -     *        377    -         -     1415    -    I        2.671     -
Lirnoculars   *         No.       -        20     -        -       20    -         -      20    -                 20 500         -   '20        -.              10      -
Ore                8  -                  102    -         -      117    -               129 232         -       1142   -               571    -
Other £quipmek          N.            Various                                                    -        -        -     -        -        -        2,3        10..
Dre    1,587 ~~~        485        -         3,186         -        48,364        -                                2 -  -    I  '-8  3,278
Ilar-ienger Vcid  loe
Up to1000C            No.       -         -     -        -             -        -        -     -        -        -    -         .10        -         - A             -
Ore       -         -    -        -        -     -        -        -    -                            16,920       -       2600           
loud Speakers           NO.                                                                                                      200 -     - - -      - --    -  2(bJ- 
ore       -         -    -        -        -     -        -        -    -        -        -           2,264            -  2.264'         - 
Firemen Axebs I         No.       -               -        -        -                       -    -                       --                     -                    
Total      2/           D r&           11,532    -       485  37,670    -186,806  143,308    -   3,SOO: 23,719    - 43, 1?1 26,091    - a7s.1a& k8.0   is/
.1/ Large tan*er  prefrred to emali;mare tankews ed truckp required. 20 buses procured outside project. 
'5/ Due to serilous fworst fires In recent year", Goverrment has inteaisifiled fire control services.-                                                                      Ij.



G REECE
.NTEGRATED rTORETikYDEVEl1'H.ENT PRJECT              .
I                           £Eumment for -Nrseries, Plantatioa n, ?ransvort and Administration
j                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. year                 1 2    Year            2      Year           3 :    Year            3:    Year             4    '      Tota1
I tam            :No.:        18el19 TI82                                  1982783                1983/84       a        1984/85
:Drs:   A   t  E   :*:   A   :  £   :%   :  A   :                                    E :1:    A    A : ':   A   :  E  :   A   :        :    :
tiurser-y Hachinve And Implements
Tractors lwheeled 
60-70oI r/440)       No.        -        2    -        _        1    -        4       1    -        -        -    -        _        _             4       41lu 
Drs       -   1,325    -         -      755    -   4,000  .  912 -                                                      4,000   3,012  132
Rotovators  1/         No.        -        2    -        -        1    -        -       1    -         -       -    -        -        -    -        -        4
Drs       -.    162    -         -       97    -        -     112    -         -       -    -        -        -    -        -      371    -
See4 Cleaning
Machine. 1/          No.                 2    -        -        1    -        -       1    -                                                               4 -    -  -  -  _  4
Drs       -       62    -        -       37    -        -       3    -         _       -    -                    -      -        _  .2     _
Trallors  i/            No.       -        2    -,       -        i    -        -        1    -        -          -               -      -      -            ;;    -
Drs       -      157    -        -       94    -        -     lO0     -        -       -    - '      -        -    -        -      35     -
tlzne.cqujp. a z4ixe.  No.        - Various    - Various          -    - Various        -    -        -        -    -        -        -    -        - Various
Drs       - various    -  11,991          -    -   7,903         -  ,                                                   9 -    - *   -    -  1'.).80; VarioUs
Totat           ,      Ors        -   1,707    -  11,991   1,024    -  11,903   1,174  .341            -       -    -        -        -    -   ,jt.i   3,055  T
Fl4ntation CLstpment
Ci~.tiag Makes         No.        -        -    ..       2        -             -       5    -                 5    -        -        -    -        ;I      10   20
iDrs      -        -    -      809        -    -        -   2,623    -         -   2,897    -        -        -    -      809   1,040    7             -
I.oavy Duhty
Tine PoW        ,    No.        -        -    -        -       -    -         5       5             -        5             -        -    -        5       Jo   .            1
Dra       -        -    -        -        -    -      540   3,913    -         -  '4,322    -        -        -    -      5"c   8,23M     n
LowLbower  2/,         No.        -        -    -            -      -      -      '    1    -         -        -    -        -        -    -        -        1
ors       -        -    -        -        -    -        -   8,501    -         -       -    -        -        -    -        -      i      -
Crauwler Tractor.                                                                                         i
(10-901W)       .'   No.        -        -    -        -       -    -        2        -    -        -        -    -        -        -    -        2        -    -
Pro       -        -    -        -        -    -   2,479         -    -        -       -    -        -        -    -   ?,u7u    '
Ilanting Machine       No,        -        -    -        -        -    -        1       -             - *      -    -        -        -    -        1
: Drs     -        -    -                 -            35  s                  -       -    -      .          -    -       35 i-
1/ Not required; equipment obtained from merging of existing nurseries; reallocatton proposed to paper po,t nurseries and seed testing unit.
N ot required.                                                                                                                d .              u
ol~



*                      a~~~~~       ~    ~~ I Ye*ar  I1:    Yewr   2:    Isa                  I   Year            4as   Year             S           jA. 
Item     silo.:       1980~~iss/SV   :        1981/82      It        1982/83                1983i'6'.               1984/85 
sOrst   A        E   :%IL:    A   s   E   :            A   t   E   sa          A1      E    : :       A        E £     %      A:       £ r
PLanitatleoT  Equlg=et (Contin~ued)
CrawLlerj Tractor
(90-120 Hfi)          No.-                                                                              -        -5                       
No                  -    -        -              -                                                 39,6305        -        3!l,63
Ntsacellanelous Tools  No. Varlous Various          V- V.o:rn       -       Variou                 Various                 various                Various V.arloujs 
Drs   1,030   2,500    -21,243                     3 a- v.usW               12.651        -          b.019-   I,i,   2,56C0                    -
Total    1/             Dr,   1.030   2.500    -22,052              -    -36,113  13,037    -1S,832   a.goo                 eo, s99       -    -                218,,6  61:1
Pile.t Planttation fleseoarch
2iiWiTH Crawler        Nto.       -        2                                     I                                       
Ors'        - 12,300    -         - 7,380    -  10,850             -        9,880.        -                                          9 -2tSr   616
120-150 HP4xi         go.        -        1    -                 1    -         1              -        1                                                       2      
Ores           1,887    -         - 2,265    -   1,500             -         ,8660.                  5,600        -    - 12,,6 :A  3,(-AC  ,,iu
100-IOHP-Crawler  No.          -        1              -        1    -        -        -3                      -    -                       -1                d
Or's       - 187         -        - 2,265    -            -        -    -1S,66i                 -       -                   I          I ft  ,12 3??'
70-80 HP'ac           No.        -        2    -         -        1    -        3        1    -         I        -                            -.                . IPC,
*     re        -   1,325    -          -     795*         3,000.    912    -   3,191           -    -                           t,i. ,-t   3,itjj' ;,4.0
*50-O0 Hp .4a#          go.        -        1I        -        -   I                     -                2        -    -         I                                 I-Ai
D rs            -      4.56    -        -     £457    -        -                  5,760.        -    -   .2 2§0        -     -      .0i       I
Tine Plows Lartle       No.        -        2    -         -        I    -         4       -     -        1        -               I              
*    Dis        -   1,137    -    .-           682    -      760        -     -     620-        -    -       600       -    -           , a 1,:Y  jkL
Ti"e Plows Hod tumn
(land reclamaition)  No.         -        2    -         -        2    -        -                           --                - -       -     --
Drs        -      587    -        -      705    -         -        -    -        -                       -              -        - 1,;n2 
Clearing Rakes          NO.         -        2    -        -        3                        . -          1        -     -       --             - ~                    C
Ora        -     762    -         -      '457    -                       .    304                                             ZJ.             k



I                                               ,                                                       
: Year         1  s   Year           2  s Year              3.:   Year             4:   YeaW              s:_
Item           :No.:        1980/81       a        1981/82       :       1982/83                1983/84       :        1984/85
_Drs:.   A   :  E             :     :                A                      A   :tE   :            A       C   :        A   : E       :A:
Pilot Pl.antation Research (Continued)
bisc llarrows
Trailed - leavy      No.        -        1    -        -        1             -       -    -        B        -           -  2       -    -      2AJ       2   *&J
Drs       -      281    -        -      337    -        -        -    -   2,80         -    -      400        -    -  3.?EA       616   "id
:           mu.,steJ - Orfret    No.     -        2    -        _        2    -        _       2    -        -        -    -        -             _       _    ! e       -
Drip      -      237    -        -      285    -              327    -         -       -    -        -        -    -       -      849     -
Disc Plow
%-Tine,.Hgontel      No.        -        1    -        - I           -        2       -    -        -        -    -        -        -    -       2        2   100
;     Drs        -      162    -        -      195    -      280        -    -        -       -    -        -        -    -    280    1357    78
Scrub Chopping
Machine (eleaning)  No.         -        1    -        -        1    -        -       -    -        1        -    -        -        -    -                2    Su
Dri              662                                                      I 79S    -  _  _    -   1$0O  -    -  -  -    -  1400    1;,5'    1.
Scrub Chop Kech.'                                                      * 1
atntenance                                                                                                                                                2 -  -70    -  -  1    -  -  -    -  -  -    -  -  -
Dr+                                       570    -         -     95#4    -       -        -    -        -        -    -       -     924      -
Brush Slasher
Rotary               wIol       -        1    -        -        1    -        -       -    -        *4        -    -       1        -    -                2
Drg       -       94    -        -      112    -        -        -    -   1,050        -    -      300        -    -  1,3-0       206   LSt
Planting Nachinq       Nos        -        1    -        -        1    -        -        1,   -        1..        -      -            -    -       1        3    33
Drg        -     381    -        -      457    -        -      524 . -    1,279         -    -        -       -    - 1,279   1302  ..                 O
Herbicide Sprayer      NoL        -        1    -        -        1             -        1    -        -       -    -        -        -    -       -        3     -
.'       Drt        -      56    -         -      67    -        -*   524    -4-            -       -      -            -    -       -    ;1        -
Fertilizer Distrib.   NoL         -        2    -        _        1    -       .-        _    _       2        -    -        -        _    _       2        3    *7
'    Dro       -       62    -        -       37    -        -        -    -     460'        -    -        -       -    -               960   i9j
Halt Track Asscib.Aes No'.        -        1    -        -        I    -        -        -    -        -       -    -         2     *             ¶?        2   lr
DDr       -      237    _        -.   285    -          -        -3 -0 -                                 -   3.460  _    -  3,-1U    ! 4:?2   b °
Pickup Truck 1/2 ton  No.         -        2    -        -       '    _         _       _    -         2       -;  -         _        _            2        3    67
Drp       _      912    -        -      547    _        _        _    -,1,594          - '  _         _ .    -      -     q4   1,4b9   iOq
_   _   ,                                                                ,                                      ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Y ear           I1:    Year              2:     YAea-r          3:i   Year             if  I Year'             S.          Total
Item              :110.2       1980/SI                1981/82        :        1982/83       :        1983/84        :       1984/85
:Drs:   A.           : : A    :6             :.        A       E:        :    A'  i         :tS   A   :.           :5        A1       £   :
Pilot Plantatieui Research (Continued)
* Low-LoAdlng Trailr 
(4 ton)               NO0.       -*       2    -                                                        *       -     -2                -6                     6 (iJ
Drs              187    -         -      112                                    M       9              520        -            js      299  ':?t.
rield Vehip1es 4x4    NO.          -        2    -         -        2   V         -        2    -        6         -    -                 -                          3 zil
Oras       -   1,235    -         -1,590   :-             - 1,823    -    4,9156                        -                  4,10j  'a*L48   8
Exotic Seeds, Toole..
"inc.Tools,. etc.       No.         - Various  .-                   -          .-          -     - Vawioas                Various         -      ,       -Various      -
Ds   -   2,125    -          -        -.-                          -   2,0S1         -    - 91           1$_           ',rt   2.         oI60
'Total            ~Di's       -  27,862                  21,4142    -16,380   5,409    -57,479                        34t l54,213 
* omestry V..hiclea
Buast-% (1t.paoscnger')  No0.      -        4    -                  2  I-        10        4    -         -                                             C        10  IG0
Di's       -   6.350'  -          -   3,810    - 6,172   8,737    -              -        -     -        -             -.6,172  13,89-7   33
Trucks (3-~ton)         No.        -        4    -         -        2      ~ -    -        3    .                  -    -        -                                  
*         ~~~~Dr's   - 3,175    -            -   i,eo0 ;            -   3;276    -          -                                                   ,bBm     -
Irield Vehicle 1
* (lictit is D)         No.        -        1     -        -.       -    -        2,       -      .       -        -             -        -              2        'Ai  67
Dr$s       -     662    -         -        --        1,400      912    -         -        -              -        -         l,tfo    1,06C   89
Pickup Triock (4VD)   No.          -        '4    -        -        2..           -        3    -         -        -    -        -        -
Di's           1,825    -         -  1,095                - 1,883       -                                                            4. - - *-- -0-u,o)   -
Total                   Di's           12,012    -         -   6,810    - 7,572  14,809    -              -        -              -       -     £ 7J152  3u,630   -'
Lojine, Persorml' Vehicles
aw,es (lb PssenerYNo.              -        S    -         -        S    -       28        -                            -        -        -     -       28       10J 140
*         ~~~~Dr's    -   7,937               - 9,525    -13,428                                                                      13,12   17,462)  77
Buses (25 piissengez4)  No.        -        S    -         -             -        ---.                                ---*-
*         ~~~~Dr's    -   9,875    -          -1130         -        ---                             --                      --2.75                       -
FIslid Veoic1es                                                                                                                                 9
(Light,4 ND)          No.        -       17    -         -      1-7    -       10              -      20         -    -       10        -    -4 II,)          3.i
I         ~~~~Dr.s    -  11,262    -          - .13,515   -      4,541              -14.44k                    17, SW        -    - 5.'1o   24*.7 V1  147
Total                   Di's        -  41,087    -*        -  41,700    -25,541                  -144,442          -     -17,.                  .   95ilm,W~h
I/ Fipguures co*bLne4 withi Loggdng Personnesl Vehicles. .
2/ rigusacoerbinad with Forestry Vehiclea.



I   z   Year            I:    Year              2:    Year              3     :    Year        4&  :   Year             S 
Item            110.:        1980/81        :        1981/82        :        1982/83        :        1983/84~    :          1984/a5
________          :~Drs    A   :        :         A        E              A   :   C               A  I    £   :%          A   : C   :%            Al       C
St!tAmlrrto  - DGF I/
No.                      1    -         --                               -                            -        -1                                     -
D~~'s  -     750    -                                                -        -        -     --                                       ?  
*Tyg'ewrltera              NO.        -        2    -         -              -                 -                       -              -                                2 
Drs                37    -         -        -     -        -        -     --                                        -             H        37    -
Cacislaltors             No.        -        2     -                                -        -     -        -        -     -        --             -
DMe                13    -         -        -     -        --                      -        -                       -    -13    -
Pilcot larigeo  Igt.    NO.        - Various    -          -                                      -                       -        -        -    -Varicus.
Dye        -   6,125    -                   -     -        -              -        -        -     -        -        -    -
Tolat         *Dra                  -   6,925    -          -        -     -        -        -                                               -                  6,'J25 
*PrfJe.ct Mministretion- RPDS 2/
(liglat 4 ND)         NO.         -        Ali  -         -        -    -        -                                                                                4
Disn       -   2,6S0      -        -        -     -        -                                         -                    -        4 2*E50 
*         ~~~Typewrniter$a          No.         -        5    -         -        -     -                       -        2        -    -        --             -45                     -
Org        -       94    -                                 - - -          -                       -        -        -     -        -
CAICOO~torG              NO.        -        5    -         -        -     -        -        -              2              -        -        -
Hci.ellaneoot;a'                             1     --                                              .                                -        -3 
(Reg. Dev. study)   No.           -Various    -                                                                                                            Vax -ous    -n
Dins            3,750    -         -        -     -        -        -     -        -        -     -        -        -    -3,75L' 
Total             ~~~Di's     -    ,S25    -          -        -     -        -        -     -        -             -        -         -                  6,S2E      -
I/ Net required;I vehicles and equipment available to P2110 from GYS.
2Z/ mot requkrqA; vehicles and equipment available to P2110 and regional office from ItPDS.



- 106-
E, A   A I                                       ae^v
Oelog?d    'roVect C;o)Sf  .'mc7 tis Ond  aCA1,2,erfor-,aw7ce
sayt  rD-._ !m   is?*a 1.5  ,8 2,  ,,;  _.          4i . 
Jo/                       2 j"eetf           At* I    Os        0,       dt i           .    o
ibftt e,,, ............a       .    Oto                           .    , ,, .,  
(016247 qe* 7er.e  }} f. |     14       gooD t1 *tg  41  4 e }JO          .4  Its 44. 
0   -A l e 2hf.xr                          @5 "f                           2
7^&~~~~~~~~~~~itisw_0-4                 610   45  J,'  f;4: i.0  * t  4   21.5  2 1 5. ,i'
¢%S>of~~~89               24V  f&   im 'fW  O 4  _.            It }jt2     a l  j4 s04 
=t; i5N's~~~~1/A                               2 J t8t5  0,3   |a3, 7 l    4  f, , 14,  2
96 p                         J  li  °°J'.4f2  4 |  94  I-'s  e a3; J20  go   2 <40
x>@@>  ,s  z - I/swn   szoll a5 700    I4.    s-2   24S$i  5§.3
Xtl~~~~~~04  Tz*I! IY I11  Si 6s3 igt; 2|0  08  dtA  -   Z-   $.0! $4 13 
>;yvv¢oe2.+Ksor~~     &M 1   919,iI. 2,9S te   54 915.  01  MS  7 2SO  11.  S.7 ,g* 
i c > t 4~~~~~~~~~~0- I e62 e e|.* |0 0eg vcol 0,4 | ,2 |,J to§9 |.  4.j *J6t4.  61,S|
-RttrflffttFfOt -_M -le  251    fIlS§      |g ,6| - |-|-  o.0  | - | .s    - | 0.6^   
;   1e i-^^=tl~is. 0i         . a.o   *-0v  40 - fq 5wll aq    {°      7   .1   *.S ° 6.01JOd
l<t    0e6wcs*1,7 1*7BI~M ol k s2$9, 7  icsg .2  0,J1 0,91 0.6 1 ,J  0,7j 0,6,6 8s. o
r "s  ,eetsa.e    1 9.0  71141 4t81  or,4  66's  MO O7S,o   O'S §| , i' t,4 i' *,149 |71,6  73, 6
Oltrv=    or         4l    94 .o; 36,,1 4A.O11,6 510,0 0.31 O.J |  *ol  421 J3 |O.s 7t61 66.6
1 ub;=-r;~~~6               ji,~   6 °.S| 68  2Xe| 7w8 q2|- O    |   0,6   Q 017 ^|o 3,7 tO°,°|
{^^j:,if S~~~2.             1, - t4 |-|l.S0 J551 46,0 Aj °,1  |   J|42 | °4 |°J 20| a6oS |6
{a95 ex7¢a Sr-/?44A 451  0.4  4,41  0.  4,9 |L*ol-|-a |       ,  o,1 O| o. |         to4ole
tS.*9S,z,loo}0.              O .3l-   5 tg    -}  -}  -  o   0,2  6.    - |90,0t  - 
|~~~~~~~~o. )2F2Wz4,6 "4 5w,0X F|f014|S 4j 42.7 iW°.1tI 1,0  1.  97 1  FF1 JXQ°  6,076,   St
AJXWYAeAO {- J(dCC   I          I I       I  
r.J.4m YSrs gF'Poopw2f,5| 3z| 0t.1  T.* 440| St9  0    0.1 0,3|o¢|- | {f  O.  $0| .1|  
0,j<t     1.!00C    1   J.i C3  S.0 | 161 6s,0l 14.9 7,0 l- A| o.|04   q4  4;41 °. 5 1. 93 ig 0
6;^e,Gef°it;g:  t4ubrX2|J,4| 0. 5| t4|22, tbqse  .41 49 |021 412 0.6 | ,l| 5Z4 1040
-A-;v   ,t  to  J3,9 : I sol i22 e O  q  ,2  010J| 44 - .   0  |a         6 |  .5   - 
i~~~~~~~~6.6 -;                       9t 26| - |    |.9 7 1.612|05 - | 2 1|t7 |   f*|-|
YVy0O"A1- Sa&io  |   f, 106.51 9f. 31 84 |2g02l9? 52  10.   |q CT   |b °.   7, 7 |2tX2  319 J t4t 
l-tr¢-6"^2^11~                   ~ -Z 1Oq-l l-1'1-1               - 14S1   -ga'6sl 
};w>A.DWoT;4r^.4982;etsW1.s,. "s  .s   gX1g  14.1"a1i30 
^?nf~~~~~~~ew.,2W              .,!       M



EAAA1- GREECE                                                                           .All03
tppOAOKAJ4I.0t4E1  ANjAnlY0tOL  AAEOnON2IAZ  - IN7EGRATMt  FCW9ES7Tt1Y  DEVELOPMENT   PflOEC'r                                                                   10942229  I
XPNWrAM £NW600 rFtoyno*wtecza K(AI rAMLAT01`011210EIZE E~STIMATED SCN-EDUJLE OF EXPENDITUR?ES ANDO ACTUAL.
1960 136                               2062                                193                                  Su4940                                       ___ 1090IVNA0                   374        .2239
___________________________   ~~~~~~~~~~~~cI   A                 C    A       I   A    cIA                A         IA      C  I A      tI A        c    A      EI A        EC     A    C     A      EC  I  A    E    A      C    A      EC      A       C         A      C.I1
ftAm                 uct.~099                           1675  491  .12032.0 290.31 72.0 34.0 369.0100.   93.Q 273.4  29.O 203.4i 42.C  83 I237   371 7 423,0 222.0 322,  124.4 198.  37.1  0.  245,24360  333.21 2270 3034 675A  "2. 0 189.00,05 1 I601.0  30,7115, a72
0989990                   ~~~~~~~ ~~333   224  20.  14,  522   10,(  98.16.0S 22.4  10.4  57.4  250.  JO82  13.1 24.0  9.   62.0  220  61.1  31. 0    .9  20.0  67,3  61,0  13.    90,  07,31  23,0  70.2  a.C 27. 22n0.9  220.2    71.0  322.4  927 Io'
4  3.      1.         4.3         3~~    ~ ~~~~~.0  7.    5.8    .     .           .          0           52                       .           .          7           27.2             .               5
-   60A~~~~~  20*3420       391                 6~~~~~~~~0   0.1                   II3                      i,         1.                      148 $I       4A a        0.'        26.         31,         -           922          980             a4.0.
I41Mpwd8gr49                 "   dgs"    OM 98993 90lO.O 0                  2   ?74 (26            20       *16.S3         I6.92.       251        69 2040'  3 32.7                    22.51*.l 952 )V    42.          .20,3       .72.        * 301 , Sa   .0 97 .2          3     W. 7        903
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                                                             '.           -+ -   -  924
AM0                          70       09921I'0                                                        .          7.          4                052                     237                 o2. ooo5              200W4.                                                 .oo    64,
160A4~~~~          0986009091920960             29~~~~~A7~ , 920   2 .    0 ,  0.  272         10.                                                                      04          4.          2.           .15               *'90,
row-.*                                oil         A S                                 I~~~~~~~~~~0.  3  4    0.5          543                                                                                  .I                      00
3067 0"S. 9.    d    74 0 1900734 6   -   100.8 110.7, 241  3231  44.4, - 7206   223  13    306A  6 85               23. 2504.  236   1 60.3 '00 A I     07.6 7603% 236.19173.1  99.S5   -   334  473.2  0g. 0  2997      W.0.     -    a"27  .9  "Ofm3as
'Wu" ftqpq onoww  Pt omp                        105 1706  'to   '2-00    L9'70 62    .    6   25. V  X'2                           A 4.8 30l 35.  270  13.0  33.  3~ 5..0  16.4  00.   19.3  V.   421                  42 0.4  202203.4        3 1    3.9    24,90237,5     us 2333-      2
anlmha.bm M2    *                                 629ISO0799  3 6231   2332.824  24.9 2400  790.3 0749 665. 1254A 268. g 530 0'S  lO7bI  736  19613 220. 100.0 104   3603  107? 30321   31                          ' 2121173,3332)94  0704.2  09k1 A2627.0,439.9  3M.2 IM0
699130364 32~~~~~~    ~ ~   829919319000      66   75~~~St 62   3    0        .9 61 3.4  016 A2.0 91 22.4-                 5.'         66          S,  51                              V.?   9     6,2         4 1,        8,    20.4    26.09 to 36449   1 22.0 '210.0 Do
2 3216                      21.4  46.8  26A I . 0.        22 021,4    18396    n.-             31   124.4  6.7219   20.        4    .21it    25.1 22.4  81,1   -        82314    0040  207 0   32.2               '00.2    o? 10.-as
______________________                               63~~~~~~~~~~~~~o   0.7   02   0.3   0    1.0   O.,41.0  3.1Aa03.0 2  0    I  S0.1    43 A   6 l..  26.1  1.3         {       13.0    A  '0.8   0.v  5.2   3,2  M9   '.0 M~    42            4.8   13.6  120.4   27.6  239,107310
omm-                 NV3690720.9869   00. 269             06   -     06   .       I          04   3.01  2.5 30  0O.9 1.9,  0.4   5,D   05   73   0.0  122                                                     .-                              23    8.0    2,0    29,30    3.6    24.01687
ro -  -   fa-         _  M988         169                    3433 20 46   23    86. ~2,   2,.7  '0.2173ID17.                    .711,2  5       3 I620 4   A4825 5            7 5        5'3.        00,                      6,0         7     17.8   72       30.0  10.2   48.2   1110.92I3
ft949061     wdq           VW p01O1tactm       "own9134         6 4         10 4 -.  14             4    0    21.1         3D3    0.  10.   40B  205 183    391 1069   3.4  1.0   '.I17,    2.1  63.   0.4   S'T   1.8  3               2,2 90. 25,4   71.4    074  207.2    87.    2I              I43
82  201.    24    .  0  21.2       20                 S     -    205.        25           2.0        22,5~~~~~~~- 1  V. 4,    2.          S55        27,    22,0     0.0   62.4   41,0   03,2    90.6.~7.
30~~~.F0003    9919@2 ~~~~~~~24                 '9V        '0.8         1          3,         .5                 0       7   731          *         ..7.6  0   .6   30.0    7.2    27.5                                                                          77,
C.116C946608.01.2                                                           1220-      14.8.0.j45.,   2.0                                                                                                                                                            32a.0  480      24.9    4     M6
("n-1 6-*00-4-  P"2ne    momt                   0 1           a0        2.   -       0 .        21           .          0     0.2   0il  0.3  0.2   05   31   0 2 01   03,   0.;  0.5.0.s                                                    06      S.1     08      3S.7        
-   _______________   ,~0L           36  374   '70    4.4  20.  1300 2 .1,60    02   660 0120.  00 0   24 AS$ I-57.4 3129  61.6                  17.0 637   22.2 1502    I.2 2025 2043  016      2,  216.1  69. 259    142,0  276 0   63.7  773,0   343.3207            22
&Pmft            09910919840            52       2  5              0.4   7.30           7.   .'626,4   2.0   8.   Di   1,4 0 710.                  o9. -       .     -      O3.6-    10.6.          .      .    .6       . .        3.9     34.     3.0    00.      0
roNq am*   mAck     9 99        99999.0223a0  09                S 20 0           2.5  2.4   3.8  .2.  I.    0.5  6.    26A  50    2.2    808  ~5 j 2 A 6 A 2.0  19    . 92 2                              .    .      .      , 6             1,       2.       .        .      2        40
1~~3~~31934396 ~~0909w99440gW-NW d                       9          10 =,       M7.,   -     2.9   -    5.6.         9.2   .                                                                                                                  08       2     1.                89      906
"M"  VW* k-r-Atow                       ",ay6.          1          7          22V         27.3        21.2        40.5         30         22          52          ..23                                                                              -      5.               2,
4194"   3     t0o   0300047  290.142            s058  6.26 099   97 47               32,3079205              15   0.20630,41,07720188.346    8117.220440   30, I3                                           79. 6M.I I8.   73,    2
Mae.2               4* A   066                                                            517



AIkE Iv
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
!           ~~~GREECE, 
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1718-GR' 
Aa.ra4ca1 Rov4ced £5timat. and Actual Ctmuulative Oisbursoments
Cumulative Disbur4ement at End of Ouarter
IBRD Fiscal Year                       ---------- Revised Estimates or Actual Disbursements ---------------               Actual DSisbuTsed Cospared
and Ouarter  ,          Angraisal   Oct. 12   Feb. 1984   SeDnyLt.984  Mar, 198S  QOct, 198   Mar.  1986                  to A nuajsjlka..
i(USS Mllion) ------------------------  ____-
September 30. 1979          0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0                           0.0
December 31, 1979           0.1          0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0                           0.0
March 31, 1980              0.6          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0                           0.0
June 30, 1980.              1.2          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0                           0.0
September 30,,1980          1.8          0.0         0.0        0.0         '0.0         0.0           0.0                           0.0
December 31. 1980           2.8          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0                           0.0
March 31, 1981              S.0          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0                           0.0
June 30, 1981;              6.9          0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0                           0.0
September 30, 1981          7.5          0.2         0.2        0.2          0.2         0.2           0.2                           2.7
December 31. t981           8.6          1.0          1.0       1.0          1.0         1.0           1.0                          11.6
MarOh 31, 1982             10.8          1.3          1.3       1.3          1.3          1.3          1.3                          12.0
June 30, 1982              12.7          1.8          1.8       1.8          1.8          1.8          1.8                          14.2
September 30. 1982         13.3          4.i          4.2       4.2          4.2         4.2           4.2                          3!.6
December 31, 1982          14.2          4.8         4.8        4.8          4.8         4.8           4.8                          33.8
March 31, 1983             16.0          S.6          5.6       5.6          5.6         5.6           5.6    .                     3S.0
June 30. 1983              17.5          6.9         6.9        6.9          6.9         6.9           6.9                          39.4
September 30, 1983         18.0          8.2         8.2        8.2          8.i         .8.2          8.2                          45.6
December 31. 1983          18.6         11.2         9.0        9.0          9.0         9.0           9.0                          40.4
March 31, 1984             20.1         13.0         10.2      10.2         10.2        10.2          10.2                          49.3
June 30, 1984,             21.3         16.0         13.8      13.8         13.8        13.8          13.8                        .54.9
September 30, 1984         21.7         18.0         1S.7      13.7         13.!        13.7          13.7                         63.1
December 31. 1984          22.2         22.0         10.S      15.0         14.6        14.6          14.6                         65.8
March 31, 1985             23.7         23.0        20.7       16.5         15.1        15.1          15.1                          6).7
June 30, 1985              25.0         25.0        22.0       18.5         17.1       .17.2          17.2                         66.8
inn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
September 30, 1985                                             21.5        20.1         20.0          20.0                         80.0
December 31, 1985                                              23.5         23.5        25.0          25.0                         100.0
March 31, 1Q86                                                                                        25.0                         100.0
E Extension of Closing Date from June 30, 1985 to March 31. 1986.



Annex V -Table T-1
Projected Production of Forest Products
('000 m3)
Year
Product              1986   1987   1988   1989   1996   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  1996' 1957  199U  19'
Sawlogs               270-   290    310    350    360   380         380    380    390    400   420   430   450   45
Pulpwood               45     47      50    .50       55    60       60      65     70      70    73    76    82    -
Fuelwood              300    350    370    390    390   420         430    450    480    500   550   560   600   b;
Free  iollected       635    663    750    690    695   680         680    715    760    750   707   684   668   6
T o t a 1            1250   1350   1480   1480   1500  1540    1550   1610   1700   1720  1750  1750  18G0  18(
Source : Division of Planning and Studies, Section of Forest Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture.



-110-
Annex V - Table T-2
Production of Forest Products_
('000 m )
Year
Product           1980     1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
Sawlogs            295      306      260       241      265      250
Pulpwood            43       44       99        39       36        40
Fuelwood           235      440      292       280      317       240
Free collected    523       650      635       570      -742      551
T o t a 1         1096     1440     1286      1130     1360      1081
Source : Division of Planning and Studies, Section of Forest
Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture.



Annex V - Table T-3
Logging Costs of Forest. Products  ---    --
(drs/m3
Year
Product     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984     1985
Sawlogs
Conifers      645      816      1060     1160      1210     1455
Broadleaves  685      792       1030     1125      1260     1545
Pulpwood
Conifers      672      890      1028     1133      1316     1592
Broodleaves  620       820       958     1058      1250     1522
Puelwood      642      840       958     1058      1250     1508
!Source : Division of Planning and Studies, Section of Forest
Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture.



-112-
Annex V - Table T-4
Domestic Prices of Forest Products at.Roadside
(drs/m 3
Year
Product           1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985
Sawlogs
Conifers          3947     4177      4423      4750     5016      5894
Broadleaves       4492     4908    '5499       6290     5433      6302
Pulpwood
Conifers      *  1285      1326      1396      1535     1671      2175
, Broadleaves       1418      1460     1401      1516      2028     2283
Fuelwood          1568     1611      1736      2138     2543      3790
SQur.ce :.Division of Planning and Studies, S.ection. of Forest  .
Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture.



- 113 -
Annex V - Table T-5
Prices of Imported Forest Products
(CIF prices in drs/m )
Year
Product          1980      1981     1982      1983     1984     1985
Sawlogs
Conifers          5375     8283     6442      7146     8310    14188
Broadleaves       9277    10420    11390    13627    16709    22999
Pulpwood         6673      8122     7.43      8224    12189    13173
Note : Prices have been derived from value.of imports (CIF value)
divided by volume of product in m
Source : Division of Planning and Studies, Section of Forest Statistics,
Ministry of Agriculture.



- 114 -
.            *                .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ** . 
Annex V - Table T-i
Financial Prices Used in Rate of Return Analysis
(drs/m3)
Output Unit Prices
Year             1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986-2000
Sawlogs          4165  4469  4853  5366 .5182  6057   6057
Pulpwood         1351  1393  1398  1530  1849  2229   2229
Fuelwood          1568  1611  1736  2138 !2543  3790   3790
FreeCollected    1568  1611  1736  2138 !2543  3790   3790
Logging Cost
Sawlocs            660   890  1050  1150  .1250  1522   1522
Pulpwood           620   890  958   1058  .1250  1522   1522
Fuelwood           620   890  958   1058  1250  1522   1522
FreeCollected      620   890  958   1058  1250  1522   1522



-115-
Annex V - Table T-7:
Economic Prices Used in Rate of RettrxV Anatysis
,              .                                  .       .I3
(drs/m )
1980     1981     1982    1983  1984  1985   1986-2000.
Sawlogs             6561      8387     7777    8987 10803 16551      16551
Pulpwood            5908      7158     6204    6825 11103 11131      11131
Fuelwood            1568      1611     1736    2138  2543  3790       3790
....     ...  .               '.            I ,,
*      ~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Note : Economic prJces were calculated assuming the following           !
transportation cost (including loading and unloading)           ;
per m3 from the project area to the market in Athens. 
1980      765
1991      964.
1982     1139
1983.    1399            . *
.; 1984     1704
*._. ........1.9.85 ...20.42  .....
Economic prices for fuelwood were assumed equal to financial
prices because import classified as fuelwood are not used as
dsuch. Economic prices for free collected wood were assumed
equal to those of fuelwood.



117 -
InTEGRAED FORESTRY DEVEOPME =-PROJBEr
(LOAN 1718GR)
VILtAE ,F1 WTRUCI=  D                           A
PrCJEC? CiO':M,ICN R~EPORT



- 119 -
I. Projc'ct TC'.nt.5ifiatioe}L PJY'.LYOra't.1f)f   _t' .1 'l;
1.1. Jarojcct Oriin                                                      .
of
Defore thc cormmenccemnt tlhe Integi-ated Forestry Develolacnt Project,
a "Fas; li.t-y St.uy of Forcslry Deve] jnctt in North b  ostern and Western
areas of the Grec;k mainland" was carried out by Jaabkko Potiry. One of thc
principal facts emnrrging from tlis study was that although forest develop-
ment mr.asures would increase employment in horthern mountainous rural areas,
thcse n!asures wcere not adequate to retaiA population and tjils secure the
requirod labour to be employod in forest activities.  In other words, it was
realized that thc cause of nigration was not unenployment alone, but also
the lack of infrastructural and social facilities comparable to those in more
urbanized regions. Therefore, in order to ensure that investments into forest
activities %would be profitable, it was thought appropriate to invest a part
*of the Loan funds into technical and social infrastructure and thus increase
the peoples' metives to stay in the Project area.
To better ccmprehend the rationale behind the conceptualization of the
Village Tnfrastructure Dcvolopment Project, it seems pertinent to refer to the
principal regional problem of Greece, namnely the depopulation of the rural
areas.
At the- roots of this process lies migration, directecl either to foreign
.oountries or to the urban centres within the country.
Migration to foreign countries reached its peak in the 60's and carly
70's.   The regions of, Macedoniia, Thessaly and Epirus, which camprise the
Project area accounted for    more than half of migrants going to foreign
countries.  Some of the causal determinants of emcigration were the perception
of more satisfactory econamic opportunities abrxoad, low living conditions in
the areas of origin in  terms of health, education, entertainment etc.
External uit.gration was considered as the precurso.r of internal m.igratioh
Vanifested in th,:! movement of population fran rural comnunities and sunll
provincial towns to big urban centres, maihly Athens anl Thessaloniki.
Although  migration to foreign countries has  ceased  rural-urban mi.gration
oonitinues at an increasing pace. The motives of internal migration werc
initia]ly econoadc.  lky.hever, in more recent years, econcidc conditions, por
se ceased to be at the origin of migration withing Greece. It israt.r ' h'th
*.



- 120 -
wideningq of the ogap betAwtcn the city.and thc vil] ages in terms of the ovcra]l
*level of living,  iuploynmet, healtlh, education, housing, cultural fac. I ities
whlich accoun"L for rural-r1xbiu  migzcttion.
A sign-ificmnt factor behind the low service provision and in genci-al, th.!
low liiving standard in rurral'areas has been, on the olel hand, the frAqTtrnted
and isolated mountainous axcas, which inhlibit the develolxent of a satisfactoLr,
comnunica4-ions network, and on the other, the existencc of a large number of
small di.sperseLd settlements (a]most eleven thousand settlknonts with a popula-
.tion of less than 500 and average population-size of 141).  The latter is a
liability in ternms of the provision of the necessary basic infrastructure as
well as of urban type social and cultural services. In other words, these
settlcments don-t possess the necessary population threshold for the establish-
ment of economic activities and servicesand, in addition, the limited public
funds have to be spread over a large number of small settlements.
T.he area covered by the Integrated Forestry DevelojXent Project exemplifi cd
the above mentioned problems. In particular, stezady emigration due to lack of
employment opportunities and poor. living conditions has caused a seriousdeficit
of experienced and willing labourin all major forest regions of the area, cha-
racterized by considerable forest potential.
Follwcwtng fran the above, the Village Infrastructure DevlorAWent Project
was designed, involving the provision of basic infrastructure facilities,
thereby helping to slow down the rate of emigration and retain youngex people
in these areas.
1.2. Pro ectOective
ffThe Villace Ihnfrastructure DeveJoopnent Project aim-d first to enihance
the quality of life in the forest villageJcs and secondly to improve accessibili.ty
to markets, jobs and urban type facilities of forest workers living 'in relati-
vely remote mountainous villages, thereby helping to slow aown the rate of
emigration and retain younger people in these areas. Evidently, the Village
Infrastructure Devwlorment Project contributed to the acheiveantnt of thle chj.-
ctives of the forestry component of the 1ntegrated porestry J) velopaunt Proje;t
by securing the  labour required for forest d.e\23loJent.  In addition, the
Project fell into line with the country-s  regional develoljsent policy iegardl-
ing nral areas.  Specifically one of the priorities of tle latter has ))Cen
.~~~~~~~~~~~~1
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*



- 121-
the creaticn of ruwal cnaployment and the t.Apgrading of the standard of living
in poorer initainous areas of the cotutry in order to halt rural depopulation.
1.3. Pro1joct _2eseri pto2*
At the time of appraisal Project act:ivitiCs v:ere planned to be carried
out in a total of 37 villages (with a penranent population of about 19,400),
selected o.i the bais.is of critcAa agreed with the flank, such as population
trends, enplc,mir_nt in forestry, and proxinlity  to good potential forests.
Following the aimendment to the Project, referred to in the next section, the
.number of forest villages increased to 45 (with a permanent population of
about  24.500 ). Anticipated Project activities consisted of:
i)  The construcLion anC improvement of about.242 km of connection roads,
village streets and rural access roads including bridges and other
*    technical works.
ii)  Improvements and extensions to water.supplies, including collection of
additional spring wrater, construction of small storage tanks, as well
as renewal and extension of distribution pipes.
iii)  Surface water drainage and torrent control, including construction of
open stonm water drainage channels and small box culverts to prevent
*    erosion
iv)  Small sanitation schemes, including construction of septic tanks and
soakways.
. v) Construction, inprovement and additions to miscellaneous caminiity
*      facilities.  These included camiunity centers inoorporating offices
and rest house accomnodation (for visiting d1octors, community admini-
strators and health visitors),  cultural centers incorporating library
facilities, day care centres, children's playgrounds, improvements to
vi lUge squares, street lightincg etc.
*      In addition to the Village InfrastrL.cture Development, the RPDS of the
Ministry of National rconcomy wQuld be responsible for carrying out a regional
developmEnt study in western Grecce, including tle e.ntire Epirus region, the
islands of Corfu and Lefkada, and the Aitolia-Akaxnania prefecture in central
Grecce.
The overall objectives of the study were one, to accelerate thte ecolomic
and social developxant of the project care4 (which is one of the poorest in
Gree-ce and yet has substantial forest resourccs and devcioputvnt potential),
and two, to enhance Uti capability 'of thc lUPS -of the Ministry of National.
./.



- 122 -
Eooncnmy to propare intcqt aLcd rc onc.i dcvcloplyrnt projccts, for fin.ucing by
externzxl aejencics. Specific aims of tle studly were: thc developinriL of an
integrated rctfLonal developwmnt fraini.vwrk providing for inLtcli-ar;es hutween
th e various secLors and (h!veloj1vct projects, the ident:ifcaLion of op),rortu-
nities for irvestnment, constraiiits and irvestmemt priorities inx both L;e public
and private sector of the economy and the preparation of projects to take
advantage of t:hese opportiumicies, and filially the promotion of public ypcrti-
cipation "ivol ing local councils amd organizations in thle design and imDple-
enutation process.           .
II. Proect Imnlemntation2
2.1. Impl ent.ation Schedule
At appraisal, it was estimated that Project. works would be implemented
.over five and a half years, frm 'mid  1979 to end  1984: The estimated
schedule of physical targets  appears in table (Al). Hlowever,.
in
construction started 1980 and was comrpleted in December 1985, one year later
than originally foreseen. Delays in the start-up of the Project were mainly dur.
on  the one hand to the lengthy approval process of the loen by the Parliament
and on the other to the excessive organizational and staffing arrangements set'
by the Bank.
2.2. ReviSions
*    In Februay 1984, three years after the Project became effective, the Bank
and the Greek Government agteed to an Amendment of the Loan Agreement
(letter dated 7/2/84)..                 ,
*   *Spqcifically, the following changes regarding the Village Infrastructure.
Development Project have been agreed:
-    Increase of the amount of the Loan allocated to civil works for the
Village Infrastructure Developumnt conponent of the Iroject from US
* dollars equivalent 5,8 million to US dollars equivalent 6,5 million,
-.  the.enlargement of the Villacje Infrastructtire Develolixrnt complorent
through an increase of the number of Projcct villages fran 37 to 45
and an inclusion of additionral operations, prinarily conmecting roads,
-   the increase of the disburscntlnt percentage for civil works fronm 20%
to 40% to reflc_t the iatest foreign exchange trends,
-   the cxtcjn.ion of the Los-n closing Date from June 30, 1984 tb Jwne 30,
1985.
./.



- 123 -
The abovo m2ntionccl amnxktmets were cons.idered nocesscry because of
a)  the ccrisiderable devaluation of tie C draChnu against the unxrican dollar,
resulting in Ute decreasc of the rkauik's cv)untcibution to the Y'rojoct's financing,
the deviation from the Project-s implemOntation ScheAule and the lheavy ccantit-
ment of tht. Greck Public in relation to the expected benefits of the Project,
and b) the decision not to inmplctEnt the jecqional DoveRopoe-nt Stud:y and the
consequent re-allocation of t1he loan Fund assigned to this. Study ($ 1,2 million)
to the otlher categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
The main reason behind the decision not to implement the Regional Develop-
ment Study has been the elaboration of the,Integrated Mediterranean Programs
which receive financial assistance from the EEC.
IThe latter cover both the scope and the geographical area of the Regional
Development Study and therefore its inplementation woumld lead to undesired
overlaps and duplication of efforts.  Specifically, the IMPs have been designed
to assist Mediterranean regions in Greece, Italy and France to adjust to
competition fran Spain and Portugal.  Similarly to the Regional Development
Study, the IMPs promise to be a blueprint for an integrated approach on a
broad scale, being designed to provide an encompassing response to the
specific problems of the regions.
The IMPs contain mltiannual development operations, similar to those
proposed under the Regional Development Study. Specifically, to satisfy
their integrated nature, the included operations are mutually cceMlementary
and tailored to the regions concerned so as to facilitate their development-
having regard to their needs as well as to their economic and social develop-
went potential. Also, provision is made for naximum local involvement
FRthermore, the enlargement of the Village Infrastructure Development
Project through the inclusion of additional villages and activities was
considered a. a requisite for the geographical extension and integration of
thle Project area. The additional eight ville.]ies have been identified in the
forest districts of the Project area by the Regional Project Officers in
co-operation with the prefectural councils and the competent, local Authorities.
Among the criteria used for the selection wpre the proximity to forests,
population size, income level, develolment nceds and potential. Besides,
the new road developments, withinl the greater area of the Project villages,
have been proposed by the prefectural councils as among the most inportant
since they provide access to main regional arteries and thus improve the
level 6f conmunications.



. 124
2,3. Plwsical Jim-melnt.ationu*.
lIbe Developmnt activities inclue'dx in thc Village Infrastructtvre rkcvelop-
ment Project- were decided by thic compcLtcLt prefcctural Councils in co-operation
with the Reqional Project Officers. They were uiiinly identi.fi.ed out of thle
five-year V1ilage InfrastiLictirc Devel-opjnet Programm (1980-84), as ap,ars in
the appraisal rcport, drLtftol by the Regional Policy and Devel1oment !Senrvice
of the Ministry of National Econcmy in co-opcration with the World Bank.
Also, account has bcen taken of, first, the before mentioned amendlL-nt
to the Ioan and, secondly, th.e changing, priorities of the Project in tenns of
both the development needs of the forest villages and the aclhievement of the
Fbrestry Camponent objectives.
More analytically, during the period 1980-85, about 3 mil.drs have been
disbursed for the implemn-tation of '428 woRrks of technical and social infrastru-
.cture in the identified forest villages in the prefectures of Kastoria, Grevena,
Pella, Florina, IYikala, Karditsa, Evritania, Phthiotida and loannina. Specifi-
cally:
a. 2.071 million drs for the construction and inprovement of 416 km of connectir
roads. The performed works concern the provision of an erosion free bitu-
minous surface, earth-worlks, construction of bridges, retiining walls etc.;
b.  397 mill;ion drs for the construction and impr-ovement of 69 'mn of village
streets. f lhe performed works concern concrete paving, sidc drains -of concret:
provision of an erosion and dust free surface;
c.  37 million drs for the construction of 69 kma of rural access roads. 'Che
executed works concern gravel surfacing, provision of pennanent culverts
etc., intended to inoprove access for tractors to communal land, water
points etc.;
d.  174 million drs for the implementation of water supply works in 40 villages.
The Project provided improvements to existing supply such as collection of
water fran additional springs, replacement of old, damagod or rusty delivery
pipes, provision of storage tanks etc,; ,
e.  111 million drs for drainage and sanitation worls in 22 villages. qhe inclu.1
works concern the construction of surface water drains, and sanitation faci--
*  lities  such as soakaways. or septic tanks.
.  ..~~~~~~~~~~~
I 
. / .             _ .~~K



-125-
f.-  207 mill ion drs for cc,mmi ty facilities in 35 vil.acles, encoamp.rsing
multi-pujrlos. build.ings, and fDwnilities or, where thcsc were nona..xistent
the contnructioc of ncrvo buildingjs.  J¶M2 allocation of the disbursed funds
per catrgory of Project item-. is shca&n in table ( A2   ).
As appe<ars from tablc ( A2 ), the oannecting roads clenent has absorbod
tho Ibulk of thy disbursed funds. 91'is is justified considering that connecting
roads don't sixply provide improved accessi}4ility to villages and thereby
improve the gencral standards of living but in addition have great econodmic
3ignificance, similar to the class B roads, being constructed under the Forestry
component of the Project.
It should be pointed out that certain categories of works proposed for
inclusion in the Project at the time of Appraisal were not finally executed
as not corresponding to local priorities. Specifically:
a)   Project works concerning the provision and installation of hydrcmeters
were substituted by others including the improvement of the water
collection system and the enriclmnat of tlhe Water Supply network. As was
Confirniwd by the local authorities and regional project officers, the
latter would offer a more lasting solution to the problem of water
shortage. Furthermore, the enrichment of the water suply would secure
the water adequacy during the summer months and therefore, there w<ould
be no heed for the installation of hydromters to control the consumption.
of water by the private households;
b)   Project works concerning the construction of septic tanks on an individual
basis were .substituted bY extensions and inprovements to commmnity-wide
sanitation facilities.  In the latter case, the beneficiaries would
comprise all the members of the community instead of a limited number
of private households;
c)   The installation of television transmitters were dropped from the project
because they have been undertaken by the liellenic Organization of Radio
and Television.
Table ( A3 ) gives a picture of the actual physical development achieve-
ments undex the Proj .ct as against the developlwnt targets set at appraisal.
As hias been already stressed the Project over cxceeded thic Appralisal. estirates
as far as road developmcnts are concernod.
.~~~~~.
.~~~~~~~~~~~1



126 -
Itfgarding thc annual progress of the implenr'ntation of Project act.ivities,
ccaparinq tables (A. 1. ) and ( A. 4. ) it, can ec alleKled that apart from thc
de1.ys invtlvC'x at the con;r^nccmc!nt of tho rroject-, Project tict.vities  pi.ocecded
according to schedule. Nevertheless, mnItion slhouild be nade of certain factors
.which slowed dcun project iinplcrentation such as: shortfalls on allocxtion of
funds to the Project, bad weatler cornditions limintig the construction scason
to 5-6 man !s each year, insuffficient contra5tor's interest to warrant tendcrs
because of thee.dispersion of projoct activities, the relative mTall size of
each individual contract, the remoteness of Project villages imipeding the easy
tranfer of equipwbnt and materials etc.
Finally, regarding the maintenance anl operationual costs of Project works
Orepresentatives of
.after the Project s campletion, as it was ensured by\te Local Authorities in
the context of the sample survey,-charges will be levied on the supply of
drinking water and on sanitation services by the facilities constructed under
the Village Infrastructure Development Project. Also, with regards to Project
road develo$nerts, maintenance and repair costs will be assigned priority through
the annual Public Investment Program.
2.4. ProjectbCost
The total cost of the Project at completion was estimated,at Dr. 2,998
million.  This represents a cost overr"r of drs  2,218 inllion ccmpared with
appraisal esthiates. Particularly, at the time of appraisal, the cost of the
*Village Infrastructure Developmint Project was estimated at about drs  780.
nmillion. The cost estimate ,Ass based on 1979 prices and included physical
contingencies (to allow -for possible design variations, has bcen assessed at
20% of the cost oft.he civil wDrks), and expected price increases (assumed
-increases in local currency costs of 12% in 1979, 11% in 1980 and 10% per
arum theafter).
The significant cost over-run in local currency is mainly due to the
considerable bro-adeninbg of the Project soope, following the Amenanent, and
higher. inflation rates than originally estimated at appraisal.
The project expenditure over time broken down by works category appear
in table ( A.6.  ).
* E
S.,.- 



-127-.
2.5.  Prclivct FinancinS
'The foreiqn exchange cost of t)ia Project war. £inanced by Uhe World
Bank and U)e Tbkai Bank Ltd. _
Pngarding the World Bank loan, allocation to the Villagc InfrastrucLure
Develokpm-2nt Project was initially fixed at US $ 5,8 million, and followingc
the aan'er. n2nt to the Loan, was increased to US $ 6,5 nmllion. Also, the
Loan disbursoment percentage increased frcn 20% at thc time of appraisal to
40% in April 1984.
A total of 64 withdrawal applicati,ns, for an approximate amount of
Dr 947 million 6r US $ 6,9 million were submitted to the Bank before the
Loan Closing Date. Hiowever, the Bank payed only 58 applications for about
Dr 179 million or US $ 5,6 million. Therefore, finally, the total loan
disbursement on Village Infrastructure Development amounted to LS $ 5,6
million instead of the agreed amount of 6,5 million.
2.6.  Institutional_and M erating Performance
2.6.1. Institutional Performance
The Regional Policy and Developwent Service (RPDS) of the Ministry of
National Economy was responsible for inpleneriting the Villago Infrastructure.
Development couponent. fhe RPDS already had some experience as the executing
agency for the Evros Development Project (Loan 1457-CR) which included invest-
ments simiMLr to those of the Village. Infrastructure Developmenat Project.
In June 1981, a Project's Coordination Office (PCO) was established
at the RPDS, responsible for overall supervision of Project implarentation.
Specifically, the P0) was reponsible for putting together the annual programs
of works for each of the prefectures (nomDs) covered by the Project, and
submitting them for Bank approval, monitoring and evaluating Project progress,
iprepaxing annuaiprogress reports for review by tle Bank as well as applica-
Itions for withdravrl fra the loan Account.
Actual planning, design and supervision of Project works was the
nesposibility of the nomos where they waere locatxd. The Prefectural Councils
i(nczms coXuicils) in each of the namos had tha responpibility of reviewing
and-then deciding the annual pLrogam of project works prepared by tle rcprc-
sentatives of the Local Authorities in co-operation with the representatives
£rmm the naos  lechnical Scrvice Deparbimnts.
to
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e



- 128 -
The projcct was exccuLod by tho.rcijicnal a(jencies of the M.nWistry of Public
Works alonqg with the Tecmnical Scrvicxs- of tho Ncnmarchy.
At tho rejLonal lelveo, a icgionwl. Pro:joct Office (RrW) was set %)n wLthin
the existing regional agencies of the BUDS, for each of tlc four regionv to be
covered by the Village Devoloprjnct componnit (ic. Ccntral Weistcrn Macedyonia,
hEpirus, lhessaly and Central Greece).
'nhc .gional Project Offices ware staffed hy a Re ional Project Offic'er
asaisted by at least one engineer and one technician.
Each RPO was assigned the responsibility for overall co-ordination and
control of Project implenentation by the norps technical departments for the
villages within its region. 1-brecvter, the RPDs were responsible for a) putting
together an annual program of works proposed for Village Infrastructure Develop-
nent in the prefectures of their regions, including detailed cost estimates
nd. background data, to be submitted to the RPDs, and b) collecting annual.
information requir-ed for Project nonitoring, preparation of progress reports
as well as withdrawal application.
2.6.2. Operatinc Performance
The overall performance of the Project was considered satisfactory.
However mention should be made of certain limitations which impodld the imple-
mentation process and which must be considered in any future Development
Project.
First, some delay was evidenced in the preparation of tle annual FatJram
of Project wwrks due to the retarded preparation of the ovcrall national Public
.Investments Program. Cbnsequently, the annual program of Project works was
.submitted to the Bank for approv.al between March and July,of the samw year
instead of the anticipated at Appraisal date of 1 Decenber of the preceeding
year.
Secondly, considerable delay was involved in the discpatch of withdrawal
applications to the World Bank because of the following:
a)) as a result. of the bureaucratic strmicture of the Public Services, a long
time lapsed betwpeen the execution of the Project works and the paymcnt of the
contractors and b)  the collection process of tlhc variou-' supportive doc1mznts
concerping the expcnditure incurred. was rather lengthy mainly due to thc
unfavoirable wcather conditions :mpeding  the visits of the RPO staff to the
Project villages aid the absenice of a well organized schdale for the dispatch



- .129 _
of the relova.nt docunintation from the Iuxal Authoritier. to the .RVs.
Thi dly, some d^lay was involvod 1-i the suhmission. of annual nrogress
rC]3Drtf, v JIilch c\nvered thc phyri:ical aspect  of projects progr.ess and asc'i.-itod
financial cxcmitnrwnts, because of    on tle one hznd the lerigthy  processing
of the neccssay docimntati6n for civil WOLIks by thlo prefectural siervices aid
on the other the dlifficulties c.xperiencod by the Regioi)al Project Offie-rs
in collec';ng the necessary docime.ntation ficm the villages where the Project
works were implencntcd and their dispatclhing to the RUDS in Athens.
2.6.3. Monitorinq of the Prgicct Trogress
*      Project progress was monitored by tI  Project Officers at the regional
agencies of the RPPDs, the technical ser-vices of the prefectures and the Project
Officers at the RPDS of the Ministry of National Economy. Generally, the moni-
toring systen operated efficiently, measuring perf-irnance against agreed targets,
providing an early waz-ning of project implementation problems, and acting as a
basis for suggesting remendies enabling thus the Project to be adapted to changing
circumstances as necessary.
2.6.4. Bank Performance
A good rapport has existed between the Bank and the Regional Policy and
Development Service of the Ministry of National Econcmy, which as has been
previously. stated, was the implenentation agency responsible for the Village
Infrastructure Development Project. The.Bank actively assisted Project Prepa-.
ration and imnplenentation.  Particularly, during the missions carried out'in
the five-year period of the Project, the B3ank's representatives provided tlhe
.necessary expertise and useful guidance in discussing project related issues
and also.in reviewxng progress on the preparation of the Project's carpletion
* report. In addition, the Bank wzas flexible and considerate in agroeing to
mndify the Project both in terms of its content and duration (Increase in the
number of Project activities to account fo,- the cancellation of the Rogional
Development Study, extension of the Loan closing date, increase of the disbursc-
ment percentage for civil works from 20% to 40%,.to bring it in line with u5-
dated assessment of forcing exchznqe requrireient). Also,. there was no much
delay in the Bank-s paying the suLmittcd withdrawal applications.
Nevertheless, despite thc fact that thc Baik .aareed to kee the Account
open for withdrawal applications up to March 31, 1986, six applications for am
amount of Dr  T68 nillion or American $ 1,3 million submitted by the RPI)6 %]-.l
before tlh Loan closing Date were nOt fioal]y paid by tle Bank.
-At



- 130 -
II.   ,y~av4 S.
3.1.Hethod OF Invec.t-igation  .
*       A sample survey was caLriCed out in tle frawmwork of thle evaluation exercise
*    with thq. pupose of assessing the socio-oconomic impact of the Village In£ra-
structure .lvelopewnt Project. The basic questions attegpted to be answered
through the survey were:
i) whether the socio-oconomic conditions (incomes, levels of living) of the
target groups have changed in significant ways as a result of project
actfvities;
.ii) if so, to what extent; and
iii) if possible what alternative activities should be. undertaken.
The assessment was based on "before" and "after" project interventions.
This method of analysis involves establishing the baseline before project
implenentarion - at the appraisal stage  and assessing changes induced by
the project on ccxpletion. Thus the variables used were ccmpared for the
years 1979 and 1984.
$_ s.:'cifically, the follaoing were encompassed:
-  Survey in a random sample of 10 project villages 1 aimed at obtaining
detailed knowledge about the physical achievements of the Project and assessing
the socio-economic effccts of the Project activities as measured by variables
representing various demographic, income, employment and infrastructural attri-
butes.
Data was obtained on the basis of questiomnaires addressed to the local
officials. Material was also collected through personal visits to various
prefectural etirectorates, such as the directorate of Agriculture, the directo-
rate of Forestry etc.
(1) Communities cf: Krania, Promachi, Mala1assi, Tsopelovo, Milca (Obtsovon),
Vovoussa, Kipi, Raptopoulo, Krikello, Fourna
.. .



- 131 -
In priiul,ar, the nviin tn-ics 'covcred by the questiomnaire were:
i) lXomllcoCt-arrnIlic ecfLts mc-astirod in terno. of: Ipoilation change and not
migraLior. in the periodl 1979-84;
ii) Economuc effects, measured in terms of: forestry employmrnt, GDP in
agriiculture, livestock and forestry, estrblishment of economic units
(i.e. wood processing industries), in .thle years 1979 and 1984;
iii) Sociaal effects, mieasured1 in. terms of: state of education, health and
-  other social facilities, frequency of nmdIcal-visits, frequency of
mobile services, in the years 1979 and 1984
.iv) F.ffects on accessibiliy, neasured in terms of: state of roads, road
access to neighbouring towns, numnber of services  in tlhe years 1979
.and 1984
.v)State of technlical infrcastructureL measured in terms of: State of water
supply, .drainaae and sanitary facilities, adequacy of water supply,
sanitary problems caused by inadequate sewerage and drainage systems.
2
_ Household questionnaire survey carried out in five project villages
Interviews, on the basis of a questionnaire, were held with a random sample
of five households in each sample villacge. This survey aimed at obtaining
the local opinion on the socio-economic impact of the Villagei Infrastructure
Development Project.
*    Tha main topics covered by the Survey were: migration, the inconver4ences
of living in the village, the local attitude towards the effectiveness of
the Project in improving the social and; techical infrastructure and therefore
retainidng the younger peop!e in the Project area.
- *  Naeedless to say, much valuable infoniation was cbtained through direct
observation of the Regional Development S'-rvice staff who conducted the sample
survev. A quick tour c.f the area visited wasr made in crd.ir to obtain a gc-ne-
ral picture of the prevailing situation. Record was held of what was observed
along the itinerary of the tou-, and also of the information obtained turbugh
discussion with persons encountered casually.
(2) Coiwmnities of: Krania,, Pranachi, Malakassi, Tsepelovo, Milea (M4tsovon)-.



- 132 -
3.2.               maEj_'!'z-Fnlq 
Dcfore ciobarking upon an analysis of -I ie survey fi Udings it is Tilhiprtan L
to note that ,t. is rather early to fully asseoss-the infixact of the Villagc Infra-
structuro Development Project since infrast.muctural developImnts take some tillx
before their inp,act boclins to show. Also an overall rcuark that ought to be
made regarding the course of the survey i.s that infonmation collectcd has not
been always reliable mainly due to the lack of official statistical records
held by the iocal offici.als such as health statistics, data on agricultura'
production etc. Besides although the villapers were prcmpt to co-operate their
tendency to say w,hat the enquirers want to hcar in the hope of receiving some
kind of favour has not been alw-iys controlled.
Bearing in mind the above limitations a brief review of the survey findings
will be attempted.
On the first topic of the Projectl demographic effe&ts, table B. 1 shows that
almost all the sample conmiunities experienced a decline of both their total
and active population, over the period 1979-1984. However it is rather prema-
ture to assess the Project's deiuographic inpacts. Mbreover, the population
decline attributed to migration was not considerable.
On the basis of the data provided in table B.2emigration has slowed down
and there is a tentative trend towards return migration mainly in the ccmmuities
characterized by rich forest resources.
As was ascertained by the respondents, the greatest emigration from the
*villages took place in the fifties, sixties and early seventies.  The majority.
of emigrants were 'youtig, belonging to the age group 15-45 and left home purely
for financial reasons such as the ab6ence of adequate employment opportunities
in the villages and concomitantly very low annual incomes.  However, following
from the survey findings, the motives for tCe repatriation of past emigrants
have no relation with those behind their migration.  'iVat is to say, retun-ling
emigrants place importance in the prevailing living standard. In fact, as was
reported the: improved service provision constitutes a "puslh" factor in their
decision to settle dawm in t;.eir areas of origin. Thus the Village Infrastru-
cture DevelopTent Project, involving the uj-xjradinj of the technicatl acd social
infrastructure greatly contributed towards this direction. It is interestincg
to note that younig people interviewed stated that they intended to st.ay in
tleir vil]ac3s provided that they could find empJlopioint. Their dLcision flOt
toIui(jrate was greatly influenced by the improvement of the livingJ stZ4brd
.1.



- 133 -
in the forest villagjes as a rosult 6f tlh  Project activities.  Specifically,
the younlg re.rpnn(Ients highly appreciatod' the Iq3tovecment of lhc roid co)nJectio
a5 contriblLing to Iiiqher aucoesibility 'to the nearest urban centre or :iirc .
populous ccwnuniti s endowal with superior services.
A factor in support of the prospects for population increase in the
Project villagcs is the reported increase of construction activity. As wqs
pointed out by the.local respondents but also as was perceived by the RIMDS
staff who conducted th-le survey in most of the villages visited there has been
an expanding construction activity.  Spxcifically, the number of residential
houses increased fran 465 in 1979 to 573 ii 1984 while the number of summrer
houses increased from 92 in 1979 to 109 in 1984.
As was commentod by the local. population, the main factors which stimwla-.
ted the construction activity were:   i)  the improvement of road connections
which enabled the txanfer of construction materials and more importantly eli-
minated the problem of inaccessibility and  ii)  the improvement of the basic
infrastructure - water supply, sanitary schemes.
Although the domographic favourable impacts of the Project have not been
yet proved, there is no doubt about the overall rehabilitation of these villages.
Farestry employment has been considerably increased (table B.3.) a number of
small manufacturing and handicraft units, mainly wood processting ones have been
established, new markets 'for agricultural and forestry products have been
created and there has been an apparent increase of holiday makers, particularly
in the summer.
A brief review of each category of project activities based on the data
thrkough
provided   the intraviews held with the local population will be attempted
in the following paragraphs.
i)'  Connectinc roads:   As has been already nentioned, the bulk of project
investments was allocated to road development. Tnhc main reasoning behil d
this allocation was that road investments in the northern meunLainous areas
of Greece are amng the most important. To put it in other words, isolation,
.produced by limited accessibility to thle nearest urban contre or to more po-
pulous communities endowed with superior services has been reportod as the
principal obstacle to village life in the mountainous rural areas of Grcce.
.   .1..
A.



- 134 -
In the coutrse of the survey, all, the people intcrvicvw-,d placed conisiclo-
rablc uilhasis on the favourablc inpacts of tle conlu&ctins: roads, implenentcip
tunder the Pr.oject. As was repeatedly st-ALed, thi construct ion and impro\rnoennt
of connect-int roads ensurd thiat each village has access to an all SCasOJI
highvway. Snow and ice conditions, whi.ch t-enorarily obstructed conmlunications
can be quickly dealt with and thus ecoaomic and social disruption is reduced
to a mininmua.  In particular, some of tlhe alleged benefits of road develop-
ments are tlhe opening of ne-wi markets for the agricultural and forestry products
of the project villages, the improvement of the transfer of products, raw
materials and machinery, the coamuting of labour to nearby towns, the
increase of mobile services and in genxeral the better apcess to superior
*services.
to illustrate the significance of road investment soue examples of
road developments implemented under the Village Infrastructucture Development
Project will be presented below:
1)   Bituminous surfacing of the road Aridea-Praachi:  The implementation
of this Project activity ensured that the ccmmunity of Pramachi (with
a permanert population of about 1754) has all season access to the
nearest regLonal center of Aridea. Some of the reported benefits are:
the prompt and safe transport of forest produce (appreximate annual
forest production amounting to 30 m3) to the forest industries in
the town of Aridea and other industrial centres such as Thessaloniki
and EWessa, the increase of daily bus services linking Promachi w'ith
Aridea fran 4 in 1979 to 7 in 1984, the improved accessibility to
superior service provision, etc.   In addition, the improvement of
this main access road constituted a determining factor in the expansion
of the agricultural processing factory established close to the village
of Praachi, absorbing the agricultural produce (fru.ts and vegetable)
of the surrounding areas.
2)    m TheJ rovemnt of the connectingr rad: Metsovo-Milea ensured an all
weather-access to the national highw.ay. The implenen.tation of this
Project activity entails great econanic significance considering that
Milea is a village where wood productR.o is considerable and also
many wood-curving urorkshop.a are established. Following the canlwntCs
.                                                           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



of tho wnrkshop owners, the iinprovement of the connecfing road M4ctsovo-Milea
has greatly influencod the docision to e(2pand their opeArations since the
*transfcr of their proclucts has becn facilitated and access to nw nvmarkets
has been secured.
3)  'Dhe construction of the connctcng roacl from the        1,-uhini- -Kalyeyn ui i
leading to Krikello and DIaniista. The constructioni of tlhis road assumas
its full significance if we consider that. the canl!uunities of Krikello aud
Dommista are typical examples of less favoured, mountainous,-isolated forest
villages. Specifically, these villages are charactcrized by law level of
service provision and limited range of employment opportunities given the
low potential for agricultural developn.ent due to the barren soil.  Inaccessi-
bility to superior facilities resulting from deficient transport prior to tie
construction of the concerned road aggravated their inferior standard of
living and led to the emigration of the young. The provision of an all weather
access to the national highway was highly apprecia Led by the local respondents
as both promoting the economic life of the villages <m-a improving the overall
level of living.  That is to say, some of the accruing benefits of this
particular project activity are the creation of new outlets for the wood
products of the villages and the provision of an all weather access of thie
local population to superior services.   These factors woult contribute
to retaining the young labour required for the exploitation of the rich
forest resources.
ii) V_aqge_streets included ir the Project have been paved with concrete and
provided with side drains. Also, in a few villages, designated as "Tradi-
tional", village streets have been paved with hand-pitched block stone
instead of concrete in order to confonm with the traditional Greek style.
j   Following the statements of the local respondents, the imrovcarents of
village streets carried out under the Prcject contribuLed to preventing
erosion and dust- nuisance Which may be detrimental to.health, and in  .
general to improve the amcnities of the villages and pr6vide a more hygicnic
environment. Particular mention was made .of the bertter transport of products
to the houLses and uarkshops.
iii) Rural access roads included in the Project llave been gravcl surfaced anld
provided with pecr"anent culverts.' As ras stated by the local respondents.,
.                      s~~~~~~~~~~~
* ~ ~    ~                     / .-v4-



- 136 -
mninly in tlhe agricultural arcas ofr nortlern Greece, the inTwrovcjmr'nt of
tle rural xrods facilitated the access of trzictors to the communal land
and therefore conduced to thc increase of acgiAcultural production.
iv)   LaterKSuj 12:  As was indicated at tl'c appraisal stage of the Project
but also verified by the local pxopulation durinj the stuvey, all the
Project villages had a water supply systcmr prior to the implementation
of the Project. Also, although health statistics are not availab.e there
was no incidence of prevalent diseases  linked to poor water sUpply or
sanitary conditions. The main problem besetting the Project villages,
regarding water supply, was the water irradoquacy, particularly in the
summrn months. The water supply works, execut-ed under the Project
concerned the increase of the collecting capacity at sources, the extension
of the reticulation network to all parts of the village, the replacement
of old and damaged delivery pipes etc. In the course of the survey, all
the local respondents in villages whcre water supply works have been
implemented alleged that an adequate supply of good quality watcr was
secured to cater for both human and animal consuxpiion, mainly during
the summer months when the human population is usually double that of
the winter. Specifically in most of the Project villages, the water
supply systems provide a maximum daily quantity of 75 litres of acceptable
quality water per person. Besides the reticulation network has been
extended to all parts of the villages so that all the houses have been
mcnnected %rith the water supply system.
*v)  Surface water drainage and torrent control included construction of open
storm water drainage channels and small box  culverts. This category,
of Project works was considered particularly important by the local popu-
lation as in all the Project villages, steep sidelong gradients on the
mountainous and on the village streets cause erosion problems. Surface
water drainage and torrent control contributed to preventing lanc. slides,
the undermining of roads and building foundations and loss of valuable
topsoil, and therefore conduced to the improvement of the social and
health envirnmment of the project villages;
vi)  Sanitation: Sanitation schemes i:nplemen(ed under the Project included
construction of septic tanks, soakage pits and sewers for the disposal
of effluents and brude sewage when waterborne sanitation and ilnloor
I.
*/                    



- 137-
9. 
bathin(J facilities were used. Aslto.icgh no instances of infect:uos
-diseases were reported beforc the iwlploientati.on of the Project, un-
satisfactory sanitation caused hygienc problems. As tlhe local re_non-
dents stated the sanitation' schancs pra,iZIed by the Project havc greatly
contributed to tbo inproxvcimnt of the social and hcialth environrnent and
therefore accoluntd to a great extent'for the growth of construction
a.ctivity.
vii)   T_tnuiPacilities:  This category of project works included constru-
ction, improvenent cand additions to miscellaneous comnunity facilities
*such as: Ccmnmity centers incorporating offices and rest house accax-
dation for the cocx nty adminictration and official visitors, rural
dispensaries, primary schools, childrenfs playgrounds, cultural centers,
iriprovenents to the village square etc. Community facilities can be
described as essential for village life and th=refore have been assigned
prime Imp3rtance by the local population.
Particularly, in the course of the survey, the local respondents repeatedly
stressed the fact that cmployment alone is not a sufficient stimulus for the
attraction of the young people if not acccmpanied by the improvement of overall
living conditions-health, education, recreation.
To illustrate the significance of community facilities some examples of
project works pertaining to this category and observed during the survey will
be briefly descrJbed in the following paragraphs.
1)    The construction of a 12 rocm__uest house in the community of MaLakassi.
This Project activity has beer hiqhly appreciated by the local resporidents
as .contributing not only to the development of tourism, but also to the
increase of the local financial resources, given that the guest house
will be run by the oommunity authoritWes. Malakassi, a village endowed
with rich forest resources and beautiful scenery, is situated on the
m nain access road connecting the districts of Crevena and ioannina.
.Therefore, it is evident that the lack of accommodation before the.
construction of the guest house constituted the main impedtdmct to the
davelopment of tourism.
2)    ThergEgir of the pr gyschool and the kindergarten in the community
of Mi]ea.  Milca is a groWing community owing to the rich forest
resources and tlhc existence of wood curving worksh1o6s. Contrary to
other otwuntainous villages in Grcce, it. is characterized by a caside-
.   .                  ~~~~~~~.1..



-138-
rable'%us=er of chilclxci at schoolago, and therefor.e saeisfactory school
facilities constitute 6noc of tic mai n denands voicecl by the local popJl-ula-
tion. As was stated by thie local respond:nts blut. also observed at the
Project Ap-praisal stage, the primary school was in a particularly b-ad
'state beafore the implementation of the Project. 1Jiowevnr, the RPIDX staff
who visited the school in the course ofg the survey worc. >ally imiprossed
by the improvements incurred to thie school under the Project.
3) . The construction of a rural dis2ensa,y in the commuiity of Mil;a:
This project activity has been considered as mostly significant by the
local respondents since deficient medical services constitute the principal
cause of emigration. Before the construction of the rural dispensary,
the.local population relied.on the services of a visiting doctor who. was
acccmmodated in the community office. Needless to say there was no enough
space for the provision of satisfactory nmdical services, and, in addition,
during the winter, the frequency of medical visits was very low, while
if weather conditions were particularly bad the villagers were depri-ved
of any medical services for a month or even more.
4)   The onstruction of a                    the conmn  of Tseelovo, where
*   spe4ches, reetings, theatrical performances and other festivities could be
organized. To illustrate the inportance of cultural facilities in the
*     Greek periphery it should be noted that in all the sample villages young
but also older people interviewed stressed the lack of opportunities for
an effective use of leisure time as.an important problem associated with
..their life in the village.  As has been reported, all social end cultural
facilities are concentrated in the districts- capitals while all other
comiunities are deprived of any cinema, cultural centers  sports clubs
etc. The only means of recreation during winter time is the television
set, which introduces urban living patterns and therefore reinforce .the
desaxe of villagers to escape from rural life.



-139--
In concljxi.on, as was percceivd in tUhe course of the survey, the local
attitude towards thle overall effectiven-sEL of the Village Infrast-ucture
pevelopn-iLt Project in inmroving villa,e life and concanitantly restraining
the emigration of the young fran the forest villagcs was particularly
favourible. Tne majority of the local respondents alleged that thc Project
activities contributed to meetirng the real nneds of tlicir villages in terms
;     of infrastructure.   In their view, the up4jading.of tle tecihnical and social
infrastructure would result not only in retaining the necessary labour to be
employed in forest activities but also would boost prodtuctive investments
which further stimulate local employment.
*        BIowever, all the local respondents placed emphasis on two principal'
* .considerations. Firstly, the conrinuation of tlhe activities not completed -
* .    before the end of the Project, and secondly, the implementation of catple-
mentary infrastructural developments which although not--of a priority nature
would further enhance the favourable impacts accrued from the Village Infra-
structure Development Project.



-140-*                                ,         t
IV. Conclusion3-
The Vt Wlage Infrastructure Developimnt Pro.jct financcd provision of
basic infras.tructiue facil-ities suchli as cornecting roads, villacle streets,
water supp.v, drainage/sanitary schemes and ccznmunity facilities in a xt-tal
of 45 nxuntainous forest villap,es in North Western Grccce;. The rationalc
*    behind the decisi6n to implement the Villagp Infrastructure Project was
the realization that the labour required for the forest activities included
in the Integrated Forestry Development Project would not be secured without
the improvement of. the social and technical-.infrastructure in the Project
area.                                    D,
The Village Infrastructure Development Project started in 1980 and was
*copleted in Decmeiber 1985. Apart from the delays involved at the coimnnce-
enxt of the Project, its overall implementation progress was considered satisfa-
ctory. During the period 1980-85, about Dr  3 Billion have been disbursed
for the iuplementation of 428 works of technical and social infrastructure.
Most of the physical developjnent targets have been achieved while the Project
surpassed the Appraisal estimates as far as road developments are concerned.
Regarding the effectiveness of the Village Infrastructure Development
Project, following the survey findings, it can be alleged that the Project
has been successful in accomplishing its main objectives, namely: to upgrade
the social and technical infrastructure and improve accessibility of the
forest workers living in relatively remote mountainous villages, thereby,
helping to slow down the rate of emigration and retain younger people in
the.Project area.:
In conclusion, it should be.emphasized that valuable experience has been
*   gained by the Recjional Policy and Development Service of the Ministry of Natio-
nal Economy for the design, appraisal, monitoring and evaluation of any future
- development projects financed by InternationiAl Organizations.



- 141 -
.~   ~~ ..                                  * 
, ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:~~~~~~~~~~~ * *



la.>e ; Ij
Integrated Forestry  evelcpmtent Project
Village Ifrastrucxre Developyt
Phasing of Project Physical Dcvlopnt Taigets (apraisal)                               ,
ITSl               Unlbit    I   1979-80        1981       1982   1  1983   r   1984          Total
1. Co.nectinc roads           )an            16,0       *  24,0      28,0        28    1   28,5          124,5
2. Village streets           . km   .         5,6           11,0      15,0        18,5      20,0         .70,1
3. Azal Acoessroads            M     .                      14,0      14,0       14,0        5,0          47,0
4.  ' at*er sueply         Villages        '2                7               7               5            28
5. D-raiage/sanitati n.      *                2              3         6                     4            21
6. Ulectr izity               n                              4.        7     j    7          4            22
7. Othexctc2mnity                             4              5         9          11         7      [, 36
.Fac__ilities            .                          _             . i  . .  ._.____  -, 
So,rce: Atoraisal Report
Source: APoraisa3. Rort                                                '                                  t 



Table (A.2)1
Disbursed roman Fnds l'Nr C-tteckor2.2of ItC'mns
*  S/N    .   Item                   . Disbursed Fuunds
1.    Cbnnecting roads                     2.071                   69
2..   Village streets         .           ,  397.                  13
. 3.    Rural access roads                     37                   1
4.     Water supply                  *        174                   6
5.    Diainage/Sanitation       .              11                   4
;    . . 6.  ommnity facilities                   207   .7



-. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .-  -  n. ..~  -* ..-.s_-  . A ..............
-145-
Tale3   (A. 3)
Physi-cal rive1.qynernt Achievimunts as v'6;iwcLt P'bsicaJ Divolorent Targets
S/N   Il:em       Unit      Estimatecd at                     Actual
SIN           -                          h       s1dl I      Actual        Est.i.ttd
*        1.  Conmecting roads            kmn         124,5.             416            3,3
.        2. Village streets              km         .70,1                92,0          .1,3
3.  Rural access roads         kmn          47,0.              69,0          1,4
4. Water supply             Village         28                 40            1,4
w           ~~~covered,
5. . Drainage/sanitation        "           21                                     22  1,04
5.                                           21                 22
6. E;lectricity                 "           22                  7       .    0,3
7. Other Cammity                "           36            .   .39            1,08
fAcilities



Table (A.4) 
Integrated Forestry Developent Project
Village Infrastructure Developmant      .
Phasing of Project Physical Developmant Achievements
ITEM               Unlt       1979-80      7981 *                     3     1984                     otal
_     ,,       I         _ _~~~~I              I       .I    32.
1. Co=nect!ng. roads    !5                             16         29           32       100    1   24
2 2. Village streets            km          5           15         21          16         15         23    j      92
3.  R-al Access Roads                       - =        ._ 31        7          13          6         12 .        69
4.  .-_ter supply           Village         6            9         14           9         17         25           40
5. lZRainage/smitation          "  '        4  .3    1              7           9         12         17          22
*6.  `:sctricity                                          3   .       1    |.                              .,       7
7. Other coazunity                           3           4         12          15         28  .      2            39
facilities                                          4j         1      ,''
i~~~~~~~~~~~



V==~~A
__________ %                             f      .        A.LsI  ____________: !nFil11.Ar,4~IAr
4    6        7                                                    13        i4       iskfl  ~2~  ~16   1 I        .                       t        2           22
12,3 S  9,03.                     3,       *-      1,5      1,7     .2,7     5.0        5       0CA       360                1.7        - 
11,5           -    '3,0       2.5       S,S   1.0.   I's                    7      5.        3                   .      0,9       16.9                                                                2
:.1. ~~~~~~~ ~13,0                 -       2.0.                                       . -     g          -         -       1,1       2,7      11         -        0,2 
I   d  1                      9.~~~~~~~~50  9,1  2.0    '3       1,1       -       3.0                -         0,7               I 1S      0.3                    4, -                   04I
I                     I           -                           7,3 ~~--         12,8        0,2                .~1,
6d,6     C'S     3's     29,5      1.5     8                 I 1S               2       S,7  7f                                            O     :1   b,G       8,4         lo,,1       .6'
1611   ll,G  22,4  3,S  3,7  I's  I'S           0.6      -   ~    0,5      6,03    1.,614,5             1.2        _3
'~~   I  6.11   110  224  3,8  3.75    1,5  1,5.   .~~~~4,                I  S    f  0,6        3,7      -         1.21      0.2.                             .            32         8.
2,   ,4   1      4.1         11.3
*-i.    2:$                1.2 5,0       bA          1.0 . -                               ,      22         12       ,         , 14.6  . 
4o* 3.3                    2, 28            1,7.    2.8      9,0       3,0               -0,                "                             (6.2                       5, 
134.5    2.5  5.0    45,0     .4 -                    *"'                                   2 ,2      1,2     2,2                  0:788                                                    5,
..              ~~~~~4.5  ~       18      16            ,6   1,71SS  ,02,2                                                    0.2Ia                   2"       6 5,0       lt;*         38.1
-_.5    ~ 0    14,0     6,5      2,       I'
1         332,2     -                    -.07  * i            22S    '0.1           10.2        38.0
32,0  -  S,O     S,O      .                     , 0-II
Z4,7  6,6   1,0     210      5,0     56.       2,0     1.9      -,                                                                          ' -  2,0 ,  ,  01 -..           73.         25.2       159.
I                                                                 :.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .    ,  2.2  .5,7  0.s              -                     3.,9      5.I.        .2,4        47.;
*        I          I   -       ~~       ~~ ~~-  -  10,0   :.4.3   4,0     3.0               0 ,4                       0.6sOS     ,       3.4        -                                3,1      1.6        .45,0        92.4
a,        -        9.0    14.0    12,7    -4.0       3.0                                          1         481,
(.0.                      4~~~~~~~~2,1,'40           .      2--      --0      0-       -                                   £107                                                         0.2      0,A          14,4        :9.2
1  12.2  -  4,0  ..,.  ,,,.    0.6     -                                  ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~1.5  2.3  13        --                    4.3       0.2         19,6        7O.5
s.c. ...,.a  I  .                                   1,8~~~~~~~~I'     0,4                                                    10--                                                48        50852.
5.11. o..~~~~~~~~~...  2 ~~~~.1,7                                     0,3                                            ..3,4                                                  .      .        ,0                     3.0,
.V.. i~~~~~~~~ ~13,6                     a                1,3         *     0,4.         .     .                                                                                                                           .
4.2



*   ~~~~  1                                         1-           -        -                  -   I  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     -         0.41           -        2,6       15.8       26,3         65,4~~~~~~~1,3 -  sq 26.  fs.
* ~~~  14.'  1 24,5    5,0        15 ~~~~~~ 7.5    25,0      3,0     6.0     -                  -@.   I                              .i        -         02.2-                   01         9.0        7.9         o.
t~~4y'~~a   j   -   . s.84J             4       S,5      28.5     2.0      6.61.             -                           *I        '       *         ---                               -           *42
-.    109  -      7,6    -~~~~~I'                    S'S,             it6,0              -                                                                                      4--    -9.
;.6                  4,0               6,~~       ~          ~~0  -                                                        ,0         -*.
-   25.41    -                          a-.106           2,5...                                                                                                                                         0.
-  .              -      ~~~~~~ ~~14,9     I 3s
..-'            -        3~~~~     ~      ~~~4.61  3.3  2.5  2,6      1.O     0.                         -         0,5               1.9      3.1      4.5        0,4             -       2.7        4,   1       .7        Is.),
... .......,,t.4..m   -         -    *2A         17,5 ~~~~~~~~~41.0  1,              -                      -            5,0               4,2          -             -       3.9  .6.0              5,43
'.,. ~~~~       -        -        - ~~ -            2,5      4,9     'Ao      3. ,7             1,5     3.0       1.0I.    1,8'     8,4            - -                    . -             1,2        5.3        1.3         20.7
3.0     -        3        2,5      4,0                     -                                      .       35        0.        *                                  ,3      .6,   IS     36       1.
-   26.3     -                  -       0,7              0.2                        -         -                 36        *                                                      3, 7
*   313.                                 Q oi             0 ,...                                                                                                                 0,3                   139.2
*1.  sa  -        -        -        -       5.0~~~~~~~~~~sl  35,6  2,0  2.6    -                  -17                       11.3       -                   0,7          .6         4.6        3,6        16.2        31,2
-    0,2              4 53     3,8      4.N      I,5     1,4               -                          6,5      Is.0      2.2       -         0.2      .               .6                   I 4.5       49.5
...:.-~~~~i (3c~~~.o   -   -.  -             3~~~.1,3  35,0    4,5      3,6          -             -                 1,   *                                  .                       .9                   I 1.2      *3S.0
* .~~. k.c..wll2  -     1100,              1 2.0    2, 1,              .0     i's    -           -        *                  .      123        -                   02             -        4.8                  id's,       342.1
-  -        -      50        77      2,0      34       o.                          58      .1        ,        ,6       -          020,                     .         48        1
~~. ..~~~ffJ     .0(A       60S    216.0    .9,7       6,6     II's     1.6      a,'s   -           -                         4,4     18.2       1,8                 0,2            -        5,2       1Is3.33                 4.
l2~w    14,0 *295,2   40.0          36,9     7,.5    15.s      3.0     3.6   2,2         1,1      5.0       1.5     1,7.    7;4        5IS     12.0        0.6            3,0      4.5        32.9      146.0       34a.2
.. ~~~~~     - ~~     29,1     - .      1,4      I,8     30.8      1.5     I,5                -            -                     2,3      *                    0.2            0.6     *2,3       42.7         6.2        45.3
267,6                                                                   -         -~~~~~~~s  ,7 2,  A  .   S'  -.  -,  CA0-                    -'.       -                    48        1.71.
rML    ~ ~    ~     27     145       416,0   103,0    39.3        0,1    92    17,0        37.2    47.0        69      7,6    373.6      36.8     10,        1007i
-   -                                                                                       £~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10s 1.  7,  107.8-  200.-t  710.0  2.19797,
.O 



*   XIz,LZ                            r, ...  srntxt ri&-,wr r, .
P.BSING OF PROM= PHYSICAL -                 TA     S Z D          Z            !_:'...... ._.-.* :..  :...
T- 1 .L'-T   -- 1   | R  Y2 P.      3                                     4A514     A
i                  !                  ..                      !n                          -     , 4
T=41  I T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~cc:~ ~c~ns  I    L~Gfl1 (Ic.:)1I   .      ga           19.1932                     1004                 234
;CT:C.N ?CIADS                                       29          32~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    . 
I os                    16*     j            I                                       2I  II             4
j     CSsrT(S)         21,500- .     59,708        88,3412    ! 186,783   .'566,873              1,147,871
5 _   EC ( i 5,    1  15.   1    21     16             s                    20!
CC (S?s)    |  12,228    j54,66            | 81 632        57,305       60,674               13,937 77
-----  T-----------.                 .              +                        .~~~~~*  ---  I_    '-
Iz ¢                                                   31 7: (t;4)   *   _  '    .13             6                    12
§    C__''(DPS)    !    ~    .-    i   9,095  !  4,112      4,700        3,921                is 15  08     !    7*.
-------_ _ _ T-------Z-.    -4
9                   '.9.
c 4 .;y               . *a.co *MT-ES  6              '14      t .                17           t2,                 L
CC-T(CSP)         2,720       18,029         26,172        40,038j   31,012                   r-5,65,7  -17       -,c
~~~~~~-~-r----________                                           ._--  .
2.72/        1J | ao.O' VThL....oSj     4              3              7     .    9             12                   17 3
c33T(!S)    1   1,430. !.  -2-,702            9, 159        19,373      24,749          |     5397              ilG,-
. c   o t  c:a.r. v *Jz,  |  J     ,  3                                     2      1  2 .31397*                     1 r
4                  IO':':  .1       1 ~  i                             I           .           a 
s  c_'i> (r S5)   i        I  4 rt3,934         8.19.    *    851         1,994                                   7 -
,Y r^-'N_  ,;O , .O:?                   3              4s  *4       12..   * 15    .          2                     28
:X;~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ a;                              .1v7s          a tl r* *    i- 
2  -' -                                                                71,032               6-,377            2 L-,'
_________J                          -  j    -. ~~~ I -                 ,__                                              _ 
1,389         3,4                       350410 1
*  39,267        151,521 *50,460                          760t305             11473,157         2,997, Z
*                                               151,52 .                                . 22,3



- 151'-
. -                              .    !
S .                      .              . 
.-~~~~~~~ *'  .'"
PNE . B (Statistical Material fromn the Sarrp1e
-  ~         Sunrvey ) 



Table B.1.
1979                           1984                        1984-1979   a.ange
CcFrmmitiei       I Tb              Ation         Total          Active          Total              Active
*IPopulaticn  ! Population   iPopulation  I Population                Populati30            * 1
_   _   I   _    - t      - j             -     ~~             ~~~~~~~~~I I'  -  - _      _
1. Kra-. a                550           400            .250     j      210              54%              -48%
2. Promachi             1.853         1.250      |    1.754          1.300     1+  4
3  Va'kassi1              360     r     180     Q       400            220.           +11%        !       25%
4. Tspecovo              *500    1      450      |      350            330            -  3%              -26%
5. Milea (.'ztsovO.U)    1.600        1.834           1.245          1.355            - 22%     -|         24%
6. 'Vvcousa          i    131     |      67.            146             80            + 11,4%            + 111, l4%
7. Kipi              j  :200          1.200             172          1.000            - 14%              -16%
8. Raptopoulo       1j 25         j     850             997            750            -20%               -.11%
9. Yzf.llo           |    300           210             280     1      200               6%     4I                    t
10. Foura                  915           560             930            580            +  1,6%               3%
.Total        I  7.659     I   5.921           6.524          5.125
:x.n          '   765,9    !   592,1 9         652,4     I   512,5             _ 15               -13%.
Source:  -ppraisal R_crt
Statistical Records of Local Authorities



t .
.~~~~~~~~~~14 ,-_
Tab] o B. 2.
MIGRATION
j et Migration in the         Net Migration in the
CROM( NITrEs         period 1977-79              period 1979-84
1.Krania               - 300                         -250
2. Prcmachi_           -259                            _
- 3. Malakassi               0.                       + 34
* S    4. Tsepelovo          -  20                         -  30
, -  5. Milea (Mtsovciu)    - 222                       - -.11
*      6. Vovousa.             -   3         .
7 Kipi                   -
8. Raptopoulo          -50                               0
9. Krikello            -  30                            19
10. Fourna              -  25                         +  13
.~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         , . .  ' .
Source: Appraisal Report
Interviews held with the representatives of the Local Auth-orities
inte ors   f hSpe  uv .y
*       ~~in the cour.sc of the Sn'ple Survey'                



- 155 -
Tablc  D. 3.
P1oqz1qmrt in Fo. estry
I     ~~1979      *1984
.,*            TIE         | Enllyment inl ForestrY    l }loy1prrt  i8n Eorestxy
1. Krania
2. Pranachi               .  14,2%                     .    37%
3. lalakassi     .           .60   %      -                 64%
4. Tselepovo                  10,5 %                         16 %
.     5. Milea (Matsovoxa)         100   %                        100 %
6. Vovousa                   63   %    .                    64%
7. Kipi                .      14   %                         14%
i    . 8. Paptopoulo                17,6 %          -              20 %
.9. }rikello                  33  96                         31%
10. Fourna                    23   %                         30%
M4ean                     33,5%              L          376%
Source:    Appraisal Report
- Statistical Records at, the Forestry Department of the Nomarchies



- 157 -
*  -                                                     fi.&zWt4 h  *'  h
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF GREECE
ANIMAL PPOOUCION DIVISION tVo  C ,ECT10 41b
6.8-10 HARILAOU IRIKOUPI SIR.
GR . 106 79 ATHENS - GREECE
INTEGRATED  FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT.
Credit for loqqino esuipment
Project completi-on report
Introduction
The ABG has undertaken the responsibility of.the project
Part B' implementation which is referred to the logging equipment
procurement.
As it is known the project area comprises continental westeri%
and northwestern Greece and the Peloponnesus.
The project, acccxding to the SAR, aims to
1) Save foreign exchange by increasing wood pr2duction.
2) Introduce mechanized logging and intensive forest
management systems
3) Provide more permanent employment and improved quality
of life to retain workers in forest villages.
i           4) Built up local capabilities for preparation of projects
for exter.al financing.
What the Project ( Part B' ):comprises
The SAR determines that the project would finance logging
equipment to be purchased by cooperatives and private operators
ot the pro3ect area.
Tne logging machinery procurement could increase the use of
mechanical methods of skidding from stump to roadside.
The'table below shows the machinery included in the project
*    Part B' ).
.    ./. .~~~~~~~



- 157 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 2 of 6
1.2  Imports of Household Aluminum Utensils
Exporting                        1983                             1984
Country            Wt. in ton          Mkt Share      Wt. in tons       Mkt Share
France                   24.7              23Z
Soviet Union             32.7              30Z              89.6              52Z
Ghana                    31.2              29Z              35.8              212
China                    10.7              lOZ              11.4               7Z
S. Korea                 -                                   8.1               5X
Others                   -                  82              -                 15Z
TOTALS                  109.3             100Z             171.5             100Z
Source:  Import Statistics (1983-4) Chamber of Commerce Abidjan, Cote d"Ivoire.
1.3 Customs Tariffs
Items -                     Fiscal         Customs        TVA        Cumulative
i) semi-processed
aluminum
products              20Z               5Z          262                 51Z
ii)   aluminum
household
utensils              35Z               5Z          26%                 66Z
Source: Customs Tariffs in Cote d'Ivoire Chamber of Commerce, Abidjan.
1.4       Bank charges include insurance commission (12 of C&F value per
annum), telex fees (1502 of P&T fees), documents filing fee (3000-5000 CFA)
and government tax (252 of the above), while insurance fees are based on the
value declared at the customs point of entry either in f.o.b. or c. & f.
values.  Fees on household aluminum products range from 1% to 1.75% of C&F
value depending whether the goods are containerized or not.
0
ANNE%6.1



- 159 -
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF GREECE
ANIMA& PPOOtitI.,ON DIVISION
6.5-iD HARILAOU ThIKOUPI SIR.
GR - 105 79 ATHENS - GREECE
Funds for logginQ equipment procurement
It is known that a Subsidiary Agreement was signed between
the Hellenic State and the ADO on May 18, 1981.
Accoiding to this ,the Greek Government under the terms of
the Loan Agreement, has relent to ABC, out of the proceeds of the
World Bank Loan, an amount of one million two hundred thousand
dollars ($3.200.000) equiva lent for the financing in part of the
Sub-loans under Part B of the Project on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the World Bank the amount so relent and made
avalaible to ABG beneficiaries of Sub-loans should be mainly
co-operatives and private loggers operating in the Project area.
Preference should be given to those who had received training in
mcchanized logging methods.
It was also deternined by the Agreement the appointment by
ABG of a qualified and experienced Credit Officer on a full-
time basis who should be responsible for the co-ordination and
review ef the implementation of Part B of the Project.
Terms of Sub-loans. Appraisaland Approval of Sub-loans
The applications of beneficiaries were  submitted to the
ABG branches in the Project area and were appraised by the
for esters and approved by the ABG officers-according to the
valued rules.
Mainly the appraisal included :
a) creditworthiness and managerial competence of the
beneficiary.
b) technical feasibility, financial viability and economic
justification for the investment proposed.
c) detailed cash-flow projections evidencing generation of
sufficient cash-flow to cover debt service and other expenses and
d) compliance with-all criteria referred to the proper Part
of the Loan Agreement.
.1.



- 16C -
*|t"F        Z  ;'::*  :t_. , a                                    .: s¢'"
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.5                         St4itt    ** 1'
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF GREECE
AWIMAL PRODUCTION DlVISI10
6-8-10 HARILAOU lIRKOUPI SIR.
GR - 106 79 ATHENS - GREECE
The Sub-loans were made available for a term of not more
than eight year including one-year of grace.
The beneficiaries contributed fror their own resources up
to 20% of the estimated cost of the procured equipment depending
on the beneficiaries'income.
The carried interest of Sub-loans on the principal amount
outstanding frodm time to time was the some with the other
Agricultural purpose loans.
The Sub-loans were secured by mortgages on the fixed assets
of the beneficiaries.
Tho State subsidy, when approved for predetermined nu..'er of
project's machinery, was used for repayment of a part of Sub-
loans.
Procurement of machinery
Logging equipment was procured by beneficiaries through
regular commercial channels under supervision of ABG.
The equipment satisfied the specifications prepared by
DG F and approved by the Bank.
-implementation of the Project-Part B'
The imlementation of the Project-Part B commenced, really,
in the second half of 1980, that is one year approximately after
the date of loan Agreement.
From the begining of the implementation some weaknesses
were apparent, towards achievement the project's targets.
The ABC foresters first reports, stated that the necessities
for logging equipment in the project area were much less than those
included in the project machinery list.
There was no demand for cable systems procurement, because thc-
price of these machinery was considered quite high particularly for private opera-
tws,while the coops,which could afford the price factor,did not express any in-
terest



- 161 -
AVuaAFpN' - 'HEINS
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF GREECE
ANIMAL PRQOUCTION DIVISION
B-8-10 HARILAOU TRIKOUPI STR.
GR - 106 79 ATHENS - GREECE
A limited interest for the procurement of skidders was shown by private operators
due to their high purchasing price and for the reason that the applied State system in
granting the relevant licences,did not make any distinction in favor of the buycrs of
these machinery through the project, a fact which resulted to an excessive number of
workers in contrast to a small volume of available cuts.
The agricultural tftdtofi'-with logging trolleys were more convenient to the ope-
rators for skidding. It is noteworthy that almost all active forestry cooperatives in
the area,had not submitted any application to AB branches for the procurement of log-
ging equipment,because the relative needs were covered by their own machinery and the
mules of their members.
It is also remarkable that the most private operators who purchased agric.tractors
with logging trolleys are also farmers and they use the tractors both for the culti-
vation of their own land as well as for forest works in order to justify better the
e.conomic viability of their tractors.
It must be er.:phasized that the government's subsidization of the logging machine-
ry contributed, a great deal, towards encouraging the operators for their purchase.Un-'
fortunately,the subsidization did not cover all the categories of machinery financed
by the project. So, during the wlhole period of the project implementation the subsi-
dization covered the following machinery: Skidders,several cable transport systems,
special loading cranes"and power saws while the agric.tractors with logging trolleys
were- subsidized up to 1982. Nevertheless, the possibility of subsidization depenAed
always on the available amount of the relevant State credit.               '@  '
Taking into consideration the reasons which caused a delay of the project imple-
mentation,we suggested the completion of the logging equipment list with new logging
machinery. The supplementary machinery were selected by the ABG foresters in the area
and were approved both by the DGF and the Bank. The below table comprises the machi-
nery apportioned in the years left i.e. 1982-83-84.
Item    Year              1982      1983      1984        Total
Power  saws                 15Q       150       150         450
Loaing cranes                10        10        10          30
Skidding winches             20        20        20          60
All purpose vehicles          -        20        20          40
Debarking machines            -         5         5          10
.    .     ________________________________________________________________________---
 



- 162 -
IILMPIOMI    s6 c( Of.1LC*'I.A   ij
AGRAAiOANK ATHtN'
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF GREECE
ANIMAL PRODUCTION DIVISION
6-8-10 HARILAOU TRIKOUPI STR.
GR - 106 79 ATHENS - GREECE
The introduction of the supplemerntary machinery in the list did not contribute
to the project implementation progress at the expected level.The reasons for the delay
have already been mentioned in our quarterly reports to the Bank.
In summary, the main of these reasons were:
a) The logging operators have never been assured that they can have skidding con-
tracts with large enough volume over a long per;od of time (at least 3-5 years)so as
to amortize their investments.
b) The absence,from the project area , of properly trained young people to handle
the logging equipment.
c) The inadequacy of all weather access roads and tractor roads which delayed the
extension of logging operations and mechanization of skidding particularly at the be-
ginning of the prcject implementation,but the situation was gradually improved with
the progress of the roads construction.
Reports for the impLlementation progress of_the Proiect ( Part B)
The quarterly reports and the relative tables were been submitted regularly. But,
in order to ease and simplify the processing of the relevant data ty ABG regional
branches, it would be preferable that the tables were submitted to the Bank every
semester instead of every three months.
Procurement of euLprnent
The beneficiaries of the sub-loans had had the opportunity to purchase the equip-
ment from the market providing that it satisfied the specifications approved by the
Bank.
In some cases , the logging trolleys were made in local workshops.
The sort and the number of the purchased logging equipment till December 31,1985
are shown in the following table:



- 163 -
AGflARI9ANb   AHtHCN
' AGRICULTURAL BANK OF GREECE
ANIMAL PRODUCTION UIVISSON
G-8-tO 1iARILAOU TRIKOlJI'I STR.
GR - 106 79 ATHENS - GREECE
___________________ _____________________________--_________________-___.-.
Ite        E Q UITP ME NT                   (000L Drs.
I t e m      ..__.___T_P_M_E_________ ._____  _________
Unitosed  UP tr oc u r_e d  ABG- loans Total value
________________ Up-its   Units  rorm_   ____  ______
-- ---- p~~~~~~roflram'
Agric. rubber        12        5       41.7    20.166       25.207
tire  skidders           _
Agric. tractors      87       44      050.5   47.414       59.267
witb log.trolleys
___________________- ------------- _______-__________-_________-__________
Logging trolleys     53        2        3.7        320         400
Short cable system   34        _        ._         _
Long cable svstem     2        _         _         _
Power saws          450      192       42.6      7.921       9.901
Loadina cranes       30       11       36.6      8.375      10.468
Skiddina winches     60       _         _          _
All purpose vehicl   40        2        5.0      1.980       2.475
Debarking machines   10       _         _          _
--------      -.------------------------ 
T o t a 1        778      256       32.9    86.176    107.720
Procurement cost of loQaina egui ment
The procurement cost of each machine category varied according
to its tvpe, the manufacturer and its HP. Moreover,fron time to time
the cost was influenced bv the inflation given the 5 year period re-
quired for the completion of the project.
The number of the various machinery procured every year during
the project implementation neriod, is shown in the following table:
.1/..                0



- 164 _
ACRAPIA10.  *£ThtNF
AGRICULTURAL BANIK OF GREECE
&NIMAL PRODUCi ON DIVISION
6-8-10 tiARILAOU TRIKOUPI STR.
GR - 10G 79 ATHENS - GREECE
----------------------------------------------------  ------------------
Type of ma-       1981      1982      1983      1984     1985  TOTi
chinerv bought
Agric.rubber                             1         3       1       5
tire skidders
--------------------------------------- F--------------------------------
Agric.tractors       9        15         4      - 4       12      44
with loa.trol leys
Logging trolleys     I         -         I         -       -       2
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Power saws           -        32        32        70      58    192
Loading cranes       -         3         2         5       1      11
All nurpose vehicles  -        -         -         2 D      -      2
* T o t a 1       10       50        40        84       72  . 256
Financinca
The expenditures for the purchase of the machinery were covered
mainly bv the ABG sub-loans and secondly by the beneficiaries contri-
bution.which fluctuated around 20%.
The sub-loan funds were covered by the ABG and the BANK's resour-
ces.The BANK's contribution was 37% from the beainning of the project
implementation till June 30,1984 and 66 from July 1,1984 till Decem-
ber 31,1985.
There was no problem with the withdrawals of the proceeds of the
World Bank loan to meet the expenses in connection with the project
(Part B' ).



- 165 _
AGh.AA11ANK    A'ININb
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF GREECE
ANIMAL PRODUCTION DIVISION
6-8-10 HARILAOU TRIKOUPI STR.
GR - 106 79 ATHENS - GREECE
A.B.G. performance and development
The A.B.G. regional services and foresters we're very  well informed of the necessities
in logging equipment of the Project area and they made every possible effort towards
the implementation of the project.
The beneficiaries' applications submitted to the ABG were carefully examined and
given every attention.
Preference in Sub-loans was given to the logging operators who had received traininp,
in mechanized methods.
As far as the guarantees demanded by the ABG are concerned(i.e.mortgage to the fixed
asset of the applicant)for the Sub-loans approval,they were restricted to the minimum
and in some casus the personal guarantee was enough.
No problem existed on the sid, of A,B.,. for Sub-loans approval.
Approved and Disbursed Sub-loans
'In some cases Sub-loans approved by A.B.G. were finally cancelled on private-operators
request for various reasons among, which the most considerable ones were:
a) the state had not had the economic possibility to subsidize their machinery.
b) the operators had not been able to ensure sufficient logging works for the economic
operation of the machinery to-be purchased.
The relevant data are shown in the fbllowing table:
-7 
Approved Sub-loans       Disbursed Sub-loanTs
_   I t e m                         lUnit  | (000's drs)    Unit       (000's drs)
1. Agricultural Rubber tired Skidders           6         23.166         5       20.166
2. Agric. tractors with logging trolleys       53         59.252        44       47.414
3. logging trolleys                             2            320         2          320
4. Short cable Systems                          -            -           -           -
5. Long cable Systems                           -            -           -           -
6. Power Saws                                201           8.688       192        7.921
7. Loading cranes                              17         14.75f        tl        8.375
8. Skidding winches                  -          _
9. All purpose vehicles                         4          3.880         2        1.980
10. Debarking Machines                           -            - _         _



*,r * ;; ~  ._.-   ;-. :_: .     166  -                    l
A&.-4AANW   A NHv h
AGRICULTURAL BANIC OF GREECE
ANIMAL PRODUCTION DIVISION
6-8-10 HARILAOU TRIKOUPI STR.
GR - 106 79 ATHENS - GREECE
Bonefit and economic post evaluation
the
The logging equipment purchasedthrough/project funds, operated almost
satisfactorily and the financial results were positive,althougb not
always on the expected level.
The economic situation of the Ieneficiari4-s was considerably improved an;
that justified completely the procurement and utilization of the machiner
The internal rate of return for every representative type of machinery
selected is shown in the attached tables.Nevertheless the I.R.R. for eac'.
particular type of machinery fluctuated in a wider range from 20% up to
40%, as a result of the fluctuations in labour remuneration,the quantity
of available cuts and other circumstances prevailing in every region.
Based on these representative calculations of I.R.R. for each particular
type of machinery, the I.R.R. for the whole project was finally estimatec
at 33,1%.
THE HEFT E         CTION
A.KARANTZENIS



OVERALL PROJECT
*                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.a 1. 1 a -  ;'
IT (000) Drs
*   "    ar          1          2         3          4          5           6          7          8           9.         10
4. licremehtal
i nVeStment 
3,.Ecjipment        9.386     21.909     13.859     31.442     31.123        -          -          -           -
D.Less taxes                        .   X
and duties                 -               -
Total          9.386     21.909     13.859     31.442     31.123        -          -          -           -
d. .nl:rcementa1
*Otx-r.COStS
3.Operat.cost         1.786      5.341     10.003     18.392     26.839     30.415    29.257      27.501      22.951      19.181
3...abour cost        2.760     17.109     43.948     63.585     92.567    101.354    91.667      80.531      55.331      34.451
1'otal         4.546     22.450     43.951     81.977    119.406    131.769   120.924     108.032      78.282      53.632
r .tal Outflow       13.932     44.359     67.810    113.419    150.529    131.769   120.924     108.032      78.282      53.632
~.



OVERALL PROJECT
T a b  1. l     IT.
In (000) Drs
Year            1            2          3                         5          6           7           8          9
;  Incr.Benefits
P"rnefits           6.700        29.290     55.580       102.139     151.215     168.769    15-7.924    145.032    115.282    87.155
. Ress.vaiue             -            -          -            -           -            -          -          -                   37.617
i.i.-il inflows         6.700       29.290'    55.580       102.139     151.215      168.769    157.924    145.032    115.282   124.772
*. Itoss(table I)
.tinl Outflow         13.932       44.359      67.810      113.419      150.529     131.769    120.924    108.032      78.282    53.632
ticr(emental
:iirplus             (7.232)     (15.069)   (12.230)      (11.280)        686       37.000     37.000     37.OO       37.000    71.1'i)
I.R.R. = 33,1 %
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
F%



Agr. rubber tired skidder
T d 1 .        .
In Drs
1            2         .3       4         5          6           7          8        9         id
t, .    vi   ne*n ta 1
inv stment 
a Eqi -ment   4.500.000          _         _        _         _          _          _            _ 
O. L'1  taxes       -            -
ar:d duties
TOtal   4.500.000        -
I.  lit ii ,ment.al
mp1.r costs
1.0po at.cost   348.000   567,000   896.000    896.000    896.000    896.000    896.000    896.000    896.000    896.000
o.D.mbitr cost   591.000   845.000 1.280.000  1.280.000  1.280.000  1.280.000  1.280.000  1.280.000  1.280.000  i.280.00o
Tfota I    939.000 1.412.000 2.176.000  2.176.00C  2.176.000  2.176.000  2.176.000  2.176.000  2.176.000  2.176.000
r"tta  OuitfIOW 5.439.000 1.412.000 2.176.000  2.176.000  2.176.000  2.176.000  2.176.000  2.176.000  2.176.000  2.176.000
rtal  Owltflo  5.439.000 1412.000 2.16.000  2.176.00  2.176.00   2.176.000  2176.000  2.16.000  2.176.00  2.176.00



6gric.rubber tired skidder
T a b 1 e    II.
In Drs
Yr              1                             3  4     5         6         7          8          9        10
A. Incr.Benefits
a. Benefits          1.647.000 2.760.000 3.600.000 3.600.000 3.600.000 3.600.000  3.600.000  3.600.000  3.600.000 3.600.00
I.J Res.value           -                  -         -         -         -                    -          -        450.OC
T..tal inflows       1.647.000 2.760.000 3.600.000 3.600.000 3.600.000 3.600.000  3.600.000  3.600.000  3.600.000 4.050.Cf
I.mt.ai Outflow     5.439.000 1.412.000 2.176.000 2.176.000 2.176.000 2.176.000  2.176.000  2.176.000  2.176.000 2.176.0C
surplus           (3.792.000) 1.348.000 1.424.000 1.424.000 1.424.000 1.424.000  1.424.000  1.424.000  1.424.000 1.874.OC
I.R.R.m 34,8 %
td



A,jic.t&-rtor with log.trolley a
T a b l e   I.
In Drs
it urn  Year  1        Z3                     4          5           6          7           8                  10
A.Incremental
II!vestment
.1. l.;uipment     1.365.000       -
is.I.,e::s taxes                 * 
mAtx- duties                                                 -          -
*.'Gta 1   1.365.000        -           -         -           -             -
(qpfr.CostS
I.  . gu I:tItd
..Opxrat.cost        107.000    134.000    176.000    203.000    203.000    203.000   .203.000    203.000    203.000  203.0
1,.Labour cost      240.000    361.000    448.000    480.000    480.000    480.000    480.000    480.000    480.000  480.0
Total         347.000    495.000    624.000    683.000    683.000    683.000    683.000    683.000    683.000  683.0
';oli.l Outflow    1.712.000    495.000    624.000    683.000    683.000    683.000    683.000    683.000    683.000  683.0
:.'.



Agric.tractor with logging trolleys
T a b 1 e    II.
,,,,  ,,   ,                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~In Drs
t.,Yea~r
A. Dnrr.Benefits
...  U< nefits        600.000   800.000   1.000.000   1.200.000   1.200.000   1.200.000   1.200.000   1.200.000   1.200.000  1.200.0(0
I.. Res.value            -         -          -               -           -           -                -           -         136.000
TotalI inflows        600.000   800.000  1.000.000  1;200.000   1.200.000   1.200.000  1.200.000  1.200.000   1.200.000  1.336.OOC
ri, Less(table I)
Total Outflow    (1.712.000)  495.000    624.000    683.000    683.000    683.000    683.000    683.000   683.000    683.0OC
Incremental
surplus          (1.112.000)   305.000    376.000    517.000    517.000    517.000    517.000    517.000   517.000    653.000
I.R.R. = 36,5 %
lJ



Logging trolleys                                   T a to  I      I.
In Drs
Year
Item                   I            2          3         4          5          6          7          8            9          10   v
Incremtental-
itive,ntment
Equtlipment        200.oob
Less taxes
atid duties
Total         200.000          _          _        _           _          _           _
Incremental
O;perat.cost       893.000     840.000   ,980.000  1.470.000  1.'760.000  1.760.000  1%760.0QK  1:760.000  1.760.000  1;760.000
Lcibour cost       600.000      790.000    870.000    980.000  1.100.000  1.100.000  1.100.000  1.100.000  1.100.000  1.100.000
Total       1.423.000   1.730.00t  1.850.000  2.450.000  2.860.000  2.860.000  2.860.000  2.860.000  2.860.000  2.860.00C
tal Outfloy    1.623.000   1.730.000  1.850.000  2.450.000  2.860.000  2.860.000  2.860,.000  2.860.000  2.860.000  2.860.0000
,                                                                         . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
l4



Logging trolleys
T a b l  e       II.
In Drs
lea~  1      2            3            4            5            6             7           8           9           10
. Incr.Benefits                        I
. Benefits           1.300.000   1.670.000   1.943.000   2.590.000   3.080.000   3.080.000   3.080.000  3.080.000  3.080.000  3.e80.300
. Res.value              -            -             -            2n                  .n             n               -            -
3tal inflows         1:300.000   1.670,000   1.943.000   2.590.000   3.080.000   3.080.000   3.080.000  3.080.000  3.080.000  3.10^.nnC
. Less(table I)
,tal Outflow         1.623,000   1,730,000   1,850.000   2.450.000   2.860.000   2.860.000   2.860.000  2.860.000  2.860.000  2.860nons
icremental
surpLus             ( 323.000)    (60.000)       93.000      140.000       220.000      220.000      220.000    220.000    220.000    240.10r
I.R.R.    31,3 %
.



Poerd'~ (F)
T a b. l e   I.
In Dri.
Year
Item.                            1                2            3         4                5
A.Incremental
investment
.I.Equipment                   50.000                            -           -              -
b.Less taxes                    .                                --
ano duties
Total                   50.000               -            -           -              -
)i.Incremental
I!L.Oprat.cost8
a..Operat.cost                 45.000           65.000      65.000        65.000          65.000
b.Labour cost                 280.000          360.000     360.000       360.000         360.000
Total                  325.000          425.000     425.000       425.000         425.000
VoLaI Outflow  325.000  425.000  425.000  425.000          425.000
T'oLal Outflow                375.000          425.000     425.OOD       425.000         425.000
(F) The calculations for the IRR of this particular type of machinery have been based on a 5 years period because
the operational life of the power saws does not exceed this time limit.



Power saw
T a b 1 e    II.
in Drs
(                        1               2             3              4           5
A. lncr.Benefits
i    a. Bviiefits                  310,000          460.000        460.000       460.000      460.000
b. Res.value                    _               _.,  _                        -        '.VIA
1TA.al inflows
Ia.ss(tabe '310.OOQ                        460.000        460.000       460.000     465.000
D . L.ess(table I)r
Tot.al Outflow            375.000            425.000       425.000        425.000     425.000
Incremental
surplus                  (65.000)            35.000        35.000        35.000       40.000
-                   I.R.R. = 41,0 %
* -'



Loading crane
T a b e I      .
In Dra
Year
Item                1 i          2     .3        4        5         6        7        8        9         10
i.. Incremental
investment
a.Fquipment       1.000.000       -         -       -
b.T,ss taxes.
r.nd duties
Total     1.000.000        -         -       -       -         -        -         -        _
r- hIncremental
o4mer.costs
*!.Operat.cost      50.000   70.000   90.000   90.000  '90. 000   90.000   90.000   90.000   90.000   90.000
I.Labour cost    170.000  .220.000  321.000  321.000  321.000  321.000  321.000  321.000  321.000  321.000
Total       220.000  290.000  411.000  411.000  411.000  411.000  411.000  411.000  411.000  411.000
Tital Outf low   1.220.000  290.000  411.000  411.000  411.000  411.000  411.000  411.000  411.000  411.000



Loading. crane
T a b 1 e    II.
In Drs
J~e    Year      1         2           3          4          5            6          7         8        9         10
tf ti: r. .enefits
,. Iet,ef its         500.000    550.000    600.000    600.000    600.000    600.000    600.000  600.000  600.000- 600.000
. Res.value             -          -                       --                                -         -         -      100.0()
'otal inflows         500.000    550.000    600.000    600.000    600.000    600.000    600.000  600.000  600.000  700.000
i. Less(table I)
'aytal Outflow      1.220,000    290.000    411.000    411.000    411.000    411.000    411.000  411.000  411.000  411.000
:ncre"iecntal1
-;ijrljl ~ ~ ~ u_ 72.00             189. 
(cr  t 720,000)   260-000  189.003    189.000    189.000    189;000    189.000  189.000  189.000  289.000
*                        I.R.R. - 25,2%
!'I



11 purpose vehicle
T e' b I e     .
.In Drs
ltemYe                1             2        3       4         5           6         7         8         '           10
.incremental
nvestment
.rEquipment       1.595.000        -         -        -         -          -
.Less taxes                        _         -        -         - 
and duties
Total       1.595.000         -         -        -         -         -         -           -         -           -
Ancremental
oper.costs                                                                                     ,                                       b
.nperat.cost       485.000   794.000   794.000   794.000   794.000   794.000   794.000   794.000   794.000   794.000                .
Labour cost       430.000   600.000   600.000   600.000   600.000   600.000   600.000   600.000   600.000    600.000'
Total         915.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000
Vnn1 Outflow    2.510.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000
*                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 



T a b 1 e    II.
In Drs
1          2          3           4           5         6            7        8          9        10
Incr .Denefit's
BInefits       1.519.000  1.797.600  1.797.600  1.797.600   1.797.600   1.797.600  1.797.6000 1.797.600  1.797.600  1.7S7.60r
Res.value           -          -           -          -           -          -       *             -         -       159.5f)C
.oI infIovws    1.519.000  1.797.600  1.796.600  1.797.600  1.797.600  1.797.600  1.797.600  1.797.600  1.797.600  1.957.1OC
Le.ss(table I)
I.ciL tutflow    2.510.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000   1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.000  1.394.IYX
crtemental                                                                                                                     ac
rurjoWs          ( 9.491.000)   403.600    403.600    403.600    403.600    403.600    403.600   403.600   403.600  5¶3.1(Y. c
I.R.R.   39,1 %
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Y4ROMANIA                                                                                                                              '
YUGOSLAI%                                                                       .2.                                               (Ar R   IsA
Wt 20MANIA   . ,'                             22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B U L G ARIA 84;s 
,.  '8BULGARIA S
/           YUGOSLAVIAD                                 /         t \ 
lTAtY""'R                                         Y Ub                           t G         L A V I
R K E Y             E 
TURKEYrX           (rr                                                                                                                    Dronnrro   ,..iS p t ttt8\  
m3n    i     ferous e3-siel9\S- > 
Kilki.~~~~~~~~~~~~enl
LIBYA    CARAB REP Of EGYPT_l
A    L_ BrolO  A NGl IpcD A                                     rK..                          \      °2 %            2Fdsn      '.Peco       6 cndo
.19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r.
CORRJrrN  trodoe                                                                                    ,'.rro                   9.mhb;h3EKl   t
dit. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~moi 
t~~~4                                    
Podurss (chopoGrtl reqion)     \<                       , ~~~~a  . -BIEEB    IEr  nA2CI 3rnle                 9  yml
--*-       rnesntioo Distrcboundaries                                                                =°    kzoto25  ymo
| ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~,    L'.~                                                        REGION I7  REGIO V       REGIONS
5                                                                                                                        13. Kcrpech  ~i  no-l 31. Prbkoano  _6 ondo
6_-itr_        e                                                                        IM ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Flaino   l2. Aort.  3. Vti
0 -36                                       100rsr  _i. Utozlc  28  ro-h 
KIOETR        p,9.A.I
VV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EGO    0 avrt
e*vkoen~veof,oao.IeVO~~es.n,Avc                                                                           13 krpnici  1.XyII19r
teeaooPf.ra    LEFKADASk--uoai,                                                                                 i,Fun       2  oita
~.~fe.esewe...R.wPoanwe.o 'Ananeus
-  6  mnApo'Pesgmvv-~wn.o-.osorern                                                                               S.Serk..33NRpi
0   a4R4eerwvandet.,n~n..atooouoRrE onE C cna.E o                                                                                      3. noid4 



