Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 2425-GR
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 7, 1979
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture IV
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =        drachma (Dr)
US$0.027              =        Dr 1.00
US$1.00               =        Dr 36.70
US$27,250             =         Dr 1 million
WEIGHTS ANiD MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 millimeter (mm)                     =        0.039 inches
1 meter (m)       2                   =        1.09 yards
1 square meter (m )                   =       10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)                    =        1.31 cubic yards
1 kilometer (km)       2              =        0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )                        0 0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                        =         2.47 acres
1 stremma (str)                       =         0.247 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                       =         2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)                    =         2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ABG                   -        Agricultural Bank of Greece
DGF                   -        Directorate General of Forests
(Ministry of Agriculture)
EEC                   -        European Economic Community
GDP                   -        Gross Domestic Product
NCC                   -        Nomos Coordination Committee
rco                   -        Project Coordination Office (in RPDS)
PP2IO                 -        Project Planning and Management
Office (in DGF)
RPDS                  -        Regional Policy and Development Service
(Ministry of Coordination)
EMO                   -        Range Management Officer (under DGF)
RPO                   -        Regional Project Officer (under RPDS)
TO                    -        Training Officer (under DGF)
Uh-DP                 -         United NaLions Development Programme
(r)                   -        Roundwood equivalent
GOVERNMENT OF GREECE
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   PROJECT  BACKGROUND  AND  THE  FORESTRY  SECTOR  ...................                               1
A.   Project  Background  .......................................                                 1
B.   Forest  Resources  and  Contribution  to  the Economy  .......                     ..        1
C.   Production  Potential  and  Constraints  to Development                                      2
D.   Forestry  Institutions,  Development  Plans  and Policies  ..                                5
E.   Marketing,  Transport  and  Processing  of iFrest  Produc;s                                  7
F.   Credit  ...................................................                                  9
G.   Previous  Bank  Involvement  in  the  Sector  ..................                             9
II.   THE  PROJECT AREA  ..............................                          ............           10
A.   Physical  Features  .......             ............  ....................                  10
B.   Population,  Employment  and  Land  Use  ......................                            11
C.   Forest  Resources  .........................................                               13
III.   THE  PROJECT  ..................................................                                  14
A.   Objectives  ...............................................                                 14
B.   Description  ..............................................                                 14
Forest  Roads  ...........................................                              15
Logging  ................................................                               15
Forestry  Management  ....................................                              16
Village  Infrastructure  Development  .....................                             16
Training,  Research  and  Studies  .........................                            17
C.   Cost  Estimates  ..................  ...........                                           20
D.   Financing  ................................................                                22
E.   Implementation  Schedule  ..................................                               23
F.   Procurement  ..............................................                                23
G.   Disbursements  ............................................                                 25
H.   Environmental  Effects  ....................................                                26
IV.   PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  .......................................                                  27
A.   Organization  and Management  ..............................                                27
The Borrower .......................................   27
Implementing  Agencies  ..................................                              27
B.   Credit  for  Logging  Equipment  .............................                              31
C.   Consultancy  Services,  Technical  Assistance  and  Training  ..                            32
D.   Accounts  and  Audits  ......................................                               33
E.   Progress  Reporting,  Monitoring  and  Evaluation  ....                        ........     33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...................................    34
A.  Production ...............................................   34
B. Markets .36
C. Prices ..... .............................................   37
D. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries .37
Main Benefits .37
Beneficiaries .39
E. Economic Analysis .39
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) .39
Sensitivity Analysis and Risk .41
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .42
ANNEXES
1. Statements of Expenditure
2. Supporting Tables
T-1  Detailed Project Cost Estimates
T-2  Project Cash Flow
T-3  Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
T-4  List of Equipment for Logging, Training, Maintenance and
Fire Protection
T-5  List of Equipment for Nurseries, Plantations, Transport and
Administrat ion
T-6  Phasing of Project Physical Development Targets
T-7  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
T-8  Estimated Volume and Value of Production from Project Area
T-9  A.  Economic Costs and Benefits (basic run)
B. Sensitivity Analysis
3. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
CHARTS
C-1  Project Organization                                      World Bank 20146
C-2  Directorate General of Forests (DGF) - Organization Chart World Bank 19940
C-3  Implementation Schedule                                   World Bank 20057
MAPS
1.  Project Area                       - IBRD 14031R
2.  Village Infrastructure Development - IBRD 14162R



GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE FORESTRY SECTOR
A. Project Background
1.01      The project comprises an integrated development program in the
forestry subsector and is intended primarily to assist in exploiting the
underutilized forest resources of continental western and northwestern Greece
and reducing dependence on imported wood products. It was identified by two
Bank missions in November 1977 and January 1978 and prepared by Government
with the assistance of consultants, financed by OECD, between March and
August 1978. Following issuance of the preparation report 1/, a Bank pre-
appraisal mission visited Greece in September 1978. This report is based on
che findings  . a Bank appraisal  ssso  in November-December 1978 consisting
of Messrs. Zulfiqar, Spears and Hodges (Bank), and Cooke and Jones (Consul-
tants). Mr. Heidhues (Bank) joined the mission during the first half of
appraisal and participated in discussions in Greece. Messrs. Oberdorfer
(Bank) and Grayum and Ryan (Consultants) also contributed to the technical
analysis.
B. Forest Resources and Contribution to the Economy
1.02      Forests cover about 2.5 million ha or 20% of Greece's total land
area. About 1.8 million ha of these are exploitable forests, with a growing
stock estimated at 134 million m3 and net annual increment around 4 million
m3. Coniferous forests make up about 60% of the total growing stock but only
25% of current annual wood removals; the remainder is accounted for by broad-
leaves. The main coniferous species are fir (Abies cephalonica and Abies
borisii regis), black pine (Pinus nigra) and Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis).
Beech (Fagus silvatica) and oaks (mainly Quercus conferta) are the principal
broadleaves. Nearly two thirds of the total forest area is owned by the
State; the balance is owned by communities, monasteries, various organizations
and private groups or individuals, or jointly by the State and other owners.
Although industrial roundwood production contributes only about 2% of agricul-
tural GDP, forest products form an important element of indigenous consumption.
Fuelwood accounts for a high proportion of rural energy consumption, supplying
villagers' basic needs for heating and cooking. Industrial roundwood is used
in the manufacture of sawn lumber, wood-based panels, and a variety of pulp
and paper products.  Forests also play a vital role in protecting Greece's
watersheds, thereby preventing soil erosion and ensuring a sustained flow of
irrigation and drinking water for farmers and urban dwellers situated down-
stream. The forest areas constitute a very significant dry weather grazing
reserve for villagers' livestock.
1/   Jaakko Poyry (Helsinki):  "Feasibility Study on Forestry Development in
Northwestern and Western areas of the Greek Mainland" (1978).



- 2 -
1.03       Forest areas include some of the least developed parts of Greece and
contain many of the poorest people, who would directly benefit from forestry
development. Out of a population of 9.2 million in Greece as a whole, about
2.5 million live in rural areas, of whom nearly half a million people live in
mountain villages located in or close to the forest areas and depend partly on
forestry employment for their livelihood. Forestry provides direct employment
of nearly 3 million mandays to more than 40,000 persons annually (an average
of 75 mandays per person). About 90% of these workers are employed seasonally,
mostly in logging operations, for an average of 50 days in the year. In
mountain regions, forestry typically provides work for over 20% of the village
work force. For those who work in both agriculture and forestry, the latter
usually accounts for about half the total family income. The per capita
incomes and access to social facilities of these people are substantially
lower than the national average; a large majority fall in the relative poverty
target group with incomes less than US$936 per capita.
C. Production Potential and Constraints to Development
1.04       Industrial roundwood production in Greece as a whole currently aver-
ages less than 1 million m3(r) 1/ per annum, compared with total consumption
equivalent to over 3 million m3(r) per annum. As a result, despite substan-
tial untapped forestry resources, the country imports a sizable proportion
of its requirements for wood products, such as sawn lumber, pulp and paper.
The value of these imports rose from US$60 million in 1965 to over US$265
million in 1977 (of which nearly 60% was pulp and paper products and the rest
mechanical wood products), and is expected to exceed US$400 million (in
constant 1977 prices) by 1985, unless steps are taken to increase local
production. All indications point to a significant potential for increasing
output from existing forests, since, as a result of very conservative forest
management policies over the last twenty-five years (partly to make up for
past neglect and harsh treatment), Greek forests are now generally overmature
and could produce at least two to three times as much wood as is currently
being extracted.
1.05       The main constraints to achieving an increase in sustainable forestry
output and self-sufficiency in forest product supplies are:
-    inadequate all-weather access roads and tractor roads needed for
extended logging operations and mechanized skidding (para. 1.06);
-    low productivity and increasing shortage of trained man and animal
power in many forest areas (para. 1.07);
-    overly conservative forest management and timber allocation systems,
and inadequate artificial regeneration and industrial plantation
(paras. 1.08-1.09);
1/   (r) = roundwood equivalent.



- 3 -
-    conflicts between grazing and forestry in forest regeneration areas,
which could adversely affect future log production (para. 1.10); and
-    inadequate capacity in the pulp and paper industry (para. 1.11).
1.06      Road Access.  The Directorate General of Forests (DGF) in the Min-
istry of Agriculture (see para. 1.12) has an on-going program of road develop-
ment in State forests. Each Forest District has, as part of its management
plan, detailed maps showing forest areas and existing and projected road
network designed to provide logging access to all parts of the forest. The
main shift in emphasis needed to ensure an increase in sustainable log
production in future is more investment in all-weather truck roads to allow
logging crews to operate for up to 200 days a year compared with the current
average of 70-100 days, and the construction of more tractor roads needed to
encourage introduction of mechanized skidding. In addition, a considerable
stepping up in road construction is needed in non-State forests, where yields
are currently less than half those in State forests, primarily due to lack of
basic infrastructure. Road maintenance also needs to be improved through
provision of more equipment to be owned and operated by DGF. The investment
program under the project will directly address these needs.
1.07      Availability of Trained Man and Animal Power.  Greece has witnessed
a significant decline in rural population over the last 25 years, from 47% of
total population in 1951 to less than 28% in 1977. With poor facilities,
difficult working conditions and limited opportunities for employment outside
agriculture, mountain villages in particular have suffered substantial migra-
tion of younger people to urban centers and abroad, and a serious labor
deficit is now developing in some forest regions. Mechanization of forestry
operations will become increasingly important over the next decade to offset
growing shortages of younger workers and of animal power (mainly mules, which
now provide most off-road transportation). The transition to mechanized
logging, which has already started in some northeastern areas, will neces-
sitate adjustments to forest management systems and timber allocation policies,
assured access to credit for logging cooperatives, and careful phasing of the
rate of introduction of mechanized systems to ensure minimum conflict with
those logging operators who still prefer the use of manpower and animals.
Improvement in social services in forest villages, better transport and
housing for logging and forestry workers, and accelerated training of logging
operators will also be key factors in retaining an adequate supply of workers
and operators in forest areas. Government's forestry development plans give
high priority to resolving these issues, and the project will assist in imple-
menting the necessary structural changes to ensure both increased production
and continued protection of forest resources.
1.08      Forest Management Systems and Timber Allocation Procedures.  Follow-
ing heavy destruction during and immediately after World War II, Greek forest
management policies over the last two decades have correctly put high emphasis
on the need to restore the forest cover and to build up the growing stock
volume to ensure soil protection. Thus, selection felling systems are used
which take a relatively small proportion of the crop from any single area and
leave a standing vegetation cover. Allowable cut calculated from management



-4-
plans is only about one third of annual growth in coniferous forests and 60%
in broadleaves. However, actual cut is substantially below even this conser-
vatively determined allowable cut, so that overstocking is now becoming common
(particularly in coniferous forests), leading to reduced growth, high tree
mortality and poor regeneration. Moreover, exclusive use of selection felling,
because of the low volume of output, conflicts directly with attempts to
introduce mechanized logging methods into steep terrain forests and hampers
increased productivity of logging operations. Experience from other countries
shows that more intensive forest management and logging systems can be safely
introduced without causing serious erosion problems, provided the areas are
carefully chosen taking into account the steepness of terrain and fragile
nature of some soils, and adequate provision is made at the time of felling to
ensure rapid regeneration of tree cover (for example, by immediate replanting
of cut-over areas). Experiments in Greece have also shown the potential for
increasing forests' productivity through fast-growing industrial plantation
species (both indigenous and exotic). The project would assist Government in
introducing a shift toward more efficient forest management methods and in
developing the infrastructure and technical capacity for a greatly expanded
planting program.
1.09      The present practice of allocating timber cutting and log skidding
work in small-volume, annual contracts also acts as a deterrent to adoption of
mechanized methods, since a logging operator would require assurance of at
least a 3-5 year log supply to ensure amortization of his investment in such
specialized equipment as cable cranes or skidding tractors. At present, DGF
has to permit contractors to cut high-value timber into short logs (of lower
value) so that mules can handle it. Also, loggers are not trained in effi-
cient, profitable methods of using equipment. These factors explain why
attempts by DGF since 1953 to introduce various mechanical methods have met
with little success so far. The Government has now indicated its readiness to
adjust logging contracts as needed and allow introduction of more intensive
operations over a wider area. The project's logging equipment credit and
training components would support these needed changes.
1.10      Conflict between Grazing and Forestry.  The forests contain signif-
icant areas of rangeland more suited for livestock raising than forestry,
and the villagers have traditional rights of access to communal grazing of
government-owned forest pastures in return for nominal grazing fees charged by
village councils. However, concentration of animals and lack of range manage-
ment in the foothills has led to infringement on and destruction of forest
regeneration areas, since it has been difficult for DGF to exclude livestock
from the forests, especially in dry summer months. In some regions, notably
Aridea in the north, excessive grazing has also led to widespread soil erosion
and flood damage. There are reported to be some 200,000 cattle, 8 million
sheep and 3-4 million goats ranging in Greece's mountain areas. In the last
five years, rural-urban migration has led to a sharp decline in stock numbers
in some forest areas, and, in the longer term, this problem should become
easier to control. For the short term, the Government has proposed intensive
development of pilot range areas by upgrading their productivity (through
fertilization of pastures), improved animal husbandry through extension ser-
vices in the rangelands situated closest to forest villages, and protection



- 5 -
of regeneration areas by fencing. The project includes a pilot range manage-
ment component that would directly address these objectives.
1.11      Industrial Capacity (also see paras. 1.20-1.23).  On the industrial
side, the main constraints to increased production of wood products are:
first, inadequate supply of suitable-size logs for the existing sawmilling
industry, and, second, the need for additional pulp and paper capacity (par-
ticularly chemical pulp) as well as the need to make more effective use of
sawmill waste residues. The efficiency and profitability of the sawmill
industry will, over time, be improved by closer integration with other
residue-using industries such as pulp, particleboard and fiberboard. Indica-
tions are also that an adequate domestic market already exists to warrant
early consideration of the construction of a chemical pulp mill of at least
150,000 tons per annum capacity. The project includes a sectoral develop-
ment strategy study to assess the economic viability of a chemical pulp mill,
evaluate alternative wood supply patterns for existing and proposed indus-
tries, and examine ways and means of intensifying forest management and
accelerating industrial wood production over the coming decade.
D. Forestry Institutions, Development Plans and Policies
1.12      Organization.  Conservation and management of all forest resources
are the responsibility of DGF, which is organized into nine Directorates in
Athens, each responsible for overall planning and coordination of a particular
aspect of forestry development (World Bank Chart 19940). DGF's professional
staff of 1,440, about half of whom are foresters and the rest forest techni-
cians, is generally well-qualified and experienced. Nearly 95% of these pro-
fessionals are located outside the Athens headquarters. Administratively,
Greek forests are divided into about 100 Forest Districts, each with its own
decentralized organization responsible for organizing production, protection
and forest management programs. A Forest District may contain several
forests, each of which is a separate administrative unit with its own manage-
ment plan and is divided into sections for which resource and planning data
are collected. Preparation of a management plan comprises a forest inventory,
mapping, recording of basic data (by species, stand structure, soils, topo-
graphy, etc.), assessment of allowable cut, and recommendations for stand
treatment.
1.13      DGF staff prepare ten year management plans for State forests;
for non-State forests, five year plans are prepared by private consulting
foresters and are subject to DGF approval. DGF thus directly controls all
wood extraction operations in both State and non-State forests, deciding
on production targets and retaining responsibility for selection of areas
for felling and timber extraction. Actual log production operations are
contracted through auction by district foresters to private contractors
(mainly village cooperatives). Forestry works, such as planting, thinning
and fire protection, are carried out by DGF using a combination of its own



- 6 -
and hired equipment. Road construction programs needed for both logging and
afforestation purposes are planned by DGF district staff, who carry out most
of this work directly in State forests, using mainly equipment hired from
local private contractors. Road construction in non-State forests is carried
out entirely by private contractors and consulting foresters. Adequate
numbers of logging and construction contractors with enough extra capacity
for an increased program exist in the Forest Districts. Adequate private
maintenance and repair facilities for equipment also exist in most major
districts. Despite overly conservative management policies, DGF has clearly
demonstrated its organizational capacity to implement large-scale forestry
development programs. During the period 1971-76, annual industrial wood
production in the whole of Greece averaged 651,000 m3 (r), DGF's annual
road construction program increased from 700 km to 900 km, and reforestation
and afforestation programs averaged 4,000 ha per year.
1.14      Research and Training.  Forestry research is primarily the respon-
sibility of DGF's two Forest Research Institutes (at Athens and Thessaloniki)
and their seven associated research stations where experiments are carried
out. The research effort is well-staffed, with 30 professional foresters
(most with postgraduate degrees) and 18 forest technicians in addition to
support staff. The annual research budget of about US$1 million is used
to fund over seventy ongoing programs in such varied topics as silviculture,
afforestation, range management, forest protection, torrent control and
forestry economics. The Forestry School at Thessaloniki offers a five-year
degree program, of which almost all Greek foresters are graduates. The
School's current output of foresters is adequate for Greece's present and
anticipated needs. DGF also conducts periodic in-service training for its
staff through 2-4 week seminars on such topics as logging and forest manage-
ment. About five DGF staff are sent abroad for postgraduate training every
year.
1.15      Development Plans and Policies.  Over the past decade, Government
has received technical assistance for studies in the forestry sector from
several multilateral and bilateral sources, which have laid the basis for
formulating the sector's development plans. Of particular relevance to the
project have been the following FAO/UNDP-financed studies in western Greece:
a survey of selected forest areas in 1968 (which recommended a significant
increase in the rate of plantation establishment), a forest industries feasi-
bility study in 1971, and a preliminary assessment in 1977 of the viability
of establishing a thermomechanical pulp industry.  The European Investment
Bank is currently providing total financing of about US$13 million for a six
year (1977-82) forestry development project covering six Forest Districts of
eastern Macedonia and Thrace, and including provision for 634 km of forest
road construction, 660 km of road improvement, housing for 360 workers, and
other facilities.
1.16      Government's forestry development plans for the whole of Greece
during the period 1979-83 aim at improving accessibility into forest areas by
construction of up to 7,500 km of new roads; substantially increased wood
harvesting and log production; improvement and upgrading of natural forest
potential through natural and artificial regeneration of about 10,000 ha



- 7 -
felled-over areas annually, establishment of about 6,500 ha a year of fast
growing industrial plantations, and fire protection; improvement of livestock
grazing ranges located in forest areas; improvement of workers' housing and
social facilities in mountainous forest regions; and continued expansion of
pulp and paper and other forest industries. The project would support these
objectives.  Government's annual budget for forestry is currently running
at about US$90 million, about half of which is allocated for investments.
Forestry revenues derived mainly from log sales amount to some US$36 million a
year. The Ministry of Agriculture operates a revolving fund ("Central Fund
for Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry Development"), under which most of the
forestry revenues are retained and ploughed back into forest development.
1.17      Government currently provides various incentives for exploitation of
non-State forests and for the operation of wood-based industries, including
direct investment grants, protection from import competition, and subsidized
interest rates. Logging equipment purchases have been subsidized up to 15%
in recent years. Roads in non-State forests are regarded as essential infra-
structure, part of the costs of which should be borne by the State. These
roads are an integral part of the overall forest road network and would have
to be built to achieve Government's forestry development objectives. They
are accessible to the general public and are used by DGF for fire protection
and other purposes, which add to their maintenance costs and give further
justification for partial cost compensation. Hence, such road construction is
eligible for direct grants from Government ranging from 20% to 40% (depending
on location) and for medium/long-term loans from ABG at an effective interest
rate of 4.5% per annum. These and other subsidy policies in the forestry sec-
tor will have to be adjusted as part of the process of alignment of domestic
policies following Greece's expected entry into the EEC. The sectoral devel-
opment strategy study to be financed under the project would also look into
the entire tax-subsidy regime in forestry and make recommendations for appro-
priate changes to ensure efficient resource allocation while maintaining
adequate incentives.
E. Marketing, Transport and Processing of Forest Products
1.18      Wood sales from State forests are organized through auctions by DGF
staff in each Forest District, and from non-State forests by the communal or
private forest owners themselves. In some cases, the logging cooperatives or
other contractors pay only the stumpage fee (roadside price net of logging and
skidding costs) to DGF and sell the products themselves. Wood is generally
auctioned at the roadside and the buyer (usually from local wood-processing
industries) is responsible for its transport. About 90% of loading is pre-
sently mechanized. In road transport, general purpose eight to ten ton trucks
owned by small private contractors are most often used. Due to intense com-
petition and excess capacity among contractors, transport fees are fairly low
(about USW8/m3/km).
1.19      Large quantities of sawn lumber are used in house construction,
furniture manufacture, production of railway sleepers, etc. Sawmill waste



- 8 -
residues and small-sized industrial wood are converted to woodbased panel
products, such as fiberboard and particleboard. Wood pulp is used in writ-
ing and printing papers and packaging materials. Consumption of industrial
roundwood for manufacture of these products rose during 1965-77 from about
1 million m3(r) to some 3 million m3(r), nearly three fourths of which was
met by imports. Pulpwood accounts for more than half of total industrial
roundwood consumption, with sawlogs and veneer logs making up the remainder.
1.20      Most forest industries are owned and operated by the private sector.
They include some 1,480 (mainly small) sawmills, most of which are located in
rural areas, with a combined intake capacity of 2.3 million m3(r) and employ-
ing nearly 4,000 persons. About 30 medium to large size sawmills, i.e., with
a capacity of over 10,000 m3(r) per year, are located in or near townships.
There are also one fiberboard, seven plywood, eleven particleboard, two pulp,
and six paper or paperboard mills. Between 1963 and 1973, output from wood
industries expanded at a faster rate (17% per annum) than the rest of the
manufacturing sector (12% per annum). In 1974, forest industries accounted
for about 5% of industrial GDP and 7% of industrial employment. The total
number of companies is decreasing but employment is rising, and larger units
account for a growing share of the output. Average company size is still
small and there is a need to rationalize the structure of the sector, particu-
larly by integration of mechanical wood-using industries with pulp, paper and
board producing units.
1.21      Despite a steady expansion in capacity, the sawmilling industry as a
whole is currently operating at less than 50% of capacity and only for a few
months each year (corresponding to the average logging season of 70-100 days),
largely because of log raw material shortage. Efficiency is high, however,
with sawn timber yields averaging 62.5% of sawlog input. Assuming that log
supplies can be secured, new sawmill capacity will not be needed to meet
domestic demand for sawnwood until the latter half of the next decade. In
the short run, there is a need to improve and modernize the existing units.
Adequate credit exists through the private sector for this purpose.
1.22      Capacity of the particleboard industry increased rapidly in the
early 1970s in line with buoyant demand from furniture and building indus-
tries. The present intake capacity of 141,000 m3(r) should be generally
sufficient (with only modest increases) to meet domestic demand for woodbased
panel products through 1985.  The one fiberboard mill has a rated capacity
of 19,000 m3; in addition, some 3,000 m3 have been imported annually. Demand
is expected to rise only marginally, so there would not be a domestic outlet
for a new mill. The veneer and plywood mills have a total intake capacity of
411,000 m3(r), mainly based on raw material imported from Africa and Southeast
Asia. Their current operating rate is estimated at 83% of capacity. Sixty
percent of production is marketed domestically and a significant export trade
in plywood has developed. Domestic plywood consumption could exceed 120,000
m3 by 1985, which would totally absorb existing capacity. This, together with
success in export markets (especially the Middle East), suggests that capacity
could be further increased. However, the viability of new mills based on
imported logs may be questionable, since the log-producing countries have
declared their intention of reducing log exports. Possibilities for estab-
lishing additional capacity based on domestic forest resources therefore need
to be evaluated.



- 9 -
1.23      The straw pulp mill in the Thessaly region has an annual capacity
of 25,000 tons bleached NSSC 1/ - pulp, scheduled for a further expansion of
7,000 tons. A wood-based thermomechanical pulp mill with 85,000 tons output
capacity (and 170,000 m3 per year intake) was started at Drama recently and
would be able to satisfy domestic demand for mechanical pulp, at least in the
short term.  All of Greece's requirements for chemical woodpulp, however,
continue to be imported; between 1973 and 1977, these averaged some 80,000
tons (valued at about US$25 million) a year. Based on current information,
net chemical pulp import requirements will grow rapidly in future, indicating
a total deficit of about 140,000 tons in 1985. Since pulpwood supply is not
a constraint in Greece (especially under an accelerated production program),
there is a need to evaluate the feasibility of setting up a domestic chemical
pulp mill. Prima facie evidence suggests that such a mill, with a capacity of
at least 150,000 tons per annum, would be both technically and economically
viable.
F. Credit
1.24      The Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG) is practically the only insti-
tutional source of credit to the agricultural and forestry sectors. ABG is a
well-managed, professionally-oriented organization, reaching over 90% of all
farmers through nearly 190 branches and a staff of more than 5,500 located
around the country. Nearly half of its outstanding loan portfolio of some
US$3 billion equivalent consists of medium/long-term loans. Loans in the
forestry sector account for less than 2% of this total. ABG's lending proce-
dures are well-established, with a large measure of decentralization in
approval authority permitting quick and flexible responses to borrowers'
needs. Supervision of borrowers is also very effective; loans are almost
fully recovered within a year of falling due and arrears are under control.
Lending rates, set by the ministerial-level Currency Committee, do not neces-
sarily reflect market conditions or the availability of capital. However,
there has been a gradual increase in all agricultural interest rates since
1974, the current range being from 7.5% for most medium/long-term loans to
10.5% for agro-industry loans. The Vegetable Production and Marketing Project
(Loan 1588-GR), approved in 1978, is assisting ABG's institution-building by
strengthening its equity base, supporting an increase in its lending rates,
and instituting a study on agricultural interest rates and subsidies.
G. Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.25      Bank assistance to Greece over the last ten years has had the
following objectives: supporting institutional reform and essential infra-
structure in key sectors, including agriculture, education, wastewater
1/   Neutral Sulphate Semichemical.



- 10 -
disposal, and highways; and reducing regional income and social disparities
through support for selected regional development programs and regional
balance in projects. The only previous Bank involvement in forestry was in
1977, when, as part of the Evros Development Project (Loan 1457-GR) located
in northeastern Greece, a forestry component was included which provides for
the development of 120 km of forest access roads and 165 km of feeder roads,
construction of forestry workers' housing, and reforestation of 3,000 ha with
fastgrowing pine species. These investments are expected to total US$4.3
million (about 7% of total project costs). The Regional Policy and Develop-
ment Service (RPDS) in the Ministry of Coordination is the executing agency
for the Evros Project. The Loan is now effective but it is still too early
to draw any major lessons from implementation of its forestry component.
However, initial experience with contracts under the Evros Project has been of
some assistance in refining cost estimates for the proposed project. The four
other agricultural projects being financed by the Bank are the Groundwater
Development Project (Loan 754-GR), Yannitsa Irrigation Project (Loan 991-GR),
East Vermion Irrigation Project (Loan 1165-GR), and Vegetable Production and
Marketing Project (Loan 1588-GR). None of the works under these projects
have similarities to works proposed under the forestry project. Hence,
lessons from implementation of these projects are not directly transferable
to, and have not had direct influence on, design of the proposed project.
The proposed project is the Bank's last scheduled loan to Greece.
II. THE PROJECT AREA (IBRD Map 14031R)
A. Physical Features
2.01      Location.  The project area comprises continental western and north-
western Greece and the Peloponnesus. The eastern limit follows the forest
district boundaries which encompass the main watershed of the Pindus Moun-
tains, except where it turns northeast to include the forest districts of
Aridea, Florina, Edessa, Grevena and Kastoria. Total land area covered by
the project is about five million ha, or about 40% of the country. Commercial
forests cover about 680,000 ha of this area, with some 580,000 ha classified
as suitable for commercial log extraction. This includes forests of all
species with a canopy closure of 25% or more. The State owns 380,000 ha
or 56% of the forest area; the share of non-State forests is 300,000 ha.
Coniferous species occupy about 390,000 ha (or 57%) and broadleaves 290,000
ha. About two thirds of the commercial forests are in the continental part
of the project area, and one third in the Peleponnesus.
2.02      Topography and Soils.  In the continental part of the project area,
the topography is characterized by the Pindus Mountain range, which runs in
the northwest-southeast direction from the Albanian border to the Gulf of
Korinth. Most forests are located at higher elevations (above 1,000 m) of
this mountain range. Topography is rugged and slopes are steep, which makes
extraction of timber difficult. In the north, there are three smaller
mountain ranges, Vernon-Askion, Vermion and Paikon, running parallel to the



- 11 -
Pindus range. In the Peloponnesus, the topography is somewhat gentler than
in the north, though very rugged mountains are found in some areas. Principal
soils found in the project area are hard limestone (at higher elevations),
soils derived from metamorphic rocks, i.e. gneiss and mica schist, or sedi-
mentary rocks such as flysch (at various elevations), together with soils
from alluvial and tertiary deposits (at lower elevations). Soils from meta-
morphic and sedimentary rocks are the most important forest soils. Flysch
soils are moderately acid in reaction with favorable physical structure
for forest growth, but they are presently used extensively for grazing or
support chaparral 1/ vegetation.
2.03      Climate.  Climate in the area is temperate, but considerable dif-
ferences occur at various elevations. In the main forest areas (above 1,000 m
elevation), the annual rainfall ranges from 800 to 1,600 mm, mostly in late
fall and winter. Because the highest temperatures and driest periods coincide,
moisture deficit of the soils is severe toward the fall. Rains are often
torrential, which, together with rough topography, high soil erodability and
abusive land use pattern, are conducive to severe erosion. Mean annual tem-
peratures in the main forest areas are around 10 C, with an increase of some
2 -3 0C from north to south and highest values around 19 0-23 0C. Sub-zero
temperatures are common during winter in all forest areas, and snow occurs
frequently, even in the Peloponnesus. The climate, together with vulnerable
soils and difficult terrain, has a profound influence on forestry practices
in Greece, and necessitates a cautious approach to logging methods involving
top soil disturbance which may increase erosion, or cutting systems which
leave young tree growth subject to the hazards of exposure and drought.
2.04      Infrastructure.  The primary and secondary highway network in the
area (including the Peloponnesus) is generally well developed and in good
condition. The main arteries in the continental part run parallel to and
cross the Pindus Range. The lineal network of gravel-surfaced minor roads
throughout the project area is also adequate for the anticipated traffic. The
railroad system is less well developed and has no practical value for wood
transport. However, maritime transport should be considered an alternative
to trucks, particularly if a chemical pulp mill is constructed along the west
coast. Electric power supply in the project area is reasonably good, the
main sources being plants on the Acheloos River and a coal-burning plant at
Megalopolis in the Peloponnesus. Adequate potable water supplies are avail-
able from mountain springs near most forest villages.
B. Population, Employment and Land Use
2.05      Population and Employment.  Total population of the project area is
estimated at about 1.9 million (about half of which is in the Peloponnesus),
living in nearly 5,000 towns and villages. The biggest population center is
1/   Low grade scrub forest, usually with a high proportion of oak coppice.



- 12 -
Patras with 120,000 inhabitants. Other major centers are Tripolis, Kalamata,
Sparti and Pyrgos in the Peloponnesus, and Agrinion, Ioannina, Arta,
Messolongi, Kastoria, Trikala, Karditsa and Florina in the continental part.
Nearly 260,000 (or 14%) live in about 1,750 mountain villages. Agriculture
accounts for almost 40% of GDP in the project area, compared to less than 20%
in Greece as a whole. Per capita incomes are generally much lower than the
average for Greece, but vary greatly from district to district. Within the
project area, forestry employment currently provides over one million man-
days of work to about 16,000 persons annually. Plantation work provides an
additional 60,000 mandays of employment to about 2,000 persons annually.
Women play an important role in the forest economy, contributing about 20-30%
of labor for nurseries and plantations. There are estimated to be about 380
logging cooperatives with nearly 11,000 members, and about 150 forest owner
cooperatives with some 28,000 members in the project area. The 640 (mainly
small) sawmills located in the project area are the main forest industry
employer, with a total single-shift intake capacity of 910,000 m3(r) annually.
Only 52 of these sawmills have an intake capacity of more than 5,000 m3 per
annum; the 16 biggest ones are concentrated in or near the cities of Ioannina,
Trikala and Kalambaka, and account for 50% of total sawmilling capacity and
nearly 60% of production in the project area. Other workers are employed in
forestry and road construction and in such forest industries as joinery shops
and particleboard mills. Steady emigration due to lack of employment oppor-
tunities and poor living conditions has caused a serious deficit of expe-
rienced and willing labor in all major forest regions of the project area.
Between 1961 and 1971, migration from elevations above 1,000 meters was almost
twice as high (33% vs. 17%) as the overall rural-urban migration.
2.06      Land Use.  Where topography, soils and rainfall allow, land in the
project area is used for intensive permanent agriculture. Most important
agricultural areas are the plains on the west coast of the Peloponnesus and in
Thessaly. The valleys in the northeast are also intensively cultivated. Lack
of good cropland led in the past to extension of agriculture to marginal sites
on some mountain slopes; however, with diminishing rural population, some of
this land is no longer used for cultivation. The traditional and most exten-
sive land use is grazing (mainly sheep and goats). A long history of grazing,
and fires associated with it to improve forage production, have caused a
drastic reduction of high forest area and severe deterioration of the low
vegetation cover. This, together with rugged topography, easily erodable soils
and torrential rains, has resulted in large scale erosion and torrent problems
which have led to complete disappearance of the top soil in some areas.  Over-
grazing has thus been the single biggest problem in the project area in the
past, and, at the same time, the most difficult to solve because of the social
and institutional factors involved. Since livestock can form an important
component of the farming system on upland areas, Government policy in the
project area is to concentrate range improvement operations around selected
villages in those locations where there is still a high livestock population
and a combination of agriculture and forestry work offer reasonable prospects
of sustainable employment and income.



- 13 -
C. Forest Resources
2.07      The project area comprises 42 Forest Districts, including about 55%
of Greece's total forest resources. The area has been divided into seven
regions, each consisting of several Forest Districts, for planning of forestry
extraction and forest management operations. Regions I through V are in con-
tinental Greece, while Regions VI and VII cover the entire Peloponnesus. Most
broadleaved forests are located in Regions I and III, i.e., in the northern
and eastern parts of the project area. Conifers are more evenly distributed
over the entire area, excepting Region I which is almost devoid of coniferous
forests. Of the two main coniferous species, which are also commercially
most important (fir and black pine), fir occurs in all regions over a total
area of 220,000 ha, but is strongly concentrated from Region III southward,
including the Peloponnesus. Black pine covers about 80,000 ha, mainly in the
northern Pindus Mountains and the southern Peloponnesus. Aleppo pine occurs
mainly at low elevations in the Peloponnesus. Among broadleaves, beech is
the most important species, covering 65,000 ha at higher elevations in the
northern regions. Oak is found throughout the project area at low and medium
elevations, occurring largely in coppice forests and used mainly for fuelwood.
Oak coppice lands are highly suitable for conversion either to high forest or
to fast growing industrial plantations of coniferous species.
2.08      The volume of growing stock in the project area (mainly in Regions
II, III and VII) is estimated at 76 million m3, of which about two thirds (50
million m3) is in State ownership. Coniferous species account for 52 million
m3, or 68% of total growing stock volume, and broadleaves for 24 million m3.
The present utilization of forests is far below their annual growth, espe-
cially in fir and pine, where much of the growing stock is overmature timber
in diameter classes over 60 cm at breast height. Compared with an annual
increment of nearly 2 million m3, current wood production in the project area
is running at about 650,000 m3 (i.e., only 33% of potential yield). Over 90%
of this production comes from the 21 most productive Forest Districts. The
main constraints to increasing the cutting program lie in poor all-weather
road access and highly conservative forest management systems. The main
management system at present used throughout the project area on all species
except oak is a group selection system, with a 10 year cutting cycle. The
annual allowable cut is calculated in such a way that only half the annual
increment is removed, allowing young growing stock and seedlings to become
established and to improve the stocking.  However, overaging of some forests
(especially conifers) indicates the need to reduce cutting cycles (to 9 or
fewer years) and rotations (by 10-15 years).
2.09      One way of further increasing the allowable cut in the longer term
is through afforestation with fast growing species. The total forest area
regenerated by planting in the whole of Greece is estimated at 4,500 ha
annually, and nearly 160,000 ha (mainly black pine and fir) have been planted
since 1902. In the project area, an estimated 1,000 ha are currently planted
every year. Afforestation with exotic species has been carried out on trial
scale only, mostly as part of FAO-financed projects dating back to the late



- 14 -
1960s. The main constraints to large-scale afforestation in the past have
been lack of funds and ill-defined grazing rights. As pressure for grazing
diminishes in upland areas, more land should become available for afforesta-
tion. Including some oak coppice forests with low production potential, it
is estimated that land suitable for industrial plantations exceeds 500,000 ha
in the project area and one million ha in Greece as a whole. Domestic market
demands for forest products indicate that about 800,000 ha of fast growing
industrial plantations are needed by the year 2000 to ensure eventual self-
sufficiency in forest products. This implies an annual planting program for
the whole of Greece of up to 40,000 ha (or nearly 10 times the present plant-
ing rate).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The project aims to:  (i) save foreign exchange by increasing wood
production from underutilized forests of western and northwestern Greece; (ii)
introduce mechanized logging and more intensive forest management systems, and
assist DGF in developing a sound long-term strategy for forest resource devel-
opment (including forest industries); (iii) provide more permanent employment
and improved quality of life to retain workers in forest villages; and (iv)
build up local capabilities for preparation of projects for external financing.
Selection of the project area was influenced by Government's objectives of
creating rural employment in the poorer mountainous areas of the country and
introducing intensive extraction and reforestation operations into as large an
area of Greek forests as possible during the next decade. The project has
high priority in Government's development plans and is in line with Bank
forestry sector policy.
B. Description
3.02      The project would consist of the following complementary components:
(i) construction of about 3,500 km and improvement of about 2,000 km of forest
roads, and provision of maintenance equipment; (ii) provision of logging equip-
ment, and communal housing and transport facilities for about 3,000 workers
and forestry staff; (iii) intensified forest management, including moderniza-
tion and expansion of three nurseries, establishment of about 16,000 ha of
industrial plantations, and fire protection equipment and works; (iv) infra-
structure investments in about 37 selected forest villages; and (v) training
and research programs and studies, including: (a) training and demonstration
in mechanized logging methods, (b) pilot industrial plantation research, (c) a
pilot range management program, (d) a sectoral development strategy study, and
(e) a regional development study. Several alternatives were considered during
the course of preparation, and final project design was determined by the need
to make a significantly large developmental impact (in terms of industrial
wood production, import-substitution, employment generation and improved



- 15 -
living conditions in remote mountain areas) within the overall implementa-
tion capabilities of DGF and RPDS. The project represents the start of an
accelerated program of long-term forest and forest industries development.
It is expected to bring the forests into full production by 1995 and lead in
future to complementary investments in additional sawmill, woodboard panel
and pulp manufacturing capacity both within and outside the project area.
The implementation period of five and a half years is the minimum necessary
to begin to realize benefits of the new logging, planting and other forest
management practices being introduced under the project. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on wood production targets, equipment lists, and phasing
and design standards for project works. The annual program of works would be
approved by the Bank before execution each year.
Forest Roads
3.03      The project would finance construction of a total of about 2,225 km
of new forest truck roads and 1,260 km of tractor roads, as well as improvement
to all-weather standards of about 1,135 km and gravelling of another 835 km of
road surface. The emphasis will be on upgrading at least 60% of roads in
State forests and 40% of roads in non-State forests to all-weather "B class"
standards (with drainage ditches, culverts and rock surfacing), making all-
year extraction operations and an increased rate of wood production possible.
A total of about 775 km roads would be constructed and 1,970 km improved (for
example, by gravel surfacing) to these standards. As a result, the average
length of logging season is expected to increase from 70-100 working days at
present to 150-200 days per year by 1984. An additional 1,450 km of lower
standard "C class" truck roads would be constructed with little or no drain-
age structure or rock surfacing, and serve essentially as dry weather ac-
cess roads. The project itself would not finance road building equipment
directly under this component; it would reimburse the indirect foreign
exchange costs of equipment hired from private contractors. However, to
assist in strengthening road maintenance by DGF, the project would finance
some maintenance equipment (including bulldozers, graders and dump trucks),
two mobile repair shops and construction or modernization of six mechanical
workshops, to be stationed at and operated by the major Forest Districts.
Logging
3.04       In line with its objective to increase the use of mechanical methods
of moving logs (skidding) from stump to roadside, the project would finance
logging equipment to be purchased by cooperatives and private operators. This
is expected to include about 12 skidders, 87 tractors, 53 logging trolleys, 34
short cable systems and 2 long cable systems. At present, mechanical skidding
is only practised on a very limited scale and, in most cases, lack of know-
ledge of efficient use of equipment often makes it seem uneconomic. This
points to the need to build up a contractor force with mechanized skidding
equipment through appropriate credit facilities and training and demonstration
(see para. 3.07 below). The project would introduce the agricultural tractor-
logging trolley combination, which is much cheaper and more cost-effective
than traditional articulated skidders, can be used for other purposes such as
log transportation, and is relatively easy to service and repair at existing
workshop facilities. It is expected that, as a result of the credit and



- 16 -
training programs under the project, the share of manual-mule methods in all
logging operations would fall from 90% at present to about 50% by 1984. The
share of mechanical methods is expected to increase correspondingly. The
private sector would be induced to avail of credit facilities for equipment
purchase by improving the present investment climate through such changes as:
(a) planning extraction operations to allow skidding contracts covering at
least 3-5 years, with cuts of sufficient volume to keep equipment operating
for at least 150 days annually; and (b) organizing work contracts to allow
both cutting and skidding operations to be carried out simultaneously, thus
preventing loss of time. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
these changes would begin to be implemented from the 1980 logging season.  The
lengthening of logging season with increased use of mechanized methods (and
more all-weather roads) would be reinforced by improved housing and transport
for workers and forestry staff. The project includes provision for transport
facilities, including about 84 buses, trucks and field vehicles, as well as
some 20 permanent, 137 semi-permanent and 50 mobile housing facilities for a
total of about 3,000 workers and staff in forestry and logging activities.
Forestry Management
3.05      The project would introduce intensified management systems in
several kinds of forestry activities. Regeneration in natural forests would
be supplemented by accelerated establishment of industrial plantations to
eventually ensure further increases in volumes of industrial wood available
for domestic processing and achieve long-term self-sufficiency in forest
products. The project would significantly increase the present planting rate
of about 1,000 ha annually in the project area to 4,600 ha annually by 1984,
establishing a total of 15,900 ha of fast-growing industrial plantations and
expanding and modernizing three nurseries to increase their annual capacity
by about 12 million seedlings. Greater mechanization in clearing and soil
preparation would be introduced, particularly with development of more effi-
cient techniques under the pilot research program (see para. 3.08 below).
Final species selection will depend on soil and climatic conditions as well
as the end use of the plantation wood. Emphasis on conifers is expected,
including Pinus nigra, Pinus radiata, Pinus pinaster and Pseudotsuga menziesii
(Douglas fir).  In addition, some fast-growing eucalypts for pulpwood may be
planted. Both the pilot research program and the sectoral development strategy
study (para. 3.10 below) are expected to influence the location of industrial
plantations under the project, particularly after 1981. The project would
also introduce an intensified system of forest fire protection by financing
equipment, including 27 fire and tanker trucks, 10 buses and 121 radio units
and stations, and works, including 5 firewatching towers, 500 km of fire
breaks, 200 km of fire tracks (built to 'C' class road standards) and 30 water
reservoirs.  The aim would be to reduce the number of fires and minimise
damages from fires which do occur, through improvements in prevention, pre-
suppression, detection and suppression activities.
Village lnfrastructure Development (IBRD Map 14162R)
3.06      The project would finance provision of basic infrastructure facili-
ties to enhance the quality of life and access to markets and jobs of forest
workers living in relatively remote mountain villages, thereby helping to slow



- 1 7 -
down the rate of emigration and retain younger people in these areas.  The
investments to be financed would include construction or improvement of about
242 km of access roads and village streets; minor improvements and extensions
to existing spring-fed water storage and distribution systems in about 28
villages, and to surface water drainage, torrent control and small sanitation
schemes in about 21 villages; and construction and upgrading of community
centers, street lighting and other social facilities in about 36 villages.
The proposed investments are similar to works being financed under the Evros
Project (Loan 1457-GR). Project investments would be concentrated in a total
of 37 villages (with a permanent population of about 19,400), selected on
the basis of criteria agreed with the Bank, such as population, emigration
trends, employment in forestry, and location in relation to good potential
forests. The connection roads to be constructed under this component would
link eight of these villages as well as 16 other villages (total population:
14,400) to the existing paved road network. Rural access roads would also be
gravelled to serve 11 villages with good agricultural potential. Agreement
was reached during negotiations on the location, phasing and design standards
of all these roads and other infrastructure facilities under this component.
The emphasis would be on keeping construction standards as simple as possible,
and other criteria (for example, service levels) have been designed to ensure
that the least cost, technically sound alternative is adopted in each case.
Some flexibility would be allowed in determining the exact nature and phasing
of works in each village, on the basis of an annual program of works to be
submitted and approved by the Bank before execution each year. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that charges would continue to be levied to cover
at least the costs of operating and maintaining the water supply and sanita-
tion facilities proposed under this component.
Training, Research and Studies
3.07      Logging Training and Demonstration.  As a complement to the credit
component for logging equipment (para. 3.04), the project would assist DGF in
intensifying logging training for both forestry workers and operators as well
as technical and professional forestry staff, with emphasis on the efficient
use of mechanical skidding equipment and introduction of cableways with clear
felling. Forest District offices would be responsible for selecting logging
contractors (both existing and potential) and DGF staff for training. Stress
would be placed on practical and efficient "on-the-job"' operation and repair
of mechanized skidding equipment, with an appropriate mix of 3-6 month courses
for staff and young operators, and 1-2 week orientation courses for existing
logging contractors. A total of about 100 operators and staff are expected to
receive training under this program each year. The program will make use of
existing DGF buildings and other facilities at Kalambaka as the base of opera-
tions. Trainees would form several logging production units, operating in the
same three Forest Districts as those being used as pilot areas for revision of
management plans, road locations and logging layouts under the sectoral devel-
opment strategy study (para. 3.10 below). The project would finance equipment
and three manyears of consultants (a logging planning adviser and skidding/
cable operating specialists with experience that is not locally available) to
assist in organizing this program and demonstrating the efficient use of new
equipment. Four manyears of postgraduate fellowships and two manyears of over-
seas study tours would also be financed for training abroad of DGF personnel
in modern logging and forest management methods.



- 18 -
3.08      Pilot Plantation Research.  The project includes financing for all
the equipment and part of the technical assistance and training requirements
of a five-year pilot industrial plantation research program, to be executed
by FAO. UNDP proposes to finance the first three years' technical assistance
and training costs of this program; funds have already been allocated and
final UNDP approval is expected shortly. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that financing arrangements for the first three years' technical
assistance (six manyears) and training (eight manyears) would be completed
no latter than March 31, 1980. The project would finance four manyears of
consultant services, three manyears of fellowships and one manyear of over-
seas study tours in the fourth and fifth years of the program. The research
program would include afforestation trials and experiments with plantation
techniques (in at least three pilot areas) aimed at developing most efficient
methods of large-scale mechanized land clearing/preparation and plantation
establishment, leading to cost savings of up to 30%. It would also include an
assessment of land available for fast-growing industrial plantations of both
exotic and indigenous species, particularly within a 150 km radius of major
forest industry sites. This pilot program is complementary to the project's
plantation component (para. 3.05) and will provide the basis for accelerated
industrial plantation establishment in the 1980s. Close liaison between the
program and the plantation component of the project during the course of
implementation would ensure that research results are applied on a field scale
as soon as possible. The Bank participated in final design of the pilot
program to ensure proper coordination with the project.
3.09      Pilot Range Management.  The project includes a pilot program to
demonstrate the economics and practicability of various modern methods of
range management, eventually aimed at protecting the forests from uncontrolled
and destructive grazing. The pilot program would cover about 20,000 ha around
eight villages in the northern districts of Aridea, Florina and Kastoria, with
a total population of about 6,000 people and 43,000 livestock head (mostly
sheep and goats). The program would investigate the feasibility of integrat-
ing forestry with livestock through pasture improvement, rotational grazing
and forage crop production schemes, and protection of young forested areas.
Specific works would include improvement of 7,400 ha of rangelands through
various surface and seeding treatments, establishment of 600 ha of fodder
crops for conservation as hay and 200 ha of sown pasture on arable land, and
improvement of 13,000 additional ha through new watering points, fencing,
roads and shelters. The extent to which the project's findings could be
extended to other parts of Greece would be determined by a comprehensive
survey of grazing resources in northern Greece which would also be part of
the pilot program. A total of two manyears of fellowships, two manyears of
overseas study tours and two manyears of technical assistance in pasture
establishment/use and survey techniques would be provided under this program.
Consultant services are justified by the fact that this is a new program, and
the types of experience and expertise needed are not readily available in
Greece. DGF would furnish to the Bank for its comments, no later than
March 31, 1980, detailed proposals for the pilot range management program,
as well as the logging training and pilot plantations research programs,
and consult with the Bank prior to making any changes to these programs.
Assurances were obtained to this effect.



- 19 -
3.10      Forest and Forest Industries Sectoral Development Strategy Study.
The project includes a study designed to carry out an in-depth review of
current stocking and growth rates, and to investigate the implications of
introducing significant changes in current forest management practices and
harvesting methods, with the object of increasing wood production and elim-
inating forest product imports as quickly as possible and to justify instal-
lation of new industrial capacity. The study would look into various options
for long-term development to the year 2000, and study the preliminary economic
viability of such major new industries as a chemical pulp mill.  It would also
include an analysis of the present pricing system and structure of taxes and
subsidies in the forestry sector, with recommendations for appropriate adjust-
ments to bring about the most efficient resource allocation while maintaining
adequate incentives. It would investigate the budgetary, training, legal and
other policy implications for Government of accelerated forestry sector devel-
opment. The study would also include revision of sample management plans for
three Forest Districts (representative of the main forest types), incorporat-
ing the proposed modifications to road planning, forest management and indus-
trial plantation establishment. The project would finance about five manyears
of consultant services for the study, including specialists in forest manage-
ment, silviculture, industrial plantations, logging and transport, mechanical
wood-using industries, pulp and paper engineering, and economics/marketing.
The entire study is expected to take 12 to 15 months from start of work in the
field, after which Government would, taking the Bank's comments on the study's
findings into account, implement appropriate measures for the development of
the forestry and forest industry sectors, including revision of management
plans for all Forest Districts in the project area. Agreement on the above
was reached during negotiations.
3.11      Regional Development Study.  The project would assist the Regional
Policy and Development Service (RPDS) in carrying out a regional development
study in western Greece, including the entire Epirus region, the islands of
Corfu and Lefkada, and the Aitolia-Akarnania prefecture in Central Greece.
The study would be aimed primarily at preparing a regional development project
along the lines of the Evros Project (Loan 1457-GR) for financing by the
European Investment Bank or other external agencies. In addition, it would
assist in formulating a framework plan for regional development in western
Greece to the year 2000, including identification of opportunities, con-
straints and investment priorities, and in developing local capabilities for
d         project identification and preparation.  The study, while not limited to
forestry, would address the major problem of long-term development in a region
of the project area which is one of the poorest in Greece and yet has substan-
tial forest resources and development potential. The entire study is expected
to take 30 months, which would be sufficient to carry a few projects through
the complete project cycle from identification to start of implementation, and
to convert the institutional arrangements set up into a permanent management
system. The project would finance about six manyears of consultant services
for this study (about half of whom are expected to be recruited locally).
Expatriate consultants would provide expertise in economic and spatial plan-
ning, organization, investment analysis and other skills which are particularly
scarce in Greece. In addition, a Fund of about US$2.4 million equivalent would
be established by the Government by March 31, 1980, to undertake detailed



- 20 -
project preparation studies and field surveys aimed at advancing the develop-
ment of western Greece. The Government would make an initial contribution
to the Fund of Dr 10 million, and replenish the Fund as necessary until Govern-
ment's total contribution from its own resources amounts to at least Dr 46 mil-
lion (US$1.2 million). The remaining US$1.2 million will come out of the Bank
loan. Studies and surveys to be financed under the Fund would be selected on
the basis of criteria agreed with the Bank, including preliminary indications
of technical and economic viability, availability of the main factors of pro-
duction, and adequacy of market demand. Expenditures from the Fund leading to
private investments would be recovered from the beneficiaries.  Agreement on
the above was reached during negotiations.
C. Cost Estimates
3.12      Total cost of the project, including physical contingencies and
expected price increases, is estimated at about Dr 5,307 million (US$144.6
million), with a foreign exchange component of US$49 million or 34%. The cost
estimate is based on June 1979 prices and includes taxes and duties (except
for items imported by DGF which are exempt) computed at Dr 843 million (US$23
million). Civil works estimates are derived from costs of similar works being
undertaken by DGF and, under the Evros Project (Loan 1457-GR), by RPDS. Equip-
ment cost estimates are based on price quotations from suppliers, checked by
experienced consultants. Consultants' costs have been estimated at US$7,000
per manmonth on average (including all local and foreign expenditures, and
without contingencies). Physical contingencies (to allow for possible design
variations) have been assessed at 10% of the cost of all civil works except
village infrastructure development for which 20% was allowed (reflecting the
flexibility built into this component), and 5% of the cost of services and
equipment (including allowance for spare parts). Price contingency estimates
assume increases in local currency costs of 12% in 1979, 11% in 1980 and 10%
per annum thereafter (based on expected domestic inflation), and in foreign
exchange costs of 7% per annum for civil works and 6% per annum for equipment
and services. Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.1 below and
detailed in Annex 2, Table T-1.



- 21 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign
Item               ------(Dr million)-----   -----(US$ million)-----   Exchange
Forest Roads       806.8      521.0  1,327.8   22.0        14.2      36.2       39
Plantations        432.2       144.3    576.5   11.7        3.9      15.6 /a   25
Fire Protection    72.4        64.9    137.3    2.0         1.8       3.8       47
Village Infra-
structure
Development       524.3      255.7    780.0   14.3         7.0      21.3       33
Maintenance
Equipment           19.1     100.4    119.5    0.4         2.8       3.2       84
Logging
Equipment          35.9       71.3    107.2    1.0         1.9       2.9       67
Worker Trans-
port and
Housing           119.1       81.0    200.1    3.2         2.1       5.3       40
Training and
Studies           177.3      108.2    285.5    5.0         2.9       7.9 /b   38
Project Admin-
istration          84.1        5.3      89.4    2.3        0.2       2.5        6
Base Cost        2,271.2   1,352.1  3,623.3   61.9         36.8      98.7       37
Physical Con-
tingencies
(11.2%)           264.9      139.2    404.1    7.2         3.8      11.0       34
Price Contin-
gencies
(31.8%)           972.0      307.4  1,279.4   26.5         8.4      34.9       24
Subtotal         1,236.9      446.6  1,683.5   33.7        12.2      45.9       27
Total Project
Costs           3,508.1   1,798.7  5,306.8   95.6 /c  49.0    144.6 /c   34
/a   Including pilot plantation research (US$1.5 million).
/b   Including logging training (US$1.5 million), pilot range management
(US$3.1 million), and the two studies (US$3.3 million).
/c   Cost estimates include about US$23 million of taxes and duties.



- 22 -
D. Financing
3.13      The Bank loan of US$25 million would be at an interest rate of 7.9%
per annum and for a term of 15 years, including three years of grace. It
would finance about 17% of total project cost (51% of the foreign exchange
component), or about 21% of total cost net of taxes and duties. Commercial
financiers are expected to fill the foreign exchange gap of US$24 million.
Government has already received several attractive offers and is expected to
finalize cofinancing arrangements by the time of Board presentation of this
loan. Of the remaining project cost, Government would finance US$86.8 mil-
lion (60%), ABG US$2.1 million (1%) and beneficiaries US$6.7 million (5%).
The net contribution to project cost by Government after taxes and duties
would be US$63.8 million. Beneficiaries of investments in logging roads in
non-State forests would contribute about 70% of the cost of this component;
subborrowers of investments in logging equipment would contribute at least 20%
of the relevant costs (though subborrowers in the poverty target group may
contribute less). Contributions by ABG would constitute less than one-tenth
of one percent of its total lending, and contributions by the beneficiaries
are unlikely to cause them any severe financial burden.  The Government con-
tribution represents only a 7% average annual increase over net investment
by Government in the project area forests in 1978. In addition, Government
would continue to allow DGF to use stumpage revenues from State forests in
the project area, averaging about Dr 697 million (US$19 million) annually
in constant prices over the project implementation period, to cover related
administrative expenditures of DGF as well as operating and maintenance costs
of project investments. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
financing plan for the project would be as discussed above.
3.14      The project financing plan is set out in Table 3.2 below; project
cash flows relating to the core forestry components are detailed in Annex 2,
Table T-2.
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Amount
Dr million      US$ million      %
IBRD                                             917.5             25.0        17 /a
Cofinancier                                      881.2             24.0        17
Government                                     3,185.1             86.8        60
ABG                                                77.1             2.1         1
Beneficiaries                                    245.9              6.7         5
Total                                          5,306.8            144.6       100
/a   The Bank's share of total cost net of taxes and duties is ab6ut 21%.



- 23 -
E. Implementation Schedule
3.15      Project works would be implemented over five and a half years from
mid-1979 to end-1984. Most equipment purchases by DGF would be made during
the first three and half years of the project (1979-82), but civil works would
be more evenly distributed over the project implementation period. The esti-
mated schedule of expenditures is summarized below and detailed in Annex 2,
Table T-3. An implementation schedule for construction of works and other
actions under the project is laid out in World Bank Chart 20057.
Table 3.3: SUMMARY SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES
Calendar Year
1979-80 /1   1981   1982   1983   1984
Expenditures                               -------------US$ million--------------
Annual                                       23.1        26.7   29.9   31.2   33.7
Cumulative                                   23.1        49.8   79.7  110.9  144.6
/1   July 1979 to December 1980.
F. Procurement
3.16      The agreed lists of equipment and works to be procured under the
project are detailed in Annex 2, Tables T-4 to T-6. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the procurement procedures outlined below would be
followed under the project (all cost figures include contingencies):
(i)  Equipment and vehicles to be purchased by DGF and RPDS (about
US$10.8 million total) for transport, maintenance, training
and other purposes would be procured (with exceptions noted
below) following international competitive bidding procedures
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. In order to facil-
itate expeditious equipment procurement and project implemen-
tation, Government would exempt DGF and RPDS from going
through the Ministry of Trade for procurement under this
project. Local manufacturers of equipment and materials
would be allowed a 15% margin of preference or the appli-
cable customs duty, whichever is less. Equipment would be
bulked to the extent possible, and bidding documents for
contracts exceeding US$100,000 would be cleared with the
Bank before tendering. Equipment which cannot be suitably
bulked and other small items costing less than US$50,000
each up to a total limit of US$1.5 million would be
procured by DGF and RPDS through local competitive proce-
dures (which are satisfactory to the Bank), with solicita-
tion of bids from at least three suppliers in each case.
Foreign firms are well represented in Greece and would be
allowed to participate in local competitive bidding.



- 24 -
(ii)  Logging equipment (about US$4.1 million) would be procured by
beneficiaries of subloans under the project (including both
cooperatives and private operators) through regular commercial
channels under supervision of ABG. Bulk procurement of this
equipment would be impractical and inefficient because of dis-
persion over a wide geographic area of the large number of
potential investors, each of whom would wish to purchase
according to his own needs and brand preferences. Adequate
competition exists among domestic and foreign suppliers of
logging equipment in Greece.  To enable broad participation
by international suppliers and compliance with requirements
of the project, ABG would help subborrowers in identifying
alternative sources of supply and would prepare (with assis-
tance from DGF) standard criteria acceptable to the Bank for
procurement of logging equipment and as a basis for disburse-
ment from the loan. Equipment which does not meet the agreed
criteria would not be eligible for financing.
(iii) Civil works under the various project components (US$119.2
million total) would be carried out, to the maximum extent
feasible, by private contractors procured on the basis of
local advertising and competitive bidding procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Bank. These works would be
unlikely to attract serious foreign bids (and hence are
unsuitable for ICB) due to their dispersion over half the
country, the wide differences in types of construction
required, the phasing of contracts over five and a half
years, the relatively small size of each individual con-
tract, and the short construction season of 5-6 months
each year. In the case of logging roads in non-State
forests, forest owners or owning entities would be respon-
sible for procuring the works, with DGF approving all
designs and providing overall supervision in execution.
At present, virtually all forestry works in State forests
are directly carried out by DGF on force account, with
each Forest District responsible for hiring equipment and
operators from the private sector on the basis of local
advertising. In future, DGF intends to use contractors
for a larger portion of forestry works, particularly roads
and housing. Under the project, about US$26 million of
forestry civil works in State forests are expected to
be carried out through contractors. The remainder would
be carried out by DGF on force account, which is the most
economical procedure in cases where, due to the remote-
ness of location, short construction season and small size
of contracts, there is likely to be insufficient contractor
interest to warrant tendering. Contractor prices would
have to be higher to compensate for these disadvantages,
and delays in procurement through contractors in such
cases would make it more difficult to reach wood extraction
targets. However, the Bank loan would not be disbursed



- 25 -
against works procured by DGF under force account (esti-
mated to cost up to US$50 million in total). In all
cases, responsibility for project procurement would rest
either with the Forest Districts or, in the case of
village development works, ad hoc procurement committees
at the nomos (administrative district or prefecture) level.
(iv) Consultants for various forms of technical assistance under
the project (total cost US$4.4 million) would be appointed
on terms and conditions and with qualifications and expe-
rience acceptable to the Bank. DGF would be responsible
for retaining all consultants under the project except those
for the regional development study, who would be appointed by
RPDS. Project preparation studies and surveys (under the
Fund) costing more than US$200,000 equivalent would require
prior approval by the Ministry of Coordination and the Bank,
which, in any case, will receive a justification for all
such studies and surveys.
The US$6.1 million of project cost not covered by the above procedures relates
to the remaining costs of project administration, training and studies.
G. Disbursements
3.17      The Bank loan would be disbursed over five and a half years as
follows:
(i) Logging roads, plantations, fire
protection, housing and range
management works                        -  20% of total expenditures
(US$4.2 million)
(ii) Village infrastructure development
works                                   -  20% of total expenditures
(US$5.8 million)
(iii)  Logging equipment                        -  37% of subloan amounts dis-
(US$1.2 million)                           bursed by ABG
(iv)  Other equipment and vehicles            -  100% of foreign expenditures,
(US$8.7 million)                           100% of ex-factory costs if
manufactured locally, and
75% of total expenditures if
purchased locally
(v)  Disbursements under the Fund            -  50% of total expenditures
(US$1.2 million)



- 26 -
(vi)  Technical assistance and training    -  87% of total expenditures
(US$1.9 million)                           on consultant services, and
100% of foreign expenditures
on fellowships
(vii) Unallocated
(US$2 million)
An estimated schedule of disbursements is summarized in Table 3.4 below and
detailed in Annex 2, Table T-7.
Table 3.4: SUMMARY SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Fiscal Year
1980    1981   1982   1983   1984    1985
Disbursements                           ----------------US$ Million--------------
Annual                                   1.2      5.7    5.8    4.8    3.8       3.7
Cumulative                               1.2      6.9   12.7   17.5   21.3    25.0
3.18      Disbursements for logging equipment would be made against statements
of expenditure by ABG. Documentation for these expenditures would not be sub-
mitted for review, but would be retained by ABG and made available for inspec-
tion by the Bank during the course of project supervision. Total disbursements
against statements of expenditure would amount to US$1.2 million, or less than
5% of the Bank loan amount. ABG's accounts would continue to be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, who would be asked to periodically
confirm that ABG's statements of expenditure are properly prepared and that
the monies claimed have actually been spent and the goods used for the pur-
poses of the project (see Annex 1). Disbursements for all civil works, con-
sultants' services, fellowships and equipment to be procured by DGF and RPDS,
as well as disbursements for studies and surveys under the Fund, would be
made after receipt of standard documentation. Savings, if any, at completion
of the project would be cancelled.
H. Environmental Effects
3.19      The project is not expected to have any tangible negative effect on
the ecosystem of the forests. Even though timber extraction would be intensi-
fied, forestry operations would be conducted according to sound silvicultural
and cutting practices. Forest management would be based on the principle of
sustained yield to ensure that, through regulation of the annual allowable
cut, timber supplies would not be diminished.  Road specifications have been
designed to minimise erosion. Provision of infrastructure in the form of
paved streets, community centers and better water supply and drainage/disposal
facilities under the village development component would all help to improve



- 2 7 -
the social environment in mountainous areas and encourage workers to remain in
these villages. The fire protection, pilot range management and industrial
plantation components are expected to have a significant favorable impact on
conserving forest resources and on erosion and torrent control. No adverse
effect on the water regime is anticipated by changing from one form of forest
crop (natural forest) to another (fast-growing plantations) in areas where
industrial plantations would be concentrated.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
The Borrower
4.01      The Borrower of the proposed Bank loan would be the Hellenic State.
An estimated US$8.6 million of the loan would be used by the Regional Policy
and Development Service of the Ministry of Coordination for the village
infrastructure development and regional development study components; an
estimated US$15.2 million would be used by the Directorate General of Forests
in the Ministry of Agriculture for all other components except logging equip-
ment; and US$1.2 million would be on-lent to the Agricultural Bank of Greece
which, in turn, would make sub-loans to beneficiaries of investments in
logging equipment. Government would bear the foreign exchange risk in all
cases.
Implementing Agencies (World Bank Chart 20146)
4.02      Directorate General of Forests (DGF).  Primary responsibility for
implementing the core forestry development components (and for maintaining
project investments, including all forest roads) would be assigned to DGF,
which has an established and experienced administrative structure throughout
the project area and is capable of effectively performing this role (World
Bank Chart 19940). It has 82 regional forest offices, 60 forest stations, and
128 forest guard stations already located in the 42 Forest Districts of the
project area. Field staff of 220 professional foresters and 314 technicians
(or about one professional forester per 2,636 ha and one technician per 1,847
ha of productive forest) is more than adequate in comparison with similar Bank
projects in other countries. Each District office is a self-accounting unit,
responsible for forest management, product sales and infrastructure operations
in its area of jurisdiction. However, overall financial control and policy
guidance are centralized in DGF headquarters in Athens. DGF would be respon-
sible for implementing the forest road construction, logging, industrial
plantation and other forestry operations and training and research under the
project, and will also initiate and supervise the forest and forest industry
sectoral development strategy study.
4.03       In order to facilitate overall control and monitor project progress,
a Project Planning and Management Office (PPMO) would be set up within DGF's



- 28 -
Directorate of Planning and Studies, with responsibility for coordinating the
execution of project works by DGF. The PPM0 would monitor and evaluate project
progress, prepare quarterly and annual reports for submission to the Bank on
physical progress and impact of the project, identify project bottlenecks and
ensure such consultation within the Forest Districts as may be necessary for
resolving any difficulties.  It would be responsible for preparing applications
for withdrawal from the loan account and for liaising with other Government
and ABG departments involved in project implementation. It would also ensure
the timely preparation of procurement documents and evaluation of bids as well
as the preparation of project operational plans, including the annual program
of works to be submitted (together with detailed cost estimates and background
data) for Bank approval by December 1 of each preceding year. The PPMO would
be headed by a professional forester as project manager assisted by at least
two other professional foresters, two forest technicians, one accountant and
other support staff, all suitably qualified and experienced and working on a
full-time basis for the project. Establishment of the PPMO, including appoint-
ment of at least the project manager and accountant, would be a condition of
effectiveness of this loan.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the PPMO as well as the Forest District offices in the project area would be
kept adequately staffed and expanded as required over the period of project
implementation. In particular, DGF would ensure that each Forest District
with a large industrial plantation program has at least one specialized
forester in charge of planting operations.
4.04      In addition to the PPMO, the Director General of DGF and the heads
of relevant DGF Directorates would continue to coordinate activities among
different Forest Districts and provide broad policy directions. Also, an
overall Project Steering Committee would be set up, headed by a Director
General of the Kinistry of Coordination and including senior representatives
from DGF, RPDS, ABG, and the Ministries of Agriculture, Public Works and
Interior. The Steering Committee would provide overall policy guidance and
coordination of activities among the various project components and implement-
ing agencies. It would meet as often as required but at least once every
three months to review project activities and progress. Assurances on the
above proposed arrangements were obtained during negotiations.
4.05      The sectoral development strategy study would be carried out by an
experienced consulting firm under terms of reference and conditions satis-
factory to Government and the Bank, working in close conjunction with a team
of specialists selected by DGF. Both the consultants and team would be
appointed no later than March 31, 1980, and DGF would provide them with
adequate office, secretarial and transport facilities as needed. Revision by
DGF staff of current management plans reflecting the study's proposals for
more intensive forestry management (including changes in harvesting methods,
forest road planning, industrial plantation establishment, and other sector
policies), taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, would be central
to the institutional objectives of the problem. Hence, within six months of
the study's conclusion, DGF would appoint 10 forest management planning teams
(each including at least three professional foresters) with the task of
accelerated revision of management plans for all Forest Districts in the
project area. In the meantime, all management plan revisions from July 1,



- 29 -
1979 of forests in the project area would take account of the revised produc-
tion targets under the project. Assurances on the above were obtained during
negotiations.
4.06       The pilot range management component would be implemented by DGF in
close coordination with the Directorate of Crop and Livestock Production in the
Ministry of Agriculture. Immediate planning and implementation responsibili-
ties would be assigned to the existing forester in charge of range management
in each of the three Forest Districts covered by the program. He would be
assisted by adequate professional staff, including an agronomist to advise on
fodder crop production and storage. Necessary support facilities, including
office equipment and vehicles, would be financed by the project. The Forest
Research Institute at Thessaloniki would provide technical assistance and
advice. The chief of the range management section in this Institute would be
designated the Range Management Officer (RMO) with overall responsibility for
coordination of the pilot program. He would be assisted by adequate profes-
sional staff. Meetings would be held at least once a month between the RMO
and the three foresters in charge of the program in the Forest Districts. DGF
would also appoint a senior forester as Training Officer (TO) in charge of
coordinating execution of the logging training and demonstration program under
the project. He would be assisted initially by at least two other foresters,
two mechanics and one forest technician, and later, at the end of the period
of technical assistance, by one other experienced forester and two technicians
who would assist in continuing the program at least until the end of project
implementation. DGF would provide adequate office and housing facilities at
Kalambaka and elsewhere for effective implementation of this training compo-
nent. The RMO and TO would be responsible for submitting periodic reports on
their respective programs to the PPMO for inclusion in the quarterly and
annual progress reports sent to the Bank for review. Assurances on the above
organizational and staffing arrangements were obtained during negotiations.
4.07      Regional Policy and Development Service (RPDS).  RPDS would be
responsible for implementing the village infrastructure development component
and the regional development study. The Service already has some experience
as the executing agency for the Evros Development Project (Loan 1457-GR),
which includes investments similar to those proposed under these components.
The three-tier organizational arrangement evolved successfully under the Evros
Project, with an effective mix between local initiative and centralized
administrative control, would be largely replicated here. RPDS would set up
a Regional Project Office, within its existing regional services, for each
of the four regions to be covered by the village development component (i.e.,
Central-Western Macedonia, Epirus, Thessaly and Central Greece), each with
a full-time staff of a suitably qualified and experienced professional
as Regional Project Officer (RPO) assisted by at least one engineer and a
technician. The RPO in Ioannina would also be responsible for implementing
the regional development study with assistance from consultants and a multi-
disciplinary team of at least eight experienced technical personnel and
adequate support staff. Actual planning, design and supervision of project
works would continue to be the responsibility of the nomos where they are
located. Both the nomos' Technical Services Department staff and RPDS's own
professionals in the field are well-trained, experienced and capable of



- 30 -
handling the simple types of works proposed under these components. For each
of the nine nomoi covered by the village development component, a Nomos
Coordination Committee (NCC) would be set up, including the Nomarch as chair-
man, the concerned RPO as rapporteur, and the RPDS Regional Chief and Directors
of relevant departments at the nomos level as appropriate. These Committees
would review the proposed annual programs in their respective nomoi, oversee
project progress, and remove any bottlenecks as they arise. NCCs would also
be set up for each of the six other nomoi (in addition to Ioannina) to be
covered by the regional development study, i.e., Igoumenitsa, Preveza, Arta,
Kerkyra, Lefkada and Aitolia-Akarnania, which would supervise and review
implementation of the study in cooperation with the RPO in Ioannina (including
approval of all studies and surveys under the Fund costing up to US$200,000
equivalent). The NCCs would meet individually as often as necessary but at
least once every three months to review project activities. Each Nomarch
would also be responsible for appointing ad hoc procurement committees with
three members, including the RPO and one representative each from the nomos'
Technical Service Department and the Ministry of Public Works, for procurement
of all works under the village development component. The RPOs would assist
these committees in the preparation of procurement documents, evaluation of
bids and award of contracts.
4.08      Each RPO would be responsible for overall coordination and control
of project implementation by the nomos' technical departments for the villages
within his region. He would put together an annual program of works proposed
for village infrastructure development, including detailed cost estimates and
background data, to be submitted for the Bank's approval by December 1 of each
preceding year. He would collect quarterly and annual information required
for project monitoring, and prepare progress reports and applications for
withdrawal from the loan account. He would also be responsible for operating
the Fund under the overall direction of the RPDS Director General, taking
account of the agreed criteria and the planning team's findings in selecting
project preparation studies and surveys. RPDS would also assign two engineers
from its headquarters staff to assist in preparing and designing project
works in cases where the nomos' Technical Services Department is unable to
complete this work in the desired time and manner. These engineers would be
part of a Project Coordination Office (PCO) in Athens, to be headed by a
suitably experienced professional as coordinator, together with an accountant
and the necessary support staff. The Project Coordinator would be responsible
for overall supervision of project implementation (for components under RPDS
responsibility), including arranging meetings among the four RPOs to exchange
experiences in different nomoi. He would also be responsible for monitoring
and evaluating project progress, and for putting together quarterly and annual
progress reports for review by the Bank, as well as applications for with-
drawal from the loan account. The four RPOs, the Project Coordinator and
the accountant in PCO would all be appointed no later than March 31, 1980.
Assurances on the above organizational and staffing arrangements were obtained
during negotiations.



- 31 -
B. Credit for Logging Equipment
4.09      Organization.  The credit program for logging equipment would
be administered by ABG through its existing branch network in the project
area (with an average of roughly one branch per Forest District).  ABG was
appraised under the Vegetable Production and Marketing Project (Loan 1588-GR)
last year; it already has an established lending program in the forestry
*sector and is well-suited (and, in fact, the only practical mechanism) for
carrying out this small but important component of the project as a credit
operation. Government would on-lend to ABG the proceeds of the IBRD loan for
the logging equipment credit component on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan. Subborrowers for logging equipment would be mainly cooperatives
and other loggers already operating in the project area, who would own and
operate the equipment themselves. Preference in subloans would be given to
those logging operators who have received training in mechanized methods under
the project's logging training and demonstration program. ABG would appoint,
no later than March 31, 1980, a qualified and experienced Credit Officer on a
full-time basis to coordinate and review the implementation of the credit
component, oversee procurement, monitor progress, maintain project accounts,
submit applications for withdrawal from the loan account, and prepare periodic
reports for incorporation in the PPMO's quarterly and annual progress reports
to be sent to the Bank. Assurances on the above were obtained during nego-
tiations.
4.10       Interest Rates.  The minimum interest rate to be charged subborrowers
would be the current rate of 7.5% on medium/long-term loans by ABG (7% for
cooperatives). Although this rate compares unfavorably with domestic infla-
tion of 12-13% in recent years 1/ and prevailing commercial interest rates of
12-14%, interest rates in agriculture have in fact been rising gradually since
1974 and moved closer toward lending rates in other sectors. Most recently,
at the time of the Vegetable Production and Marketing Project last year,
Government had raised most medium/long-term agricultural interest rates by 1%
and short-term interest rates by 2% across the board. The logging equipment
credit component accounts for only a small part of the proposed forestry
project (about US$4.1 million, or less than 3% of project costs) and of ABG's
total lending (about one-tenth of 1%). Moreover, it would not be appropriate,
for obvious incentive reasons, to raise interest rates on subloans for logging
equipment alone, given that the project will be trying to introduce entirely
new types of equipment and logging methods through this component and under
the training and demonstration program. Since ABG's interest income from
project subloans (averaging about 7.2% 2/) would not give it a sufficient
spread to fully cover administrative and financial costs associated with this
1/   Actual inflation = 12%, 13%, 12% (est.) in 1976, 1977 and 1978,
respectively.
Expected inflation = 12%, 11%, 10% in 1979, 1980 and 1981, respectively.
2/   Assuming that two thirds of subloan amounts are channelled through
cooperatives, which receive a spread of 0.5%.



- 32 -
component, Government is expected to pay ABG an annual compensation fee to
cover this deficit. Assurances to this effect would be reflected in a Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between Government and ABG. Signing
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IBRD would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.
4.11      Lending Terms and Procedures.  A maximum grace period of one year
and maximum repayment period of eight years would be allowed on subloans
for logging equipment, with a minimum investor participation of 20%. These
lending terms are based on expected incremental cash flows to beneficiaries
of these investments. ABG would apply its normal criteria of eligibility
and creditworthiness in approving prospective subborrowers. Sublending
decisions would be supported by adequate appraisals to ensure that projects
are technically, financially and economically viable. Responsibility for
these appraisals and for approval of subloan applications would continue to
rest with ABG's branch offices in the project area. Revised appraisal
criteria and techniques being developed under the Vegetable Production
and Marketing Project would also be extended to logging equipment under the
proposed project. In addition, prior to approval of the first subloan under
this component, ABG, in cooperation with DGF, would prepare and forward for
Bank concurrence a list of technical criteria to be met by all logging equip-
ment to be financed under the project.  ABG's Credit Officer in Athens would
review the appraisal of and approve the first subloan application for logging
equipment presented in each of ABG's branches in the project every year.  IBRD
would review the appraisal of and approve the first three subloan applications
for logging equipment (each from a different branch) in the project area.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the sublending terms and
procedures for this component would be satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Consultancy Services, Technical Assistance and Training
4.12      The project includes provision for the costs of nine manyears of
university training fellowships (at US$15,000 per manyear) and five manyears
of study tours (at US$25,000 per manyear) for Greek personnel overseas in
various aspects of forestry planning and management, log extraction and pas-
ture improvement, for a total base cost of about US$260,000. Also proposed
for financing are a total of about ten manyears of expatriate consultancy
services for technical assistance under various components (excluding pilot
plantation research and the regional development study; see para. 4.13), at
an average base cost of US$84,000 per manyear and total base cost of about
US$840,000. Consultants for logging training and demonstration (three man-
years) are expected to include a logging and roads engineer as adviser for the
first two years and part-time specialists in skidding and cable operations
during the corresponding two logging seasons.  Two manyears of consultants for
pilot range management would provide expertise in pasture improvement, fodder
production operations and survey techniques. The consulting firm that would
be hired to carry out the forestry sectoral development strategy study is
estimated to require about five manyears of its own specialists and an equal
effort from local experts to complete its work. Assurances were obtained that



- 33 -
the consultants would be hired on terms and conditions and with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Government and the Bank.
4.13      The pilot plantation research program would finance twelve manyears
of overseas training and more than ten manyears of consultancy services over
five years, including a full-time resident adviser and various short-term
consultants. UNDP proposes to finance the first three years of this technical
assistance and training. The project includes financing for four manyears of
consultants, three manyears of fellowship training and one manyear of overseas
study tours, all to be provided in the fourth and fifth years of this program.
The regional development study to be financed under the project would aim at
developing Government's project preparation capabilities, a major weakness at
present, as well as preparing a regional development project for financing by
agencies such as the European Investment Bank. About six manyears of con-
sultants (half of whom would be locally recruited) would be financed for this
purpose over the 30-month implementation period of the study. These would
consist of planners, engineers and economists and would form part of the
planning team to be set up at Ioannina under an RPO. In addition, short-term
consultancy services of a more specialized nature would be required to carry
out detailed surveys and feasibility studies for specific subproject invest-
ment opportunities in western Greece. The project includes a Fund of US$2.4
million equivalent for this purpose. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that consultants forming part of the planning team would be appointed no
later than March 31, 1980, and that consultants for the study and the pilot
plantation research program would be hired on terms and conditions and with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Government and the Bank.
D. Accounts and Audits
4.14      DGF, RPDS and ABG would keep, in accordance with consistently main-
tained sound accounting practices, records adequate to reflect resources and
expenditures in respect of the project, including those related to goods and
services financed out of proceeds of the Bank loan. DGF and RPDS accounts
would continue to be audited, as at present, by appropriate personnel of
the Ministry of Finance, who have been accepted by the Bank as sufficiently
independent for this purpose. Certified statements of such auditing would be
furnished to IBRD within six months of the close of each fiscal year. ABG's
accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IBRD, and
submitted to IBRD together with the auditor's report within six months of the
close of each fiscal year. Assurances were obtained to this effect.
E. Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15      DGF, RPDS and ABG would each ensure that adequate technical and fi-
nancial supervision of ongoing works and subprojects is carried out, within
the sphere of responsibility of each agency. Project progress would be



- 34 -
monitored by PPMO (in DGF), PCO (in RPDS) and the Credit Officer in ABG, each
of which would arrange for collection of statistical information on production,
costs, incomes and other parameters, in a form comparable with original plans
and projections. The detailed information would be retained in Greece and
made available for inspection by Bank missions.  Summaries and analysis of the
information, prepared in accordance with mutually agreed guidelines, would be
submitted by PPMO and PCO to the Bank annually.  These two Offices would also
prepare and submit to IBRD quarterly reports summarizing progress in construc-
tion of works and procurement of equipment and materials, as well as data on
project expenditures.  ABG's inputs into these reporting requirements would be
coordinated through DGF. Finally, both DGF and RPDS would submit for Bank
approval by December 1 each year annual programs of works to be carried out
under their respective aegis during the following year (also see paras. 4.03
and 4.08). These programs would include description of the works, background
data and designs, and detailed cost estimates. Assurances on the above were
obtained during negotiations.
4.16      The project offices in the implementing agencies would also be
responsible for overall monitoring of project progress and evaluation of its
impact. The Government would be respnsible for presenting to the Bank for
its comments proposals for such monitoring and evaluation systems, as well as
carrying out a baseline survey, for the project by June 30, 1980, and would
thereafter cause DGF, RPDS and ABG to implement these systems on an agreed
basis. Much of the data for the baseline survey (for example, on location
and capacity of existing works and equipment, and present production and
income breakdown) is already quite readily available, but would need to be
systematized. The monitoring system would provide for timely collection of
information and review of a number of selected summary indicators, measuring
performance against agreed targets, to provide an early warning of project
implementation problems and act as a basis for suggesting remedies as neces-
sary. The evaluation system would be set up to analyze and propose solutions
to implementation problems and issues on an ongoing basis, enabling the
project to be adapted to changing circumstances as necessary. As part of
their ex-post evaluation exercise, both DGF (including ABG's input) and RPDS
would prepare project completion reports on the components implemented by
them. Assurances were obtained to this effect.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
5.01      Past and planned future wood production in the project area are
summarized in Table 5.1 below. Details of project output and its value are
in Annex 2, Table T-8.



- 35 -
Table 5.1: PROJECT AREA PRODUCTION
('000 m3 (r))
Industrial Wood
Year          Sawlogs         Pulpwood          Total         Fuelwood          Total
1972            245                59             304              103            407
1977            386               116             502             100             602
1979(est.)      422               131             553             110             663
1980            442               141             583             115             698
1981            461               156             617             116             733
1982            483               172             655             120             775
1983            504               193             697             122             819
1984            528               221             749             126             875
1985            561              230              791             128             919
1990            762              478            1,240             150          1,390
1995          1,035              653            1,688             220           1,908
5.02       Sawlogs, pulpwood and fuelwood account for 64%, 20% and 16% respec-
tively of total wood production.  Output of sawlogs in the project area
increased almost continuously from about 167,000 m3 (r) in 1965 to 245,000
m3 (r) in 1972 and an estimated 422,000 m3 (r) in 1979.  Pulpwood output also
more than doubled from 59,000 m3 (r) to 131,000 m3 (r) (estimated) during
1972-79.  However, fuelwood output has remained fairly constant over the past
few years, as alternative sources of energy have become increasingly impor-
tant in rural areas. Under the project, production of industrial roundwood
(sawlogs plus pulpwood) would be increased at 6.3% per annum, raising the
total cut from the project area from about one third of potential yield at
present to 875,000 m3 (r) or one half of sustained annual yield by 1984
(which is in line with allowable cut under current management plans). This
increase in forest production is based on projected cutting plans assuming
forest access road construction and other investments at the levels proposed
under the project, and is considered attainable in view of DGF's performance
over the 1972-78 period. As a result of this acceleration in wood production,
the project would advance the date by which full potential yield of natural
forests in the area is reached from the year 2005 (under current plans) to
1995, with a virtual tripling of total output over the 15 years. The full
potential yield may, in fact, be reached sooner than 1995 if the sectoral
development strategy study (para. 3.10) and the expected subsequent revisions
in management plans lead to an even faster acceleration in forest exploitation
than that projected here.
5.03      Of the sustained annual yield estimated at 1.9 million m3 (r) in the
project area, about 65% is of coniferous species and 35% deciduous, the most
important category being coniferous sawlogs, which make up 40% of total poten-
tial yield. The annual value of this output in 1995 (i.e., at full project
development of all components except plantations) would be about Dr 3.4 bil-
lion (US$92 million) in constant 1979 terms. While the industrial plantation
program would not produce marketable wood on a significant scale until at



- 36 -
least 15 years after establishment, some amount of wood (valued at about Dr 37
million annually by 1985) would be made available in the short term from the
clearing of planting areas and initial thinnings.
B. Markets
5.04      Project output is expected to be entirely consumed domestically
and to contribute about 13% of the industrial roundwood needed to meet total
domestic demand in 1985. At least until 1985, this output would be utilized
almost entirely by local industries already in existence. Thereafter, depend-
ing on the recommendations of the sectoral development strategy study (para.
3.10), some of the output from the project area is expected to be used in new
wood-based industries such as the proposed chemical pulp mill. The project's
contribution to projected consumption of forest products in Greece is summa-
rized in Table 5.2 below, which indicates that domestic demand far exceeds the
potential industrial roundwood production from Greek forests, i.e., that there
is an assured domestic market outlet for all output from the project.
Table 5.2: GREECE - TOTAL DEMAND/SUPPLY BALANCE OF FOREST PRODUCTS
Item                             Unit        1975       1985       1995       2000
Estimated Consumption
Paper and paperboard             '000 tons    390        830      1,360      1,730
Sawnwood                         '000 m3      600        970      1,130      1,200
Woodbased panels                 '000 m3       260       670        900      1,040
Fuelwood                         '000 m3(r) 1,790        600        350        300
IRW /1 required
- pulpwood                       '000 m3(r) 1,560      3,320      5,400      6,920
- sawlogs and veneer logs        '000 m3(r) 1,350      2,550      3,200      3,500
- total                          '000 m3(r) 2,910      5,870      8,600    10,420
Production
Potential IRW production         '000 m3(r)   750      1,440      3,000 /2  3,000 /2
IRW surplus (deficit)            '000 m3(r)(2,160)   (4,430)   (5,600)   (7,420)
Project area IRW production   '000 m3(r)   410           790      1,690      1,690
Project area share:
- of total production              %            55         55        56         56
- of total demand                  %            14        13         20         16
/1   Industrial Roundwood (excluding fuelwood).
/2   Assuming accelerated cutting brings total output in line with potential
yield from natural forests by 1995 (and excluding plantation yields).



- 37 -
5.05       All sawlog production from the project area would be processed by
existing sawmills located in or near the forests. At present domestic produc-
tion accounts for only about 30% of sawn softwood and 75% of sawn hardwood
consumption in Greece; the rest are imported from Scandinavia, Central Europe,
Africa and S.E. Asia. About 85% of net sawnwood imports are of coniferous
(soft) species. Pulpwood purchases by existing industries are not expected to
increase much above current levels. The particleboard industry and the Drama
thermomechanical pulp mill would absorb part of the incremental project pro-
duction. However, most of the incremental production under the project could
be available for use in new industries. At present, Greece imports sizable
quantities of pulp, newsprint, industrial and printing papers, mainly from
Scandinavia and North America. Supply deficits of over 200,000 tons per annum
in industrial paper/paperboard and about 150,000 tons per annum in wood pulp
(mainly chemical pulp) are forecast to develop by 1985. Hence, an assured
market exists for the output of a chemical pulp mill in the private sector of
at least 150,000 tons per annum capacity (requiring an input of about 600,000
m3 (r) pulpwood), which could come onstream between 1985 and 1990 and fully
absorb pulpwood production from the project area.
C. Prices
5.06       Basically, DGF's pricing policy aims to cover costs (i.e., stumpage
plus extraction and overhead costs). It is expected that all the output from
State forests in the project area would be sold by open auction and, as in
the past, minimum prices would be calculated which adequately cover these
costs. Wood from non-State forests (about 25% of total project output) would
be sold at regulated prices on the open market. Price fixing formulae estab-
lished by DGF are satisfactory; current roadside prices of sawlogs are more
or less in line with border prices. However, domestic sawn lumber prices
are currently 25-30% above international prices, reflecting the protection
afforded by duties and taxes of up to 39% on imports. With Greece's expected
entry into the EEC, a downward adjustment in import tariffs will be mandatory;
also, a continued real price increase of 1.5% per annum in international sawn
lumber prices is anticipated over the next five years. The combination of
these two factors is expected to bring domestic sawn lumber prices into line
with international prices before 1985. The financial analysis was based on
weighted average log selling prices to reflect expected revenues of DGF, and
the economic analysis was based on projected 1985 prices (Annex 2, Table T-8
footnote). Given the insignificant volume of production relative to total
world production, the project is not expected to have any influence on world
prices of the commodities produced.
D. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
Main Benefits
5.07       The project would contribute toward meeting the national objectives
of raising output through systematic and efficient exploitation of natural



- 38 -
resources, protecting the environment, and improving incomes and quality of
life of the rural poor in less-developed regions of Greece. By providing
improved road access, mechanized logging and more intensive forest management
systems, the project would accelerate the harmonization of production with
potential yield of Greek natural forests. Thus, the major quantifiable
benefit would be a significant increase in the annual rate of timber extrac-
tion in the project area from the current level of about 650,000 m3 to 1.9
million m3 by 1995 (compared with 720,000 m3 in the assumed "without project"
situation --para. 5.13). This output in turn would lead to increased sub-
stitution for imports of wood-based products, resulting in net foreign exchange
savings estimated at about US$180 million (in constant 1979 economic prices)
over the project development period through 1995. It would also lead to
better capacity utilization and development of industries in which Greece has
a natural competitive advantage, and provide total additional budgetary
support (over and above the "without project" situation) for the Government
from stumpage revenues alone of Dr 470 million (about US$13 million) over the
project implementation period through 1984 and Dr 6.7 billion (about US$182
million) by full development in 1995 (in constant prices). Stumpage revenues
and fees from project area forests would be sufficient to fully recover all
administrative, investment and operating costs of forestry development
(including finance charges), over the project development period (see Annex 2,
Table T-2). Inclusion in the project of an industrial plantation component
with fast-growing species of greater productivity than the natural forest
would set the stage for a very significant increase in annual allowable cut
from Greece's forests, thus helping to ensure the long-term buildup of forest
resources and wood availability. Longer-term benefits would also include
(depending on the outcome of the sectoral development strategy study)
assurance of a developed infrastructure needed to ensure the wood supplies for
the proposed chemical pulp mill, which could lead to import savings of some
US$80 million annually (in 1979 prices).
5.08      Benefits of the fire protection and pilot range management compo-
nents would consist of preventing damages to the forests and agricultural
areas that would otherwise occur. These components would also have major
effects on protecting Greece's forests and watersheds. Project measures are
expected to reduce the total loss of vegetation value caused by forest fires
by about 25% in the project area. Range improvement works would virtually
double the productivity of forest pastures and villagers' income from live-
stock farming, and reduce the adverse impact of grazing on tree regeneration
and soil erosion.  The techniques developed under the project's pilot program
are expected to be applied later on a much wider scale throughout Greece.
Similarly, the intensive management methods developed under the project (and
the various training and research components) would serve to build up DGF's
capability to manage a valuable natural resource and would be indirectly
beneficial to the entire forestry sector because experiences gained in the
project area could be readily applied elsewhere. The project would attack
basic institutional weaknesses by improving, firstly, long-term strategy
planning and resource allocation in the forestry and forest industry sectors,
and, secondly, local project preparation capabilities (including preparation
of a regional development project for financing by other external agencies)



- 39 -
through the two studies to be financed. Thus, the benefits of the project
in institution-building, although non-quantifiable, would be substantial.
Finally, the village infrastructure development component would directly
address the problem of improving the living and working environment in remote
mountain villages and breaking their isolation from markets and employment,
thus helping to slow down emigration of younger workers and maintaining or
improving labor availability (and productivity), a critical constraint in
forest operations at present.
Beneficiaries
5.09      The main quantifiable benefits of the project would accrue to the
Government and to more than 20,000 non-State forest owners, including com-
munities, organizations and private individuals. Other beneficiaries would
be some 30,000 forest villagers, logging cooperative members and equipment
operators in the project area (including some of the poorest regions of
Greece), who would gain from improved infrastructure facilities, better access
to markets and jobs, training in mechanized methods, and higher incomes (for
example, through pasture development). About 60% of the latter group of bene-
ficiaries are estimated to have incomes below the relative poverty income
level of US$936 per capita, and virtually all of them are below the national
average per capita income of about US$3,200. About 10% of the total quantifi-
able benefits of the project (and most of the non-quantifiable benefits of
village infrastructure development) would directly accrue to the poverty
group. The project would also have a significant employment impact on people
living in forest areas, particularly workers in logging operations, planta-
tions, road building, and small-scale industries such as sawmilling, joinery
and furniture manufacture. Direct employment in logging and plantation
operations would increase by an average of some 240,000 mandays per annum
in the project area, providing about 1,500 new jobs with a total annual wage
of US$3.3 million equivalent in additional income. Workers would gain partic-
ularly from substantial lengthening of the logging season (due to use of
mechanized methods, more all-weather access roads, and better housing and
transport facilities), since unemployment in slack periods for 9-10 months in
the year is a major problem at present. Project works, mainly forest roads
and village infrastructure, would require an additional 400,000 mandays over
five and a half years, and further indirect employment opportunities would be
created by the ancillary services and facilities required for handling the
increased project production. Most of this labor would be procured locally.
Thus, the project would affect the lives of many of the 260,000 inhabitants
of forests in western and north western Greece and the Peloponnesus.
E. Economic Analysis (Annex 2, Table T-9)
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
5.10      The basic economic rate of return (ERR) on project investments
is estimated at about 21.2%. Further, assuming an opportunity cost of capi-
tal of 12% in Greece, the economic net present value of project investments
is over Dr 1.6 billion (about US$44.2 million). These estimates take into



- 40 -
account all investment, replacement and operating costs of the forestry
development program over a 20 year period, including a continuing program of
road construction to provide access to all forests in the project area. No
separate rates of return have been computed for the individual components
(except village roads and fire protection--see below), because these are not
independent of each other and the projected benefits result from implementa-
tion of the integrated development program as a whole. Afforestation (indus-
trial plantations), for example, needs to be carried out in addition to road
construction and logging in order to increase extraction and at the same time
maintain the national forest resource at the present level. Afforestation
costs, therefore, are treated as part of the costs of increased production in
the short run. The basic ERR calculation excludes the village infrastructure
development component and the two studies to be financed under the project,
since their benefits could not be adequately quantified. If these components
were included, the rate of return would drop to 18.2%, which is still satis-
factory. Total investment per beneficiary (including contingencies) under the
village development component is roughly US$640 for connection roads and
streets and US$940 for other facilities. A separate economic analysis for
connection roads and streets under the village development component yields a
rate of return of 19.6%. The rate of return on fire protection investments is
20.6%.
5.11      Costs and benefits have been computed at constant prices over
twenty years; relative prices of inputs and outputs are assumed to remain
unchanged over this period. The project life is actually greater than
20 years, since the industrial plantations would not reach full maturity
until at least 50 to 60 years after establishment; their main immediate
benefit would be in allowing a much faster acceleration in timber extraction
than otherwise possible. Similarly, the full benefits of the two studies
under the project would be realized over a longer period than 20 years.
However, all benefits beyond year 20 have an insignificant present value
and have been ignored.
5.12      The major (over 90% of total) quantified benefits would accrue from
increased wood production under the project. The economic analysis was based
on projected 1985 cif prices of imported sawnwood, which are expected to
increase progressively in real terms at about 1.5% per annum between 1980 and
1985. Pulpwood and fuelwood were valued at their projected open market prices
in 1985, which are expected to be only slightly higher than current prices.
Other benefits taken into account include: (a) a reduction in total loss
of vegetation value caused by forest fires by about 25% in the project area;
and (b) a virtual doubling in the productivity of forest pastures (in the
20,000 ha pilot area) through the range improvement works to be carried out
under the project.
5.13      The project as designed was compared with a "without project"
situation defined as a continuation of DGF's timber extraction activities
to maintain the present level of production in the project area. Some
investments in logging road construction would still be needed to exploit
new forests, in order to avoid overcutting already accessible forest areas
(which would be contrary to the principles of sound forest management).



- 41 -
The incremental investments required were assumed to be only 30% of the
logging road construction under the project. This is a conservative assump-
tion since there are economies of scale relating to road densities required
for economic wood extraction. In addition, a minimum program of maintenance
and improvement of existing roads (about half the road operating and main-
tenance costs under the project) would also be needed to continue to maintain
present production levels. Even in the highly unlikely case where invest-
ment and operating costs without the project were zero (i.e., the present
production level was maintained by overcutting currently accessible forests),
the basic ERR would still be 16.8%, which is satisfactory.
5.14      Wood production in the "without project" situation is still assumed
to increase by about 0.5% per year through 1995 as a result of increased
productivity of logging operations due to introduction of more efficient
equipment through replacement investments and a general learning-by-doing
effect. On the other hand, to retain the required workers for the presently
used logging methods with growing labor scarcity in the project area, logging
costs without the project would almost certainly increase. With introduction
of more mechanized logging methods, labor productivity would rise due to
increased average log lengths, faster skidding speeds and reduced skidding
distances. Since it is not possible to precisely quantify these benefits,
however, it is assumed that logging costs would remain unchanged (in real
terms) in both the "with" and "without" project situations.
5.15      It may be noted that most of the infrastructure development costs
(including major roads, administrative buildings and knowhow) and all the
other overhead costs of implementing agencies, except additional staff needed
for the project, have already been incurred ("sunk costs") and are excluded
from the cost streams. The project also benefits from the existence of a
valuable resource in the form of overmature standing forest which can be
immediately exploited under sound management without depleting the national
stock.
5.16       Investments and other input costs in the analysis exclude taxes,
duties and subsidies wherever identifiable. Otherwise, conversion factors
estimated at 0.85 for civil works and 0.80 for other items have been used
to convert domestic costs into their border equivalents. In most parts of
the project area, labor is in short supply during 2-3 months of the peak
logging season, but there is substantial underemployment for the remaining
9-10 mbnths in the year. One of the project's objectives is to provide
employment for much of this presently underemployed labor by virtually
doubling the average length of the logging season through more all-weather
roads, housing and transport facilities, and introduction of mechanized
methods. Most plantation work is also carried out in the off-season.
Nevertheless, a shadow wage rate equal to the average market wage rate in
the peak season of Dr 500 per day has been assumed in the analysis.
Sensitivity Analysis and Risk
5.17      Sensitivity Analysis was carried out to determine the variables
most crucial for project success. As a measure, the "switching value"



- 42 -
was used, defined as the change in a variable tested beyond which the ERR
would fall below 12%.  The project turns out to be fairly insensitive to
adverse variations in the assumptions.  Construction costs, for example,
would have to rise 90% and equipment costs 242% (in real terms) before the
ERR dropped to 12%. The return is more sensitive to changes on the benefit
side. However, even in the unlikely event that there were no increase
in international lumber prices after 1979, the ERR would still be 17.8%.
If wood production in the "without project" situation is assumed to increase
at 1% per year (instead of 0.5% per year), the rate of return would be
19.1%. Finally, even if expected production increases under the project
were delayed by one year (with no corresponding delay in costs incurred),
the ERR would still be satisfactory at 16.9%. There are no unusual project
risks. Project organization is structured within the existing administrative
framework, and no major implementation problems are expected. The technology
involved in construction, operation and maintenance of project investments
(such as forest roads) is not new to Greece. One possible risk is that
logging operators may be slow in responding to project measures to encourage
greater use of mechanized methods. However, this is unlikely to be a
major problem, since, with increasing labor shortage, logging operators would
have adequate incentives to participate in the project.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a)  Government would:
(i)  complete financing arrangements by March 31, 1980 for
additional technical assistance for the pilot industrial
plantations research program (para. 3.08);
(ii) establish a Fund for financing regional project prepara-
tion studies and surveys in western Greece, with an
initial deposit of Dr 10 million by March 31, 1980 and
a total contribution of Dr 46 million (para. 3.11);
(iii) continue to allow DGF to use stumpage revenues from
State-owned forests in the project area to cover DGF's
administrative expenses as well as operating and main-
tenance costs of project investments (para. 3.13);
(iv) grant exemption to DGF and RPDS from regulations
requiring procurement through the Ministry of Trade
(para. 3.16(i)); and
(v)  on-lend US$1.2 million of the Bank loan to ABG and
ensure that sub-lending terms and conditions for the
logging equipment credit component are satisfactory to
the Government and the Bank (paras. 4.01 and 4.11).



- 43 -
(b) DGF would:
(i)   ensure that, beginning with the 1980 logging season,
timber allocation policies and practices, to the extent
feasible, allow logging contracts of at least three
years' duration with cuts of sufficient volume to keep
logging equipment operating efficiently for at least
150 days per year, and allow cutting and skidding opera-
tions to be carried out simultaneously (para. 3.04);
(ii)  furnish to the Bank for its comments, by March 31, 1980,
detailed proposals for the logging training, pilot indus-
trial plantations research, and pilot range management
programs, and consult with the Bank prior to making any
changes thereto (para. 3.09);
(iii) furnish to the Bank for its approval, by December 1 each
year, an annual program of works (including cost estimates)
to be carried out under DGF's supervision in the following
year (para. 4.03);
(iv)  ensure that all forest management plan revisions for
the project area from July 1, 1979 onwards take account
of the accelerated wood production targets agreed with
the Bank (para. 4.05);
(v) appoint, no later than March 31, 1980, the expatriate
consultants and local team to carry out the sectoral
development strategy study, consult with the Bank on
the study's findings, and, taking the Bank's comments
into account, implement appropriate measures for the
development of the forestry and forest industry sectors,
including appointment of ten teams (within six months
of the study's completion) for accelerated revision of
forest management plans for all Forest Districts in
the project area (para. 4.05); and
(vi)  implement the proposed organizational and staffing
arrangements, keep the PPMO and other project offices
as well as the Forest District Offices adequately
staffed at all times (including at least one special-
ized forester in charge of planting operations in each
District with a large plantation program), and expand
them as required over the project implementation period
(paras. 4.03-4.06).
(c)  RPDS would:
Ci) ensure that charges are levied and collected on the
supply of drinking water and on sanitation services
provided by the facilities under the village devel-
opment component, sufficient to cover at least their
operating and maintenance costs (para. 3.06);



- 44 -
(ii)  ensure that funds for project preparation studies and
surveys are recovered from private individuals whenever
their benefits accrue to such individuals (para. 3.11);
(iii) submit all project preparation studies and surveys costing
more than US$200,000 each to the Bank for its approval
(para. 3.16(iv));
(iv)  furnish to the Bank for its approval, no later than
December 1 each year, an annual program of works
(including cost estimates) to be carried out in the
following year under the village infrastructure
development component (para. 4.08);
(v)  appoint, no later than March 31, 1980, the consultants
forming part of the planning team to carry out the
regional development study (para 4.13); and
(vi)  implement the proposed organizational and staffing
arrangements, including appointment of the four regional
project officers, the project coordinator and the
accountant in the PC0 before March 31, 1980 (paras.
4.07-4.08).
(d)  DGF and RPDS would:
(i)  follow the agreed procedures for financing, procurement,
disbursement, accounting, auditing and progress reporting
(paras. 3.13-3.18, 4.14-4.15);
(ii)  not later than June 30, 1980, complete baseline surveys
and submit to the Bank for its comments detailed pro-
posals for project monitoring and evaluation systems for
their respective components, and thereafter implement
such systems on an agreed basis (para. 4.16); and
(iii)  appoint the various consultants and specialists under
the project according to qualifications, experience and
terms of employment acceptable to the Government and
the Bank (paras. 4.12-4.13).
6.02       The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
loan:
(i)  signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, between Government and ABG on the logging equipment
credit component (para. 4.10); and
(ii)  establishment of the PPMO, including appointment of at least
the project manager and the accountant (para. 4.03).
6.03       Agreement having been reached on the assurances sought, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25 million to the Hellenic State for a term
of 15 years, including three years of grace, at an annual interest rate of 7.9%.



45 -                            ANNEX 1
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Statements of Expenditure
1.01      Disbursements against statements of expenditure would be allowed
only under the project's credit component for logging equipment, which is
expected to absorb less than 5% of the total Bank loan (i.e., US$1.2 million
out of US$25 million). Under the credit component, the Agricultural Bank
of Greece (ABC) would on-lend Bank funds for some 190 pieces of logging equip-
ment through medium and long-term loans to logging cooperatives and private
operators. ABG is already performing this intermediary role on a much
larger scale under the Vegetable Production and Marketing Project (Loan
1588-GR), for which the Bank also agreed to accept statements of expenditure
to cover disbursements against a major part of the Loan.
1.02      ABG's accounting and administrative procedures are well-established
and satisfactory. Accounts have been computerized since 1962 and allow
detailed identification of individual works or equipment financed and their
costs. Daily reports on all activities are sent by the branch offices to the
Data Processing Department in Athens, which processes the information and
sends back consolidated statements to the branches and to management at the
end of every month. ABG's activities are subject to audit and control at
several levels. Overall legality of the Board of Directors' decisions is
controlled by the Supervisory Board, which includes one member each from the
Council of State, Supreme Court and State Audit Office. Three senior offi-
cials, one each from the State Audit Office, the National Bank and Bank of
Greece, audit ABG's annual financial statements and submit their report, which
is published in the Government gazette, to the Supervisory Board. The Bank of
Greece also conducts annual inspections of ABG as part of its regular banking
control functions, and ABG's own Inspection Department is responsible for
internal audit and control of the branches as well as of enterprises in which
ABG has an equity participation. At the regional level, independent agricul-
tural and technical inspectors supervise and control the activities of
the agro-technical staff of the branches. These audit and control procedures
have proved satisfactory to the Bank.
1.03      Under the proposed project, detailed documentation to support state-
ments of expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank for review but would
be retained by ABG for inspection by Bank representatives.  Supervision mis-
sions would be required to make spot checks to satisfy themselves that the
equipment in question was procured and that the expenditure claims were rea-
sonable. As under the Vegetable Project, ABG's accounts would continue to be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. These audit reports
would also be required to confirm that ABG's statements of expenditure are
properly prepared and that the monies claimed have actually been spent and the
goods used for the purposes of the project. The actual extent of audit work
required would be left to the professional judgment of the auditors (in accord-
ance with appropriate auditing standards), and would include such tests of
the accounting records and other auditing procedures that they consider neces-
sary in the circumstances.



GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
PROJECT STEERING COMMITTEE     1
EGOALEELPENSRVC  R                                         I        DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF FORESTS IDGF)I       II
REGINAL EVELPMEN SER IC(RSI                                        PROJECT PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT              AGRICULTURAL BANK OF GREECE (ABGI
PROJECT COORDINATION OFFICE (PCO)                                                     OFFICE                                   - CREDIT OFFICER
REGIONAL PROJECT   REGIONAL PROJECT   REGIONAL PROJECT   REGIONAL PROJECT TAB BRANCHES
OFFICE (RPO)I      OFFICE (RPO)I       OFFICE RPOI                                                                                                      B OFFIC (RPOI
RANGE MANAGEMENTTRIIGOFCR()
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIE .                                        RMOI                II                                  TRAINING OFFICER ITOIX
.   .              .                   *         |      OFFICER jRMO)
.              .                  ,                   ,       I  .                                                                                                    0 c
.NOMOS COORDINATION                              ............. DISTRICT       DISTRICT      DISTRICT
COMMITTEES                             FORESTER      FORESTER       FORESTER
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                               SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT
STUDY                                                                                                          STRATEGY STUDY
World Bank - 20146
1< H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF FORESTS
ORGANIZATION CHART
|     FINARICSTOER
|VICE t111 STEP
j-E T                                                                    IEEE-C.    P OIIEFATOIIA-  El1PICTC-TA
FOOESTTESEOTCO                    REFORESTATF-ITONANOT                                                               "..IT                   S       "IIN
PROJECT PLANNING55  PLANNING  .0  E DTENI   AND   |       MSTATEFORESTI  j          ATIEORSTES             PATEANOTETNOTESTES                                                             S AD         OREST          N S                      PECO
MANAGMENT  FFICE  SETELRMETT                 ROACATION                RANA-EMEN                   NGE- EIA-11,11                                                                                                                                             0ET
GENERAL STUDIES  l  l  RESEARCW   l  t   AN      l  i      MANAGEMENT             ANLE EIE.EEEEEC   rII        r EAOOSETA    , l|FH SLVE  OP.NESSTIP    jPOFDESTLAD                         SO VSiO                   GEEAO
LANIREOPORAPE             R,ECTX T SNSGIRECTORATED E             DOG l       REOFORTATEO               OITEET|OUE APSTOT                                  0 EE'|T   PROECTION                                   P    T
ITI.ATI                                                    -~~~~~~IEOGOT  GTCTO-TAT       RET
O v             o                   ANOT--  -SCTANOARGIATIN |   E ESCTO  E                     N        O                0  V             |      EGFFOPE A               PROTECT  ON- O
AVG           OF                   EGOEN~~~~1-1TS AN        LTST POlICE
NtNGENEAL OES ES            TEEAC                                                                                                                                                                              NAPE TVCHNIA  'SIGNA S ll CFCA   E.A       LNES
FOREST ANT 1GE-                                                                                                                                                                                .
F-- ESTAN NOENG,R                                                             TESORETOTI                   ECNOERN0 PEENOATION. I                                 VOIEIIENE R
MAPPING ANO  ETTENSION ANT  FOREGONE GOING     ~         ~          ~         1,  IIIT                                                                                             o
T:~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                       F   .1 El-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,NFOSR
CLS~SIFCTIO             E-A-ATI-NTANT RLI.OLNI
STATSlS                                     R   TASRIZT                   coNTRO                    EIOOEsLTOE                                          - O EOREST           AN TEROTOA                   OESTS LAN
OF FORST PROpCTSPsORO                                                      EII- AE.S.IP                                       EVOSTS                ASE ALTERATIO
MANAGENRENT                          SF~~~~~. FOREG SAT . S                                                        SPGI EL-V                   AS .ERITI
PLANS ANT STLT ES                     ~~~~ANT MIECRONICALTNE.AO                                                         APPISE                      I



Table T-l
_48 -
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Dr Million                           US$ Million                      % Foreign
Item                                                   Local    Foreign    Total              Local    Foreign    Total               Exchange
Civil Works
Logging Roads:
State                                       679.7    432.3       1,112.0            18.5       11.8       30.3               38.9
Non State                                   127.1      88.7        215.8             3.5        2.4        5.9               41.1
Plantation Establishment:
Roads                                        18.2      13.6         31.8             0.5        0.4        0.9               42.8
Nurseries                                    60.7        0.3        61.0             1.6          -         1.6               0.5
Site preparation & fencing                   89.6      70.4        160.0             2.4        1.9        4.3               44.0
Planting                                    159.0        -         159.0             4.3          -        4.3
Pruning & weeding                            94.0        -          94.0             2.6          -         2.6
Fire Protection Works                                 53.4      17.1         70.5             1.5        0.4        1.9               24.3
Buiildings (housing, etc.):
Logging workers & warehouses                 89.6      26.7        116.3             2.4        0.7         3.1              23.0
Forestry workers & staff                     13.1       1.4         14.5             0.3        0.1        0.4               10.0
Villagc Infrastructure Development
Roads and streets                           375.7    192.1         567.8            10.3        5.2       15.5
Water supply,drainage 6 sanitation           66.1      28.3         94.4             1.8        0.8        2.6               30.0
Other community facilities                   82.5      35.3        117.8             2.2        1.0        3.2               30.0
Subtotal                                    524.3    255.7         780.0            14.3        7.0       21.3               32.8
Pilot Range Management                                70.4      13.2         83.6             2.0        0.4        2.4               15.8
Subtotal                      1,979.1    919.4       2,898.5            53.9       25.1       79.0               31.7
Machinery & Equipment
Road Maintenance                                     16.6      90.3        106.9             0.4        2.5        2.9               84.5
Machine Maintenance                                   2.5      10.1         12.6              -         0.3        0.3               80.0
Logging                                              35.9      71.3        107.2             1.0        1.9        2.9               66.5
Plantations:
Machinery & tools                             2.7      10.7         13.4             0.1        0.2         0.3              80.0
Nursery equipment & implements                1.0        1.7          2.7             -         0.1         0.1              63.0
Pilot plantation research                     5.7      34.0         39.7             0.2        0.9        1.1               85.6
Fire Protection                                      19.0      47.8         66.8             0.5        1.3        1.8               71.6
Transport vehicles
Logging personnel                            10.4      36.1          46.5            0.3        1.0         1.3              77.6
Forestry personnel                            6.0      16.8          22.8            0.2        0.4        0.6               73.7
Logging Training                                      2.4      10.9         13.3             0.1        0.3        0.4               8Z.0
Pilot Range Management                                0.5       4.4          4.9              -         0.1        0.1               90.0
Project Administration                                0.6       5.3          5.9              -         0.2        0.2               90.0
Subtotal                        103.3    339.4         442.7             2.8        9.2       12.0               76.7
Services
Logging training & demonstration                     28.5      12.3         40.8             0.8        0.3        1.1               30.1
Pilot plantation research                             1.3      13.6         14.9              -         0.4        0.4               91.3
Pilot range management                               14.2       8.5         22.7             0.4        0.2        0.6               37.4
Development Strategy Study                            8.7      13.9         22.6             0.2        0.4        0.6               61.5
Regional Development Study                           52.6      45.0         97.6             1.5        1.2        2.7               46.1
Project Administration                               83.5        -          83.5             2.3         -         2.3
Subtotal                        188.8      93.3        282.1             5.2        2.5        7.7               33.1
Total Base Cost                                  2,271.2  1,352.1        3,623.3            61.9       36.8       98.7               37.3
Contingencies
Physical/I                                       264.9    139.2          404.1             7.2        3.8       11.0               34.4
Price/2                                          972.0    307.4        1-279-4           26.5         8-4       34,9               24.o
Subtotal                     1,236.9    446.6        1,683.5            33.7       12.2       45.9               26.5
GRAND TOTAL                                      3,508.1  1-798-7       I,3068              95.6       49.0      144.6               33.9
/1  Physical contingencies:  SE for equipment and services;  20% for village infrastructure development;  10% for remaining
civil works.
/2 Expected Price Increases: Local Costs - 12% in 1979, 11% in 1980, 10% per annum thereafter.
Foreign Costs - Civil works 7% per annum; Equipment and Services 6% per annum.
April 1979



G1REECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Coeh Flov-/
Etem                          1979-BO/-   1981    1982        1983       1984      1985      1986      1987      198b      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999
(___________ ________________________________-_--_---- _-_-----------------------(Dr Milli-)--------------------------------------------------------ilijooS                         ___       ___
Inf low,
IBRD L000                                   88.0      171.8   131.7       79.1       52.8      36.5        -         -         -         -         -         _         _         _         _         _         _         _         _         _
Goveroment contrib4^io_e-                  590.8       516.1   580.4    653.1       752.1        -
St gnpage reve---s -                       696.7       784.8   936.7   1,123.4   1,348.0   1,479.9   1,568.7   1,685.9  1,763.6   1,869.6   2,038.6   2,171.8   2,311.1   2,464.1   2,626.9   2,792.1   2,824.2   2,831.6   2,840.2   2,852.5
Other forest free-                           32.8       39.2    46.8       56.2      67.4      74.0      78.4      84.3      88.2      93.5     101.9     108.6     115.6     123.2     131.3    139.6      141.2    141.6    142.0    142.6
Total Iflo.w                       1,368.3    1,511.9  1,695.6   1,911.8   2,220.3   1,590.4   1,647.1   1,770.2   1,851.8   1,963.1   2,140.9   2,280.4   2,426.7   2,426.7   2,758.2   2,931.7   2,965.4  2,973.2   2,982.2   2,995.1
Outf lowe -'              7/
Project t evesO,eent 7,etc.7/              678.8      687.9   712.1       732.2     804.9     340.7    321.8    232.8    130.3        126.0     192.3     173.4      84.4      23.5      19.2     192.3     173.4      84.4      23.5      19.2
DGP admEnistr-tion co-ta-                  620.0      700.0   765.0      840.0      920.0     920.0    920.0    920.0    920.0    920.0    920.0          920.0     920.0    920.0    920.0    920.0    920.0    920.0    920.0           920.0
o 6 K costs 9/                              92.3       131.6   171.4      198.7     231.5     301.4    276.7    245.8    253.3    260.5         260.5     260.5     260.5     260.5    260.5    260.5    260.5    260.5    260.5          260.5
Repayoent to  DRD-R10                         -          -        -       46.6       46.6      46.6      46.6      46.6      47.7      47.7      47.7      47.7      47.7      47.7      47.7        -         -         -         -         -
Planmcial Eapesse.      l
Cooite.. t fee (IBRD)-                      3.9        2.9      1.8       1.0       0.5       0.1        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         _         _         _         _
Interest to IBRD 12/                       3.5       13.7    25.7       32.2       33.7      33.6      31.3      27.7      24.0      20.3      16.6      12.9       9.2       5.5       1.8        -         _         _         _         _    -
Other 13/                                 35.4       101.9   167.7      241.7     326.0    371.1      371.1    371.1    371.1    _3711        371.1          3     71.1    371        371 1     371.1    3711       371.1    371.1      371.1
Total Outflows                      1,433.9    1,638.0  1,843.7   2,092.4   2,363.2   2,013.5   1,967.5   1,844.0   1,746.1   1,745.6   1,808.2   1,785.6   1,692.9   1,628.3   1,620.3   1,743.9   1,725.0   1,636.0  17575.1   1,570.8
Net I.flowa (Outflows)                      (65.6)    (126.1)  (148.1)   (180.6)   (142.9)   (423.1)   (320.4)    (73.8)    105.4    217.5      332.3     494.8     733.8    798.4   1,137.9   1,187.8   1,240.4   1,337.2   1,407.1   1,424.3
Cueulative Itflowa (Ootfloes)              (65.6)    (191.7)  (339.8)   (520.4)   (663.3) (1,086.4) (1,406.8) (1,480.6) (1,375.2) (1,157.7)   (825.4)   (330.6)    403.2   1,201.6   2,339.5   3,527.3   4,767.7   6,104.9   7,512.0   8,936.3
Interest at ]2%                            ( 3.9)    ( 15.4)  ( 31.9)   ( 51.6)   ( 71.0)   (105.0)   (149.6)   (173.2)   (171.3)   (152.0)   (119.0)   ( 69.4)       4.4      96.3    212.5      352.0    497.7    652.4    8E7.0    986.9
Total C,-oultiEve Inflo..  (Outflowa)       (69.5)    (211.0)  (391.0)   (623.2)   (837.1) (1,365.2) (1,835.2) (2,082.2) (2,148.1) (2,082.6) (1,869.3) (1,443.9)   (705.7)    189.0   1,539.4   3,079.2   4,817.3   6,806.9   9,031.0  11,442.2
1/ Only for core forestry corpoceota to be ieploec.ted by DGF (i.e., excloding village ifr--tructure develop=oent, the regio..l deIeloapent otody, *nd 10884i0  equipment credit).  Corrent prices in 1979-84 cod constant pri.sa threftar.
2/ July 1, 1979 to Dece-ber 31, 1980.
3/ Incloding 307 c-otribution for 1ogging road con-truction In coo-State forests.  P-rt of the Goverocect's contributiows  -ould coon 00t of the cofioa.c.i.r    loan.
4/ Assowigs that Stats fore-ta account for *bout 75% of total wood h-rvested (aod, therefore, 75% of total etu-pagerevenoee).
5/ Asoised at an average of 15% of tuapage rev--oes from 000-State forests.
6/ Ta.s. a.d duties (sboot US516 eillion) have cot been netted ot of costs.
I/ Icluding replacement inve-tmects  nd a continuing proge- of loggoig road co..truction.
8/  Prorata share of total DGF  dministration co-ts applicable to project area.
9/ Operating  nd mainte.nc.e .ostt of project -wekh  cd equip.ent.
10J/ Repyment over 15 years, i-clodig three ye-rs of grace.
11/ 0.75% per ccc-  on .cdisbursed balance.
17/  7.9% p- e  nnor on amouct disborsed *nd o.tstacding.
13/ Ficacrial cost of Gover-ment's contribotio-s, a--umed here at 12) per -nn.
April 1979
~r4



GREECE
INTEGRATE0 FORESTRY DEVELOPliENT PROJECT
acticatod Schedule of Epecdit-ro V/
1979-80 2/                               1981                                  1982                                   1983                                  1984                            Total Expenditure-
ITEM                         Local      Foreiot Total            Local         Fo-eig        Total       Lal        Frogan        Total        Local       Foilc         Total       Local       Foreice       Total       Local         Freiae         TotaI
_______________________________      --------------------------------------------------   (Dr'000)  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------              ----------------------------------
CIVIL WORKS                                                                                                                                                                                             N
Loggdig Roads:
State                                135,944      86,456       222,400      135,944      86,456      222,400      135,944      86,456      222,400      135,944      86,456      222,400       135,944      86,456      222,400      679,720      432,280      1,112,000
Nec-Elate                             25,416       17,734       43,150       25,416      17,734       43,150       25,416      17,734       43,150       25,416       17,734       43,150       25,416      17,734       43,150      127,080       88,670         215,750
Plocatlon Estoblishoont:
loads                                  3,718        2,782       6,510         3,146       2,354        5,500        3,861       2,889        6,750        4,862        3,638        8,500        2,174       1,926        4,500       18,161       13,589         31,750
NurserIes (cocot. 4 tending)           6,860           95       6,911        10,235           91      10,330       11,250          -        11,250        15,110          95       15,205       17,250          -        17,250       60,705           285         60,990
site prepar-tloc (1  fencing)         13,186       10,459      23,645        16,507      13,074       29,581       15,675      12,244       27,919       19,956       15,606       35,562       24,269      19,009       43,278       89,593       70,392         159,985
Ploeting                              20,000           -       20O000        25,000           -       25,000       30,000          -        30,000       38,000           -        38,000       46,000          -        46,000      119,000            -         159,00
Pruo...    4 wooding                       -           -            -        10,000          -        10,000       22,500          -        22,500       27,500           -        27,500       34,000          -        34,000       94,000            -          94,000
Pire protect.oO Worka                       10,686       3,429       14,115        10,686       3,429       14,115       10,686       3,429       14,115       10,686       3,429       14,115       10,686       3,429        14,115       53,430       17,145         70,575
BNildiogs (hou-ing, etc.):
Logging corkers 4 warohoase.          20,016        7,824      27,840        20,016       7,824       27,840       20,016       7,824       27,840       15,435        1,715       17,150       14,130       1,570       15,700       89,613       26,757         116,370
Fbreat!y wtrkers 4 staff                3,235         360        3,595        2,515          280        2,795       3,298          367        3,665        2,484         276        2,760        1,503         167        1,670       13,035         1,450         14,485
Village Infr-tructure Developm.ent          55,019      27,041       82,100       93,920      46,680       142,600      120,791      58,639      179,400      132,309      64,091      196,400      120,258      09,242      179,500       524,337      255,663        780,000
Pilot Rooge M-nage-ent                       9,329       1,211       10,540       23.433        3,407       26 840       20.744      3,596        24,340        7.912       2,328       10J 240       9,007       2,633       11.640        70,425       13175         83A 600
Sabtotal                        303,449    157,391       460,840       378,818    181,333       560,151      420,181    193,148       613,329      435,614      195,368     630,982       441,037    192,166       633,203   1,979,099       919,406      2,898,505
MACHINERY AND EQUIFMENT
Road MlintenanCe                             8,145      73,310       81,455         8,403      17,007       25,410           -           -            -            -           -             -            -           -            -        16,548       90,317        106,865
MacRhice Ml-ten..ce                          2,520      10,080       12,600            -           -            -            -           -            -            -            -            -            -           -            -         2,520       10,080         12,600
Lo.ggig                                      1,912       4,113        6,025         3,535       6,820       10,355        5,447      10,933       16,380       10,382      20,243       30,625        14,601     29,234       43,835        35,877       71,343        107,220
PlantatIons:
Machioery 6 toolS                         200          50          250           260          65          325       1,058       6,897         7,955          760       3,515        4,275          460          115          575        2,738       10,642         13,380
HerBerT eqoipne.t 4 iploeme.ts            518         848        1,366           259         424          683          259        424           683           -           -            -             -           -            -         1,036        1,696          2,732
Pilot plantation research              2,888       18,268      21,156         2,063      12,799       14,862          812       2,900        3,712            -     -            -            -           -                  -         5,763        33,967         39,730
Fie P-rotection                              3,700       9,312       13,012         7,414      17,953       25,367        7,421      18,012       25,433          254       1,248         1,502          254       1,248        1,502       19,043       47,773         66,816
Traceport Vehicles:
Logglag personnel                       5,176      18,084       23,260        5,176      18,084       23,260            -          -             -            -           -            -            -           -             -       10,352        36,168         46,520
Poreetry personnel                      2,485       7,125        9,610        1,216       3,324         4,540       2,258       6,352         8,610                                                                                     5 -  -  -  -  -  1,959  16,801  22,760
Logging Traniing                             2,413      10,912       13,325                                     -      -                  -           -            -            -                  -            -                            2,413       10,912          13,325
Pilot Range Managenect                         180       1,620        1,800           290       2,610        2,900           10          90          100           10          90           180           _           _            _           490        4,410          4,900   0
Project Adoi.iscrattoi                         586       5,274        5 Q860         _             _            _          _           _              _            _                                                                           586        5,274           5,860
Subtotal                         30,723    158,996       189,719        28,616      79,086      107,702       17,265      45,608       62,873        11,406      25,096       36,502       15,315      30,597       45,912      103,325       339,383        442,708
SERVICES
Logging Training  4 Denonstrattoc            4,412       1,080        9,492         5,612       6,181       11,793        6,150       1,101        7,251        6,150           -         6,150        6,150          _         6,150       28,474       12,362          40,836
Pilot Plantatice Research                       -           -            -             -           -            _            -           -            -           924      10,343        11,267          308       3,325        3,633        1,232       13,668          14,900
Pilot Range HMcage-ect                         754       1,827        2,581         2,892       1,567        4,459        4,092       1,420        5,512        4,092       1,420         5,512        2,385       2,252        4,637       14,215        8,486          22,701
De-elop-ect Strategy Study                   5,798       9,249       15,047         2,900       4,624        7,524           -           -            -             -           -            -            -           -            -         8,698       13,873          22,571
Reglooa-  Development Study                 10,280       8,920       19,200        21,170      18,030       39,200       21,170      18,030       39,200                        -                   -           -                  -        52,620       44,980          97,600
Project Administratioc                      10.700        -          10,700        10.700          -        10 700       229700          -        22,700       22,700           -        22,700       16,700        _- -2- 16.700           83,500                       83.500
Subtotal                         31,944       25,076       57,020       43,274      20,402       73,676       54,112      20,551       74,663        33,866      11,763       45,629       25,543       5,577       31,120       188,739       93,369        282,108
TOTAL BASE COST                              366,116    341,463       707,579       450,708    290,821       741,529      491,558    259,307       750,865      480,886      232,227      713,113      481,895    228,340       710,235   2,271,163   1,352,158         3,623,321
Coctingencles
Physical 3/                                 38,984      27,647       66,631        51,068      28,276       79,344       57,666      28,483       86,149       59,056      27,789        86,845       58,172      26,950       85,122      264,946      139,145         404,091
Price 4/                                    48L612      23-905       72517        115,409      44 ,416     159.825      197 721      63.413      261.134      264.572      78.670       3432 242     345,643      97,037      442,680      971 957      307,441       1,279.398
Subtotal                         87,596       51,552      139,148      166,477      72,692      239,169      255,387      91,896      347,283       323,628     106,459      430,087      403,815    123,987       527,802   1,236,903        446,586      1,683,489
GRAND TOTAL                                  453,712    32221         846.727       617 185    363.513       980,.98      746.945    351,203   1.098.148        804.5,1      338,686   143200          885,710    352,327   1,238,037   3,508066    IJ798,744           5,306,810
1/ At June 1979 ptice.
2/ July 1, 1979 to D-ceb-er 31, 1980.
/ Physleol co.tingennies estinated at 1S/ for nachinery, equipenot and sernicea; 20X for cillage icf-ast-uct-ce de-olop-oct l orhk; .cd 10. Ior a11 other civil  orks.
4/ E.pected price increases are as follus:
YE-r          Lncal(%)            F-rilnn(Cicil lurks _%)  Foreign(Machinaro & Seroices  -)
Anncal    Cuoulative   ARnual    Cucolati-s               Annual      Cuoulative
1979       12             -          7              -                6                -
1980       11            12          7               7               6                6
1981       10            23          7             I5                6               12
1982       10            36          2             23                6               19                                                                                                                                                                                          II,
1983       10            49          7             31                6               269
1984       10            64          7             40                6               34
April 1979



ANNEX 2
Table 1-4
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Equipment for Logging, Training, Maintenance and Fire Protection
1979-8011  1981   1982   1983   1984   Total   Unit Cost 2/
Item          -------------------Units-----------------   (Dr'000)
Logging Equipment
Articulated rubber-tired
skidders                              1         1       2      3       5      12        2,855
Agricultural tractors                  4         9      13     26      35      87          530
Logging trolleys                       3         5       8     16      21      53          210
Short cable system                     1         4       5     10      14      34          420
Long cable system                      -         -       -      1       1       2          720
Logging Training Equipment
Chain saws                            10         -       -      -       -      10           20
Articulated rubber-tired
skidders                              1         -      -       -       -       1       2,410
Agricultural tractors(65hp,4x4)        3         -       -      -       -       3          530
Logging trolleys                       2         -       -      -       -       2          180
Long span (1,000 m) cable crane
with 2 drum winch                     1         -       -      -       -       1          610
Short span cable system
(200-300m)with 2 drum winch           1         -      -       -       -      1          355
Mobile cable crane                     1         -       -      -       -       1        2,100
Bus - 16 passenger                     2         -       -      -       -       2        1,270
Field vehicles (light 4 wd)            2         -       -      -       -       2          530
Mobile repair shop                     1         -       -      -       -       1        2,100
Road Maintenance Equipment
Bulldozers(140hp,2angle blade-
ripper)                               7         -      -       -       -       7       3,170
Bulldozers (200hp, angle blade-
ripper)                               7         -      -       -       -       7       4,550
Graders (125-135hp)                    7         -       -      -       -       7       2,495
Gravel loaders(70hp,rubber-tired,
front end bucket,rear end
excavator)                            5         -      -       -       -       5       1,990
Dump trucks(l50hp,4x4,7ton)            -        12       -      -       -      12        1,385
Compressors (trailer mounted)          -        12       -      -       -      12          365
Compressors (tractor mounted)          -         6       -      -       _       6          735
Machine Maintenance Equipment
Mobile repair shops                    2         -       -      -       -       2        2,100
Permanent workshops                    3         -       -      -       -       3        2,100
Tools for existing workshops           various                              various    2,100(total)
Fire Protection
Tanker trucks(5ton,4wd with
detachable tank)                      2         5       5      -       -      12          845
Tanker trucks(lOton,4wd with
detachable tank)                      1         2       2      -       -       5        1,790
Fire trucks(1700 liters,4wd)           2         4       4      -       -      10        2,435
Buses (25 passenger)                   2         4       4      -       -      10        1,580
Hand radio units                      12        12      12     12      12      60           15
Mobile radio units                    10        10      10     10      10      50           30
Base radio stations                    2         2       3      2       2      11           66
Motor bikes                            7         7       7       7      7      35           30
Chain saws                             8         8       8       8      8      40           20
Back pack pumps                       64        64      64      64     64    320             3.1
Binoculars                            20        20      20     20      20    100             3.4
Other misc. equipment & tools         -------------------various------------------  1,270 (total)
1/ July 1, 1979 to December 31, 1980.
2/  Estimated June 1979 prices.
April 1979



-52 -                                 ANNEX 2
Table T-5
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Equipment for Nurseries, Plantations, Transport and Administration
1979-80/1   1981   1982   1983   1984   Total   Unit Cost 2/
Item                    ----------------------Units- --------   Dr '000)
Nursery Machines and Implements
Tractors(wheeled 60-70hp,4x2)         2           1       1      -       -      4         530
Rotovators                            2           1       1      -       -      4          65
Seed cleaning machines                2           1       1      -       -      4          25
Trailers                              2           1       1      -       1      4          63
Misc. equipment & implements          -_-----------------various------------ various
Plantation Equipment
Clearing rakes                                    -       5      5             10         305
Heavy-duty tine ploughs                           -       5      5             10         455
Low loader                                        -       1      -              1       3,780
Miscellaneous tools    -------------------various-----------------   2,000(total)
Pilot Plantation Research
Tractors:
200hp,crawler('C' frame,tilt
cylinder,dozer blade,rippers)        2           1      -       -              3       4,920
120-150hp, 4 x 4                     1           1       -      -              2       1,510
80-9Ohp,crawler(3point linkage,
dozer blade,rippers)                1           1       -      -              2       1,510
70-80hp,4x2(w/tire protectors)       2           1      1       -              4         530
50-60hp,4x4 or crawler               1           1      -       -              2         365
Tine ploughs (large)                  2           1       -      -              3         455
Tine ploughs (medium)                 2           2       -      -              4         235
Clearing rakes(w/brush rack)          2           1       -      -              3         305
Disc harrows (trailed,heavy)          1           1       -      _              2         225
Disc harrows (mounted,offset)         2           2       2      _              6          95
Disc ploughs(5 disc,mounted)          1           1       -      -       -      2         130
Scrub chopping machines(clearing)   1             1       -      -       -      2         530
Scrub chopping machines(maint.)       -           1       1      -       -      2         380
Brush slasher (rotary)                1           1       -                     2          75
Planting machines                     1           1       1                     3         305
Herbicide sprayers                    1           1       1                     3          45
Fertilizer distributors               2           1       -                     3          25
Half-track assemblies
(for 4x2 tractors)                   1           1      -                      2         190
Pickup trucks (1 ton)                2           1       -                     3         365
Trucks-general purpose(5ton,flat)   1             1       1                     3         635
Low-loading trailers (4 ton)          2           1       -                     3          75
Field vehicles (4 x 4)                2           2       2                     6         530
Exotic seed, misc. tools, etc.        ------------------various---------------         1,700(total)
Forestr Vehicles 3/
Busesstf6Vpassenger)                  4           2       4      _       _     10       1,270
Trucks (5 ton)                        4           2       3      -       -      9         635
Field vehicles (light 4wd)            1           -       1          _          2         530
Pickup trucks (4 wd)                  4           2       3      -              9         365
Logging Personnel Vehicles
Buses (16 passenger)                  5           5       -      -       -     10       1,270
Buses (25 passenger)                  5           5       -      -       -     10       1,580
Field vehicles (light 4 wd)          17          17       -      -       -     34         530
Project Administration-DGF
Station Wagon                         1           -       -                     1         600
Typewriters                           2                   -                     2          15
Calculators                           2                   -                     2           5
Miscellaneous(pilot range mgt.)       ------------------various----------------         4,900(total)
Project Administration-RpDS
Field vehicles (light 4 wd)           4           -       -      -       _      4         530
Typewriters                           5           -       -      -       -      5          15
Calculators                           5           -       -      -       -      5           5
Miscellaneous(regional dev't study) various                                   various  3,000(total)
1/ July 1, 1979 to December 31, 1980.
2/ Estimated June 1979 prices.
3/ For plantations.
April 1979



53 -                                                            T   lT.6
INTEORATED FORESTRY DIVZWIHKNT PROJICT
Phastua of Prois.t Physical Daveloment Target.
ITEM                               unit                   1979-80 I             18               1982          1983             1984          Total
Road Construction    Maintenance
State Forests
Grav.l  .urfacing                                   k                         162               162              162             162            162             810
Road improvaent                                     km                        208               208              208             208           208            1,040
New Class B road                                    km                        144               144              144             144            144             720
New Cls C road                                      km                        170               170              170             170           170              850
New tractor road.                                   ha                        236               236              236             236           236            1,180
Road aintenance                                     ha                     2,478             2,728             3,266          3,882          4,054              ---
Boo-State Forats
Oraval surfacin                                     km                          5                 5                5               5              5              25
Road improvement                                    km                         19                19               19              19            19               95
New Class 8 roads                                  kh                          11                11               11              Li
New Class C road                                   kh                         120               120              120             120           120             600
New tractor ro                                      ha                         16               16                16              16            16              80
Road maintenance                                    km                        257              350               443            535            628 6_
Wiood pro..ctiot (natural forest.)
Industrial Wood                                          3
Sawlogs                                          '000m3(r)                 442                461             483             504           528           2,418
Pulpwood                                          '000m3(r)                141                156             172             193           221             883
Subtotal                                          0000,3(r)                583                617             655             697           749           3,301
Fuelwood                                            l000a3(r)                 115               116             120              122           126             599
Total                                                OOO  (r)                 698               733             775             819            875           3,900
Foreptry 0oron-
lndustrial plantation establishment                  ha                      2,000             2,500             3,OOV          3,800         4,600           15,900
Modernization/expansion of nurseries                  units of 4                                                                    1              _               3
Roads                                                ha                          26               22                27             34             18             127
Fire Protection
- Lookouts                                           units                        1                1                 1              1              1               5
- Water reservoirs                                   units                        6                6                 6              6              6              30
- Fire tracks                                        km                         40                40                40             40            40              200
- Fire breaks                                       kh                          100              100               100            100            100             500
Building Construction & Maintenance
New mechanical workshops                              units                       3                -                 -               -                             3
Housing for forestry staff & workers                  4 rooms - 16               13               10                13             10              6              52
workers
Permanent stone houses (logging workers)             4 roas - 16                  4                4                 4              4             4               20
workers
Semi-permanent wooden houses (logging workers)    4 room. - 16                   20               20                20             15             10              85
workers
Mobile houses on wheels (logging workers)             Acomsodate 6               20               20                20                             -              60
workers each
Village Infr..truotwr. Devalopat _/
Connection roads                                      k                         16                24                28             28            28.5            124,5
Village streets                                       km                          5.6             11                15             18.5          20               70.1
Rural rods                                           km                          -                14               14              14             5               47.0
Wster supply                                          villages covered            2                7                 7              t             5               28
Drainage/Sanitation                                  villages covered             2                3                6              6             4                21
Electricity                                          vill-ges covered            -                 4                7              7              4               22
Other comrnunity facilities                          villages covered            4                 5                9              11             7               36
Pilot Rane Management
Crazing land improvement:
Pasture seeding                                    ha                           _             400               400             400           400           1,600
Sprotc -ontrol                                     h.                           -               -               400             400          400            1,200
Fertilizers (initial)                               ha                        500           1,000             1,000           1,000        1,000750
(repeat)                              ha                                          500           1,O0  1000                    1,500
Arable cropping:
Rotational pastures                                 ha                          -              50                50              50           50              200
hay production                                      ha                         50             100               100             150          200              600
Engineering works:
Water points                                        no.                        12              16                16               -             -              44
Water basins                                        no.                         6              10                11               _             -              27
Fencing                                           kh                            -              20                 -               -            -               20
Roads                                              km                          20              40                40               -            -              100
Stalls                                             no.                          7               9                 9               -            _               25
Housing                                            no                           5               5                                 -            -               10
Dsmonotrations                                        no.                         8               8                 8               8            8               40
1/ July 1, 1979 to December 31, 1980 (January I to Dec_eber 31, 1980 for wood production tarseto).
/ These are rough indicative figures. Actual investments will be on basis of annual work plans.
3/ Total area of 4,500 ha covered over five years, with r.peat application every two years.
ApPil 1979



- 54 -
GREECE                                ANNEX 2
Table T-7
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
Fiscal Year and Quarter                              Quarterly         Cum.ulative
(ending on date indicated)                            - - - -US$ Million- - - -
FY1980
September 30, 1979                                       0.0                0.0i
December 31, 1979                                         0.1               0.1
March 31, 1980                                            0.5               0.6
June 30, 1980                                             0.6               1.2
FY1981
September 30, 1980                                       0.6                1.8
December 31, 1980                                         1.0               2.8
March 31, 1981                                            2.2               5.0
June 30, 1981                                            1.9                6.9
FY1982
September 30, 1981                                       0.6                7.5
December 31, 1981                                         1.1               8.6
March 31, 1982                                            2.2              10.8
June 30, 1982                                             1.9              12.7
FY1983
September 30, 1982                                       0.6               13.3
December 31, 1982                                         0.9              14.2
March 31, 1983                                            1.8              16.0
June 30, 1983                                             1.5              17.5
FY1984
September 30, 1983                                        0.5              18.0
December 31, 1983                                         0.6              18.6
March 31, 1984                                            1.5              20.1
June 30, 1984                                             1.2              21.3
FY1985
September 30, 1984                                        0.4              21.7
December 31, 1984                                         0.5              22.2
March 31, 1985                                            1.5              23.7
June 30, 1985                                             1.3              25.0
April 1979



GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar          1979                  1980                  1981                  1982                  1983                  1984
Year    1    2    3    4    1     2    3    4    14    - 1                     213|                       
LOGGING ROADS                                                                             _i                                                _
Design, Tender, Award of Contracts
Construction
Procurement of Maintenance Equipment
PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT
Nursery Construction                                                                                                                          _
Site Preparation
Planting
Pilot Plantation Research:
Procurement of Equipment
Site Preparation and Planting                                      _                                                          - I _  _                        _
FIRE PROTECTION                                                                                                                                I
Design and Construction of Works                                                                                     - =        -                                               _
Procurement of Equipment                                                                                                   -                                                                              I
WORKER TRANSPORT AND HOUSING                            i                                                             _
Procurement of Vehicles                                                                                              -    -    -
Design and Construction of Works                                                                                     - _  _                 -
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
Design, Tender, Award of Contracts
Construction of Works
PILOT RANGE MANAGEMENT
Grazing Land Improvement & Cropping
Engineering Works
LOGGING EQUIPMENT CREDIT
Procurement of Equipment
LOGGING TRAINING
Procurement of Equipment
Consultancy Services
Training
STUDIES
Sectoral Development Strategy Study
Regional Development Study
Revision of Management Plans
World Bank   20057



GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
Estimated Volume and Value of Production from Project Area
Item                                                      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990     1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997     1998      1999
PRODUCTION
Production with project(natural forests)
SawEogs:
Co.iferour                                                  305        321       339       357       377      402       430       458       489       522       556       594       633      676       721       770       770       770       770       770
De.idu on                                                   137        140       144       147       151       159      167       176       18i       195       206       217      2.3       240       253       265       265       265       265       265
Total                                                       442        461       483       504       528       561      597       634       675       717       762       811      ,61       916       974    1,035    1,035    1,035    1,035    1,035
Pulp o.d:
Coniferous                                                   50         62        76        95       120       125      135      1i13       15Q       160       340       365       385      415       445       473       473       473       473       473
Deciduous                                                    91         94        96        98       101       105      110       115       120       130       138       145       ISS       160      170       180       180       180       180       180
Total                                                       141        156       172       193       221       230       245      260       275       290       478       510       540       575      615       653       653       653       653       653
Total conifer.us                                               355        383       415       452       497       527       565      603       644       682       896       959    1,018    1,091    1,166    1,243    1,243    1,243    1,243    1,243
Total deciduo.-                                                228        234       240       245       252       264       277      291       306       325       344       362       383       400      423       445       445       445       445       445
Total Industrial Wood                                          503        617       ~W1697              749       791       842      894       950    1,007      1,240    1,321      1,401     1,491    1,589    1,688 1,688    1,688    1,688    1,688
Total fuslwo.d                                                 115        116       120       122       126       128       130       132      135       140       150       160       175       190       205      220       220       220       220       220
Total production (natur-l forests)                          698        733       775       819       875       919      972    1,026    1,085    1,147        1,390    1,481    1,576    1,681    1,794    1,908    1,908    1,908    1,908    1,908
Production with project (plsntation.)
SDaml8s                                                          3           3        4         5         6         7         7         7         7        7         7         7         7         7         7         7         7        7         7         7
Pulpwood                                                        11         13.       16        20        24        26        26        26       26        26        56        63        71        83        95       101      156       170       184       205
Total production (plantations)                               14         16        20        25        30        33        33        33       33        33        63        70        78        90       102      108       163       177       191       212
Total production with proiect                                  712         749      795       844       905       952    1,005    1,059    1.118    1,180    1,453    I,SSI    1,654    1,771    1,896    2 016    2.071    2,085    2,099    2 120
Production wiEhoOt prolect
S_wlug.                                                        424        426       428       430       432       434       436      438       440       442       444       446       448       450       452      454       454       454       454       454
Pulpwood                                                       132        133       134       135       136       137       138       139      140       141       142       143       144       145       146       147       147      147       147       147
Fuelvood                                                       111        111       112       112       113       114       114       115       115      116       116       117       118       lIE       119       119       119       119      119       119
Total production without proiect                            667        670       674       677       681       685       688      692       695       699       702       706       710       713       77         20        20      720       720       720
Incremental production
Sawlogs                                                         21         38        59        79       102       134       168       203      242       282       325       372       420       473       529       588       588      588       588       588
Pulpwood                                                        20         36        54        78       109       119       133       147      161       175       392       430       467       513       564       607      662       676       690       711
Fuelood                                                         4           5        8        10        13        14        16        17        20       24        34        43        57        72        86       101                                    101 101  IOI  IOI
Total                                                        45         79       121       167       224       267       317      367       423       481       751       845       944    1058    1179         1296    1351    1,365    1,379    1,400
of production (finamniel Fices) v
With prject                                                  1,171      1,255     1,352    1,462    1,586    1,717    1,820    1,925    2,041    2,162    2,449    2,610    2,778    2,965    3,163    3,363    3,405    3,416    3,427    3.443
I-cremmntal                                                     64        116       179       256       344       439       536      674       745       859    1,140    1,295    1,458    1,637    1,829    2,023    2,065    2,076    2,087    2,103
Stu-pa.e (value net of loRRinR costa)
With project                                                    783       847       919    1,002    1,093       1,200    1,272    1,307    1,430    1,516        1,653    1,761    1,874    1,998    2,130    2,264    2,290    2,296    2,303    2,313
In-rementsl                                                     42         76       116       168       225       298       366       446      516       597       730       834       918    1,063    1,188    1,320    1,346    1,352    1,359    1,369
Valu. of production (economic prices)
With proJ-ct                                                 1,3718    1,380      1,450    1,532    1,625    1,717    1,820    1,933    2,041    2,162    2,449    2,610    2,778    2,965    3,163    3,363    3,605    3,416    3,427    3,443
In proe ta1                                                     71       127        191       267       353       439       536       634       745      859    2,140    1,295    1,458    1,637    1,829    2,023    2,065.  2,076    2,087    2,103
1/ In 1979 prices.
2/  Financial prices are assumed to increase in reel terms until 1985 (when they would equal econo-ic prices) At the followini
rates per annum: slg  2.S9%, coniferous pulpwood 0.45%, deciduous pulpwood 0.41%, fuelvoad 0.27%. Econmic prices assumed arena                                                                                            I
follow: (Dc/n ): c.nif-russ sa-log  2,570; bro-dleved  awlo.g  2,180; coniferous pulpwood 760; bro-dleaved pulpwood 800; fuel.ood 945.
April 1979



- 57 -                                 ANNEX 2
GREECE                                  Table T-9
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Economic Costs and Benefits (basic run)!1
Incremental Project Costs                        Incremental
Project        Net  Benefits
Year      CapitaLZC     0 and M    Logging          Total            Benefits.         (Costs)
-------------------------------------(Dr Million)----------------------------------
1980       480.9          35.3        22.0          538.2               84.7           (453.5)
1981       437.3          55.4        40 0          532.7              174.1           (358.6)
1982       414.7          71.0        63.0          548.7              282.0           (266.7)
1983       397.9          77.2        88.0          563.1              376.4           (186.7)
1984       408.7          83.8       119.0          611.5             483.4            (128.1)
1985       227.5         126.6       142.0          496.1              569.4             73.3
1986       154.1         113.5       170.0          437.6              666.4            228.8
1987        80.4          97.1       198.0          375.5              764.4            388.9
1988        50.6         101.1       229.0          380.7              875.4            494.7
1989        46.7         104.9       262.0          413.6              989.4            575.8
1990       224.8         104.9       410.0          739.7           1,270.4             530.7
1991       102.8         104.9       461.0          668.7           1,425.4             756.7
1992        29.1         104.9       514.0          648.0           1,588.4             940.4
1993        14.4         104.9       574.0          693.3           1,767.4          1,074.1
1994        10.5         104.9       634.0          749.4           1,959.4          1,210.0
1995       176.2         104.9       703.0          984.1           2,153.4          1,169.3
1996       102.8         104.9       719.0          926.7           2,195.4          1,268.7
1997        29.1         104.9       723.0          857.0           2,206.4          1,349.4
1998        14.4         104.9       727.0          846.3           2,217.4          1,371.1
1999       (21.9)/3      104.9       733.0          816.0           2,233.4          1,417.4
Economic Rate of Return = 21.2%
(Net Present Value of Project - $44.2 million at 12%)
B. Sensitivity Analysis
ITEM                                               ERR                   SWITCHING VALUE 4/
_ _ _ _ _   __ _ (%)__   _ _ _ _ _ _
Basic Run                                               21.2
Return on all investments 5/                            18.2                             -
Construction costs                   +20%               18.3                          + 90
Equipment costs                      +20%               20.1                          +242
0&M costs                            +20%               19.9                          +162
Logging costs                        +20%               19.3                          + 86
Investments without project          -20%               20.2                          -252
Incremental logging revenues         -20%               15.2                          - 29
Revenues without project increase    1% p.a.            19.1                             -
No wood price increase after 1979                       17.8
Production increase slips 1 year                        16.9
No road construction/maintenance w/o project             16.8
NOTE:  All figures are in 1979 prices; costs include physical contingencies.
1/ Excluding village infrastructure development and the two studies.
2/ Including equipment replacement costs and a continuing program of logging road construction.
3/ Including salvage value of equipment.
4/  Percentage change in variable needed to bringERR down to 12%.
5/ Including village infrastructure development and the two studies.
April 1979



- 58 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
GREECE
INTEGRATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.  Selected Reports and Studies on the Forestry Sector
A-1 UNDP/FAO:  "Preinvestment Survey of Selected Forest Areas in Greece"
(vols. 1-5); 1968. (FAO/SF: 54/GRE-15)
A-2 UNDP/FAO:  "Forest Industry Development in Greece - An Analysis of
Opportunities for Expansion"; 1974 (FO:SF/GRE 20
Technical Report 2)
A-3 KEPE (Athens): "Views on Impact of Greece's Membership in EEC -
Final Report on Timber Industry"
A-4 V.D. Fragos: "Effects of EEC Membership on Future Development of
Wood-processing Industries and Forestry in Greece"; 1978
(unpublished M.Sc. thesis)
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1 Jaakko Poyry & Co. (Helsinki): "Feasibility Study on Forestry
Development in the Northwestern and Western Areas of the
Greek Mainland" (for OECD); 1978
B-2 Jaakko Poyry & Co. (Helsinki): Annex to "Feasibility Study"; 1978
- "Part I Economic Background Information"
- "Part II General Approach to Range Management"
C. Project Implementation Volume (Selected Working Papers)
C-1 through C-3: Logging
C-1 Logging Roads
C-2 Logging Practices and Problems
C-3 Logging Training and Demonstration Program



- 59 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
C-4 through C-6: Forestry Management
C-4 Afforestation
C-5 Forest Management Alternatives
C-6 Fire Protection
C-7 through C-li: Other Technical Papers
C-7 Forest Industries
C-8 Forest and Forest Industries Sectoral Development Strategy Study-
Draft Terms of Reference
C-9 Village Infrastructure Development
C-10 Pilot Range Management Program
C-1l Regional Development Study
C-12 through C-20: General Background Data (tables)
C-12 Greece - Distribution of Forest Areas, Standing Volume and Annual
Increment by Species
C-13 Greece - Distribution of Forest Ownership
C-14 Greece - Imports of Forest Products, 1977
C-15 DGF - Expenses and Investments, 1975-78
C-16 Budget of "Central Fund for Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry
Development"
C-17 DGF - Project Area Field Staff
C-18 Approximate Ratios of DGF Staff to Project Activities
C-19 ABG's Lending in the Forestry Sector
C-20 Rates of Interest charged by ABG
C-21 through C -28: Project Analysis (tables)
C-21 Calculation of Project Area Annual Increment
C-22 Output Prices used in Project Analysis
C-23 Calculation of Economic Prices (Coniferous Sawlogs)
C-24 Detailed Economic Costs and Benefits (basic run)
C-25 Economic Analysis - All Project Investments
C-26 Economic Analysis - Village Roads and Streets
C-27 Investment Model for Logging Equipment






IBRD 14162R
MAY 1979
; ,i g tjiilf;j ',;' ', D1 &itr5 5r  ' $2 i;2t it fg >'X''-~/G R E EC E
. v Areol  S   S                    w         ,; l0lm9 2 ,!    <GC itfL@AX.ri.~ it At2720 0   0 '& 9w'S+=9INTINTERATE  FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
i '.\_GREECE,   *v t         ' Y O1@  ]  ;ry_ie    ft,  \,grl7,;  0  t  r    , \, 20   t  \5L)                                                                   Village  Infrastructure  Development
I.- 2Ao I                                                                               Is ot 5  0  Project villages
rPe par   B      U4n .,   .i E ' 7 J,. 7'2r '; , z r r , rz, 5 tllJ*0 Project area boundary
9'~47c~                                                                                                                                                              a .nrSrs  Anideo  *  Connection roads
*i!, \                                                                                                                                                z  4vz - b  -. \ \ ^A Community facilities and streets
f/s.^        + . '     Florino                          Ed.........................ss............. rs                                      *     Agricultural access roads
_ OTERPANe_ -                                               n elA.  02s/A                                                                                                              Water supply
_________________________________-_o___                                                                                                                            o     Drainage   /  sanitation
;He~~~~~~~~~~~ i4git  iS   LJ   0tii03 ig ;N  ; t;   svL;              v'_                                   +t      q    Thessalioniki         
,stona                        vef ? o      ;      J    .......     \ror  e,                          _X                Electricity
Nomos boundaries
t'B( r                                                                                                                                                           ____=  Main aspholted roads
-           il; .            .; z i                                                                                                                            i ff Sr; rCh ryssf  Non-asphalted roads
-  -.  International boundaries
, ihko             Ag Paraskeviq,,| .9$Gr ... n.                                                                                                           Region I   MACEDONIA
'D            Srao\                                                                                                                                      Nomos:
Pella
Tsepelooo                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Florino
-X                                                00a-D 0'VC  g>i\s<;pelovoOVavousao                s[.,<                                                                                     Kastoria
Grevena
Region 'Tr   EPIRUS
X X / J oG+V nit ~~~~~~K<vua |  0                                                                                         Aeg/eoa           SeaL                                         Nomos:
titr0       l~oonnina                                                                   l6 oannina
Trikala t   X K   loonnino   a l  \   7   jlarisRegion=    THESSALY
l< fZgounemtCtitsa O  \     S      .              \_    1:            (                |                                                                                         Nomos:
I NX   \  2    (  .-   *                     -~  \                      /                           X                                                                Trikala
Karditsa
Region IV: CENTRAL GREECE
Nomos
Ar \\                                 fn N.,fia  j   oe, f l 0 r y                                                                                         Evrytania
+\ lZn - RarJeopoulos )                                                                                                                       Klel,te    .p.i-  l  \ Efthiotidos
lonanar   See                 ,ak                                   A                         *,.             
al n4 a n 5Lo                                                                                                                          20        40       60        s0        100
Kilometers
rots map hlas been pr=ard hy th. World B.n* a ntoffenni-irey for th. c-n-,n.-c
Zf ike reader 0/the reprt to which tt attached rhe denon -,atonS usedad iteh
hbood/arnoeno d this mopod stot on-ly.o the tpart ehe World BanVk 0d'on
sff/.ita, ayodgstn on the~ legal st-s n/any t -rtr ray end-re-nto
Messs,Iong:                                   &.-S'                        acce~~~~~~~~~-ptance /ouch b-od-rie






'IN'ROMANIA22
,  YUGOSLAVIA                       A    I'                                                                                                             B    U    L  G    A    R 
BULGARIA,
SAYS Alto         V        T U K EY  U  G  O  S L A  V  I AI_
of
ARB R E  C  e   T U  R
A res 1  a M   
TA     L  ARB  RE       N OF UG.PT
N)~  ~      ~ ~ s A   [BApGorein NI   Af A>    6'>. TjEGIONII  20 -glm                                                                                                        3.Kp=fs
AU'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'
CCIRFIJ  ~          UNn-t9ke  7oet  Wlt dlfrntpce                                                                                                                                    A A  A       GVld 7      pi
42~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
5  L At
INTEGRZATED FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                     ~A                                                            R tkG NYI
Project area boundary
- Forest District boundaries
ConiferoUSn    B ,O kpURe    n
U ' C' oohi,t. ',t   'B                                                                                                 REGIONSI       RUGIONY         REGIONV3T
Broadleaif   [~k2Mb-dlBBS in anoal-Aid0                                                                                                               U Tepoli        2.SopL
of dw madew o U30 rwp d m h1dL ff 85 a dimd T e d>2  s m.d d        A.d1 .                                                                   16rn  3. Krnl h-ps!   35 Trp
tm040                                                  Vt7/UhV. mLl-w912mmlhSegalJr sSof-LRO7LvDt7 ot7. PorIoovooods                  17. oP-id6                 r 3  L dT-
ssTITpsEv.cO Eraodl o -ou 2(n dlB231. Ar-i                                                                                                           2 7.V
.c-I-k         f                 REGION 5         .K
POEsturesSoetooald ,e~O-Sto( df(                                                                                                A . Koooio.Ptre(e .  21. M-nol-,    40. Spotn
Ilh$t                                                                             ,~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Me-oo 22 Nfalpto    Ai. G, hio
N.   d'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"-.  ~~~~~7TOOIO                                                           2.LidarIkl      42.1MaIo
on-locrd Fo.e-tst d,ff.-itBOOTp-L 7s if_Ti`T                                                                                         24. A.hi
Major roads                                                                                           4                                 EGION 535    R5GION S
International boundares                                                                                                                 o2nIrnok   2U
U  20      100                                                                                            SI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. Tril01,   27. AnO."Iia
if  if  if  if                     if    ifo                                                                                            EI.  KoM -    2.,  ola
KILOMETEBS                                                                                                 if                             29. Ao0Si-
PTa o0000000eooa,ao.AE,O,. ROSY OeOAIOTU.oo.,,0.mif,loooififl,,,.o,,.o,,,o                                    EUGIONWG          50. K30 oIK.o-y
01110-36OoO  , oOe0.0sopoOnr0 I ii010fOi, 1II.Sooio   33. Kapiolh                                                                                                                                                  a
235   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~5Sti- 3  Kop0                                2' 



