                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 27695-RO

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (CPL-42130)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$70 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                               ROMANIA

                                                   FOR

                               SCHOOLS REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                              July 21, 2004




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regio

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

    (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2004)

          Currency Unit = Romanian Lei
                   1 Leu = US$ 0.000031
                  US$ 1 = Lei 32,297

                FISCAL YEAR
                July 1   June 30

     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CEB                 Council of Europe Development Bank
CPMU                Central Project Management Unit
DPIU                District Project Implementation Unit
EIB                 European Investment Bank
MoER                Ministry of Education and Research
MoPF                Ministry of Public Finance
PHRD                Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
QER                 Quality at Entry Review
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
TA                  Technical Assistance

         Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
       Country Director      Anand K. Seth
         Sector Director     Charles C. Griffin
         Task Manager:       Mariana Doina Moarcas

                                          ROMANIA
                        SCHOOLS REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8. Basic Monitoring Data                                                   28
Annex 9. Photos of Schools Before and After Project Interventions                31
Annex 10. Evaluation Report of the Borrower                                      33

Project ID: P044614                                                  Project Name: SCHOOLS REHABILITATION
Team Leader: Mariana Doina Moarcas                                   TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: July 21, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SCHOOLS REHABILITATION                                   L/C/TF Number: CPL-42130
   Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (33%); Secondary education (33%); Pre-primary
                            education (32%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/20/1995                                     Effective: 10/31/1997                01/23/1998
     Appraisal: 06/27/1997                                         MTR: 08/31/2000                  06/23/2000
      Approval: 07/29/1997                                      Closing: 01/31/2003                 01/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ROMANIA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Kenneth G. Lay
Sector Manager:                 Maureen McLaughlin                             James A. Socknat
Team Leader at ICR:             Mariana Doina Moarcas                          Leonardo Concepcion
ICR Primary Author:             Mariana Doina Moarcas; Ana
                                Maria Sandi; Leonardo
                                Concepcion


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
                                     Quality at Entry: Marginal

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's broad objective was to support and sustain the Government's Education Reform Program,
and specifically, to support the rehabilitation of schools endangered by consecutive earthquakes up to
safety standards and pedagogic norms established by the Ministry of Education and Research (MoER) in
line with the Education Reform objectives. The project's main objectives were: (a) to rehabilitate, upgrade
and furnish pre-university schools, thereby restoring safety of buildings in imminent danger of collapse, and
mitigate educational disadvantages to students occupying such schools; and (b) to improve MoER's
institutional capacity at national and district levels to plan, develop and maintain the public educational
physical plant.

Background/Context:

Since the beginning of its transition to a democratic society and a market economy, Romania's Education
Reform Program had started addressing critical issues of improving the quality, coverage, and
cost-effectiveness of the pre-university school system. In 1994, Romania embarked on a comprehensive
education reform supported by the World Bank financed Education Reform Project (Loan RO-3724 for
US$50 million). Reform efforts mainly focused on curriculum, alternative textbooks and assessment, and
improving the quality of management and staff. However, the necessity of providing safe school
infrastructure, essential for a well functioning school system, and to support the pedagogic changes
envisaged by the education reform program had been left unattended due to scarce resources. The need to
provide safe schools was especially critical in Romania where major earthquakes (most devastating in
1977, but also in 1986, 1990) had created a stock of severely damaged and unsafe schools posing serious
physical threats to school occupants. According to the law, the Government is accountable for the safety of
public buildings and it was well aware of the need to rehabilitate these severely damaged schools. In 1996,
Romania had a well defined two-phased school rehabilitation strategy: the first phase of this strategy
focused on rehabilitating damaged schools in imminent danger of collapse up to the national safety and
pedagogic standards; over the second phase, the Government committed to upgrade all remaining damaged
schools and constructing new schools.

The School Rehabilitation project fully met the objectives of the first phase of the Government strategy
aimed at rehabilitating about 1,200 schools in imminent danger of collapse. Upon project Negotiations,
only 900 schools had been retained for rehabilitation due to Government concerns related to escalating
rehabilitation costs and inflation at the time; however, during project implementation, it was possible to
revert to the initial target of 1,200 schools.

The project was conceived as fully complementary to the ongoing Education Reform Program in Romania.
It was responding to the 1993 Government White Paper on Education which had been supported by the
conclusions of the Bank's first sector review of Human Resources Sector in Romania (Romania: Human
Resources and the Transition to a Market Economy, World Bank, 1992). Core recommendations in these
documents referred both to education quality (need to: (i) update the content of education; (ii) re-organize
both pre-service and in-service teacher training; (iii) update textbooks; (iv) decentralize the coordination
and administration of the education system; (v) reform higher education, etc.), but also, specifically, to the
need for an increase in the resource base for education to improve teaching conditions and raise the level of
investment and operating expenditures for buildings and education materials, in line with European norms.


In 1995 the comprehensive education reform project was advancing along the above mentioned lines and



                                                        - 2 -

the Government decided it had to equally meet the urgent need for a substantial investment to improve and
rehabilitate its mostly aging and deteriorated educational physical plant to support the education reform,
and to address the strongly voiced public concern for the physical safety of students in many structurally
unsafe facilities. The Government requested Bank support for a large investment in rehabilitating school
buildings to complement the ongoing Bank-financed Education Reform Project. The project was framed
well within the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS Report No. P-7137-RO) parameters with respect
both to the social sector and the public infrastructure strategy. The CAS placed major importance on
investment in education as a long term strategy. The Bank agreed to the request on its merits and extended
its support to the Government school rehabilitation program with a Loan of US$70 million for the project.
The Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB) co-financed the project with US$13.8 million equivalent
and the Government of Romania co-financed the project with US$46.2 million.

The school rehabilitation intervention was a complex, demanding project given its scope of rehabilitating
about 1,200 schools and its country wide coverage. Its success depended on the substantial coordination
effort done by the central implementing unit involving seven regional units and 42 counties.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two components planned for implementation over a five year period. It was
formulated as a stand-alone operation focused on upgrading educational infrastructure supported by a
small, related institutional capacity building intervention, firmly linked to the Government education sector
reform strategy, as described above. The two main components of the project were:

Component 1. School Rehabilitation (US$103.25 million base cost).
Component 2. Institutional Capacity Improvement (US$3.25 million base cost).



Component 1. School Rehabilitation (US$103.25 million base cost). This component consisted of the
rehabilitation, upgrading and furnishing about 1,200 pre-university schools serving about 260,000
kindergarten, primary and secondary school students throughout the 42 counties. Schools were selected
from a list of about 1,500 school units identified by MoER (in collaboration with the Ministry of Public
Works) as among the most structurally damaged and likely to collapse. These schools were located in
earthquake prone zones, with many buildings failing to meet national building regulations and safety
standards. These dilapidated facilities didn't provide an appropriate physical environment for the delivery
of the new educational methods and for achieving the quality of teaching and learning that MoER's
education reform was aiming at. In addition to the strengthening problems, in these schools students were
overcrowded and lacked basic amenities such as water, toilets, sanitation and lighting. The extent and
scope of the rehabilitation work in these schools was to be determined in accordance with MoER school
design and planning standards, a set of prioritization criteria based on school mapping models developed
under the project, and agreed economic criteria. By the end of the project, it was expected that the
rehabilitated schools would contribute towards the expansion of access to quality education and would
become models for future Government investments in public school infrastructure.

Component 2. Institutional Capacity Improvement (US$3.25 million base cost). This component
consisted of strengthening the sectorial capacity of the MoER, at both national and county levels to: (i)
plan, implement and manage the Government's school investment and rehabilitation program; and (ii) to
manage and maintain the public educational physical plant. The component included two sub-components:



                                                      - 3 -

(a) a School Facilities Planning and Maintenance sub-component which consisted of developing and
improving the capacity and skills of MoER and county education staff to use cost-effective methods and
national building standards in the development, rehabilitation and upgrading of educational physical
infrastructure, and in managing school maintenance programs efficiently; and (b) a Project Administration
sub-component providing operational support to the MoER Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) and
to District Project Implementing Units (DPIU) in carrying out the project efficiently. By the project
completion, it was expected that a sustainability action plan would be in place to extend the maintenance
culture engendered by the operation to entities other than the direct beneficiaries of the project investments.
It was also expected that the experience and expertise developed under the project would be retained in the
sector although the project had been seen as a one-time operation supported by the Bank.

In terms of design, the objectives of both main components were in line with the Project objectives set out
above, and with the Government's priorities outlined in its strategic documents to address qualitative and
human development needs, as well as to improve and rehabilitate deteriorated physical plants as part of its
overall education reform program. The implementing agency at the central level demonstrated its capacity
to run complex activities closely coordinating with its regional and county level arms all over the country,
involving Local Authorities, school principals, teachers and parents in the process. Given the scope of the
project, the implementing agency also demonstrated an impressive monitoring and field supervision
capacity. The project was essential to the overall education reform: it actually facilitated the reform
implementation which would have been otherwise impossible in schools in imminent danger of collapse.
The value added by the Bank was ensured by: (i) its extensive experience with school rehabilitation
interventions in other countries, constantly shared with the Borrower; and (ii) its high quality expertise with
education sector reforms, in general.


3.4 Revised Components:
Under project Component 1, School Rehabilitation, the number of schools was revised to reflect the initial
goal of the Government to rehabilitate 1,200 schools. Having substantially completed 900 schools before
the original closing date of January 31, 2003, the Government requested to increase the total number of
pre-university schools to be rehabilitated, upgraded and furnished from 900 to about 1,200 kindergarten,
primary and secondary schools in 42 counties. This number had actually been closer to the initial target of
the Government since during project preparation the Government had a list of 1,500 most damaged schools
out of which it selected 1,200 to be rehabilitated under the project. However, the number had to be
narrowed down (to 900) at Negotiations due to Government concerns related to escalating rehabilitation
costs and inflation rate at the time. Going back to the initial target was possible owing to the effective
quality and cost control exercised by the implementing unit during implementation which resulted in
available resources for all schools initially planned to be rehabilitated under the project. The Loan
Agreement was amended accordingly on April 18, 2002 and the Loan Closing Date was extended by one
year to January 31, 2004. Subsequently, through a re-allocation of the loan proceeds, the original loan
allocation for works was increased from US$50.0 million to US$59.15 million. CEB concurred with the
amendments and equally extended its loan closing date.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was reviewed for Quality at Entry in September 1997, shortly after Board approval. The
Overall Assessment of Quality at Entry was rated "3" (Marginal) and these assessments applied to: (a) the
Project/Operation's Concept, Objectives and Approach; (b) Technical and Economic Aspects; (c) Poverty
and Social Aspects; (d) Institutional Capacity Analysis; and (e) Bank Inputs and Processes. The project
was rated "2" (Satisfactory) on Readiness for Implementation, and on Risk Assessment and Sustainability.
Two criteria were assessed as "NA" (Not Applicable) and these were the Environmental Aspects and the



                                                      - 4 -

Financial Management Aspects. Country and Sector management contested the QER conclusions and
requested that the assessment be reviewed, pointing out that the project should be assessed in the frame of
the broader education reform agenda supported by the Bank through other projects. In addition, it was
mentioned that extensive consultations, consensus building, detailed analysis and project preparation had
been conducted and guidance sought by the project team from peer reviewers, before the Bank finally
agreed to appraise the project. However, initial ratings were not revised.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project was successfully completed by the Closing Date of January 31, 2004. The project has
satisfactorily achieved its broad objective to support the Government's education reform aimed at
improving the quality (including the safety) and coverage of the education system, and ensuring that scarce
resources available to the education sector are allocated efficiently to address pressing sectorial needs. At
the same time, the project achieved both of its specific objectives successfully and within the resources
originally provided for project implementation. The project had surpassed its original physical target of
rehabilitating 900 schools in finally upgrading the facilities in 1,206 pre-university schools across the
country's 42 counties and benefiting about 260,000 students previously attending schools in imminent
danger of collapse. The project basically made possible education in many schools which were closed or
could not function properly and, in its complementarity to the ongoing education reform program, it
actually facilitated the application of the new curriculum and teaching and learning methods. The project
also achieved other outcomes, as follows: (i) it has had a significant impact in building capacity within the
Education sector to plan, implement and manage education infrastructure rehabilitation programs; (ii) the
project had a high development impact in view of the support given to primary and lower secondary
education in rural areas, and had a high impact in reducing poverty. The majority (86%) of rehabilitated
project schools are located in rural areas and contributed to increase access to education; and (iii) the
project has helped MoER broaden active stakeholder and community participation in school development
programs. The knowledge, methods, school standards and technical expertise which were developed and
tested under the School Rehabilitation Project are now an accepted and integral part of the operations of
MoER and local authorities and are being effectively used in new education investment operations. This is
fully demonstrated by the follow-up projects already initiated by the MoER including a second major
rehabilitation intervention for another 1,400 schools through a loan from the European Investment Bank
(EIB) and CEB, as well as a component focused on providing basic education conditions (water, sanitation,
heating) in approximately 1,500 rural schools financed by the Bank assisted Rural Education Project. Both
these initiatives are currently implemented by the School Rehabilitation PMU within the MoER and its
decentralized units.

The objectives of the school rehabilitation project were fully relevant to the country needs and consistent
with the country and sector assistance strategies at the time of project appraisal. Beyond simply
rehabilitating damaged schools to prevent their collapse and upgrading Romania's design and construction
standards for educational facilities, the project interventions had an important impact on the education
process itself. The most significant strength of the project remains the impact on the 260,000 students
benefiting from a safe environment for education. The design standards used in the rehabilitated schools,
including the modular student furniture provided in all classrooms, have facilitated the application of the
new curriculum, new teaching and learning methods which were successfully promoted by the education
reform project. The project interventions changed attitudes about going to school especially in poor rural
areas as evidenced by students' eagerness to go to the new, modern schools. Moreover, innovations such as
the room partitioning designs of renovated rural schools permitted the inclusion of a large hall; this hall is
now used by the school for various events, including meetings attended by parents and community


                                                       - 5 -

members. The rehabilitated schools have become real assets for the communities and are very much valued.
Also, the supply of water and sanitation provided a healthy environment and contributed to the health
education of children from poorer areas. Furthermore, the skilled professionals at both central and local
levels, who were trained under the project, are now in a position to develop follow-up projects scaling up
the achievements of the School Rehabilitation Project. The benefits of the project are widely recognized;
the Bank management recommended posting the School Rehabilitation Project as a "success story" on the
Bank web.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: School Rehabilitation
The overall achievement of the objective under Component 1 is rated satisfactory. The objective of this
component was to rehabilitate, upgrade and furnish about 900 pre-university schools, thereby restoring
safety of buildings in imminent danger of collapse, and mitigate educational disadvantages to students in
these schools. The project originally planned to rehabilitate a total of about 900 kindergarten, primary, and
secondary schools in 42 counties. Only school buildings that required major repair because their structural
integrity had been compromised were included under the project. The extent or scope of the rehabilitation
for each school was determined in accordance with school design and planning standards. The original
target was substantially met ahead of the original closing date, even though the project suffered from a late
effectiveness and start-up. Efficient implementation management, good quality control of the design and
rehabilitation work, and close cost monitoring and contract management gave MoER the opportunity and
resources to rehabilitate all the schools in its high priority list for rehabilitation. MoER requested, and the
Bank agreed to a Loan Amendment financing the rehabilitation and furnishing of additional schools and
extended the Loan Closing Date by one year to January 31, 2004, to complete them. By the new closing
date, the rehabilitation, upgrading and furnishing of 1,206 pre-university schools was completed, including:
55 kindergarten, 345 primary schools for grades I-IV, 706 schools for grades I-VIII, 5 schools for grades
V-VIII, 64 academic secondary schools and 31 "Grup Scolar" (vocational + secondary schools). The
range of the rehabilitation work was comprehensive, covering small rural schools, larger urban schools,
traditional high schools, including some schools in cultural and historical buildings; such schools
accommodated different numbers of students ranging from 20 to 2,700 students. The final outcome was the
total replacement of old buildings with new ones in about 36% of schools (435 units). In these cases,
cost-efficiency analyses indicated that it was more economic to build new premises, than to rehabilitate
dilapidated infrastructure, according to the established MoER norms for educational buildings. About 7%
of the schools were provided with additional teaching spaces in order to relieve the overcrowding and the
inadequacy of the physical environment for teaching and learning. Schools got the opportunity to use their
space far more efficiently.

In terms of appropriateness of the component design, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) describes in detail
the project selection, scope, prioritization methodology, building standards. While all these technical
aspects were followed, the application of the investment prioritization methodology as described in the SAR
had to be waived. This was the case because of a revised implementation strategy which proved to be more
suitable to the reality of a delayed project start-up. Although the loan was approved in July 1997, it became
effective in January 1998, and actual implementation started only in August 1998. The schools selected to
be rehabilitated in the first wave were those having already completed technical surveys (to gain time);
afterwards, implementation was decentralized to the level of counties and proceeded in parallel in all 42
counties, thus making prioritization no longer needed.

Start-up delays were mainly due to staff remuneration issues, delays in opening the special accounts and
accessing loan funds. However, during implementation the project caught up with the start-up delays given
the capable PMU that was put in place. Furthermore, the project actually rehabilitated more schools than



                                                       - 6 -

the 900 envisaged at negotiations, as mentioned above.

At the time of this project preparation, the standard format of the SAR did not include an annex on key
performance indicators, but it included a comprehensive annex on monitoring indicators which were very
helpful to the PMU in putting together a detailed project monitoring database. The database included each
school covered under the project, with data before and after rehabilitation (number of shifts, enrollment),
rehabilitation solution, dates of contracts, Bank no objections, cost information on each project
intervention, etc. Due to its size, the project monitoring data base could not be attached to this document.
The complete information, including the nominal list of schools, is available in the project files. A
simplified monitoring table is shown in Annex 8.

All project schools are now rehabilitated to improved construction and accommodation standards for
educational buildings. They benefit more than 260,000 students, their teachers and other educational
personnel. The project had a high development impact especially given the support provided to primary
and lower secondary education in rural areas. Beneficiaries of rehabilitated schools have expressed overall
satisfaction with the investments: the improved physical environment in rehabilitated buildings is seen as
contributing to increased school attendance, especially in disadvantaged areas, and ultimately contributing
to achieve universal primary education. The project had an impact on poverty alleviation. The bulk of the
project benefits, in terms of number of schools rehabilitated (77% of total) and financial resources allocated
(74% of total), were in poorer regions (Moldova, Dobrogea, Oltenia, Muntenia) that have a high seismic
risk. About 32% of the total number of schools covered under the project are located in Moldova, the
poorest region in the country, in counties such as: Vaslui (207 schools), Bacau (46 schools), Botosani (47
schools), Iasi (32 schools). The majority (86%) of project schools are located in rural areas, and have
helped increase access to education. The project did not only provide buildings, but also utilities (water
and sanitation), thus reducing health risks, as well as modular school furniture, thus facilitating the
implementation of the new curriculum, and teaching and learning methods. The project had a significant
impact on other education projects in Romania. The school facilities standards developed and improved
under the project, have been adapted nationally and are being applied to other educational infrastructure
investments in the country, including: (a) the provision of basic modular school furniture to about 2,000
rural schools under the completed Education Reform Project; (b) the rehabilitation of 1,400 schools under a
new project financed by the EIB and CEB; and (c) the improvement of basic teaching conditions (water,
sanitation, heating) in 1,500 rural schools under the ongoing Bank-financed Rural Education Project.

Component 2: Institutional Capacity Improvement

The overall achievement of objectives under this Component is rated satisfactory.
The objectives of this component were to strengthen the sectorial capacity of MoER, at both national and
county level to: (a) plan, implement and manage the Government's school investment and rehabilitation
program; and (b) manage and maintain the public educational physical plant. This component had two
subcomponents, as described bellow:

(i)      School Facilities Planning and Maintenance. This sub-component was aimed at
developing/improving the skills of MoER to use cost effective methods and national building standards in:
the development of new educational facilities, rehabilitating and upgrading existing physical infrastructure,
and managing the school maintenance program.

The project was successful in achieving these objectives. During the early stages of the project, MoER was
still using outdated central planning methods for infrastructure management. The MoER's Directorate of
Investments, which was responsible for building and maintaining schools was staffed with technicians who


                                                      - 7 -

had scant knowledge of planning and upgrading school facilities in order to suit modern educational needs
of students and teachers. At local level, such knowledge was even more limited. Scarce resources and
inappropriate budget allocation policies lead to a significant number of schools in high need of
strengthening. Without appropriate financing, large scale rehabilitation works started, but were frequently
interrupted, waiting for additional funds to be allocated. The major achievement and lasting impact of the
School Rehabilitation Project was in introducing the education sector in Romania to a modern, rational, and
cost-effective process of managing the development and improvement of Romania's public schools,
including introduction to school mapping principles and cost-effectiveness analysis of proposed
investments. The project also developed participatory approaches, as it served to bring together teams of
architects/ engineers used to working independently on rehabilitation projects, to consult and collaborate
with educators/teachers and beneficiaries (teachers/local officials) on the scope and nature of the
investments. The experience, knowledge of modern construction methods, school design standards and
technical expertise developed and tested under the project have now become a well accepted and integral
part of the operations of MoER and the local authorities, and are being effectively used in new education
investments (i.e. new CEB financing to rehabilitate 1,400 more schools, and the Bank financed Rural
Education Project improving utilities in 1,500 rural schools).

Although the infrastructure goals were successfully met and surpassed, the sustainability of the
interventions is still to be determined. During implementation, in line with the newly adopted education
decentralization law, the responsibility for ongoing maintenance of pre-university schools was transferred
from the MoER to the local authorities. However, many local authorities lack funds for adequate provision
of recurrent financing for education. The project tried to address this new situation in several ways.

The project supported the preparation of a comprehensive School Maintenance Manual. This manual was
widely circulated with county councils; also, a simplified, user friendly brochure was developed for guiding
principals and mayors at local level. During Bank supervision missions and the Joint Project Portfolio
Reviews, the Bank discussed with the MoER and MoPF the need to set up a scheme by which the MoER
would continue to be involved in monitoring school maintenance allocations at county level, in coordination
with Local Authorities, beyond the project closing date.

(ii)     Project Administration. The project was expected to provide the necessary resources to the central
         PMU and the county units to implement the project effectively.

The MoER has successfully met this objective by putting together a competent and effective PMU with
skilled professionals including the project manager, financial and accounting staff, procurement officers,
MIS specialist, and a team of works engineers/architects. The PMU has successfully administered a total of
674 contracts including: contracts for architectural and engineering designs (199), contracts for
rehabilitation works (160), contracts for basic school furniture (95), other contracts for individual services
and goods (220). The project has contributed to training more that 100 staff at the national and local levels,
in areas of specialization including school mapping and procurement, financial and project management,
through trainings and seminars conducted both in country and abroad. The project has helped
develop/strengthen the capacity at MoER and local level to administer the rehabilitation and maintenance of
the educational physical plant. The implementing agency together with its regional and county level
branches successfully carried out their mandate.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:



                                                     - 8 -

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the institutional development impact of the project was substantial. As described above, it made
significant contribution towards building capacity within the Education sector - in the MoER, as well as in
the local authorities - to plan, implement and manage education infrastructure rehabilitation programs. As
already pointed out, this is fully demonstrated by the follow-up rehabilitation programs which are already
operational (the EIB, CEB financed project, the basic education conditions component under the Bank
financed Rural Education Project). Under the project, more than 200 public sector personnel involved in
education infrastructure investments have directly received training (through external and in-country
activities) or gained experience through implementing its activities. Furthermore, the involvement of
incumbent local authorities, school administrators and teachers, as well as community and local
associations in project activities have raised their consciousness to the function of a well planned
educational physical facility in the learning and teaching processes, and in helping improve the morale and
well being of the school occupants.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project constantly caught the public eye and was often the subject of national press and media
coverage. Although most accounts were positive, some were critical. In almost all the cases, criticism was
unfounded, since it reported misconduct in the unrelated, parallel investments in school buildings conducted
by local authorities. The impact of these un-founded allegations was to elevate the consciousness of the
project managers to the need for dispatch, for consultation, and for transparency in the decision making
processes concerning the project, and in raising the immediacy of recruiting stakeholder support. As
implementation progressed, beneficiaries of rehabilitated schools have expressed overall satisfaction with
the much improved physical environment in project rehabilitated buildings, which have been seen as
contributing to encourage school attendance (especially in rural areas), and ultimately contributing to
achieve universal primary education.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Since the inception of the project in August 1995, the MoER leadership changed several times (the first
Minister proposed the project to the Bank, the second was incumbent during project preparation, appraisal
and negotiations, and the third Minister took over from project effectiveness in January 1998). At all
times, the project was considered a priority by the MoER management. However, a significant delay
appeared from effectiveness in starting project activities mainly because CPMU staff remuneration issues
resulted in the disbandment of the original CPMU that had competently prepared the project and actively
participated in its appraisal and negotiations. At the time, difficulties were encountered in recruiting
qualified specialists because the salaries being offered had to comply with the MoER pay scale; such
salaries were unattractive to the needed architects and engineers and not competitive with the market
demand. Since such fields of expertise were non-education and, hence, not available in the MoER, the
required compliance with the public pay scale (which was far bellow the prevailing market rates) became
an obstacle in hiring the needed staff. The situation was finally resolved through an artificial solution
(hiring consultants through an NGO). A new CPMU was organized with expert staff in place, also
retaining few members of the previous team, and operations were commenced in August 1998. By then, 14
months had passed after Board approval and there was a significant delay in opening the special accounts
and accessing loan funds; the implementation calendar had to be completely reset. Nonetheless, the project
was able to successfully overcome these initial obstacles, and overall, in retrospect, was never at risk as it
continued to count from the strong support of the successive Ministers and Secretaries of State, as well as



                                                       - 9 -

the Ministry of Public Finance. Fortunately, later on, a Government ordinance was issued allowing public
institutions such as MoER to recruit qualified experts at salaries commensurate to their skills and
competitive with the market, so other projects did not face the same staff recruitment difficulties. Also,
initial difficulties faced by the MoER/CPMU with the Court of Audit, particularly regarding the
applicability of Bank procurement procedures stipulated in the Loan Agreement were resolved, but
significant and time consuming efforts were needed from the project staff.

A factor that would influence the sustainability of the project investments that is outside the Project's, but
not the Government's control is the following: in 2000, the administration and financing of pre-university
education was transferred from MoER responsibility to that of local administrations, in line with the
Government strategy for decentralization of the public sector. However, the decentralization was not
adequately supported by financing. Local authorities are perennially confronted by inadequate annual
budgets to cover several decentralized social responsibilities, leaving very little for recurrent costs such as
school maintenance.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The initial formulation of the project, the surveys, and selection of participating schools was done by a
team of local experts from MoER's very small Directorate of Investments working in collaboration with
specialists of the Ministry of Works. Project ownership rested with MoER from the start, although
originating from very few officials who generally had a top-down orientation. With support from a PHRD
Grant, a competent project preparation team was organized (which became the original CPMU) that
elaborated the project content, objectives and rationale in consultation with the earlier group. The
preparation team faced significant difficulties dealing with local authorities and involving them in decisions
on aspects of the project. During the inception of the project, there was little participatory culture among
the lower ranks of the education system, or in the general public. Decisions were exclusively top-down, as
it was seen that all decision authority affecting major investments in infrastructure rested entirely with the
most senior MoER management. Circumstances have changed dramatically since then with the
decentralization of education administration to the local authorities.

During the early project stages, CPMU carried out project coordination activities throughout the country
with virtually no assistance from other MoER units, until such time (year 3) as the project was able to
develop institutional capacity (through training and involvement in ongoing rehabilitation) in the counties to
help administer the project. It would not have been possible to address this earlier, as the public sector
human resource base in the counties was not geared to run the magnitude and type of operations supported
by the project. The implementing agency has made big steps in building implementation capacity such that
the execution of rehabilitation contracts has become an effective decentralized activity. MoER maintains
key oversight over school design standards and fiduciary processes affecting major investments in school
rehabilitation, although the selection of schools and the nature of interventions in them is now primarily the
decision responsibility of the local authorities.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$130.0 million equivalent, including physical and
price contingencies of US$ 23.5 million aggregate. Out of the total project cost, US$126.4 million
aggregate was allocated for the rehabilitation and furnishing of about 900 pre-university schools. The
balance of the resources (US$3.4 million) was earmarked for the capacity building elements of the project,
including support for project administration. Financing of the total cost was shared between a Bank loan of
US$70.0 million, CEB cofinancing of US$13.8 million towards civil works expenditures, and the
Romanian contribution covering the balance of US$46.2 million equivalent which included local taxes
estimated at US$23.4 million, and financing of incremental recurrent costs US$4.4 million generated by the



                                                     - 10 -

investments in works during the five year implementation period.

During negotiations, the Government delegation expressed concern about the inflationary fiscal
environment in Romania at the time. The delegation worried that the total resources which were made
available for the project may be insufficient to rehabilitate the 1,200 schools identified in the supporting
Staff Appraisal Report under consideration. On the Government request, the Bank agreed during
negotiations to reduce the target schools from 1,200 to about 900 schools without changing the financing
plan. This change was reflected in the final loan documents approved by the Board, the Government, and
CEB. Keenly aware of the expected resource limitations, MoER developed very stringent building
standards for rehabilitating and upgrading the schools, always taking into account that minimum standards
of space and facilities must be appropriately suited to help achieve the Education Reform objectives. The
aggregate average cost of rehabilitating the school buildings came to about US$153 per square meter. The
unit prices ranged between US$140 for strengthening interventions to US$250 for new buildings.
Compared to an average cost of US$300 per square meter currently used for calculating the cost of new
buildings in Romania, the unit cost achieved in the project is very good. By the approach of the original
closing date, contracts for the rehabilitation and furnishing of the 900 schools and the related technical
assistance had been awarded. It was then determined that completion of the original appraisal target of
1,200 schools with the provided resources had been reasonably accurate. The Government requested and
obtained Bank approval to increase the total number of schools supported by the project to 1,200 and
reallocate uncommitted loan funds accordingly. The Loan Closing date was extended by one year to
January 31, 2004 to complete all project investments. CEB also concurred with these amendments.

At the final Closing Date, 1,206 schools were fully rehabilitated and furnished. Project interventions
covered a total area of 759,327 sq.m. (429,599 sq.m in rural areas and 329,729 sq.m. in urban areas); out
of the total area, 58% was subject to strengthening and refunctioning interventions, about 7%
strengthening, refunctioning and extensions, and 35% represents new buildings. The final total project cost
(see details in Annex 2) amounted to US$129.97 million equivalent. The entire Bank loan of US$70.0
million equivalent, as well as the CEB funds, were fully disbursed.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as likely. The project has attained major sustainable benefits. The knowledge,
experience, methods, school standards and technical expertise which were developed and tested under the
School Rehabilitation Project, are now an accepted and integral part of the operations of MoER and the
local authorities, and are being effectively used in new education investment operations.

A second factor that would influence the long-term sustainability of the project investments is outside the
Project's, but within the Government control. In 2000, in line with its fiscal decentralization and local
government reform program, the Government transferred the legal responsibility for the administration and
financing of pre-university education from MoER to the local administrations, but the decentralization was
not then adequately supported by financing, leaving the sustainability of the project investments at some
risk. Local annual budgets are scarce with low funds available for school maintenance. However, during
field visits the Bank team learned that local authorities care about their new investments and are allocating
funds with priority for maintenance.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The upcoming PAL includes a requirement on Government decision for capital investments. It is expected
that external funds would continue to represent the major source of financing investments in the near
future, given the low financial capability of local authorities.



                                                      - 11 -

Discussions of various aspects relevant to the sustainability of the project had been taken up with MoER
and the local authorities from the time the first rehabilitated schools became operational in 2000. The
arrangements provided for the adequacy of school maintenance budgets, expanded training for school staff
in other localities on the maintenance culture, and supplemented by the dissemination by MoER of a
simplified, user- friendly maintenance brochure to local education authorities. MoER is in the process of
drafting a Sustainability Action Plan which is expected to be completed before July 31, 2004. A draft
School Maintenance Manual was circulated widely by MoER among constituents, local authorities and
beneficiaries for comments and is now available in a final version. A simplified brochure on school
maintenance was also prepared and distributed for use at school level. The experience, methods, school
design standards and technical expertise developed and promoted under the project are now an accepted and
integral part of MoER and the county education offices' operations, and are being effectively used in new
education investments. The prospects are that these institutional arrangements would remain in place for
the future.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance has been satisfactory. The operation was processed expeditiously with valuable
contributions and strong support by Country and Sector management, and peer reviewers to the Bank
project team. The Bank was requested by the Government to consider financing the project in August
1995, at the time when Romania was in the midst of harsh economic realities. Romania's Education
Reform Program was also just getting off the ground. The Bank extended considerable support and
technical assistance to MoER during project preparation by providing technical expertise and guidance on
cost-effective and pedagogically sound school rehabilitation principles and techniques. The Bank assessed
Romania's civil engineering sector to make sure that it had the technical standards, regulations and
capacity needed for the project. Environmental aspects received attention, particularly those which dealt
with the removal and disposal of asbestos materials in the school buildings. In addition, the Bank
facilitated a PHRD Grant (for US$136,000) to support project preparation enabling MoER to recruit a
competent project team which evolved into the CPMU. Activities under the PHRD Grant included school
mapping exercises, defining the scope and appropriate standards for school rehabilitation and allocating
limited resources for such purposes in the most cost effective manner, analyzing school data and preparing
school maps for two counties (Tulcea and Vaslui), selection of facilities, workshops to transfer relevant
skills to the MoER staff at central and local level. The Bank appraised the project in March 1997 after
extensive consultations and agreement with MoER on the project design, and, in the process, building the
capacity of MoER to carry out a successful operation. The Bank also assisted the Government obtain
donor support which brought in supplementary financing by CEB for the project.

During negotiations, the Bank positively responded to the concerns raised by the Government delegation,
that, in view of the prevailing inflationary environment and Romania's budgetary constraints, the funds the
Bank agreed to provide for the project may be insufficient to rehabilitate the 1,200 schools initially
identified. The Bank agreed to reduce the target to 900 schools as was finally reflected in the loan
approved by the Board in July 1997 and by CEB shortly thereafter.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision of the project is deemed highly satisfactory, due to several key factors. The staff
continuity has been remarkable with three main mission members remaining the same since the project
origination. The skill mix was appropriate comprising the Task Team Leader (an architect, implementation
and procurement specialist), an Education/Operations Officer, an Operations Analyst, and subsequently


                                                     - 12 -

joined by a Financial Management Specialist. With the exception of the TTL, the entire task team was
based in Romania. Actually, during the last year of implementation, the task leadership was taken over by
a staff from the local office. The decentralization of education supervision staff to the country office
considerably reduced the supervision budget (from US$100,000 in FY 2000 when start up difficulties
required intensive HQ staff supervision to US$ 59,949 in FY 2004). The country office was intensely
involved in the project. Successive resident country managers were highly involved in mission debriefings
and problem solving, assigning importance to portfolio reviews and the education sector. The participation
of staff from the field in the team allowed for frequent consultations, timely response to sometimes daily
questions and finally contributed to building a relationship based on trust and respect. Thus, overall, the
relations with the Borrower and diverse stakeholders were exemplary, aided in great measure by staff
continuity which helped relations with the Borrower, particularly in the light of frequent changes of
Ministers and senior officials.

The Bank also expeditiously took action on requests to reallocate loan funds and amend the project scope.
By the approach of the original closing date, the original 900 schools had been substantially completed.
The Government obtained Bank approval to increase the total number of schools supported by the project
to 1,200 and reallocate uncommitted loan funds accordingly, and to extend the Loan Closing date by one
year to January 31, 2004 to complete all project investments.

The supervision missions and TORs were well prepared, aide-memoires were comprehensive, focused on
key issues and offered solutions, and significant use was made of follow-up letters which forcefully
addressed important issues. The Bank team conducted extensive field visits throughout the country, spot
checking on the quality of works and services delivered and on beneficiary satisfaction. Appropriate
solutions were found to resolve the issue of rehabilitating damaged school buildings that were classified as
important historical and/or cultural monuments, which required substantial funds for conservation works
that were beyond the scope of the project. The few instances in which property rights issues were identified
were quickly resolved with the local authorities. With respect to institutional capacity building, the Bank
team took opportunity of every supervision mission, as well as extensive communications and
correspondence to train the CPMU on Bank requisites, procurement processes, records keeping, financial
management and other fiduciary functions. The Bank team provided considerable guidance to the
implementing agency on the elaboration of appropriate school design standards, as well as efficient
methods of managing a large infrastructure program. The Bank took expeditious action on implementation
issues and problems, and promptly acted on requests for clearance of project-related transactions. The
project was given by QAG an overall rating of "1" (Highly Satisfactory) in the Quality of Supervision
Assessment (QSA5) in October 2002.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. The Bank conducted all stages of the lending operation
efficiently and processed the Government requests for approval of project-related transactions as
expeditiously as the Government was able to meet the requisites for Bank action. The Bank dialogue with
the Government and its implementing agency was open, cordial and productive throughout. Staff in the
Romania office provided timely, first hand support. Country and Sector management were kept current of
issues and the status of the operation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project ownership had rested with MoER from the origination, and overall, the Borrower's performance in
preparation was satisfactory considering the initial constraints. In August 1995, Romania was in the midst
of harsh economic realities, and its Education Reform Program was barely a year on track. The MoER and



                                                     - 13 -

its constituencies had low institutional capacity and very limited experience in managing substantial
investment in infrastructure. Decisions were exclusively top-down, there was little participatory culture
among the lower ranks of the education system, or in the general public.

The original proposal for a school rehabilitation project was a list of 1,500 damaged schools prepared by
MoER's small Directorate of Technical Investments supported by engineering surveys prepared in
collaboration with the Ministry of Works and Territorial Planning. The orientation, background and
experience of the Government's initial team were geared only to general works for the public sector, with
almost no consideration given as to whether the buildings were suitable as education facilities for a reform
oriented sector. The project was instrumental in bringing a fresh perspective on how and where to invest
scant resources in educational infrastructure. It gave MoER the opportunity to recruit and mobilize a
competent preparation team (which became the CPMU) that elaborated a feasible project rationale content,
and objectives. This preparation team involved the original parties, as well as local authorities, but not
without considerable effort and time for consensus building. It took almost two more years of project
preparation by the Borrower, before the Bank considered the project ready for appraisal in March 1997.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Various Government entities, aside from MoER were involved in project implementation. Government
implementation performance overall was satisfactory. The Ministry of Public Finance (MoPF) in
particular was strongly supportive of the project, its senior staff participated in all Bank review missions.
MoPF facilitated counterpart funds for the project in an environment of tight budgetary constraints and
competing needs for resources in the public sector, and took expedient action on funding issues and
amendments to the Loan Agreement. The Local Administrations were strongly supportive of the project,
the local representatives of the Ministry of Works and Finance were actively involved in helping ensure the
quality of completed rehabilitation works, as well as monitoring contractor performance. The Court of
Accounts' mandate covered the audit and clearance of all financial transactions and contracts, and pursued
a generally even-handed and pragmatic approach in attending to project-related business requiring their
action.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency (MoER, its CPMU and the decentralized project
implementation units (DPIU) in most counties) was highly satisfactory overall. Staff continuity has also
been a major factor in the implementing agency's good performance. The CPMU was reconstituted in the
second year of the project (1998), but its key staff (Project Director, Procurement Officer, Project
Accountant, Administrative Officer and Chief Engineer) have remained in place since then. However, there
were several changes in other staff levels, and more frequently, in the staffing of the DPIUs. The CPMU
was a quick learner, executed its functions and responsibilities in an exemplary manner, quickly recovering
operational momentum from the one year delay in project start-up. Decisions on the conduct of operations
had been centralized in the CPMU until the third project year when sufficient institutional capacity was
developed (through training and experience) in the counties and localities. The preparation of bids, opening
of tenders, and the supervision of rehabilitation contracts was decentralized to the DPIUs, as envisioned in
the project design. The CPMU carried out its coordination responsibilities effectively and kept frequent
dialogue and consultations with local authorities, school directors and other stakeholders. The selection of
schools and determination of the nature and scope of interventions in rehabilitating them is now a key
decision input of the local education authorities and no longer the exclusive domain of the central unit.
CPMU maintains tight control of fiduciary processes affecting project investments in school rehabilitation
(clearance of all bidding packages, contract approval and payments) and is the final arbiter over contractor
and supplier performance and the quality of completed works and services. The control function required
extensive travel by the CPMU director and staff throughout the country, and high involvement in difficult



                                                     - 14 -

discussions and negotiations with local authorities to secure co-financing agreements. The CPMU also
keeps oversight over the application of school design standards and capacity building activities supported
by the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is satisfactory. The project has received strong support from
stakeholders representing a broad spectrum of society, which generally expressed overall satisfaction with
the completed schools and its benefits to the community.


8. Lessons Learned

1.       Independent education infrastructure projects make sense in countries that are not small, and have
other ongoing education reform projects. Implementation experience and the project development outcomes
support the initial decision to consider the project as an education sector operation, rather than a simple
infrastructure intervention. As a result, decisions about the nature and scope of the project interventions
were grounded firmly within the context of an Education Reform agenda. The close linkages and
consultations between architects/engineers and education specialists ensured the pedagogical suitability of
the rehabilitated facilities. The project has influenced a profound and forward-looking change in the way
Romania invests in and manages its educational infrastructure program. In a country with high technical
expertise, the focus was not on supporting the infrastructure sector, but on ensuring the adequacy of
infrastructure to the educational needs.

The project experience shows that there may be good reason for more Bank support for large stand-alone
operations focused on rehabilitating/constructing educational facilities, provided these operations are
strongly linked to a country's education quality improvement policy and development agenda. As the
project appears to demonstrate, bricks and mortar investments can be efficiently implemented by a
specialized entity whose mandate is unencumbered by weighty educational quality, policy and capacity
building issues. Conversely, an implementing agency of an education project without an infrastructure
component would be able to focus its efforts and resources effectively on complex education content and
quality intervention. The experience under the Education Reform Project appears to bear this out too.
However, both such interventions need to be conceived as fully complementary.

2.       School building characteristics can foster or block education reform measures.

3.       Community participation in ECA middle-income countries has a different focus than in other
regions/countries  more on consultations, not on participation in works.

4.       Simultaneous investments and on-going works financed by other authorities tend to create
confusion. The differences between the approach used by the Bank and that of other parallel investments
need to be emphasized in careful communications with other authorities.

5.       The School Rehabilitation Project was among the first risk mitigation operations in the HD sector
and lessons can be extracted from the project design and its implementation. The project included
measures and investments that addressed the mitigation of the risk of physical injury (e.g. seismic measures
specified in the building rehabilitation standards, mitigation of health risk - through investments in utilities
such as water, school toilets and sanitation-, and mitigation of environmental risk - through measures
introduced for safe asbestos removal and disposal-).

6.       Historical cultural monuments have very high restoration costs due to specific interventions needed
for conservation. A timely decision was made to undertake such rehabilitations only under a co-financing
scheme, with the Bank financing only the strengthening costs while local authorities would finance the
restoration costs; otherwise the amounts incurred would have left the other schools under the project



                                                      - 15 -

without necessary funds.

7.       Countries in transition face property rights issues; claims on school buildings or land were
satisfactorily resolved by local authorities, but they represent sensitive issues and due attention needs to be
paid to relevant regulations and laws, often changing during the process.

8.        There were few instances in which Local Authorities or other parties committed to finance works
in addition to project interventions, but failed to do so in due time; therefore, attention should be paid in the
future to such arrangements in order to avoid delays in schools becoming fully operational, as planned.

9.       Due to the delay in project start-up, the preparation of a detailed economic analysis preceding any
proposed investment in school rehabilitation was over-ridden by the physical risk for many students and
teachers occupying very unsafe school buildings, and by the strong stakeholder demands to mitigate these
risks as soon as possible. Although highly analytical and logical, such analysis proved to be less suited to
realities; hence, the prioritization of schools was no longer applied. Instead, a decentralized project
implementation with parallel rehabilitation of a high number of schools in all counties made more sense.
Additional capacity, TA and training were needed, but, in time, this proved to be value added because of its
contribution to sustainability. In retrospect, the realistic and economic rehabilitation options adopted under
the project and the firm cost control confirmed this was a good option. The project was able to extend its
investment benefits to 31.5% more beneficiaries than had been initially targeted.

10.      In terms of quality of works and goods provided under the project, important lessons were learned
and are now applied under the follow-up projects. These include increased focus on: (i) architectural
designs and more precise specifications of materials and fittings to ensure they are appropriate and adapted
to education facilities; (ii) more involvement of the designers in the site supervision to ensure the quality of
construction and increase responsibility for the design choices.

11.      Sustained political commitment due to the general recognition of the emergency issues at the top is
essential in bringing an operation to successful conclusion notwithstanding a rough sailing. Despite
numerous changes in senior education management in Romania, the focus on attaining the project's
objectives was never lost, as successive Ministers gave the project their strong backing. Furthermore,
local/community involvement is significant in changing students' and parents' motivations, and in
improving the physical setting for learning through design modifications, thereby influencing educational
outcomes.

12.      The continuity of staff, combined with a strong presence of staff from the field and proactive
country managers, has led to very good borrower and stakeholder relationships. Participation is needed.
Even when not explicitly asked by Bank requirements, it was ensured.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Ministry of Public Finance, General Directorate for External Public Finance, received the ICR and
sent a response letter to the Bank on June 18, 2004 expressing agreement with the ICR content and
appreciation for the Bank team's good cooperation and professional support during project implementation.

The Ministry of Education and Research, the implementing agency, also reviewed the ICR and prepared the
Borrower's Evaluation Report; the MoPF endorsed this report and sent it to the Bank (please see attached
ICR Annex 9).

(b) Cofinanciers:
The Council of Europe Development Bank received the ICR and appreciated its comprehensiveness fully



                                                       - 16 -

accounting for a successful project implementation.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) team consisted of:

Mariana Doina Moarcas, Task Team Leader, ECSHD
Ana Maria Sandi, Romania Education Program Team Leader, ECSHD
Leonardo Concepcion, Architect Consultant
Raluca Mariana Banioti, Program Assistant, ECCRO
Jennifer Manghinang, Program Assistant , ECSHD




                                                  - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) Number of damaged schools replaced        435                                   435
and furnished.
(b) Number of damaged schools rehabilitated 771                                     771
and furnished.
(a) Number of damaged schools with more       130                                   274 (81 converted from 3 shifts to 1 shift,
than the regular 2 shifts converted to 1 or 2                                       and 193 converted from 2 shifts to 1 shift)
shift schools after rehabilitation and
expansion of facilities.
(b) Number of students originally enrolled in 10,000                                39,176 (out of which 22,736 moved from 3
the 3rd or later shifts in damaged schools,                                         shifts to 1 shift and 16,440 moved from 2
accommodated in regular (1st or 2nd) shifts                                         shifts to 1 shift).
after school rehabilitation/expansion
completed.
(a) MOE Staff trained in school mapping       200
preparation and analysis, other specialized                                         School mapping - 90 staff at county school
training:                                                                           inspectorate level and PMU specialists;
                                                                                    Procurement/project management/ financial
                                                                                    management - 40 staff including PMU, area
                                                                                    managers district project coordinators, other
                                                                                    MoER staff; Works supervision - 84 DPIU
                                                                                    staff; Management/Procurement/financial
                                                                                    and technical issues - 50 county project
                                                                                    coordinators, area managers; School
                                                                                    maintenance - 31 county council
                                                                                    representatives.

(b) Staff of Education District Inspectorate  82                                    82
Staff (42 counties) trained in School
Maintenance Management:
Number of pre-university students at risk of  260,000                               262,719
bodily injury occupying badly
deteriorated/damaged schools subsequently
accommodated in educational facilities
rehabilitated to safety standards and with
appropriate learning environment


Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Total number of most seriously damaged        initially 900, currently 1206         1,206 rehabilitated and furnished schools
preuniversity schools completely rehabilitated
and furnished.




1End of project




                                                                  - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



                Component                           Appraisal            Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                     Estimate             Estimate             Appraisal
                                                   US$ million            US$ million
A. School Rehabilitation                              103.3                 127.7               123.62%
B. Institutional Capacity Improvement
   1. School Planning and Maintenance                    0.3                  0.01                3.33%
   2. Project Administration                             3.0                  2.26               75.33%
Total Baseline Cost                                   106.5                129.97
  Physical Contingencies                                14.7                  0.00
  Price Contingencies                                    8.8                  0.00
                     Total Project Costs              130.0                129.97                99.99%
             Total Financing Required                 130.0                129.97
Note: Detailed amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.



Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                             Procurement Method
                               International      National      Other     Consulting N.B.F. a/        Total
                               Competitive Competitive                      Services
                                  Bidding          Bidding
A. Building Rehabilitation          16.5            87.5          5.0           -            -        109.0
                                    (8.7)          (46.2) b/     (2.6) c/                             (57.6)
B. School Furniture                    -             3.5          1.5           -            -          5.0
                                                   (2.9) b/      (1.2) d/                              (4.1)
C. Equipment, Vehicles                 -              -           0.5           -            -          0.5
and Materials                                                    (0.4) e/                              (0.4)
D.                                     -              -            -           8.1           -          8.1
Architectural/Engineering                                                     (6.3) f/                 (6.3)
Services
E. Consultant Services                 -              -            -           2.0           -          2.0
and Training                                                                 (1.6) g/                  (1.6)
F. CPCU and DPIU                       -              -            -            -         1.0 h/        1.0
Operational Costs
G. Building Operation                  -              -            -            -         4.4 h/        4.4
and Maintenance Costs
TOTAL                               16.5            91.0          7.0          10.1        5.4        130.0
                                    (8.7)          (49.1)        (4.2)        (7.9)          -        (70.0)

Note:   Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the World Bank.
        Detailed amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.

a/      Non-Bank Financed.
b/      Bids invited nationally in accordance with procedures agreed with the Bank and using the Bank's regional



                                                       - 19 -

       bidding document for NCB.
c/     Procedures for procurement of small works for works contracts less than US$70.000.
d/     National Shopping for furniture contracts less than US$30,000 per contract.
e/     Includes International Shopping (US$300,000 aggregate); National Shopping (US$100,000 aggregate);
and
       Direct Contracting for software/proprietary items (US$100,000 aggregate).
f/     Quality and Cost Based Competition in accordance with the Bank's Consultant Guidelines.
g/     Includes competitive selection under fixed budget for specialists to benefit CPCU and DPIU, and auditing
       services (aggregate US$1.65 million); individual consultants selected on basis of qualifications (aggregate

       US$170,000); and single source contracting for training (aggregate US$230,000).
h/     Financed by the Government.

Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                           Procurement Method
                             International       National      Other        Consulting N.B.F. a/         Total
                             Competitive Competitive                         Services
                                Bidding          Bidding
A. Building                       57.31           58.33         0.61              -           -         116.25
Rehabilitation                  (29.19)          (29.72) b/    (0.31) c/                                (59.22)
B. School Furniture               1.56            3.24          0.53              -           -          5.33
                                 (1.15)          (2.28) b/     (0.53) d/                                 (3.96)
C. Equipment, Vehicles              -                -          0.47              -           -          0.47
and Materials                                                  (0.42) e/                                 (0.42)
D.                                  -                -            -            5.39           -          5.39
Architectural/Engineerin                                                       (5.12) f/                 (5.12)
g Services
E. Consultant Services              -                -            -            1.53           -          1.53
and Training                                                                  (1.28) g/                  (1.28)
F. CPCU and DPIU                    -                -            -               -        0.98 h/       0.98
Operational Costs
G. Building Operation               -                -            -               -        0.01 h/       0.01
and Maintenance Costs
TOTAL                             58.87           61.58         1.61           6.92         0.99        129.97
                                (30.34)          (32.00)       (1.26)          (6.40)                    (70.0)

Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the World Bank.
       Detailed amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.

a/     Non-Bank Financed.
b/     Bids invited nationally in accordance with procedures agreed with the Bank and using the Bank's regional

       bidding document for NCB.
c/     Procedures for procurement of small works for works contracts less than US$70.000.
d/     National Shopping for furniture contracts less than US$30,000 per contract.
e/     Includes International Shopping (US$300,000 aggregate); National Shopping (US$100,000 aggregate);
and
       Direct Contracting for software/proprietary items (US$100,000 aggregate).



                                                     - 20 -

   f/        Quality and Cost Based Competition in accordance with the Bank's Consultant Guidelines.
   g/        Includes competitive selection under fixed budget for specialists to benefit CPCU and DPIU, and auditing
             services (aggregate US$1.65 million); individual consultants selected on basis of qualifications (aggregate

             US$170,000); and single source contracting for training (aggregate US$230,000).
   h/        Financed by the Government.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank         Govt.       CoF.         Bank          Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.  CoF.
A. School Rehabilitation       67.90        44.60       13.80        68.60         45.30     13.80       101.0    101.6  100.0
B. Institutional Capacity       2.10        1.60         0.00        1.40          0.86       0.00        66.7    53.8    0.0
Improvement


Total                          70.00        46.20       13.80        70.00         46.16     13.80       100.0    99.9   100.0




                                                          - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

A detailed financial and economic analysis of the project was done at appraisal. Favorable comparisons of
costs and benefits between the appraisal expectations and the project outcome are shown below.



                                         Appraisal                        Actual at Completion


  No. of Schools Rehabilitated           900                              1,206
  Total Building Area
       Rehabilitated (square meters)     594,889 sq.m.                    759,327 sq.m.
  Total Students Benefited               200,000                                  262,719
  Average Rehabilitation Cost
       (per square meter)
       New Construction                  US$400                                   US$250
       Rehabilitation                    US$200                                   US$140
  Total Investment Cost
       per student                       US$650                                   US$ 449




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/15/1995                2    Identification mission:          S               S
                                             TTL/IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              03/15/1996                3    Preparation mission:             S               S
                                             TTL/IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1)
              08/15/1996                3    Preparation mission:             S               S
                                             TTL/IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1)
              12/15/1996                4    Preparation mission:             S               S
                                             TTL/IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/20/1997                4    Appraisal mission:               S               S
                                             TTL/IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              06/30/1997                6    Negotiations:                    S               S
                                             TTL/IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                             (1); LEGAL COUNSEL (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              10/20/1998                3    TTL/IMPLEM.SPECIALIST (1);       S               S
                                             PTL FOR EDUCATION (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1)
              02/05/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             EDUCATION PTL (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASST (1)
              04/06/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S



                                              - 23 -

                                                    EDUCATION PTL (1);
                                                    OPERATIONS ASST (1)
               06/10/1999                       4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                                    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                                    (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                                    (1); FINANACIAL
                                                    MANAGEMENT (1)
               02/15/2002                       5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.         HS    HS
                                                    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                    OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                    CONS ARCHITECT/IMPL SP
                                                    (1); FINANCIAL MANAGMT
                                                    SPCL (1)
               09/20/2002                       3   TTL, SR. IMPLEMENTATIO             S    HS
                                                    (1); PTL, SR. OPERATIONS OF
                                                    (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                                    (1)
               03/28/2003                       4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    HS
                                                    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                                    (1); SR. FIN.MANAGEMENT
                                                    SP. (1); ARCHITECT
                                                    CONSULTANT (1)
               10/24/2003                       5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    HS
                                                    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                                    (1); SR.PROCUREMENT
                                                    OFFICER (1); ARCHITECT
                                                    CONSULTANT (1); SR.
                                                    FIN.MNG SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
               05/2004                         4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    HS
                                                     PROGRAM TEAM
                                                     LEADER (1); ARCHITECT
                                                     CONSULTANT (1);
                                                     PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                                     (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                     296,112
  Supervision                                                               434,520
  ICR                                                                        33,000
  Total                                                                     763,632

Note: Number of staff weeks is not available




                                                     - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Monitoring Data Base (hard copy and on CD)

Manual for Maintenance and Monitoring of School Buildings (MoER, team coordinated by Prof. Nicolae
Postavaru, 2003)

School Maintenance Brochure (PMU, 2003)

Independent Evaluation of Schools To Be Rehabilitated Under the Rural Education Project (J.C.
Laederach, 2003)

Bi-annual PMU reports

Supervision packages

Annual Joint Projects Portfolio Review (JPPR) reports




                                                 - 27 -

        Additional Annex 8. Basic Monitoring Data




                                                                                                             Total                                                                                                                                                                                       Schools
                                                                      Changed                     Students                                               Kindergarten Schools for                                                                        Schools for                                                       for                                           High                         Vocational                                      Total Investment in
                                                                                  from          Benefitted of                                              Schools                                       Grades I-IV Grades I-VIII                                                                       Grades                                       schools *                                       schools ** District (US$'000) ***
                                                                                                 the change                                                                                                                                                                                              V-VIII


                                           Schools
                                                  of

                 urban/rural                        No.                                                                          Benefitted
   Districts

                            school                     Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Engineering                 planning
                                  of                                    shifts        shift        shifts          shift                                                        Benefitted                                      Benefitted                                      Benefitted                                    Benefitted                                      Benefitted                                     Benefitted
                                                                                                                                           Students        Schools                                         Schools                                        Schools                                         Schools                                       Schools                                         Schools

                                                                              2            1             2              1                                         of                                              of                                             of                                              of                                            of                                              of                                                                       and                      and

                                    Type                                       to           to                           to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Works
                                                                                 3            2           to
                                                                                                            3              2                       Total            No.                                             No.                                            No.                                             No.                                           No.                                             No.                                              Furniture
                                                            Aggregate                                                                                                                     Students                                        Students                                        Students                                      Students                                        Students                                       Students
                                                                                                                                                                       Total                                           Total                                          Total                                           Total                                         Total                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total                                           Total                                           Total                                         Total                                           Total                                          Total                                                                projection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Architectural

Alba         Urban                        3                            0             0            0               0           1,402                       0                   0                           0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         2                   608                         1                  794                         426       21           24


             Rural                        10                           0             0            0               0           1,742                       1                   32                          0                    0                         9                   1,710                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         812       495          46

Arges        Urban                        1                            0             0            0               0            173                        0                   0                           0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         0                     0                         1                  173                         143        1                                      5

             Rural                        15                           0             0            0               0           3,473                       0                   0                           4                   190                        10                  2,441                       0                   0                         1                   842                         0                    0                         1,049     61           43

Arad         Urban                        2                            0             0            0               0            428                        1                   152                         0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         0                     0                         1                  276                         238       13           21


             Rural                        12                           0             0            0               0           1,432                       2                   171                         5                   255                        5                   1,006                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         650       24           35


Bihor        Urban                        2                            0             0            0               0            585                        0                   0                           0                    0                         2                   585                         0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         386       19           16

             Rural                        19                           0             3            0              556          2,781                       0                   0                           7                   795                        12                  1,986                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         1,563     74           88

Bacau        Urban                        2                            0             0            0               0           1,554                       0                   0                           0                    0                         1                   1,026                       0                   0                         0                     0                         1                  528                         492        -           15

             Rural                        44                           0             0            0               0           6,489                       3                   266                        16                  1,935                       25                  4,288                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         2,900     139          141

Bistrita     Urban                        2                            0             0            0               0           1,760                       0                   0                           0                    0                         1                   1,458                       0                   0                         1                   302                         0                    0                         318       20           27
Nasaud
             Rural                        12                           0             0            0               0           1,643                       1                   49                          2                   178                        9                   1,416                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         909       43           33

Botosani     Urban                        1                            1             0           309              0            334                        0                   0                           0                    0                         1                   334                         0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         139        7                                      9

             Rural                        46                           4             42          685            3,020         4,430                       0                   0                          21                  1,129                       25                  3,301                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         2,537     124          105

Brasov       Urban                        6                            0             0            0               0           3,568                       0                   0                           0                    0                         4                   1,879                       0                   0                         2                   1,689                       0                    0                         2,465     60           72

             Rural                        11                           0             0            0               0           2,198                       0                   0                           2                   175                        9                   2,023                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         1,126     46           62

Braila       Urban                        2                            0             0            0               0            422                        0                   0                           0                    0                         1                   260                         0                   0                         1                   162                         0                    0                         325       26           19

             Rural                        18                           0             0            0               0           3,168                       0                   0                           3                   495                        14                  2,586                       0                   0                         1                    87                         0                    0                         1,551     67           51

Bucuresti    Urban                        20                           0             0            0               0           18,129                      1                   238                         0                    0                         10                  8,406                       0                   0                         6                   6,656                       3                  2,829                       4,743     185          311


             Rural                        0                            0             0            0               0             0                         0                   0                           0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                           -        -                                      -

Buzau        Urban                        6                            1             0           358              0           4,941                       0                   0                           0                    0                         2                   688                         0                   0                         3                   3,469                       1                  784                         2,143     78           106

             Rural                        38                           0             1            0               48          6,371                       2                   130                         5                   264                        30                  5,589                       0                   0                         1                   388                         0                    0                         3,878     126          161


Calarasi     Urban                        3                            0             0            0               0           1,592                       0                   0                           0                    0                         2                   547                         0                   0                         1                   1,045                       0                    0                         463       44           28

             Rural                        14                           0             0            0               0           2,868                       1                   227                         1                   86                         12                  2,555                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         797       58           55




                                                                                                                                                                                                        - 28 -

                                                                                                               Total                                                                                                                                                                                       Schools
                                                                       Changed                      Students                                               Kindergarten Schools for                                                                        Schools for                                                       for                                           High                         Vocational                                      Total Investment in
                                                                                   from          Benefitted of                                               Schools                                       Grades I-IV Grades I-VIII                                                                       Grades                                       schools *                                       schools ** District (US$'000) ***
                                                                                                  the change                                                                                                                                                                                               V-VIII


                                            Schools
                                                   of

                  urban/rural                        No.                                                                           Benefitted
   Districts

                             school                     Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Engineering                 planning
                                   of                                    shifts        shift         shifts          shift                                                        Benefitted                                      Benefitted                                      Benefitted                                    Benefitted                                      Benefitted                                     Benefitted
                                                                                                                                             Students        Schools                                         Schools                                        Schools                                         Schools                                       Schools                                         Schools

                                                                               2            1              2              1                                         of                                              of                                             of                                              of                                            of                                              of                                                                       and                      and

                                     Type                                       to           to                            to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Works
                                                                                  3            2            to
                                                                                                              3              2                       Total            No.                                             No.                                            No.                                             No.                                           No.                                             No.                                              Furniture
                                                             Aggregate                                                                                                                      Students                                        Students                                        Students                                      Students                                        Students                                       Students
                                                                                                                                                                         Total                                           Total                                          Total                                           Total                                         Total                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total                                           Total                                           Total                                         Total                                           Total                                          Total                                                                projection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Architectural

Cluj         Urban                         6                            0             0             0               0           2,054                       0                   0                           0                    0                         4                   745                         0                   0                         2                   1,309                       0                    0                         693       32           44

             Rural                         11                           0             0             0               0           1,708                       0                   0                           1                   63                         10                  1,645                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         958       38           59

Covasna       Urban                        2                            0             0             0               0            731                        0                   0                           0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         1                   515                         1                  216                         270       14           12

             Rural                         9                            0             0             0               0           1,251                       0                   0                           3                   321                        6                   930                         0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         962       42           50

Caras Severin Urban                        1                            0             0             0               0            632                        0                   0                           0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         1                   632                         0                    0                         369        9           12

             Rural                         8                            0             0             0               0           1,166                       0                   0                           1                   103                        7                   1,063                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         520       45           27

Constanta    Urban                         7                            0             0             0               0           3,413                       2                   421                         0                    0                         3                   1,966                       0                   0                         1                   217                         1                  809                         1,222     54           74


             Rural                         38                           0             0             0               0           6,540                       6                   565                        13                   454                        19                  5,521                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         2,155     113          189


Dambovita    Urban                         5                            0             0             0               0           2,656                       1                   32                          0                    0                         2                   1,390                       0                   0                         1                   286                         1                  948                         768       44           43


             Rural                         32                           0             0             0               0           5,531                       0                   0                          10                   865                        20                  4,228                       2                  438                        0                     0                         0                    0                         2,356     130          91

Dolj         Urban                         14                           0             0             0               0           10,141                      1                   66                          0                    0                         10                  5,405                       0                   0                         1                   2,822                       2                  1,848                       2,714     148          121

             Rural                         47                           1             6           117             1,126         5,183                       1                   68                         28                  2,128                       16                  2,307                       0                   0                         1                   368                         1                  312                         2,641     45           108


Gorj         Urban                         2                            0             0             0               0           3,266                       0                   0                           0                    0                         1                   1,955                       0                   0                         1                   1,311                       0                    0                         202       41                                      5

             Rural                         6                            0             2             0              228           869                        0                   0                           2                   148                        4                   721                         0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         350       26           33

Galati       Urban                         7                            0             0             0               0           3,786                       1                   134                         0                    0                         2                   837                         0                   0                         3                   1,657                       1                  1,158                       1,330     20           55


             Rural                         27                           0             0             0               0           5,537                       0                   0                           6                   742                        20                  4,331                       0                   0                         1                   464                         0                    0                         2,094     107          86

Giurgiu      Urban                         0                            0             0             0               0             0                         0                   0                           0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                           -        -                                      -

             Rural                         13                           0             0             0               0           2,798                       0                   0                           3                   513                        9                   2,187                       1                   98                        0                     0                         0                    0                         1,384     54           43


Hunedoara    Urban                         2                            0             0             0               0           2,186                       0                   0                           0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         1                   582                         1                  1,604                       276       38           29

             Rural                         5                            0             0             0               0            263                        0                   0                           2                   49                         3                   214                         0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         258       11           13

Harghita     Urban                         7                            0             0             0               0           3,886                       0                   0                           0                    0                         2                   634                         0                   0                         3                   2,173                       2                  1,079                       2,043     26           48

             Rural                         10                           1             0           160               0           1,965                       0                   0                           1                   302                        8                   1,568                       0                   0                         1                    95                         0                    0                         1,016     52           45

Ilfov        Urban                         0                            0             0             0               0             0                         0                   0                           0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                           -        -                                      -

             Rural                         14                           0             0             0               0           2,933                       5                   315                         0                    0                         9                   2,618                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         998       41           59

Ialomita     Urban                         3                            0             0             0               0           2,152                       0                   0                           0                    0                         2                   343                         0                   0                         1                   1,809                       0                    0                         443       27           20

             Rural                         30                           0             0             0               0           5,053                       2                   173                         4                   413                        24                  4,467                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         1,995     115          91

Iasi         Urban                         6                            0             0             0               0           3,230                       0                   0                           0                    0                         2                   752                         0                   0                         3                   1,895                       1                  583                         1,033     29           33

             Rural                         26                           3             1           2,116            102          6,966                       0                   0                           4                   675                        20                  4,722                       0                   0                         2                   1,569                       0                    0                         2,551     78           106

Maramures    Urban                         1                            0             1             0              850           918                        0                   0                           0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         1                   918                         0                    0                          71        9                                      6

             Rural                         14                           5             9           1,460           1,126         2,793                       0                   0                           3                   157                        11                  2,636                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         1,298     59           53

Mehedinti    Urban                         2                            2             0           1,469             0           1,587                       0                   0                           0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         2                   1,587                       0                    0                         464        7           12

             Rural                         22                           2             0           642               0           3,356                       0                   0                           9                   993                        12                  1,901                       1                  462                        0                     0                         0                    0                         1,612     89           74

Mures        Urban                         2                            0             0             0               0            831                        0                   0                           0                    0                         1                   421                         0                   0                         1                   410                         0                    0                         275       25           15


             Rural                         8                            0             0             0               0           1,341                       0                   0                           0                    0                         8                   1,341                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         890       38           32




                                                                                                                                                                                                          - 29 -

                                                                                                                Total                                                                                                                                                                                       Schools
                                                                       Changed                       Students                                               Kindergarten Schools for                                                                        Schools for                                                       for                                           High                         Vocational                                      Total Investment in
                                                                                   from           Benefitted of                                               Schools                                       Grades I-IV Grades I-VIII                                                                       Grades                                       schools *                                       schools ** District (US$'000) ***
                                                                                                   the change                                                                                                                                                                                               V-VIII


                                            Schools
                                                   of

                 urban/rural                         No.                                                                            Benefitted
   Districts

                            school                      Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Engineering                 planning
                                  of                                     shifts         shift         shifts          shift                                                        Benefitted                                      Benefitted                                      Benefitted                                    Benefitted                                      Benefitted                                     Benefitted
                                                                                                                                              Students        Schools                                         Schools                                        Schools                                         Schools                                       Schools                                         Schools

                                                                               2             1              2              1                                         of                                              of                                             of                                              of                                            of                                              of                                                                        and                      and

                                    Type                                        to            to                            to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Works
                                                                                  3             2            to
                                                                                                               3              2                       Total            No.                                             No.                                            No.                                             No.                                           No.                                             No.                                              Furniture
                                                             Aggregate                                                                                                                       Students                                        Students                                        Students                                      Students                                        Students                                       Students
                                                                                                                                                                          Total                                           Total                                          Total                                           Total                                         Total                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total                                           Total                                           Total                                         Total                                           Total                                          Total                                                                 projection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Architectural

Neamt        Urban                         3                            0              2             0              399          1,009                       0                    0                          0                    0                         3                   1,009                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                          469      16            17

             Rural                        24                            0              7             0             1,226         4,592                       0                    0                          2                   204                        21                  3,917                       0                   0                         0                     0                         1                  471                         1,910     101          100

Olt          Urban                         3                            0              0             0               0           1,348                       0                    0                          0                    0                         2                   1,089                       0                   0                         1                   259                         0                    0                          540      28            20

             Rural                         9                            0              0             0               0           1,385                       0                    0                          1                   173                        8                   1,212                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                          944      34            33

Prahova      Urban                        11                            0              0             0               0           6,909                       1                   66                          0                    0                         7                   2,421                       0                   0                         3                   4,422                       0                    0                         3,466     84           124


             Rural                        49                            0              0             0               0           6,213                       7                   291                        21                  1,226                       20                  4,078                       0                   0                         0                     0                         1                  618                         2,698     130          227


Sibiu        Urban                         0                            0              0             0               0             0                         0                    0                          0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                           -        -                                       -

             Rural                         8                            0              0             0               0           1,515                       0                    0                          3                   520                        5                   995                         0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                          893      37            41

Salaj        Urban                         0                            0              0             0               0             0                         0                    0                          0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                           -        -                                       -

             Rural                        21                            0              0             0               0           2,142                       2                   92                          8                   573                        9                   1,045                       0                   0                         0                     0                         2                  432                         1,145     61            52

Satu Mare    Urban                         4                            0              0             0               0           2,636                       0                    0                          0                    0                         2                   330                         0                   0                         1                   1,146                       1                  1,160                        664      36            36

             Rural                        17                            0              0             0               0           3,296                       0                    0                          4                   571                        12                  2,593                       1                  132                        0                     0                         0                    0                         1,701     79            90

Suceava      Urban                         2                            0              0             0               0           1,149                       0                    0                          0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         2                   1,149                       0                    0                          772      14            32

             Rural                        23                            0              0             0               0           4,515                       0                    0                          5                   564                        18                  3,951                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         1,664     98            98

Tulcea       Urban                         5                            2              0           1,627             0           2,605                       1                   170                         0                    0                         2                   1,757                       0                   0                         2                   678                         0                    0                          972      41            37

             Rural                        28                            0              0             0               0           3,352                       1                   150                         7                   544                        20                  2,658                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         2,231     83           150

Timis        Urban                        10                            0              0             0               0           6,950                       2                   284                         0                    0                         3                   1,173                       0                   0                         3                   4,813                       2                  680                         2,228     120          106

             Rural                        32                            0              0             0               0           3,468                       3                   167                        13                   712                        16                  2,589                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         1,857     101           69

Teleorman    Urban                         2                            0              0             0               0            880                        0                    0                          0                    0                         1                   270                         0                   0                         1                   610                         0                    0                          198      16            15

             Rural                        39                            0              0             0               0           4,544                       4                   270                        10                   753                        25                  3,521                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         2,618     139          106


Valcea       Urban                         0                            0              0             0               0             0                         0                    0                          0                    0                         0                     0                         0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                           -        -                                       -

             Rural                        12                            0              1             0              207          1,649                       0                    0                          4                   590                        8                   1,059                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                          865      35            35

Vaslui       Urban                        12                            8              4           4,684            558          5,661                       1                   106                         0                    0                         8                   3,741                       0                   0                         1                   194                         2                  1,620                       2,817     101           87

             Rural                        195                          51             114          9,109           6,994         22,070                      1                   54                         107                 8,370                       85                 13,186                       0                   0                         0                     0                         2                  460                         15,983    496          572


Vrancea      Urban                         6                            0              0             0               0           3,575                       1                   216                         1                   162                        0                     0                         0                   0                         3                   2,743                       1                  454                         1,741     70           101

             Rural                        15                            0              0             0               0           3,051                       0                    0                          3                   476                        12                  2,575                       0                   0                         0                     0                         0                    0                         1,611     74            76



 TOTAL PER
  COUNTRY                                1,206 81                                    193          22,736 16,440 262,719 55                                                      4,905                       345 28,866 706 156,101 5 1,130 64 51,881 31 19,836 116,250 5,330 5,391


Grand Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   126,971



          *  Include High schools with I-XII grades and/or grades IX-XII
         **  Include grades V-VIII and/or grades IX-XII
       *** Total investment does not include operational and other costs.




                                                                                                                                                                                                           - 30 -

Additional Annex 9. Photos of Schools Before and After Project Interventions

Bacau, School grades I-VIII no. 29

before...




...after




Bistrita, Art High School "Corneliu Baba"

before..




                                         - 31 -

...after




Dobrin, School grades I-IV and Kindergarten

before...




...after




                                         - 32 -

Additional Annex 10. Evaluation Report of the Borrower




                           Ministry of Education and Research




                          School Rehabilitation Project P044614
                                  Loan 4213-RO IBRD
                                     Loan 1257 CEB




                              Final Evaluation Project Report
                                        June, 2004




                                         - 33 -

                                        Table of Contents

 1. Assessment of Project Objectives - Project Data                                    35
1.1. Project Background                                                                35
1.2 Project Rationale                                                                  35
1.3 Project Description                                                                37
1.4. Risks of the Project                                                              38
1.5. MER's capacity to implement the Project                                           38
  1.5.1 Managerial capacity.                                                           38
  1.5.2 Procurement Processes Management.                                              39
  1.5.3 Financial Management                                                           40
  1.5.4 Technical Management                                                           40
1.6 Project Chart  central, regional and district staff                               41
 2. Achievement of Development Objective and Outputs                                   43
 3. Overall Sustainability of Project                                                  45
 4. Evaluation of the performance of the World Bank and other partners                 45
4.1 A day-by-day implementation support                                                46
4.2 Periodical supervision missions                                                    46
 5. Lessons Learned                                                                    47
5.1. Correctness of the project goals                                                  47
5.2. The need of continuity                                                            47
5.3. Communication strategy                                                            47
5.4. Motivation of local experts and Consultants                                       47
5.5. Specific Lessons.                                                                 48
  5.5.1.Project Management                                                             48
  5.5.2 Procurement Management                                                         52
  5.5.3. Financial Management                                                          53
  5.5.4. Technical Management                                                          57
5.6 Other Achievements                                                                 59
5.7 Conclusions                                                                        59
 Annex I. Procurement Plan  Proposed versus Achieved                                  61
 Annex II. Financial Information                                                       63
Table II.1.Project Costs by Financiers and categories (US$ million equivalent)         63
Table II.2. Appraisal Estimate versus Actual Project spending                          63
Table II.3. IBRD funds - Disbursement History                                          64
Table II.4. CEB funds - Disbursement History                                           64
 Annex III.Technical Information                                                       65
Table III.1. Number of rehabilitated school units per implementation stage, Urban
and Rural                                                                              65
Table III.2. Rehabilitation Solutions                                                  67
Table III.3. Beneficiaries, before and after rehabilitation in rural and urban areas   69




                                              - 34 -

1. Assessment of Project Objectives - Project Data

1.1. Project Background

Long term sustained economic growth requires tight monetary and fiscal policies and a stepped up pace of
structural reforms. Equally vital for sustained economic growth and the alleviation of poverty is the
development of a human capital base adapted to the emerging labor market needs of a competitive market
economy. Both for efficiency and equity reasons, an acceleration of on-going reforms of Romania's public
education system were necessary, as the system is an important provider and financier of pre-university
education in the country.

As outlined in the Project's Staff Appraisal Report no.16555 dated July 29th, 1997, the Romanian
Government had launched since the early '90s the Reform of the Education Sector, its primary concern
being updating the curriculum, and improving the quality of management and staff.

As described and subtracted from the SAR, the project supported Romania's efforts to rehabilitate schools
up to the safety standards and pedagogic norms established by the Ministry of Education in accordance
with the Education Reform Project.

The objectives of the project were to:
1)       restore school buildings in imminent danger of collapse, and mitigate the educational disadvantages
to students occupying such schools; and
2)       improve the Ministry of Education's institutional capacity at the national and district levels to plan,
develop, and maintain the public educational physical plant.

Complementary objectives to the Education Reform Project (aiming to improve the quality of basic
education through support for teacher training, curriculum development, performance assessment,
examinations, and textbooks; improvement of education finance and management), the school rehabilitation
project's two main components were further:

1)       rehabilitating, upgrading, and furnishing kindergarten, primary, and secondary schools in 42
districts, with the expected benefit of a reduced risk of physical harm to students, teachers, and staff
through reconstructing and improving unsafe buildings, as well as higher retention and better learning
outcomes through adequate school and learning environment (heat, sanitation, water, and light); and

2)       strengthening the sectorial capacity of the education ministry, at both the national and district
levels, to plan, implement, and manage the government's school investment and rehabilitation program; and
to manage and maintain the public educational physical plant.

1.2 Project Rationale

The mid '90s have found the school infrastructure system, largely left unattended, with low investment in
school infrastructure and limited funds for effective maintenance of school buildings, in need of
improvement to ensure the safety of students and teachers, and to support the pedagogic changes envisaged
by the education reform program.

Nearly 900 severely damaged and dilapidated school units, accommodating about 200,000 students were,
at the Project appraisal, daily exposed to physical risk. The school infrastructure has been, following a



                                                     - 35 -

close examination conducted by that time by the Ministry of Education and preparation of technical
surveys further validated by the Ministry of Public Works and Territorial Planning, found to be
inappropriate for the deployment of the teaching process due to the following reasons:

(a)      Inadequate space. Many facilities used as schools were not designed for educational use and do
not meet generally accepted norms for school facilities:
-        teaching spaces appropriate for the subjects taught;
-        optimum space utilization and unit areas per student place;
-        basic sanitation and comfort; and
-        safety (building fire protection/escapes, seismic reinforcement).

         Although the MER had established basic school facilities norms, their application to school
         buildings were limited by three key factors:
                  i) the chronic shortage of funds that has only permitted very basic repairs to school
infrastructure;
                  ii) the limited MER supervision of school rehabilitation efforts.

(b)      Insufficient Investments in School Infrastructure The rehabilitation and upgrading of the aging
physical plant efforts made until 1996 have barely scratched the extent of the need generated by the current
physical status of the infrastructure and the level of the enrolment.

(c)      Limited Funds for Maintenance of School Buildings. School maintenance funds, even low, were
in most of the cases not used by localities for the purposes for which they were intended. District and local
administration have been known to allocate these funds for other more pressing district or local concerns.
The actual availability of funds for maintaining schools has therefore been largely ad hoc, presenting
potentially greater problems for poorer districts, less able to lobby for funds, or raise their own resources to
maintain school infrastructure. The degree of deterioration of school facilities was at Project appraisal so
severe that many school buildings qualified for major rehabilitation works. The level of the funding
allocations barely covered the costs of simple, routine maintenance, which were no longer adequate to
restore school buildings to minimal safety standards, often cosmetic, and masking serious structural
damage.

(d)      High Physical Risk to School Occupants. The extensive deterioration of many school facilities
due to the poor building standards and inadequate maintenance have raised anxiety about the safety to
school occupants should another earthquake of major magnitude hit the country. Buildings have been
condemned and necessitated complete replacement. The students have been transferred to other available
facilities or to neighboring schools.

(e)      Overcrowding and reduced learning time. The lack of investment in infrastructure to meet
demographic trends and address poor building standards has created over-crowded conditions in public
schools. Many of the classrooms in the damaged schools, especially in urban areas, were under-sized and
accommodated more than the regular number of students. The displacement of students to adjacent schools
has in turn exacerbated the classroom situation in the host school and disturbed the learning environment
for all the students. In some cases, the damage to school buildings has led to the closure of schools in
remote rural areas forcing students to travel greater distances to attend neighboring schools. Other rural
communities faced with this situation, have rented schools in farm houses, while in some villages children
have been deprived of education altogether.




                                                      - 36 -

(f)     Inefficient allocation of investment funds. The inefficiency reduced the amounts potentially
available to repair other schools or to construct new or expanded schools to accommodate student needs.
The absence of basic information, such as a comprehensive school map, hindered the capacity of the MER
to save resources by consolidating under-utilized schools in the same catchment area.

(g)     Weak management of school construction. The rehabilitation and construction of schools was the
responsibility of District Education Inspectorates, which awarded the contracts through a competitive
process. The role of MER was to allocate investment funds to the District, set the standards by which these
funds were used, and monitor the use of the resources.

1.3 Project Description

The two main components of the project were:

Component 1: School Rehabilitation. (US$103.3 million base cost) This component consists of the
rehabilitation, upgrading, and furnishing of about 1,200 schools (kindergarten, primary and secondary) in
42 districts.

Strategy
       Repair and upgrade severely damaged schools for students from kindergarten to high school to
meet minimum standards set by the Ministry.
       By rehabilitation of the existing buildings, where the classrooms were larger, new classrooms
where created according to the number of students. In this way, the number of classrooms increased.

Component 2: Institutional Capacity Improvement. (US$3.3 million base cost). This component
consisted of strengthening the sectorial capacity of the MER, at both national and district levels, to
(i)     plan, implement and manage the Government's school investment and rehabilitation program; and
(ii)    to manage and maintain the public educational physical plant. This component has two elements:

-       School Facilities Planning and Maintenance. This sub-component consists of
developing/improving the skills of MOE and District Inspectorate staff to use cost effective methods and
national building standards in:
                 the development of new educational facilities;
                 rehabilitating and upgrading existing physical infrastructure; and,
                 managing the school maintenance program.
-       Project Administration. The subcomponent consists in providing the necessary resources to the
Project Management Unit (PMU) and to the District Project Implementing Units (DPIU) to implement the
project efficiently.




                                                     - 37 -

                         Project Components

                                  103.3




                          8.8                 3.2
                                   14.7



     School Rehabilitation           Institutional capacity improvement

     Physical Contingencies          Price Contingencies



The project has been financed by IBRD with a Loan of USD 70 million, CEB co-financed the project with
USD 13.8 million equivalent and the Romanian Government co-financed the project with USD 46.2
million.

1.4. Risks of the Project

At the Project appraisal, no major risks to its implementation have been identified, but some possible
difficulties could arise related to:

(a)      in managerial capacity at the district level, due to the fact that the scope of work in the more
disadvantaged districts (which also have the highest number of damaged schools), might have extended
beyond the implementation capacity in these Districts.
The project included measures to mitigate these potential difficulties.

1.5. MER's capacity to implement the Project

1.5.1 Managerial capacity. During implementation of the Project, it has been identified the need to staff
the PMU with supplementary engineers, architects, economist, procurement officer, to handle daily Project
implementation activities and guide and co-ordinate the local/district staff.

Besides sequencing the schools for rehabilitation in five different stages, those districts with a highest
number of schools have been staffed with supplementary engineer and support staff. The strengthening of
the PMU and all DPIU's with technical expertise addressed the deficiency in management.

In order to manage the technical aspects specific to contracts for works, Regional Technical Co-ordination
Units have been established, first for the geographic areas where the number of schools under rehabilitation
works required it for the purposes of a better management. Subsequently, for each of the administrative
geographic area such regional units have been established while the number of school units under
rehabilitation had drastically increased.



                                                          - 38 -

Considering the novelty of the procedures required for project implementation (in terms of management,
procurement, technical and financial issues), the PMU developed a set of regulations to be followed from
the start of the rehabilitation to the delivery of the school unit to the local authority. This STEP-BY-STEP
control protocol concluded within the "100 implementation steps" has been set for internal use by PMU,
RTCU and DPIU staff.

The Document described each of the phases of the rehabilitation:
-        Phase I  selection of school units for new lists of schools
-        Phase II  architectural & engineering design - tender
-        Phase II b  architectural &engineering design  completion of the contract
-        Phase III  execution  bidding
-        Phase IIIB execution of works  start of works
-        Phase IIIC  execution of works works completion
-        Phase IV  site supervision
-        Phase V  school furniture
-        Phase VI  evaluation and reporting

Detailed information was provided to clarify:
-        participants to each stage (actors)
-        detailed description of the stage/content of activities to be undertaken
-        documents  required as outputs
-        entity/person responsible for producing the document

Nevertheless, the RTCU staff participated to short-term abroad management trainings and events.

The establishment of these units in the mainstream of MER and district operations builds the capacity to
manage future rehabilitation programs.

1.5.2 Procurement Processes Management.
The first in-country workshop that the PMU prepared to disseminate the procurement procedures was
undertaken in early January 2000. Participants from each district that attended the training received
information related to the concepts, principles of and approach to international procurement, and of public
procurement systems, understandings over the Bank business objectives, policies and practices related to
project/sectors and critical links to procurement. Detailed study cases for procurement of goods, works and
services, as well in depth debates over the clauses of instructions to bidders and contract have been
undertaken.
Since then, each of the annual workshops prepared by the PMU and delivered to the district and regional
staff updated the procurement related information.

Training of MER staff, at both central and district level, in implementation procedures (procurement,
disbursement of Loan and counterpart funds, and monitoring of contractor performance) accelerated the
decision making processes and assured a timely implementation of the project.

The prior-review of the Bank of each first NCB for works per district set the path to follow further in the
procurement process. Further post review of the PMU's procurement activity concluded that the PMU had
a good implementation capacity and proved to be effective in handling procurement related work.

A factor of this success was ensured by the PMU specialists that closely monitored and effectively


                                                       - 39 -

managed the procurement process through their presence in evaluation committees for each of the bids
submission events.

As a result of this closely monitored activity, no mis-procurement has been declared over the lifespan of the
Project.

1.5.3 Financial Management

The economic activity consisted in ensuring and monitoring projects funds. In the course of project
implementation an integrated data base for monitoring the project performance and funds allocated, spent
and available for each project output and each outcome and also used for keeping separate and accurate
up-to-date records of the disbursement of projects funds on contracts for each category and financed source
has been developed.

In accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreements, Project financial activity was based on working
with a Special Account for each Loan and for the counterpart funds allocated by Romanian Government
other three bank accounts.

The project size and implementation time have been carefully linked with resource flows and
the availability of counterpart funds.

Disbursement
Between project Effectiveness Date and the project Closing Date (January 31st, 2004), the Ministry of
Education and Research succeed to commit 100% of the IBRD Loan, US$70,000,000 and CEB Loan,
U$13,800,000. The funds disbursement was completed in January 2004, the period starting from February
1st, 2004 to May 31st, 2004 being the grace period when the PMU made payments for goods, works and
services delivered before the loan closing date.
The yearly rate of disbursement is presented attached within Annex II, Financial Information, Table II.3
and Table II.4.

1.5.4 Technical Management

The technical management of the School Rehabilitation Project has been undertaken by the PMU Technical
Department supported by Regional Technical Management Units and District Project Implementing Units.

A school mapping training and school mapping exercise has been disseminated among District Project
Coordinators and district School Inspectorate IT staff in the summer of 1999. Following that exercise, the
PMU received the prioritization of schools and preparation of the different implementation stages of the
Project.

The joint efforts of the central and regional/district staff in strengthening the technical capacity of the PMU
and ease the decision making process concerning technical issues that have been raised during
implementation, resulted in preparation of Republican Educational Standards For Schools' Design.
This standard, based on the standards within the Education Law, contain all the educational requests
regarding the general schools' design, but doesn't contain the technical foresights about designing,
realization and functioning of the objectives that are covered within:
-        The Environment Protection LAW
-        The territory systematization and arranging
-        Design normative P100/96 requiring minimum design standards for earthquake ;


                                                      - 40 -

-       Regulations for the Protection and fire extinction;
-       Technical regulations regarding the basis structure of the requested constructions, installations and
equipments that are containing prescriptions about designing, execution, protection and work security, the
medium protection, the technological norms and the functioning norms.
-       The law 50/1991
-       The law 10/1995
-       The law 51/1996
-       Other technical prescriptions and norms.
Regardless the financing source, the Standard prepared applies to:
-       construction of new school units.
-       modernization, expansion and rehabilitation of existent schools.
-       changes to the existing structure of buildings to make them appropriate for the deployment of
teaching process (applicable to those schools functioning in buildings not designed to function as school
units.

1.6 Project Chart  central, regional and district staff

The PMU was organized by the MER on the basis of the Minister's Order No. 4114/20.06.1997 to conduct
the overall administration of the project under the general guidance of the School Rehabilitation Board. The
PMU was headed by a Project Manager assisted by key technical specialists.

(a) The PMU managed the following main activities:
        (i)       project implementation activities and the use of resources;

        (ii)      control the quality of the rehabilitation works by ensuring that the agreed norms, criteria
and procedures are consistently applied by the implementing units at central and district levels. Such norms
and procedures included: school design standards; criteria and methodologies for defining options and
scope of school rehabilitation interventions and prioritization of schools. The PMU monitored the
performance of each DPIU respective of the supervision of the architectural and engineering design and
construction contracts;

        (iii)     in direct cooperation with the World Bank's Task Team Leader for the project ensured that
the appropriate procedures and documentation for procurement, accounting, auditing, reporting and such
other guidelines embodied in the Loan Agreement are applied by all implementing units, monitor
performance under all procurement contracts, and the delivery of the contracted goods and services to the
appropriate recipients;

        (iv)      monitor project costs and expenditures, and coordinate with the General Directorate for
Finance of MER in the execution of IBRD and CEB Loans as well as the Government counterpart funds,
and ensured that project funds are appropriately used, accounted for, and audited;

        (v)       took the responsibility for the organization of training programs (in-country and abroad)
and the recruitment of specialist services for the capacity building component of the project, and monitor
the outcome of the training and technical assistance provided under the project; and

        (vi)      monitored implementation progress, and liaised with and reported to Government and other
relevant institutions (such as Ministry of Public Finance, IBRD and CEB) on this progress and
project-related developments.




                                                      - 41 -

(b) The Regional Technical Coordination Units

Seven Regional Project Implementation Units (RTCU with 1 to 4a staff members established in accordance
with the number of schools to be rehabilitated within the allotted area and estimated value of investments)
have been established at each regional development area, within the District School Inspectorates, having
the following personnel: area manager, specialist, support personnel, as follow:

o        Moldova - North East area- for the following districts: Botosani, Suceava, Iasi, Neamt, Vaslui,
Bacau with the headquarters at Vaslui District School Inspectorate. Total of 3 staff/month.
o        Dobrogea - South East area - for the following districts: Vrancea, Galati, Buzau, Braila, Tulcea,
Constanta with the headquarters at Galati District School Inspectorate. Total of 2 staff/month.
o        Muntenia South area (including Bucharest and Ilfov District) - for the following districts:
Ialomita, Calarasi, Giurgiu, Teleorman, Dambovita, Arges, Prahova, Ilfov and Bucharest with the
headquarters at Ilfov District School Inspectorate. Total of 2 staff/month.
o        Banat West area - for the following districts: Arad, Timis, Caras Severin, Hunedoara with the
headquarters at Timis District School Inspectorate. Total of 2 staff/month.
o        Crisana North West area - for the following districts: Maramures, Bihor, Satu Mare, Salaj,
Bistrita Nasaud, Cluj with the headquarters at Bihor District School Inspectorate. Total of 2 staff/month.
o        Transilvania Center area - for the following districts: Harghita, Covasna, Mures, Brasov, Sibiu,
Alba, with the headquarters at Bistrita Nasaud District School Inspectorate. Total of 2 staff/month.
o        Oltenia South-West area - for the following districts: Dolj, Gorj, Mehedinti, Olt, Valcea, with the
headquarters at Dolj District School Inspectorate. Total of 2 staff/month.

The RTCU supervised all facets of project implementation related to the rehabilitation of schools within the
area allotted: selection of specialists to prepare detailed surveys, architectural and engineering documents;
organization and award of construction tenders; and final acceptance of completed works contracts together
with the District Project Managers.

The specific functions of RTCU were to:
        supervise technical project implementation activities in the subordinated area;
        organize the procurement process for design services that will be performed in their area during
project implementation period;
        organize and execute the monthly supervision and quality control activities for all the works
performed in their area;
        solve all the technical issues that could arise during project implementation, within the framework
of contracts and domestic law provisions;
        closely monitor and report to the PMU the progress and status of implementation activities under
each DPIU;
        maintain and develop Monitoring indicators and database of Consultants (individual or firms),
suppliers and contractors for works.

( c) The District Project Managers

42 District Project Management Units (DPIU)  at the district level, within the District School
Inspectorates structure, with one or two personnel based on number of schools under each component
(district project manager and support personnel)

The specific functions of DPM were to supervise all project implementation activities within the district,



                                                       - 42 -

namely:
        select individual consultants to perform services related to technical surveys, technical expertise -
quality check of technical project under the direct supervision of RTCU and on the base of procedure and
documents prepared by PMU;
        obtain all permits and licenses necessary for works performing within the district;
        verify the content of technical documents and specifications prepared by the designers and
individual consultants, and their compliance with the agreed legal framework;
        select individual consultants to perform services related to works supervision, under
the direct supervision of RTCU and on the base of procedure and documents prepared by PMU;
        organize the bidding process within the district and participate in the evaluation process;
        supervise the execution of the works and participating in solving all compensation events that could
arise during works performing;
        certify monthly the works performed within the contracts concluded;
        organize and participate in the provisional acceptance of the works activities;
        check the stage and demeanor of the works during defect liability period (1 year);
        organize and participate in the final acceptance of the works activities;
        ensure that the final value of the investment is registered ( accounted) with public asset register.

2. Achievement of Development Objective and Outputs

Component 1: School Rehabilitation.

Initial goals

A total of about 900 school units have been scheduled for rehabilitation under the School Rehabilitation
Project.
The initial Procurement Plan included: (a) contracting of civil works (school rehabilitation); (b) the
acquisition of school furniture and minor equipment (office, software, vehicles); and (c) engagement of
specialist services and training of local staff.
-        Architectural and engineering (A&E) services (aggregate US$8.1 million) .These services were
procured using the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures. The A&E services were
provided in such a manner that the scope of the assignment includes the preparation of feasibility studies
and technical designs (architectural, engineering, bidding documents, etc.) for a group of schools;
-        Civil Works (US$109.0 million including contingencies). School rehabilitation contracts under the
project with a wide range of characteristics: geographic dispersal, particularly those in rural areas;
execution period as a result of the sequencing of school rehabilitation; school capacities (enrollments
varying from less than 20 to 2,700 students); type and scope of works (rehabilitation to full replacement of
buildings); and estimated costs;
-        Furniture (US$5.0 million including contingencies). The capacity to produce such furniture, and
given the geographic spread of school units, procurement of school furniture had been envisaged to be
made following National Competitive procedures.

Implementation Outcome

Due to the close follow up of the Project implementation, management of applied technical solutions and of
costs, the project succeeded to go back to the initial scope of the project and rehabilitate and refurbish a
total of 1,206 school facilities (kindergartens, school grades I-IV, I-VIII and secondary schools). The
school units rehabilitated are fully operational and comply with the MER's standard norms for such
facilities. With appropriate maintenance, these facilities are expected to provide comfortable and safe



                                                     - 43 -

environment for learning and teaching.

The necessities raised during project implementation required reallocations of Project proceeds to cover the
rehabilitation and refunctioning costs for the additional 300 school units that PMU was able to rehabilitate.

From the total of 1206 schools:
        175 are in the urban area and
        1031 in the rural area.

After Rehabilitation solution from the total of 1206 schools:
        58 % were demolished and replaced with new buildings. (D+R);
        35% were strengthened (S+R);
        7% were strengthened and extended (S+R+E).

The number of beneficiaries is over 262,000 of witch:
        58% are in rural areas and
        42% are in urban areas.

Project implementation has been carried on for a period of six years. During implementation:
        In 2000 and 2001 24% from the total 1206 schools have been rehabilitated (delivered to the
end-beneficiary);
        In 2002, 44% of the total number of schools have been rehabilitated (delivered to the
end-beneficiary);
        In 2003, 32% of the total number of schools has been rehabilitated (delivered to the
end-beneficiary).

At national level the average investment value per student has been of about 450USD/student (in urban
area the average has been of 343USD/student while in rural areas 550USD/student)

Component 2: Institutional Capacity Improvement

Initial goal

Institutional Capacity Improvement (US$3.3 million base cost). This component has been designed to
strengthen the sectorial capacity of the MER, at both national and district levels, to: (i) plan, implement and
manage the Government's school investment and rehabilitation program; and (ii) to manage and maintain
the public educational physical plant. This component has two elements:
         (i)     School Facilities Planning and Maintenance. This sub-component consists of
                 developing/improving the skills of MER and District Inspectorate staff to use
                 cost-effective methods and national building standards in: (a) the development of new
                 educational facilities; (b) rehabilitating and upgrading existing physical infrastructure; and
                 (c) managing the school maintenance program.
         (ii)    Project Administration. This sub-component consists in ensuring the necessary resources
                 to the Project Management Unit (PMU) and to the District Project Implementing Units
                 (DPIU) to implement the project efficiently.

Implementation Outcome

MER has now in place a well established Project Management Unit for School Rehabilitation (PMU),


                                                      - 44 -

responsible for administering the school infrastructure investments, including school mapping, financial
management, procurement and contract management, and monitoring of construction activities starting with
the preparation of the construction design and ending with the maintenance of rehabilitated buildings.

Both the PMU and regional and district level staff (42 district coordinators and 7 regional technical
coordinators) are well experienced and have participated to in-country and abroad short term training
activities (as well as certifications) in areas such as project management, procurement, financial planning
and disbursement, and last but not least maintenance.

The PMU prepared for the use of the end-beneficiaries a School Maintenance Manual and Guidelines for
the Maintenance activity (a simplified "user friendly" brochure for a better understanding and ease of use at
local/school levels and local authorities), materials widely disseminated through the regional and
local/district staff of MER, and delivered as well to the representatives of local governments (councils and
city halls).

3. Overall Sustainability of Project

After only one month from the completion of the activity under the project it is rather impossible to assess
its real impact. However, empirical observations are highlighting the satisfaction of the teaching staff,
pupils, parents and local authorities regarding the rehabilitation works.

It should be noted though, that it was the willingness of all above mentioned teaching staff, pupils, parents
and local authorities that made the Ministry of Education and Research to apply for financing of new
projects, both in the management and improvement of the education/teaching-learning system, and in the
rehabilitation of the infrastructure.

Local communities contributed with allocations from their local budgets to maintain in good condition the
schools rehabilitated under the Project.

The success in the implementation of the School Rehabilitation Project is a sign of Romania's Education
Reform System success, an example of good practice and a continuity of the education reform overall.

It has to be mentioned that the experience accumulated during implementation has been successfully used
for the design and further development of implementation procedures for other two new projects, one
financed by the IBRD - Rural Education Project- and the other financed jointly by the EIB (European
Investment Bank) and CEB (Council of Europe Development Bank) -School Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Project.

The already effective projects undertaken by the Ministry are consolidating what has been done so far, and
provide sustainability in the reform initiatives processes, mechanisms and involved bodies.

4. Evaluation of the performance of the World Bank and other partners


The relationships between the Romanian Government and the IBRD and CEB, the main project financier
were based on the provisions of the following official documents:

l The Loan Agreement between Romania and IBRD (70 mil. USD);
l The Loan Agreement between Romania and CEB (13.8 mil. USD);
l The World Bank's Staff Appraisal Report (no. 16555  RO dated July 29th, 1997);



                                                       - 45 -

l The Project Implementation Plan;
l The Government Ordinance no. 71/1997 concerning the ratification of the IBRD Loan Agreement, and
    further Law 63/March 20th 1998;
l The Government Ordinance no. 70/1997 concerning the ratification of the CEB Framework Loan
    Agreement, and further Law 64/March 20th 1998;
l The Subsidiary Agreement between the Ministry for Public Finances and the Ministry of Education and
    Research.

These official documents are establishing the negotiated Project objectives, the activities to be implemented
and the financial allocations, the main rules and procedures to be used during the implementation process,
and the evaluation and monitoring methods and tools.

According to the above mentioned documents, the IBRD and CEB supported the Ministry of Education and
Research in implementing the School Rehabilitation Project in two manners:

4.1 A day-by-day implementation support

There was a strong permanent direct contact between the Project Task-Managers (during the Project life
there were two Project Task-Managers Mr. Leonardo Concepcion that also guided PMU in procurement,
and Ms. Mariana Doina Moarcas), the Education Program Team Leader, Ms. Ana Maria Sandi, other
World Bank specialists, especially concerning disbursement and procurement matters (Mr. Kenneth Miller,
Mr. Nicholay Chistyakov, Mrs. Agnes Nuval, Mrs. Carol S. Nelson from the Disbursement Unit, also from
the Procurement Unit Ms. Evelyne Villatoro, and Mr. Vladislav Krasikov, and the PMU staff.

The World Bank's Resident Mission staff (Mrs. Ana Maria Sandi, Mrs. Mariana Moarcas, Mrs. Gabriela
Manea, Mr. Bogdan Constantinescu) offered technical assistance, carefully monitoring the implementation
progress and gave professional advice on adjusting the Project activities and timetables, especially on
financial management and disbursement matters.

4.2 Periodical supervision missions

Twice a year, the World Bank organized supervision missions including meetings with leadership of the
Ministry of Education and Research, with the representatives of the Ministry of Public Finances, the
Project Management Unit staff and the Regional Technical Coordinators/Regional Managers of the School
Rehabilitation Team.

During the implementation period, the supervision missions were carried out by the Task-Managers, but
also different World Bank specialists took part: Ms. Antonia Vyiachka, Mr. Vasilios Demetrious
(consultant).

The objectives of the supervision missions were:
-        To monitor the progress in Project implementation;
-        To review the status of the project budget;
-        To review the monitoring indicators;
-        To review the implementation of the elements of the Project policy;
-        To assess the sustainability plans.

The conclusions and the recommendations made as a result of the supervision missions mentioned in
comprehensive aide-memoires represented useful tools concerning the necessary measures to be taken for


                                                    - 46 -

improving of the Project implementation.

The CEB carried out supervision missions to review the implementation progress's too. The CEB missions
have been conducted by Mr. Carlos Bendito and by Ms. Sylvie Anagnostopoulos, Country Managers. We
had also cooperated with Mr. Joan Francisco Jeco Guillot, Director Loan Department and with Mr. Baris
Trak, Technical Advisor.

5. Lessons Learned

5.1. Correctness of the project goals

All recent research studies have a common point in stressing that a large majority of specialists in
education, teachers, even parents agree with the main goals and strands of the reform project. Everybody
can easily observe that those students who have the chance to be exposed to an education environment
tailored according to the new education paradigms highly appreciate it.

Thus, any future evolutions in the Romanian education should consider these goals which created strong
premises for connecting Romania to the values and principles of an open society.

5.2. The need of continuity

Over six years of implementation effort, the Ministry of Education and Research succeed to successfully
implement the School Rehabilitation Project: all the project objectives have been achieved, and the loan
funds have been disbursed 100% in due time.
In addition, the project represented a good opportunity for the Ministry of Education and Research to
address further needs in disadvantaged areas and to undertake further rehabilitation Projects (such as the
already effective School Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project financed by the European Investment Bank
and the Council of Europe Development Bank and a Rural Education Project with financing from the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, project that continues the goals set by the
Education Reform Project and the School Rehabilitation Project).

5.3. Communication strategy

Communication between the PMU and the District staff was in the early stages of the Project often
hindered by the interference of the bureaucratic channels in district inspectorates. Selection of Consultants
to perform the management of the Project at the district level had eased the communication process.
It has to be mentioned that one of the key factors in the project success was the dissemination of
information, at both central and district level, to the local authorities representatives and involvement of the
local community, teachers and parents in the implementation stages.

5.4. Motivation of local experts and Consultants

Although one of the major achievements of the project was the selection and training of a core group of
local staff in different areas of management, technical, financial, procurement activities, their activity could
not be adequately rewarded in accordance with their efforts, due to certain unclear provisions of the
financial legislation.

Even at the PMU level, there was no solution for its members to ensure salaries correlated with their
competencies and responsibilities.



                                                      - 47 -

It should be kept in mind that underpaid staff is a classical source of managerial problems which could
impair the successful implementation of any project.

5.5. Specific Lessons.

5.5.1.Project Management

Building of the institutional capacity was one of the main actions of the project, and significant successes
were obtained at the district and regional level.

The problem of double subordination of district staff to the inspectorates management and PMU was often
in the early stages of the Project a cause of delays in project implementation, especially regarding the
technical activities.
This caused additional pressure being exerted on PMU and an additional volume of work, in order to solve
the emerging problems.

Disparities between the Romanian accounting system and financial regulations for public institutions and
the World Bank operations procedures were in some cases sources of misunderstanding and concern.

Success in the exploitation of the reform project outcomes depends upon the existence of functional,
proactive and professional management structures at central and local level and the creation of a real
entrepreneurship.

Training

In line with the objective of improving the quality of Project implementation outcome, the PMU, RTCU
and DPIU staff participated to international and national short-term trainings and workshops, with various
developments, strategy of implementation, management, procurement, and technical topics, and
nevertheless, in the early stages of Project implementation a School Mapping training and exercise.

A number of 14 abroad short-term trainings/management events have been attended by a total of 25 MER,
PMU and RTCU key staff members. The main topics of the training session attended addressed:
-       project management issues: cost engineering, project management & quality surveying;
-       management of cooperation projects;
-       Project Management in World Bank financed Projects: Monitoring project delivery and financial
management procedures;
-       Financial Management and disbursement in World Bank financed projects;
-       procurement in World Bank funded projects: works procurement.

A various number of local/intern trainings have been undertaken by the PMU since mid 1999. The first two
trainings undertaken in parallel addressed:
-       procurement issues: the bidding documents, the bidding process: opening, evaluation and award of
contract, as well as contract management. Participants were the technical staff of the District School
Inspectorate, that further become district Project Coordinators;
-       school mapping software: analyze and directly implement the school mapping exercise.
Further, the knowledge achieved by participation to abroad short term trainings has been disseminated
widely in bi-annual meetings deployed by the PMU to DPIU. Each of such bi-annual meetings has been
attended by a number of approximately 60 participants, including MER, PMU and DPIU staff. Besides


                                                      - 48 -

sharing the information received related to management, financial and procurement topics, these meetings
also served as Project monitoring and reporting events.

Last, but not least, out of the PMU staff: one certified as Project Manager, other 7 certified as management
specialists, the 7 Regional Managers of RTCU, 12 district project coordinators and 2 of MER's employees
were also certified as specialists in applying modern management concepts and procedures.

Monitoring

The PMU prepared and maintained for each of the schools rehabilitated a Summary Monitoring
Report/Data Base that included the following key information related to the milestones along rehabilitation
progress:



      #       Information
1             District
2             Stage No.
3             School Name
4             City/Village
5                                               Rural/urban area
6                                               3 to 2 shifts
7             Changed from                      3 to 1 shifts
8                                               2 to 1 shifts
9                                               before
10            Enrollment                        after
11                                              before
12            Gross Area                        after
13            Rehabilitation Solutions
14            DESIGN                            Proposal submission date
15                                              Contractor
16                                              Contract value/school
17                                              Feasibility Study notice date
18                                              FS value (USD) with VAT
19                                              Technical Project notice date.
20                                              TP value (USD) with VAT
21                                              AT value
22            WORKS                             Commencement day
23                                              Contractor
24                                              Preliminary certificate number and issue date
25                                              Final acceptance of works certificate number and issue date
26                                              Procurement Method
27                                              Estimated value of goods contract
28                                              GPN published date
29                                              SPN published date - internationally
30                                              SPN published date - nationally
31                                              date "NO OBJECTION" received



                                                     - 49 -

32                date Bid. Doc. issued for bidders
33                numbers of documents issued.
34                date of Bid submission
35                No. of Bid. received
36                date of Evaluation Report submission to WB for "No
                  Objection"
37                date of "No Objection" received
38                date of Letter of Acceptance issue
39                Date of Contract signing
40                Contract
41                Contractor
42                Initial value of contract
43                Actual value of contract
44                Reason
45                Completion period      ( month)
46                Performance security (No./date)
47                Performance security (Amount)
48                Advance Payment security (No./date)
49                Advance Payment security (Amount)
50                Initial date of completion
51                Actual date of completion
52                Reason for delay
53                Initial value / school
54                Actual value / school
55                Reason of exceed
56   FURNITURE    Number of chairs SCA01
57                Price / chair SCA01      ROL
58                Price / chair SCA01      USD
59                Price / chair SCA01 EURO
60                Value of chairs SCA01            ROL
61                Value of chairs SCA01        USD
62                Value of chairs SCA01 EURO
63                number of chairs SCA02
64                Price / chair SCA02       ROL
65                Price / chair SCA02       USD
66                Price / chair SCA02 EURO
67                Value of chairs SCA02       ROL
68                Value of chairs SCA02         USD
69                Value of chairs SCA02 EURO
70                number of chairs SCA03
71                Price / chair SCA03       ROL
72                Price / chair SCA03       USD
73                Price / chair SCA03 EURO
74                Value of chairs SCA03       ROL
75                Value of chairs SCA03       USD



                       - 50 -

76     Value of chairs SCA03      EURO
77     number of desks BAI01
78     Price / desk BAI01        ROL
79     Price / desk BAI01        USD
80     Price / desk BAI01 EURO
81     Value of desks BAI01 ROL
82     Value of desks BAI01 USD
83     Value of desks BAI01 EURO
84     number of blackboards TAB01
85     Price / blackboard TAB01        ROL
86     Price / blackboard TAB01          USD
87     Price / blackboard TAB01        EURO
88     Value of blackboards TAB01           ROL
89     Value of blackboards TAB01 USD
90     Value of blackboards TAB01 EURO
91     number of teacher's desks CAT
92     Price / teacher's desk CAT ROL
93     Price / teacher's desk CAT USD
94     Price / teacher's desk CAT EURO
95     Value of teacher's desks CAT ROL
96     Value of teacher's desks CAT USD
97     Value of teacher's desks CAT EURO
98     number of library shelves DUB01
99     Price / library shelves DUB01         ROL
100    Price / library shelves DUB01        USD
101    Price / library shelves DUB01      EURO
102    Value of library shelves DUB01         ROL
103    Value of library shelves DUB01       USD
104    Value of library shelves DUB01      EURO
105    number of hallstands/class (20 stud./class)
106    Price of hallstand/class (20 stud./class)  ROL
107    Price of hallstand/class (20 stud./class) USD
108    Price of hallstand/class (20 stud./class)    EURO
109    Value of hallstands/class (20 stud./class) ROL
110    Value of hallstands/class (20 stud./class) USD
111    Value of hallstands/class (20 stud./class)   EURO
112    number of hallstands/class (25 stud./class)
113    Price of hallstand/class (25 stud./class) ROL
114    Price of hallstand/class (25 stud./class) USD
115    Price of hallstand/class (25 stud./class) EURO
116    Value of hallstands/class (25 stud./class) ROL
117    Value of hallstands/class   (25 stud./class) USD
118    Value of hallstands/class (25 stud./class) EURO
119    number of hallstands/class (30 stud./class)
120    Price of hallstand/class (30 stud./class) ROL



           - 51 -

121                                             Price of hallstand/class (30 stud./class) USD
122                                             Price of hallstand/class (30 stud./class) EURO
123                                             Value of hallstands/class (30 stud./class) ROL
124                                             Value of hallstands/class (30 stud./class) USD
125                                             Value of hallstands/class (30 stud./class) EURO
126                                             Value of furniture/ school ROL
127                                             Value of furniture/ school USD
128                                             Value of furniture/ school EURO
129          AMOUNT for WORKS USD
130          TOTAL VALUE/SCHOOL                 (works + design) USD

Such detailed information is available in the Project files.

5.5.2 Procurement Management

Time management in deployment of procurement resulted to be a critical point. While in the early stages of
the Project's implementation procurement activities were not complex, and in a small number, in the latest
years procurement was one of the major activities of the Project, committing the loan amount in contracts
for works, services and school furniture.

This has been the result not only of the novelty and almost completely different procurement procedures for
PMU, as it was for the Contractors. Faced with the shortage of time, and the commitment to make all
efforts necessary to accomplish the aims of the Project, a completely new packaging and launching of
procurement procedures has been prepared by the PMU staff.

Procurement Activities resulted in a number of various contracts.

Procurement of Architectural and Engineering Design Services

-       contracts for Architectural and Engineering Design Services                         199
Procurement of Rehabilitation Works
-       NCB contracts for rehabilitation of regular school units                            133
-       SWC contracts for rehabilitation of regular school units                            12
-       ICB contracts for rehabilitation of regular school units                            14
-       contracts for rehabilitation of architectural/cultural monuments                    15
Procurement of basic school furniture:
-       NS contracts for 86 school units                                                    66
-       NCB contracts                                                                       20
-       ICB Contracts                                                                       9
Procurement of various Individual or Company Consulting Services and Goods:
-       contracts (architects, engineers, design verificators, site engineers/supervisors,
        vehicles, office furniture, equipments, etc.)                                       220
Costs occurred per expenditure and bidding procedures are described within Annex I. Procurement Plan
Proposed versus Achieved.




                                                     - 52 -

5.5.3. Financial Management
Efficiency of funds spending

l       100% of the allocated amounts under each category from the Loan Agreements (IBRD and CEB)
    were disbursed.
l       The Statements of Project, Statements of the Loan Account, Statements of expenditure, and
    Statements of the Special Account as of end of each Romanian financial year were audited on a yearly
    base by an independent auditor. For each financial year, the independent auditors expressed an
    unqualified opinion and after two years of implementation the Auditor's Letter to Management did not
    reflect any comments related to the financial management of the project.
l       All project funds (IBRD, CEB, GOR) have been used in accordance with the conditions of the
    relevant financing agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency and only for the purposes
    for which the financing was provided.


                  Expenditure of funds by categories



                                              89.4%




                    0.8%

                       5.3%

                             4.5%
     Works                              Furniture, equipment and vehicles:
     Training and consulting services:  Operational costs



The technical management activity was efficiently implemented by PMU, so that the average costs obtained
for execution of rehabilitation works were less than the estimate. The successful technical management
allowed MEC to refurbish during 6 years of implementation a number of 1206 school facilities instead of
900 estimated.

In order, to reflect the actual performed activities within the project implementation period the following
amendments where done the IBRD Loan Agreement:

Amendme             Amendment Date              Amendment contents
nt no.
1                   November 12th 1999          Modified % to be financed by IBRD for category 1 Works (53%)
                                                and for subcategory 3.a. Architectural and engineering
                                                projections and planning
2                    April 20th 2001           Modified procurement procedures for consultancy services
3                    April 18th 2002          Extension of the project implementation prior the new Closing
                                              Date (January 31st 2004) and review the number of school units to



                                                      - 53 -

                                              be rehabilitated under the project (going back from 900 school units
                                              to 1,206 school units for rehabilitation)
4                   May 6th 2003              Allocation of funds from category 4. Unallocated
5                  October 9th 2003            Reallocation of funds under loan disbursement categories

The main reason for reallocations under project components and loan disbursement categories reflects the
management of costs implemented during the project implementation, mainly, under the categories 1.
Works and 2.Furniture, equipment and vehicles.
The contribution of each financier was unchanged during project implementation period (CEB contribution
- USD 13.8 mil. and Romanian Government counterpart - USD 46.2 mil.)

The initial responsibilities of PMU under the financial management area (as these responsibilities are
described in the Staff Appraisal Report) were extended in order to reflect
the actual changes in the legislation (concerning financial management, taxes, VAT), the actual rhythm of
the implementation activities and the increased volume of the project outputs and outcomes .
Therefore, beside the next responsibilities:
1.       ensuring that the appropriate procedures for accounting, auditing, reporting and such other
guidelines embodied in the Loan Agreement and ensuring the delivery of the contracted goods and services
to the appropriate recipients;
2.       monitoring projects costs and expenditures and coordinating the execution of the IBRD and CEB
Loans as well as the Government counterpart funds, and ensuring that projects funds are appropriately
used, accounted for, and audit;.
3.       keeping separate and accurate up-to-date records of the disbursement of projects funds on
contracts for goods, works and services in each project school;
4.       taking the responsibility for the organization of training programs (in-country and abroad) and
monitoring the outcome of the training and technical assistance provided under the project;
5.       monitoring implementation progress, and liaise with and report to Government and
other relevant institution (including Ministry of Public Finance, IBRD and CEB) on this progress and
project-related developments.
The following activities were performed within the project implementation period in order to ensure a sound
financial management:
l Internal review and match of the performed activities and disbursed funds on a monthly basis;
l setting-up and implementation of a procedure related to the request of funds for PMU's and
    contractors, as support
l implementation of an integrated data base for monitoring the performance and funds allocated, spent
    and available for each project output and each outcome;
l forwarding to the local communities clear records concerning the project funds incorporated in the
    school unit located in their area.

Disbursement

Between Project effectiveness date (January 23rd,1998) and the project Closing Date (January 31st, 2004)
the School Rehabilitation Project Management Unit succeed to use for the implementation of the project
activities 100% of the IBRD Loan 4213-RO.
The table bellow shows the changes reflected in the disbursement plan during project implementation, as
well as the actual disbursement.




                                                     - 54 -

Disbursement Information

Table II.3. IBRD funds - Disbursement History

   Year       Initial           Revised            Actual           Cumulated         Cumulated
              Disbursement      Disbursement       Disbursement     Actual            Actual
              Schedule          Schedule           (mil. US$)       Disbursement      Disbursement
              (as per SAR)      (as per Aide
              (mil. US$)        Memoire)
                                (mil. US$)
    1998      5                 0.07               0.07             0.07              0.10%
    1999      10.1              0.9                0.9              0.97              1.39%
    2000      18.6              6.3                6.3              7.27              10.39%
    2001      20.1              21.9               21.9             29.17             41.67%
    2002      12.5              23.6               23.6             52.77             75.39%
    2003      3.7               15.83              15.83            68.6              98.00%
    2004      0                 1.4                1.4              70                100.00
                                                                                      %
    Total     70                70                 70



   Table II.4. CEB funds - Disbursement History
    Year                     Actual            Cumulated              Cumulated
                             Disbursement
                             (mil. US$)      Actual Disbursement      Actual
                                                                      Disbursement

    2000                    1.56             1.56                    11.30%
   2001                     4.94             6.5                     47.10%
   2002                     4.3              10.8                    78.26%
   2003                     2.7              13.5                    97.83%
   2004                     0.3              13.8                    100.00%
    Total                    13.8

   During project implementation the allocated amount per each disbursement category reflect the actual
   performed activities and reached outputs:

   Loan Categories Allocation Information
Category Name                             Initial allocation           Revised allocation
                                          (mil. US$)                  (mil. US$)
1. Works                                             50.00                         59.15
   2. Furniture, equipment and                        4.40                          4.36
   vehicles:
   2.a. School furniture                              4.00                          3.95
   2.b. Equipment and vehicles                        0.40                          0.41
   3. Training and consulting                         7.50                          6.49


                                                 - 55 -

 services:
 3.a.     Architectural      and                     7.30                            5.25
 engineering projections and
 planning
 3.b. Training                                       0.20                           0.215
 3.c. Consulting                                                                    1.025
 4. Unallocated                                      8.10                              -
 5. Other                                                                              -
Total                                                70.00                          70.00



 An extension of the IBRD Loan Agreement closing dateand also a four-months grace period were
 approved, allowing disbursements from the IBRD Loan for withdrawal applications submitted to the
 Bank by close of business day of until May 31st, 2004, in respect of eligible expenditures made before
 the closing date (payments made or payments due for goods, works and services that have been
 provided prior to the closing date).
 Also, an extension of the CEB Framework Loan Agreement until April, 30th, 2004 for "end of the
 works" was approved.


       Amount disbursed under the Loan 4213 RO during project
                                implementation

           25.00

           20.00

           15.00
    Mil.$
           10.00

             5.00

              -
                    1998 1999 2000 2001 2002                     2003 2004


 In order to ensure a normal financial unfolding of the sum allocated within the Loan, both parties
 agreed the use of a Special Account. The Special Account has been maintained in accordance with the
 provisions of the Loan Agreement. The World Bank replenished the Special Account on the basis of the
 withdrawal applications.
 The Project financial activity was based on working with three accounts:
l IBRD Special Account
l CEB Special account
l Project Government Accounts (3 bank accounts for the counterpart funds allocated by Romanian
     Government)
 Appropriate accounting records were made according to the specific national and international
 procedures.




                                                - 56 -

Beside supervision missions performed by the World Bank staff and the audit performed by
independent auditors' representatives from different institutions such: Court of Account, Ministry of
Public Finance audited on a regular base or randomly checked financial management of the project
during the implementation period. No deficiencies where highlighted through the reports concluded
following the audits or checks performed by the above-mentioned institutions.

5.5.4. Technical Management

The Technical board of the PMU has been extended during the Project implementation to meet the
needs. The PMU benefited of the services of specialized engineers (civil/construction and mechanical)
and architects.

The following aspects that influenced the current activity of the technical department worth being
noted, as these have been areas of weakness that needed to be addressed and constituted the focus of
the Technical Board activity:

-    Involvement of architectural and engineering design consultants in improving the quality of
designs;
-    For the strengthening and refunctioning works, the rehabilitation solutions are limited by the
existing structure of the building, optimization of existing space through establishing the exact location
of the intervention works and judicious use of the gross area being the focus;
-    For construction of new schools, a special attention has been given for use of special modern
construction materials (metal, wood, PVC joineries and carpets/rugs, finishes, light/readily space
compartment constructions, etc.);
-    The PMU had strongly insisted that the Consultants prepare and review the construction
documents with the required attention towards the quality of the solution, the bill of quantities, and
required intervention of the consultant whenever a review of the rehabilitation solution has been
required on the site. Although closely monitored (not only by district staff, but also by regional and
central staff, as well as by site engineers), slight errors still occurred and led to slight overflows of
initial costs of the rehabilitation;
-    Site supervision undertaken by specialized site engineers has been undertaken at important phases
for the construction activity, preliminary and final acceptance of works. It should be noted though, that
Consultants are not very responsive for delivery of technical assistance services, and review of plans
and bill of quantities if required by the actual site conditions.

     Achievements:

-    Total number of schools rehabilitated: 1206, the Project returning to the initial rehabilitation scope
settled at Project appraisal;
-    Upgrade and secure the school facilities, including endowment with basic school furniture and
utilities: water, toilets and heating;
-    New constructive rehabilitation solutions , through use of modern technologies and materials: dry
technologies, mix structures (wood  metal, coverings of "bandoline", re-compartment the existing
spaces with light panel of plaster/rigips thermo-insulation with mineral wool, PVC joineries, central
heating and finishes resistant to constant maintenance actions;
-    Involvement and participation of the Local Community at the school rehabilitation and
development of Maintenance at the Established Functional Parameters Program.




                                                  - 57 -

Major factors that influenced implementation and results:

Favorable factors that influenced the normal implementation of the Project:

1. Preparation at PMU of technical/economical documentation and design projects that could be
re-applied in different geographic areas, with the following characteristics:
-   modular educational spaces, constructive arrangement of 2 to 8 classrooms
-   constructive metal solution/metal structure with an increased pre-fabrication degree
-   "sandwich" closing panel with increased degree of protection and thermo-insulation
-   Increased assembling productivity (new school with 2 classrooms completed in 2,4 months 
Poiana Lacului, Arges District)
2. Notice of the proposed technical solutions within the Project Management Unit led to a good
knowledge of the works to be executed, by the PMU staff, and correction of
deficiencies to the technical quality of the designs, superficially treated by the architectural and
engineering designers.
3. Periodic exchange of experience meetings allowed for effective know-how exchange, and resulted
in the necessity, further applied, of heaving general construction solutions, use of efficient materials, a
better monitoring of design preparation and execution of works, as well as the possibility to interfere in
the most suitable operational manner whenever deficiencies have occurred;
4. Preparation of the technical staff of the PMU in knowing and evaluating each of the
stages/components of the project implementation phases:
-   analysis of proposals on the basis of Project exigencies for enclosure within the Project
-   selection and prioritization of the school units
-   verification, school by school, of actual information in view of the rehabilitation solution
-   obtain the primary documents regarding the architectural and engineering design services for
rehabilitation works (urbanism certificate, protocol with the local authorities regarding the
rehabilitation works, design theme/architectural brief, technical surveys, etc.)
-   preparation of packages for consultancy services and procurement of works as well as
participation within proposal/bids evaluation committees
-   supervision of the preparation of design plans for rehabilitation works
-   follow-up of works execution, quality and preliminary acceptance o works.
5. Joint report and works follow up, as well as defining the hierarchical responsibilities and
competences in implementation issues solving. Periodic training of PMU staff and meetings with the
architectural and engineering designer and Contractor during the monthly work sessions.

Unfavorable Factors that had influenced the normal implementation of the Project

-   Insufficient detailed Technical designs and Projects, for which the Detailed Bill of Quantities did
not comply with the rehabilitation technical solutions;
-   Quality of design and/or rehabilitation works affected by the quality of key staff;
-   During execution of works, the works planning did not complied with the actual site/weather
conditions, while the staff on the site was under-dimensioned compared with the actual volume of
works;
-   The unpredictable character of the rehabilitation works for the strengthening works, when changes
of rehabilitation solution, and therefore of bill of quantities and list of activities can occur.

     External Factors that influenced the Project implementation

-   Involvement of the State Inspectorate in Construction (SIC) with modifications of determinant


                                                  - 58 -

phases after the start of the rehabilitation works, required on the basis of the construction permits and
licenses (for instance an internal Disposition no.15/ 05.03. 2004 issued by the SIC required
supplementary stages and presence of the SIC at the preliminary acceptance of works, for those
category of works mentioned within HGR 273/1994).
-   Delayed start of works execution (may, June) led to the necessity of rehabilitation works execution
during autumn and winter.
-   Implication beyond attributions of school directors and Mayors.

    Sustained development of the School Rehabilitation Project:

-   Specific periodic training of the PMU and regional unit's staff, inclusive of project management
specializations;
-   Elaboration of methodological norms regarding school maintenance, including submission of such
materials to the interested decision factors, responsible for school maintenance after completion of
rehabilitation works;
-   Transfer to Local Councils of rehabilitation documents (construction technical book, economic
documents) for adequate registering within the accounting department;
-   Ensure the optimum teaching/learning conditions and make occupants aware of the importance of
keeping the school facility in proper shape during exploitation.

        5.6 Other achievements
   l Preparation of a complete implementing team for MER
   l Education/specialization of staff
   l Experience in monitoring activities
   l Experience in procurement activities
   l Provide professional consultancy advice for other Projects
   l Provide contract cost related information in Romania to other projects
   l Development of standards for design
   l Preparation of standards school units
   l Development of project software
   l Monitoring of costs
   l A good understanding of the scope of promoting and communication activities
   l Added significance to the symbol of the school units within the community
   l Understanding of community needs and overall of the country
   l A new approach of the education system compiled with the social needs of the community
   l Increased the level of the education in the local community
   l Increased civilization within the local community


        5.7 Conclusions

        School Rehabilitation Project was an unique national project in Romania because:

        1. Educational:
                      - over the last 100 years, it is the first time when 400 new schools were built in
                  four years;
                      - it is the first time when 800 schools were rehabilitated over such a short time,
                  namely 5 years;
                      - the number of final beneficiaries is important (above 260,000).




                                                  - 59 -

2. Technical:
            - simultaneous design bids at country level had never been attained, for such a
       high number of objectives;
            - hundreds of objectives were rehabilitated at country level under the coordination
       of a single institutional unit.

3. Economic:
            - thousands of money orders were operated; the same team made simultaneous
       payments for constructors, designers and consultants;
            - it is the first project in which the unit prices decreased comparatively to the
       market prices, leading to the maximum efficiency of the available funds;
            - if this experience is used by other institutions and by other financiers, many
       objectives will be realized in the future.

4. Management:
            - it was the first time when a unit coordinated at country level the simultaneous
            accomplishment of hundreds of objectives that were in different stages: design
            stage, works stage and supervising of works;
            - the first modern books concerning school's design were created;
            - a lot of experience concerning the investments in different areas was
            accumulated according to the technical  economical point of view;
            - for the first time the local authorities were involved in the accomplishment of the
            objectives, since the design stage; this way, the local beneficiaries had the feeling
            that their requests were taken into consideration;
            - the project became credible because all the educational units included on the
            project list were rehabilitated completely achieving the project goals. Because of
            that, the local communities requested similar support for the rehabilitation of the
            remaining educational units.




                                         - 60 -

    Annex I. Procurement Plan  Proposed versus Achieved

             Table I.1. (Amounts in US$'000)




                                           Number of Packages       Total Cost ('000 US)    Method of
         Procurement Package               Planned      Actual     Planned        Actual   Procurement
 1. School Rehabilitation                                                     $116,251.60
 Packages > 1,0 million US               $8.00        29 (1)     $16,500.00   $57,312.20  ICB
Packages < 1,0 million US               $120.00       $133.00    $92,500.00   $58,332.00  NCB
   of which Packages < 70.000           $80.00       $12.00     -$5,000.00   $607.40      SWC
 2. Furniture and Equipment                                                   $5,808.80
 Student Desk/chairs >30.000 US          $50.00       $48.00     $5,000.00    $5,334.90   NCB
   of which Packages <30,000            $60.00        $66.0      -$1,500.00   -$526.9     NS
Office Equipment/Computers              $2.00         $1.00      $240.00      $339.30     IS
Vehicles                                $1.00         $1.0       $25.00       $24.6       NS
 Proprietary materials/Software          various      various    $120.00      $20         Direct
 Miscellaneous Materials/Suppliers       various      various    $150.00      $90         IS/NS
 3. Consultant Services                                                       $6,712.41
 Firms                                                                        $5,391.28
 Architectural     and     Engineering $150.00        $199.00    $8,060.00    $5,391.28   QCBS
 Services
 Individual Consultants                                                       $1,321.13
 Auditor                                 $1.00        $6         $170.00      $71         CSFB
Specialists to benefit PMU and DPIU     $25.00        $1         $1,480.00    $318        CSFB
School Mapping Specialist               $1.00         $1.0       $87.00       $26.4       CS
Project Management Specialist           $1.00         -          $22.00       $0          CS
 Other (experts, design verificators, -              various    -            $905.73     CS
 site supervisors)
 Procurement Adviser                     $1.00        -          $44.00       $0.00       CS
 4. Staff training                                                            $205.59
 Training Abroad                         various      various    $130.00      $130        SS
In-country Training                     various       various    $100.00      $75.59      SS
 5. Operational Costs                                                         $993.92
 Building    Maintenance    (fees  for annual         overall    $4,400.00    $240        NBF
 Inspection in Construction, notices,
 etc.)
 Design standards/Maintenance            $1.00        -          $22.00       $0.01       CS
 PMU/DPIU Operating Costs                annual       overall    $1,000.00    $753.91     NBF

(1) of which 15 packages for Architectural Cultural Monument Schools




                                                  - 61 -

Allocation by Procurement Procedure at the appraisal and at completion of Project


                         Procurement Plan by procedure at Project Appraisal                                            ProcurementPlanbyprocedureatProjectCompletion




       InternationalCompetitiveBiddingworks          NationalCompetitiveBiddingworks                    International Competitive Bidding works       NationalCompetitiveBiddingworks
       SmallWorks                                    International Competitive Bidding goods            SmallWorks                                    International Competitive Bidding goods
       National Competitive Bidding goods            NationalShoppinggoods                              National Competitive Bidding goods            National Shopping goods
       OfficeEquipments                              Vehicles                                           Office Equipments                             Vehicles
       Proprietary materials/Software                MiscellaneousMaterials/Supplies                    Proprietary materials/Software                Miscellaneous Materials/Supplies
       Architectural and Engineering Design Services Audit                                              Architectural and Engineering Design Services Audit
       SpecialiststobenefitCPCUandDPIU               School Mapping Specialist                          SpecialiststobenefitCPCUandDPIU               School Mapping Specialist
       DesignStandards/Maintenance                   Project Management Specialist                      DesignStandards/Maintenance                   ProjectManagementSpecialist
       Procurement Adviser                           TrainingAbroad                                     Procurement Adviser                           TrainingAbroad
       In-countryTraining                            BuildingMaintenance                                In-country Training                           Building Maintenance
       CPCU/DPIUOperatingCosts                       Unnalocated                                        CPCU/DPIUOperatingCosts                       Unnalocated




                                                                                              - 62 -

Annex II. Financial Information

Table II.1. Project Costs by Financiers and categories (US$ million equivalent)
Statements of the expenditures - Cumulative 1998-2004
(million US$)
                                        IBRD         CEB      GOR          Total
1    1. Works                            59.22       13.80    43.23       116.25
2    2.    Furniture,  equipment    and 4.38         -        1.43         5.81
     vehicles:
2a   2.a. School furniture               3.96        -        1.37         5.33
2b 2.b. Equipment and vehicles          0.42         -        0.06         0.47
3    3.     Training   and    consulting 6.41        -        0.51         6.92
     services:
3a   3.a. Architectural and engineering 5.12         -        0.27         5.39
     projections and planning
3b   3.b. Training                       0.203       -        0.002        0.21
3c 3.c. Consulting                      1.08         -        0.24         1.32
4   4. Unallocated                      -            -        -            -
5    5. Other                            -           -        0.99         0.99
                                        70.01        13.80    46.16        129.97

Table II.2. Appraisal Estimate versus Actual Project spending
                                        Appraisal        Actual/Latest    Percentage
                                        Estimate                          of
                                                                          Appraisal
Component                               US$ million     US$ million
A. School Rehabilitation                103.3           127.7             123.62%
B. Institutional Capacity Improvement
      1.     School     Planning     and0.3             0.01             3.33%
      Maintenance
      2. Project Administration         3.0             2.26              75.33%
Total Baseline Cost                     106.5           129.97            122.04%
Physical Contingencies                  14.7            -                 0.00%
Price Contingencies                     8.8             -                 0.00%
Total Project Costs                     130.0           129.97            99.98%




                                            - 63 -

Table II.3. IBRD funds - Disbursement History
                              Total                     Cumulated                         As                                 As percentage of Loan
Year                          (million                (million US$)                       percentage                         cumulated
                              US$)                                                        of Loan
1998                          0.07                      0.07                              0.10                             0.10
1999                          0.94                      1.01                              1.35                             1.45
2000                          6.25                      7.26                              8.92                             10.38
2001                          21.90                     29.15                             31.28                            41.64
2002                          23.62                     52.76                             33.74                            75.38
2003                          15.83                     68.59                             22.61                            97.99
2004                          1.41                      70.00                             2.01                             100.00



Table II.4. CEB funds - Disbursement History
Year                                              Actual                                  Cumulated                                            Cumulated
                                                  Disbursement
                                                  (mil. US$)                              Actual Disbursement                                  Actual
                                                                                                                                               Disbursement

2000                                              1.56                                    1.56                                                 11.30%
 2001                                             4.94                                    6.5                                                  47.10%
 2002                                             4.3                                     10.8                                                 78.26%
 2003                                             2.7                                     13.5                                                 97.83%
2004                                              0.3                                     13.8                                                 100.00%



                                                                         BIRD disbursement history - 1998-2004


 7,000,000.00



 6,000,000.00



 5,000,000.00



 4,000,000.00



 3,000,000.00



 2,000,000.00



 1,000,000.00



         0.00



                                                                                                            Jul-01Se
                                                                                                                   p-01                                                 Mar-03 May-03 Jul-03Se
                                                                                                                                                                                             p-03
           Nov-98Jan-99Mar-99 May-99Jul-99Sep-99Nov-99Jan-00Mar-00May-00Jul-00Sep-00Nov-00Jan-01Mar-01May-01           Nov-01Jan-02Mar-02 May-02Jul-02Sep-02Nov-02Jan-03                         Nov-03Jan-04




                                                                                                - 64 -

Annex III. Technical Information
Table III.1. Number of rehabilitated school units per implementation stage, Urban and Rural

                                  Number of schools per stage                 Of which rural - R
      District                          Stage                         Total    and Urban - U
                       I         II       III       IV       V
Alba              1        -           -         6        6        13        3        10
Arges             1        -           -         10       5        16        1        15
Arad              -        1           -         11       2        14        2        12
Bihor             -        3           -         7        11       21        2        19
Bacau             -        1           7         27       11       46        2        44
Bistrita Nasaud   2        -           -         9        3        14        2        12
Botosani          1        -           -         34       12       47        1        46
Brasov            2        -           8         4        3        17        6        11
Braila            3        -           -         5        12       20        2        18
Bucuresti         -        5           13        2        -        20        20       0
Buzau             8        9           2         4        21       44        6        38
Calarasi          2        -           -         7        8        17        3        14
Cluj              -        5           3         3        6        17        6        11
Covasna           1        -           7         1        2        11        2        9
Caras Severin     1        -           -         4        4        9         1        8
Constanta         -        -           -         26       19       45        7        38
Dambovita         4        -           -         16       17       37        5        32
Dolj              -        5           16        36       4        61        14       47
Gorj              -        -           -         3        5        8         2        6
Galati            3        -           -         11       20       34        7        27
Giurgiu           4        -           -         5        4        13        0        13
Hunedoara         -        1           3         3        -        7         2        5
Harghita          6        -           5         3        3        17        7        10
Ilfov             -        -           5         7        2        14        0        14
Ialomita          3        -           8         5        17       33        3        30
Iasi              3        -           7         1        21       32        6        26
Maramures         6        -           -         5        4        15        1        14
Mehedinti         2        -           -         6        16       24        2        22
Mures             1        -           -         7        2        10        2        8
Neamt             1        4           7         3        12       27        3        24
Olt               3        -           2         3        4        12        3        9
Prahova           3        -           5         44       8        60        11       49
Sibiu             -        2           -         3        3        8         0        8
Salaj             3        -           -         12       6        21        0        21
Satu Mare         3        -           9         3        6        21        4        17
Suceava           2        -           -         15       8        25        2        23
Tulcea            8        -           -         12       13       33        5        28
Timis             -        4           -         30       8        42        10       32
Teleorman         -        -           30        6        5        41        2        39


                                            - 65 -

Valcea     3    -    -       6    3    12    0    12
Vrancea    4    -    4       3    10   21    6    15
Vaslui     50   49   28      44   36   207   12   195
TOTAL      134  89  169      452  362  1,206 175  1,031
GENERAL




                        - 66 -

Table III.2. Rehabilitation Solutions

                                Rehabilitation solution (type and number of school units)
      District                       By solution                      Gross Area Rehabilitated
                       S+R         D+R       S+R+E        Total      Total    Of which Of which in
                                                                  Gross Area in Rural      Urban
                                                                                Area        Area
Alba               5           8          0           13          7,685      5,023       2,662
Arges              8           8          0           16          6,283      5,354       929
Arad               9           5          0           14          7,451      4,611       2,840
Bihor              6           12         3           21          10,589     8,285       2,304
Bacau              34          11         1           46          22,945     18,262      4,683
Bistrita Nasaud    7           6          1           14          8,304      5,234       3,070
Bototsani          9           38         0           47          13,321     12,478      843
Brasov             11          4          2           17          24,648     7,508       17,140
Braila             18          0          2           20          10,032     8,584       1,448
Bucuresti          17          2          1           20          47,222     0           47,222
Buzau              38          5          1           44          39,191     16,549      22,642
Calarasi           15          2          0           17          11,393     6,191       5,202
Cluj               10          6          1           17          9,016      4,254       4,762
Covasna            8           2          1           11          7,878      5,790       2,088
Caras Severin      9           0          0           9           6,323      4,923       1,400
Constanta          29          14         2           45          21,910     13,277      8,633
Dambovita          17          16         4           37          17,260     13,208      4,052
Dolj               53          3          5           61          43,722     20,316      23,406
Gorj               5           2          1           8           10,676     4,858       5,818
Galati             14          15         5           34          23,265     10,337      12,928
Giurgiu            4           5          4           13          6,473      6,473       0
Hunedoara          5           2          0           7           6,846      1,434       5,412
Harghita           7           8          2           17          23,681     5,344       18,337
Ilfov              12          2          0           14          7,548      7,548       0
Ialomita           24          5          4           33          15,639     12,534      3,105
Iasi               14          14         4           32          18,502     12,504      5,998
Maramures          8           5          2           15          7,253      6,778       475
Mehedinti          16          6          2           24          13,408     9,320       4,088
Mures              8           2          0           10          7,970      5,112       2,858
Neamt              15          12         0           27          14,182     12,167      2,015
Olt                4           6          2           12          6,597      3,635       2,962
Prahova            44          15         1           60          45,570     16,417      29,153
Sibiu              3           4          1           8           3,863      3,863       0
Salaj              19          2          0           21          8,443      8,443       0
Satu Mare          7           10         4           21          21,340     7,534       13,806
Suceava            14          9          2           25          16,731     10,346      6,385
Tulcea             16          10         7           33          18,985     10,642      8,343
Timis              24          16         2           42          35,307     10,392      24,915


                                                - 67 -

Teleorman     33           7           1            41          18,884      16,817      2,067
Valcea        10           2           0            12          6,013       6,013       0
Vrancea       8            10          3            21          21,450      8,027       13,423
Vaslui        76           124         7            207         85,529      70,665      14,864
TOTAL         693          435         78           1206        759,327     427,049     332,278
GENERAL
D+R        Demolition of existing building and Replacement with new building in accordance with the
           requirements described in the Architectural Brief and the School Design Standards
S+R        Structural Strengthening of existing building and Functional Rearrangement of interior
           spaces in accordance with the requirements described in the Architectural Brief and the
           School Design Standards
S+R+E      Structural Strengthening of existing building, Functional Rearrangement of interior spaces
           and Expansion of existing building in accordance with the requirements described in the
           Architectural Brief and the School Design Standards.




                                             - 68 -

Table III.3. Beneficiaries, before and after rehabilitation in rural and urban areas
                                                         Beneficiaries
                               Before rehabilitation                      After rehabilitation
      District                      Of which in Of which in                  Of which in Of which in
                        Total       Rural Area Urban Area           Total    Rural Area Urban Area
Alba                2,784          1,510        1,274           3,144       1,742          1,402
Arges               2,738          2,694        44              3,646       3,473          173
Arad                1,705          1,263        442             1,860       1,432          428
Bihor               3,546          2,970        576             3,366       2,781          585
Bacau               8,366          6,900        1,465           8,043       6,489          1,554
Bistrita Nasaud     3,427          1,651        1,775           3,403       1,643          1,760
Bototsani           4,987          4,569        418             4,764       4,430          334
Brasov              5,913          2,296        3,617           5,766       2,198          3,568
Braila              4,308          3,176        1,132           3,590       3,168          422
Bucuresti           17,761         0            17,761          18,129      0              18,129
Buzau               12,124         6,496        5,629           11,312      6,371          4,941
Calarasi            4,689          3,098        1,592           4,460       2,868          1,592
Cluj                4,226          1,650        2,576           3,762       1,708          2,054
Covasna             2,151          1,429        722             1,982       1,251          731
Caras Severin       1,826          1,183        644             1,798       1,166          632
Constanta           9,722          6,115        3,607           9,953       6,540          3,413
Dambovita           8,278          5,816        2,462           8,187       5,531          2,656
Dolj                15,307         5,683        9,624           15,324      5,183          10,141
Gorj                4,084          773          3,311           4,135       869            3,266
Galati              10,603         5,908        4,695           9,323       5,537          3,786
Giurgiu             2,385          2,385        0               2,798       2,798          0
Hunedoara           2,487          261          2,226           2,449       263            2,186
Harghita            5,662          1,704        3,958           5,851       1,965          3,886
Ilfov               2,988          2,988        0               2,933       2,933          0
Ialomita            7,315          4,960        2,355           7,205       5,053          2,152
Iasi                8,473          6,312        2,162           10,196      6,966          3,230
Maramures           3,336          2,401        935             3,711       2,793          918
Mehedinti           5,051          3,456        1,595           4,943       3,356          1,587
Mures               2,361          1,439        922             2,172       1,341          831
Neamt               5,523          4,348        1,175           5,601       4,592          1,009
Olt                 2,778          1,410        1,367           2,733       1,385          1,348
Prahova             13,784         6,899        6,885           13,122      6,213          6,909
Sibiu               1,519          1,519        0               1,515       1,515          0
Salaj               2,126          2,126        0               2,142       2,142          0
Satu Mare           5,591          3,122        2,470           5,932       3,296          2,636
Suceava             5,162          4,003        1,159           5,664       4,515          1,149
Tulcea              6,535          3,590        2,945           5,957       3,352          2,605
Timis               11,070         3,610        7,460           10,418      3,468          6,950
Teleorman           5,342          4,445        897             5,424       4,544          880
Valcea              1,577          1,577        0               1,649       1,649          0


                                                  - 69 -

Vrancea           7,055             3,618         3,438       6,626          3,051          3,575
Vaslui            26,972            21,893        5,079       27,731         22,070         5,661
TOTAL             263,636           153,245       110,391     262,719        153,640        109,079
GENERAL



          Rural and Urban Distribution of School Units
                                 per Region
              400
              350
              300
              250
       Total 200
              150
              100
               50
              -
                     1      2         3      4      5     6     7

                                          Region


                            Rural Area    Urban Area

1- Moldova; 2 - Dobrogea; 3 - Muntenia; 4 - Oltenia; 5 - Banat; 6 - Crisana; 7 - Transilvania.

           Distribution of Rural and Urban Occupants

          45,000

          40,000

          35,000

          30,000

 Number of25,000
 Occupants20,000

          15,000

          10,000

           5,000

             -
                  1        2         3       4     5      6     7

                                          Region


                            Rural Area Urban Area



For the 1,206 school units included for rehabilitation within the Project:

-      86 % of the school units are located in Rural areas, 14% located in Urban areas

-      56% of the total number of more than 260,000 occupants are located in Rural areas, while
44% are located in Urban areas




                                                    - 70 -

Rehabilitation Progress


                  Number of School Units rehabilitated




              600


              500


              400

  Number of
              300
  school units                                     530

              200                                              386

                                     270
              100

                        20
               0
                     2000          2001          2002         2003

                                Year of implementation



                     Number of School Units rehabilitated



Rehabilitation Solution


                 Rehabilitation Solution % of Total 1206




         35%




                                                                58%

               7%




                  Strengthening + Refunctioning

                  Strengthening + Refunctioning + Expantion

                  Demolish + Reconstruction




                                                        - 71 -

                 Schools to be Rehabilitated in Urban/Rural Area                   Beneficiaries in Urban Area Beneficiaries in Rural Area




                                                               At Project Appraisal

                 Schools in                                                         Beneficiaries
                 Rural Area                                                         in Rural Area
                    80%                                                                 41%
                                                    Schoolsin                                                               Beneficiaries
                                                    Urban Area                                                             in Urban Area
                                                       20%                                                                      59%




                  Schools in Urban Area Schools in Rural Area                     Beneficiaries in Urban Area   Beneficiaries in Rural Area



                      Rehabilitated Schools Urban/Rural                            Beneficiaries in Urban Area Beneficiaries in Rural Area



                                                               At Project Completion      Beneficiaries
                                                                                          in Rural Area
                                                                                              57%
                 Schoolsin
                 Rural Area                          Schools in
                   86%                              Urban Area
                                                       14%
                                                                                                                     Beneficiaries
                                                                                                                     in Urban Area
                                                                                                                          43%



                  Schools in Urban Area Schools in Rural Area                     Beneficiaries in Urban Area   Beneficiaries in Rural Area




Investment Opportunity Costs
Investment Value for students: General, Urban and Rural area



                       Investment Value within the Project on each Student under each Region
             700

                                635.65
             600


                                                                                                                          524.06
             500
                                                479.12
                                                                                                                          449.61
  USD/Student                                                                                             425.33
             400                                               401.89

                                                                           356.14
                                                                                         325.05
             300
                0             1               2              3            4            5               6               7               8
                   Region

                                                   USD/Student                      National Average




                                                                           - 72 -

                                                    For Urban Area

           600

                                                                                              502.56
           500

                             398.86                401.74

           400
                                                             361.77
                                                                                               343.15
USD/Student300                                                            244.06
                                                             243                      250.07

           200
                         0       1                 2       3       4       5        6       7        8
                           Region                   USD/Student                 National Average


                                                        For Rural Area

                        800
                                               734
                        700
                                                                   559.28
                        600                                                                   554.17
                                                       594.85

                        500                                                                       549.64

                                                               444.05                   539.01
            Cost/student400
                                                                              422.11
                        300
                           0       1                2        3       4        5        6       7        8
                            Region
                                                   USD/Student                   National Average




                                                    Surface for each Student under each Region

                                                               Surface/ Student on each Region


                                                 4
                                                             3.63                                         3.75
                                                3.5                3.25   3.2

                                                                                                          3.13
                                                 3
                                                                                    2.85           2.95

                                    Sqm/Student 2.5
                                                                                            2.31
                                                 2
                                                   0       1      2       3       4      5      6       7     8
                                                    Region
                                                              Sqm/Student                National Average

                                                                            - 73 -

         The most important thing was to identify the cause for assignable variation and during our analysis
         we found that:
        It is not efficient to consolidate the old building schools. It costs as much as building a new school
(because of the Romanian Building Structural Safety Norms and because of the discrepancy between the
existing floor area and required floor are). However, to make a final decision under the works category, an
economic analysis is performed.
        Economically, the works performed to the school buildings that accommodate students with special
aptitudes (arts, music, sports or other such kind of schools), does not have the same economic efficiency as
the school building for ordinary students. For this reason the national and local authorities as well as the
school management should jointly make effort to attract also sponsors for works to be performed to such
kind of buildings.
        The level of an indicator present different value for each region and a certain spread around the
national average can be mentioned. The difference between the works unit cost in rural area and works unit
cost in urban area originate in the maintenance activity performed in each area before rehabilitation work
off(for C+R category of works).
        Between the regions there are differences of 5-10% comparing with the average at the country
level; the positive differences (5-10%) appear either as a result of higher costs (for the better of regions) or
because of the inefficiency of the investment in the poor regions; the negative differences (5-10%) are
specific to the regions with many children and small spaces.



                        Structure of Works Unit Cost

                             12%      7%             14%
                        13%




                                                               24%


                                      31%

           Infrastructure                         Structure
           Architecture                           Heating, Water & Electrical System
           Roof                                   Sanitary Group


                                      Structure of Works Unit Cost per m ajor activity


                                                    20%
                                                                                   40%

                                                   40%




                                            Civil Engeneering
                                            A rchitecture
                                            Heating&Electring&W ater&Sanitary Systems




                                                        - 74 -

       About 8% of the occupants in urban areas learn in less than 2 shifts
       About 7% learn in 1 shift
       About 60% of the school units are school grades I-VIII, almost all in rural area
       About 30% of the school units are school grades I-IV (primary schools), almost all in rural area
       Out of the investment value over 90% are afferent to the rehabilitation works, furniture representing about
       4% of the investment cost. Up to 100% are the costs involved by expenses made in connection with the
       investment costs (taxes, services, etc.)

Advice for Project Managers

-      Do not accept risks
-      Do what you can do by yourself
-      Comply with provisions of the laws and norms
-      Take your decisions after you obtain specialist consultants advices
-      Consult and comply with the community/local authorities wishes, in the limited funds
-      Maximize the efficiency of funds spending
-      Have a good technological and products marketing
-      Promote and communicate what you are doing
-      Give the appropriate attention to small details that are easy to be observed
-      Give the appropriate attentions to the four elements: fire, water, air, earth
-      Give time for appropriate thinking when designing
-      Have or develop standards for any of your activities
-      Check your own mistakes, and do not measure them through the mistakes of others
-      People should be controlled
-      Monitor and compare
-      Perform your Control with the due attention
-      Believe what you see
-      The understanding of the concept of "good" varies from region to region, one year from the other
-      Understand your partner's interest and use it for the purpose of your Project
-      Education is one of the factors that influence our interests
-      Do not avoid responsibilities
-      Do not expect appreciations, for there will always be someone criticizing what you do

                                                   - 75 -

- 76 -

