Page  1
April 18, 2002
His Excellency 
Mihai Tanasescu
Minister of Public Finance
Bucharest, Romania
Dear Mr. Minister: 
Romania: School Rehabilitation Project (Loan Number 4213 RO)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
We refer to the above-referenced Loan Agreement (the Agreement) between Romania  (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated October 2, 
1997 and amended on November 12, 1999 and April 20, 2001, and to your letter dated March 27, 2002, 
requesting certain modifications in the Agreement, specifically, to increase the number of pre-university 
schools rehabilitated under the project from 900 to 1,200 and extend the Loan Closing Date to complete 
the rehabilitation of additional schools. We hereby accede to your request and hereby amend the 
Agreement as  follows:
1.
Section 2.03
 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2004, or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.”
2.
Schedule 2 “Project Description”, Part A
 is amended to read as follows:
“Part A:
School Rehabilitation
Provision of goods, works and consultants’ services for the rehabilitation, upgrading and 
furnishing of about  one thousand two hundred (1,200) pre-university schools.”
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of Romania, by signing, dating and 
returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter.  This amendment will become effective upon receipt of a 
countersigned copy of this letter.
Sincerely,
/s/  Andrew N. Vorkink
Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
Page  2
AGREED:
ROMANIA
By: Mihai Nicolae Tanasescu
      Minister of Public Finance
Date: May 27, 2002
Page  3
cc:
Her Excellency 
Ekaterina Andronescu
Minister of Education and Research
Bucharest, Romania
Mr. Carlos Bendito
Country Manager
Council of Europe Development Bank
Mr. Pieter Stek
Executive Director
World Bank
Cleared w/ and cc to Messrs/Mmes: Kichigina (LEGEC); Chistyakov (LOAG1)
Bcc:
Mitra (ECAVP); Southworth, Alexieva, Burul Sir, Jerman (ECC05); Williams, Koleva 
(ECCA5); Alahdad, Negulescu, Constantinescu, Sandi, Moarcas (ECCRO); Dixon, Socknat, 
Rutkowski, Mochinova (ECSHD)
