Page  1
April 20, 2001
His Excellency 
Mihai Nicolae Tanasescu
Minister of Public Finance
Ministry of Public Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest, Romania
Re: 
ROMANIA:  School Rehabilitation Project 
(Loan Number 4213 RO)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Minister:
We acknowledge receipt of your letter dated March 27, 2001 requesting amendments 
to the Loan Agreement 4213-RO between the World Bank and Romania for the above 
project.  Specifically, the amendments requested are (a) for a reallocation of the 
loan proceeds under Schedule 1 - Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan; and (b) 
amendment of Schedule 4 -Procurement and Consultant Services, Section II, part C3.   
The Bank has considered your request, and I would like to inform you of the 
following:
With respect to the proposed reallocation of the Loan proceeds, it is the Bank's 
view that changes in the current allocations are not necessary at this time, for 
several reasons: (a) as of April 5, 2001, only $10.6 million out of the total loan of 
$70.0 million has been disbursed.  Specifically, actual disbursements out of the $50.0 
million allocated for works under Category 1 only amount to about $5.0 million to 
date.   Disbursement for furniture under Category 2A only amounts to only about 
$50,000 in the aggregate, out of a total allocation of $4.0 million.  The unallocated 
amount of $8.1 million from the loan is still untouched.  We think that it would be 
unlikely that the current allocations for works and school furniture will be fully 
committed before March 2002.   Therefore, we propose to review the disbursement 
situation again in early 2002, once the Ministry of Education and Research has invited 
and evaluated the construction bids for the remaining 450 schools and furniture bids 
for about 600 schools.  At that time, the extent of the total commitments out of the 
Bank Loan as well as from the Romanian Government can be determined with more 
precision.  We will then at that time, in agreement with you and the Council of Europe 
Development Bank (CEDB), make the appropriate reallocation of the loan amounts, as 
well as the adjustments needed in the financing/disbursement shares of Romania, the 
Bank and the CEDB on works expenditures.  A copy of the Status of Loan withdrawals as 
of April 5, 2001 is attached below for your information (Attachment 1).
With respect to your request to amend the text of the procurement procedure 
under Schedule 4, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to make the 
requested amendments.  Accordingly, the Loan Agreement is proposed to be amended as 
set forth below:
Schedule 4, Section II, Part C, subparagraph 3 is amended to read as follows:
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for mapping specialists, project management specialists, procurement 
specialists, maintenance management specialists, technical survey specialists and 
construction supervision specialists may be procured under contracts, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,300,000 equivalent, awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Please indicate your agreement to the above amendment to the Loan Agreement by 
signing and returning to us the attached copy of this letter.  This amendment will 
become effective upon receipt of a countersigned copy of this letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  2
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/  Andrew N. Vorkink
Country Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
ROMANIA
By /s/ Mihai Nicolae Tanasescu
Minister of Public Finance
Date:
May 21, 2001
