Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Co-lenders’ Agreement
relating to the cofinancing of the 
School Rehabilitation Project in Romania
between
THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 18 , 1998
CO-LENDERS’ AGREEMENT
This Agreement, made and entered into as of the 18th day of May 1998, between 
THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND (hereinafter referred to as "CEF") and 
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter referred to as 
the "Bank").
WITNESSETH
WHEREAS:
(A)
Romania (hereinafter referred to as the "Borrower") has requested the 
Bank and CEF to assist in the financing of the School Rehabilitation Project (the 
"Project") in Romania;
(B)
The Bank has entered into a loan agreement with the Borrower (hereinafter 
referred to as the "Bank Loan Agreement"), dated October 2, 1997, under which the Bank 
is lending to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions therein set forth or referred 
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$70,000,000 (hereinafter referred 
to as the "Bank Loan") to finance part of the Project;
(C)
CEF has entered into a loan agreement with the Borrower (hereinafter 
referred to as the "CEF Loan Agreement"), dated October 1, 1997, under which CEF is 
lending to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions therein set forth or referred to, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$13,800,000 (hereinafter referred to 
as the "CEF Loan", and the Bank Loan Agreement and the CEF Loan Agreement being 
hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Loan Agreements" and individually as a 
"Loan Agreement") to finance part of the Project;
(D)
The Bank and CEF (hereinafter referred to collectively as the 
Page  2
"Co-lenders" and individually as a "Co-lender") consider it desirable to advise each 
other of matters concerning the Project, the Borrower and other matters of common 
interest.
NOW THEREFORE the Co-lenders hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Coordination, Exchange of Information, and Consultation
Section 1.01. Each Co-lender shall, in conformity with and subject to its 
practices with respect to the treatment of information of a confidential nature, at 
the request of the other Co-lender, exchange views and provide pertinent information 
with respect to the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Project.
Section 1.02. Each Co-lender shall promptly inform the other Co-lender of any of 
the following events:
(a)
any event of which such Co-lender becomes aware which, in the opinion of 
such Co-lender, is likely to materially interfere with, or seriously hinder or impair, 
the implementation of the Project, or to adversely and materially interfere with the 
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Agreement to which such 
Co-lender is a party; and/or
(b)
any notice given by the Borrower to prepay the whole or any part of the 
loan disbursed pursuant to the Loan Agreement to which such Co-lender is a party and 
any amount thereof actually prepaid.
Section 1.03. Each Co-lender shall provide to the other Co-lender a copy of its 
respective Loan Agreement promptly after this Agreement is signed.  
Section 1.04. Each Co-lender shall inform the other Co-lender of any supervision 
mission related to its respective Loan Agreement undertaken by itself and provide to 
such other Co-lender a report setting out the main findings or results of such 
mission.
Section 1.05. Without prejudice to the independent right of decision and action 
of each Co-lender under its respective Loan Agreement, each Co-lender shall give 
notice to, and to the extent reasonably practicable consult with, the other Co-lender 
whenever it proposes to:
(a)
suspend, terminate, cancel or accelerate, in whole or in part, the loan 
provided under its Loan Agreement; or
(b)
agree to any substantial amendment to its Loan Agreement, or take any 
action which might result in the termination of its Loan Agreement.
Section 1.06. In addition to the matters referred to in the foregoing Sections 
of this Article I, each Co-lender may consult with the other Co-lender on any matter 
of common interest arising out of this Agreement.
Section l.07. Each Co-lender agrees that all its decisions, including decisions 
to take or refrain from taking action, concerning the Loan Agreement to which it is a 
party, will be based exclusively on its own judgment, independently of the information 
provided by, or expected from, the other Co-lender or the views expressed by such 
other Co-lender.
Article II
Procurement and Administration
Section 2.01. Procurement of the goods and services to be financed in accordance 
with the CEF Loan Agreement shall be governed by the provisions contained in the Bank 
Loan Agreement. Supervision of the procurement process shall be carried out by the 
Bank in accordance with its standard procedures and practices in such matters. The 
Bank shall provide CEF with a copy of any communication to the Borrower that the Bank 
may make in the discharge of its functions under the provisions for the procurement of 
goods and services contained in the Bank Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Upon receipt by the Bank of a disbursement request from the 
Borrower, the Bank shall promptly deliver to the CEF a disbursement notice. Such 
Page  3
disbursement request and disbursement notice shall be in such form as the Bank and CEF 
may agree from time to time.
Article III 
Adjustment for Cofinancing
Section 3.01. Subject to the agreement of the Borrower, each Co-lender shall 
take all necessary actions to incorporate relevant clauses in, and/or make such 
amendments as may be required to, the Loan Agreement to which such Co-lender is a 
party in order to reflect the cofinancing arrangements envisaged herein and to 
incorporate an optional cross default clause in respect of the other Co-lender’s loan 
to the Borrower.
Article IV
Effectiveness of this Agreement
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its signature by both 
parties.
Section 4.02. Subject to Section 4.03 of this Agreement, this Agreement shall 
remain in full force and effect until the date on which the CEF Loan Agreement shall 
have terminated or the date on which the Bank Loan Agreement shall have terminated, 
whichever is earlier.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be modified from time to time by further 
agreement in writing between the Co-lenders. This Agreement may be terminated at any 
time upon thirty (30) days’ advance notice given in writing by either party to the 
other party.
Article V
Miscellaneous
Section 5.01. Any notice required under this Agreement and any agreement or 
other document contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Any such notice 
shall be deemed to have been duly given either on the date of dispatch, if delivered 
by hand or sent by telex or cable, or five (5) days after the date of posting, if sent 
by registered airmail, and in each case addressed as specified below, or to such other 
address as either party shall have designated by notice to the other.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:  
Telex:
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
For CEF:
Fonds de Developpement
 Social du Conseil de l’Europe
55, Avenue Kleber (16e)
75784 Paris Cedex 16
Telex:
642709 CEFON F
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CEF and the Bank, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Paris, France and the District of Columbia, United States of America, respectively, as 
of the day and year first above written.
Page  4
THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE SOCIAL
    DEVELOPMENT FUND
By /s/ Martin Murtfeld
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kenneth Lay
Authorized Representative
