Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16767
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
THIRD MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2035-UNI)
June 25, 1997
Agriculture Group 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     Naira
US$1.0      4.7 Naira (at appraisal, 1988)
US$1 .0 =    80.0 Naira (at completion, 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP        -  Agricultural Development Project
ADPEC      -  Agricultural Development Project Executive Council
AISC       -  Agricultural Input Supply Companiy
APMEU    -  Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation UJnit
ATSF       -  Agricultural Technology Support Fund
ERR        -   Economic Rate of Return
FACU       -  Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FAO        -  Food and Agriculture Organi7ation
FDF        -   Federal Department of Fisheries
FMANR    -   Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
FMF        -  Federal Ministry of Finance
FRMCSU   -  Fisheries Resources Monitoring Control and Surveillance Unit
FUA        -  Fadama Users Association
ICR        -  Implementation Completion Report
IDA        -   International Development Association
IFAD       -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
LGC        -   Local Government Council
MANR       -  Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
M & E      -  Monitoring and Evaluation
MSADP    -   Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
MTRM       -  Monthly Technology Review Meeting
NFDF       -  National Fadama Development Fund
NIOMR      -  Nigerian Institute for Oceonography and Marine Research
NOLCHEM  -  National Oil and Chemical Marketing Company
OFAR       -  On-Farm Adaptive Research
PCC        -  Project Coordinating Commiltee
PME        -  Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
PMU        -   Project Management tJnit
PRSD       -   Planning Research and Statistics Department
SDR        -  Special Drawing Right
SMS        -  Subject Matter Specialist
SPAT       -  Small Plot Adoption Technique
TSC        -  Technical Services Contract
UAES       -  Unified Agricultural Extension Services
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Program
VEA        -  Village Extension Agent
WIA        -   Women in Agriculture
Vice President     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director     Yaw Ansu
Technical Manager      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Team Leader       Samuel Eremie



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................                                    i-iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction ..........................
Project Objectives ...1.....................I
Achievement of Project Objectives .........................2
Factors Affecting Project .........................8
Project Sustainability ..........................9
Bank Performance ........................                                      10
Borrower Performance ........................                                  10
Assessment of Outcome ........................                                 10
Future Operations ........................                                     I I
Key Lessons Learned .........................11
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                       .15
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .16
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .20
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .21
Table 8A: Project Costs ....................                                  24
Table 8B: Project Financing ....................                               25
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .27
Table I 1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .30
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .31
APPENDICES:
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire .33
Appendix B:   Sector-Specific Data:
Table 1: Achievements of ADPs in Extension, Technical Services.         63
Fisheries and Commercial Services
Table 2: Achievements of the ADPs in Infrastructure and Management  64
Appendix C: Borrower Contribution to the ICR .65
MAPS:          IBRD 20798
IBRD 20799
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
THIRD MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[CREDIT 2035 - UNII
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Multi-State
Agricultural Development Project (MSADP III), for which Credit 2035-UNI in the
amount of SDR 75.0 million (US$100.9 million equivalent) was approved on June 13,
1989 and made effective on March 29, 1990.
2.    The Credit was closed on March 31, 1996, one year behind the original closing
date of March 31, 1995. Final disbursement took place on October 18, 1996, at which
time a balance of SDR 5,974.9 (US$8,497.0 equivalent) was canceled.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Mr. Samuel Eremie, AFMNG, and reviewed by Messrs.
Moti B. Rambocus, AFMNG, and James Sackey, AFTI1. The Borrower provided
comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the joint Bank/Borrower final
supervision and completion mission, April 15 to June 19, 1996. It is based on material in
the project file, field visits to all the project units and discussions with government
officials and project beneficiaries. The Borrower's staff from the Federal Ministry of
Finance (FMF), the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) and the Agricultural
Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU) participated in the completion
mission. The views of state level officials and those of the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMANR) and the Federal Ministry of Finance have
been reflected in the aide-memoire (Appendix A). A summary of the Borrower's final
evaluation report is included in Appendix C.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
THIRD MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[CREDIT 2035 - UNII
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Nigeria had implemented Bank-assisted agricultural development projects (ADPs)
for 13 years by 1988 when the Third Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
(MSADP III) was appraised for an International Development Association (IDA) credit
of SDR 75.0 million (US$100.9 million equivalent). Among the lessons from the
completed ADPs were the need for: close research-extension linkages to provide relevant
technology for the farmers; effective unified extension services; a privatized and efficient
input distribution system; private sector involvement in the provision of rural
infrastructure and of the local government councils (LGCs) in their maintenance; and
efficient organizational structures for agricultural development. This experience, coupled
with the emphasis of the 1988 Agricultural Policy for Nigeria on the development of
institutional capacity and an increased role for the private sector, influenced the design of
the MSADP III, which provided assistance to Lagos, Ondo, Osun, Oyo and Rivers states.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objectives of the project were to: (i) assist in the preparation and
carrying out of programs that would stimulate agricultural growth, exports and
employment; (ii) improve agricultural services for 1,059,000 farm families, and rural
infrastructure, especially the rehabilitation of 2,230 km and maintenance of 9,990 km of
rural roads, the rehabilitation of 800 existing wells and construction of 2,400 new wells;
and (iii) focus attention at federal and state levels on the critical issues affecting
agricultural and fisheries development in Nigeria. The objectives were realistic and
consistent with Nigeria's priority for smallholder agricultural development at the time.
They were also relevant for the Bank's Sector Assistance Strategy of the late 1980s which
aimed at strengthening agricultural support services, agricultural marketing and price
systems and the capacity for sector planning, policy formulation and expenditure
programming [paras. 2, 3].
3.    Covenants.  The main covenants stipulated in the Credit Agreement were:
(i) provision of adequate counterpart funds; (ii) establishment of semi-autonomous
project implementation units; (iii) maintenance of structures for coordination, monitoring
and evaluation; (iv) review of the state agricultural institutions; (v) establishment of
agricultural input supply companies (AISCs); (vi) involvement of the LGCs in road



- 11 
maintenance; and (vii) harmonization of the agricultural data collection systems [para. 4,
Table 10].
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Project Costs, Financing and Timetable. Total project cost was estimated at
US$159.4 million at appraisal, with IDA financing of US$100.9 million accounting for
63 percent. Actual project cost as of October 18, 1996, was about US$133.1 million with
IDA contribution accounting for 80 percent, mainly because of inadequate counterpart
funding. The project was implemented in six years instead of the five years estimated at
appraisal [para. 24, 25].
5.    Achievement of Objectives. The project substantially achieved its objectives of
building local capacity for the preparation and implementation of agricultural
development programs, improving the agricultural services and rural infrastructure, and
raising awareness for the sustainable management of fisheries resources. The project was
instrumental in the unification of extension services in Nigeria. The adaptive research
component developed improved technologies for crops, aquaculture and soyabean
utilization. The most widely adopted technologies in the project area include: improved
cassava varieties, especially TMS 30572, 50395 and 30555, adopted by over 60 percent
of the farmers; improved upland (ITA 150) and lowland (FARO 36 and 37) rice varieties;
homestead fish ponds, sometimes combined with livestock production; and incorporation,
by women, of soyabean into the family menu. Private outgrowers accounted for 78
percent of the 2,717T of grain seed produced. Only 40 percent of the revised target for
well construction was achieved but communities were effectively organized to maintain
the water points. About 62 percent of the revised 2,606 km target for rural road
rehabilitation was achieved but LGC involvement in the maintenance of these roads was
poor because of the frequent changes in the leadership of the councils.
6.    The commercial services of four ADPs were successfully transformed into
agricultural input supply companies (AISCs) and preliminary results suggest that they can
be self-sustaining if allowed a free hand by the government. There was an improvement
in the analytical capacity of the ADP staff, which showed in the improved quality of the
reports. Over the project life, project staff benefitted from about 22,500 short training
courses in various aspects of agriculture. The Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
(FACU) contributed to the articulation of rural development policy, provided
implementation support to agricultural projects, and made outstanding technical
contributions to joint missions with the Bank. The Agricultural Projects Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (APMEU) cleared the backlog of unanalyzed survey reports and
introduced improved data collection and analysis procedures into the ADP system. The
federal Planning Research and Statistics Department (PRSD) established the National
Agricultural Data Bank while the Fisheries Resources Monitoring Control and
Surveillance Unit (FRMCSU) is regulating sea fisheries through the enforcement of the
enabling decree in collaboration with the Nigerian Navy [paras. 5 to 25].



- iii -                            i
7.    Factors Affecting Implementation. The key factors which adversely affected
implementation were: (i) inadequate counterpart funding; (ii) unilateral changes in project
management; (iii) political interference in project management, especially in staffing,
procurement and the use of project equipment; (iv) irregular meetings of the project
executive committees; (v) political and fuel crises; and (vi) problems in fund
management. On the positive side, the Federal Government has been consistent in its
support of the ADP system as an effective arrangement for smallholder agricultural
development and the state governments have scheduled the ADPs to benefit from the
regular planning and budgetary processes [paras. 26 to 29].
8.    Bank Performance. The performance of the Bank was satisfactory in project
appraisal and implementation.  The appraisal mission took into consideration the
country's agricultural development priorities, the economic environment as well as the
Bank's sector strategy but implementation targets and guidelines were not clearly defined
for some components.  State PRSDs, however, complained that Bank supervision
missions seldom met them [para. 31].
9.    Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance was generally satisfactory.
One of its agencies, FACU, prepared the project and, along with APMEU, provided
implementation support to the ADPs and participated in Bank supervision missions.
Most of the Credit covenants, except those related to counterpart funding and the
frequency of meeting of the executive committees, were complied with [para 32].
10.   Project Sustainability.  The strengthening of implementation structures and
capacity, the increase in agricultural production and the associated satisfactory economic
rate of return (ERR), the scheduling of the ADPs, the increasing participation of
beneficiaries in project activities, the establishment of the AISCs, the allocation of
operating funds from the Fadama and Technology Support facilities to most of the project
components, as well as the operational plans prepared suggest a good probability of
sustainability of the key project benefits. It is expected that with improved macro-
economic management, there would be an increase in private sector participation which
would help strengthen sustainability. As for the ADPs themselves, their sustainability is
uncertain given the unsatisfactory past record of poor counterpart funding and a lack of
public awareness of the results achieved by the ADPs [para. 30].
11.   Project Outcome. Overall, the outcome of the project is satisfactory, considering
the likely sustainability of the project benefits and the increase in agricultural production,
as reflected by the re-estimated ERR of 26.1 percent compared to the appraisal estimate
of 17.0 percent. The project has also enhanced the country's capacity to implement
agricultural development programs and contributed to rural poverty alleviation [para. 33].
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Key  Findings of Implementation  Experience.   The key  findings of
implementation experience are that: (i) government needs to continuously prioritize its
objectives and strategies since its simultaneous involvement in a large number of



- lv -
agricultural interventions dilutes its effectiveness in funding the activities, especially with
dwindling public budgets; (ii) political interference in project management impedes
smooth implementation and stifles the development of an accountable management
culture; and (iii) private sector and beneficiary community participation need to be
vigorously encouraged by government to reduce the pressure on scarce public resources.
With respect to the latter, input supply, road rehabilitation and maintenance, provision
and maintenance of water points, multiplication of all types of seeds, adaptive research,
extension and training are some of the areas where project experience has shown that
private participation could be fostered. Such participation should start at the planning
and project preparation stage, and continue through implementation to evaluation [para.
371.
13.   Future Operations. The technical and administrative proposals in the operational
plans prepared by the project units are adequate. The plans focus on the maintenance of
core activities, which at the ADP level include technology adaptation and extension and
the promotion of private sector involvement in project activities, and at the federal level
the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of agricultural policy and programs. The
effectiveness of the plans will, however, depend on the prioritization by the government
of its interventions in the agricultural sector, the implementation of the recommendations
of the institutional reviews, and the implementation of various proposals to enhance
private sector participation in fertilizer distribution [para. 35, Table 6].
14.   Key Lessonsfor Future Projects. For future related projects, there is a need for
the Bank to: (i) instil a sense of ownership by ensuring the participation of all agencies to
be included in a project right from the preparation stage; (ii) promote responsibility and
accountability by allowing project components reporting to different government
departments to have separate special accounts; (iii) carefully define implementation
targets during appraisal to facilitate implementation and ultimate evaluation; and
(iv) closely monitor during supervision missions compliance with institutional
arrangements.
15.   The government, has to: (i) focus on a few priority interventions in line with
dwindling public budgetary resources, and encourage private sector participation;
(ii) adequately fund the selected interventions to facilitate implementation; and
(iii) minimize interference in the management of projects to promote the development of
an accountable management system. The implementing agencies also need to involve
communities and the private sector in their activities, and maintain good external
relations to ensure the sustainability of project benefits [para. 36 to 38].



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
THIRD MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[CREDIT 2035 - UNII
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    Nigeria by 1988, when the Third Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
(MSADP III) was being appraised for an International Development Association (IDA)
credit of SDR 75.0 million (US$100.9 million equivalent), had implemented Bank-
assisted agricultural development projects (ADPs) for 13 years. Some of the lessons
learned from the completed ADPs include the need to ensure that: (i) technical packages
are based on proven technology and close research-extension linkages are established so
that research programs respond to problems at the farm level; (ii) extension services are
unified for increased effectiveness; (iii) agricultural input distribution is privatized for
efficiency; (iv) rural infrastructure is constructed by the private sector and maintained by
the local government council (LGC); and (v) state organizational structures become more
efficient The 1988 Agricultural Policy for Nigeria also emphasized an increasing role for
the private sector in agricultural production, processing, distribution and marketing and
the need to build institutional capacity for agricultural services. The MSADP III which
was designed with these considerations in mind was approved on June 13, 1989 and was
expected to close on March 31, 1995. It actually closed one year later on March 31,
1996.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objectives of the MSADP III as stated in the Credit Agreement were to:
(a)   assist in the preparation and carrying out of programs that would stimulate
agricultural growth, exports and employment;
(b)   improve agricultural services (for about 1,059,000 farm families in Lagos,
Ondo, Osun, Oyo and Rivers states) and rural infrastructure (rehabilitation
of 2,230 km, recurrent maintenance of 7,960 km and routine maintenance
of 9,990 km of rural roads, rehabilitation of 800 existing wells and
construction of 1,600 wells); and
(c)   focus attention at federal and state levels on the critical issues affecting
agricultural and fisheries development in Nigeria.



-2-
The seven project components were: Agricultural Services; Fisheries; Commercial
Services; Rural Roads and Water Supply; Project Management, Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation; Institutional Development of the State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (MANR); and Federal Component to support capacity building of the Federal
Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU), Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit (APMEU), Planning, Research and Statistics Department (PRSD) of the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMANR), and establish a Fisheries
Resources Monitoring, Control and Surveillance Unit (FRMCSU).
3.    The project objectives were realistic and in line with Nigeria's agricultural policy
as well as past experience in implementing ADPs. They were also consistent with the
Bank's Sector Assistance Strategy of the late 1980s which aimed, among others, to
strengthen the agricultural support services, the agricultural marketing and price systems
and the capacity for sector planning, policy formulation and expenditure programming.
A mid-term review in 1993 maintained the project objectives but revised or established
the physical targets, where the appraisal report did not provide clear indicators.
4.    Covenants to Achieve Project Objectives. Apart from the general covenants
relating to work plans, budgets and audits, the Credit Agreement required: (i) the
provision of adequate counterpart funds by the state and federal governments;
(ii) establishment of semi-autonomous project implementation units; (iii) establishment
and maintenance of structures for policy formulation, coordination, monitoring and
evaluation; (iv) the review of the state agricultural institutions; (v) establishment of state
agricultural input supply companies (AISCs); (vi) conclusion of arrangements with
research institutes to assist the ADPs in the adaptive research programs; (vii) reaching
agreement  with  LGCs  to  undertake  routine  maintenance  of  roads;  and
(viii) harmonization of agricultural data collection systems and procedures. Most of the
covenants were complied with except those relating to the provision of adequate and
timely counterpart funds, the regular meetings of the executive committees and the
agreements with the LGCs for road maintenance, The status of the covenants is
summarized in Table 10.
Achievement of Objectives
5.    The project achieved, substantially, its objectives. Tables 1 and 2 in Appendix B
give details of the achievements in the various components. The technical services of the
ADPs through the on-farm adaptive research (OFAR) process adapted technologies
suitable for the ecological zones, the most prominent of which were improved varieties of
cassava, rice and maize, cultural practices for sole and mixed cropping, and local feeds
for livestock.  The Women in Agriculture (WIA) unit adapted gender-specific
technologies for product storage, processing and utilzation. Some of the ADPs have
involved the LGCs in the funding of the monthly technology review meeting (MTRM),
which portends well for the sustainability of the activity. Private outgrowers accounted
for 78 percent of the 2,717T of grain seed produced. The project also assisted farmers to



-3-
rehabilitate 68,049 ha of cocoa (119 percent of the target of 57,125 ha) and to replant
6,588 ha of cocoa (target 2,204 ha) and 4,410 ha of oil palm (target 4,300 ha).
6.    Through the unified agricultural extension services (UAES), the ADPs reached
1,273,000 farm families (120 percent of the appraisal target) with improved technologies
on crops, livestock, fisheries and agro-forestry, mainly using the small plot adoption
technique (SPAT). The project attained a village extension agent (VEA) to farm family
ratio of 1:1,411 as compared with a target of 1:1,000 and conducted 365,200 SPAT (78
percent of the target). The most widely adopted technologies include: (i) improved
cassava varieties (TMS 30572, 30555, 50395 and 4{2} 1425), adopted by over 60 percent
of the farmers and resulting in yield increases from about 8T/ha to 13T/ha; (ii) downy
mildew resistant maize varieties, which substantially reduced yield losses in the savanna
areas of Ondo, Osun and Oyo states; (iii) improved upland rice variety (ITA 150) and
lowland varieties (FARO 36 and 37); (iv) local cowpea variety, 'iya iyawo', with low
plant protection requirements; (v) soyabean utilization to improve family protein intake;
and (vi) homestead fish ponds. There was an increase in the yields of the major crops in
the project area and in the average farm size (from 1.0ha to 1.5ha). However, soil
maintenance measures, including alley farming, were not well adopted because of the
land tenure issues. Women farmers were integrated into the mainstream of the extension
services. About 1,745 women groups were formed out of a target of 2,083, and most of
them were registered as cooperatives to enhance their ability to obtain inputs and credit.
7.    The ADP fisheries component developed technologies for homestead fish ponds
as well as the preparation of fish feed from local materials. The demand for fingerlings
was met through supplies from the hatcheries established in Lagos and Ondo, from 31
outgrowers, and by sourcing from the wild. Lagos and Rivers were not fully successful
in developing technological packages for shrimps. Lagos developed technology for the
extensive culture of the freshwater shrimp using juveniles from the wild but was unable
to hatch the larvae beyond the fifth stage (out of 1 1 stages). Rivers developed a package
for the extensive culture of the marine shrimp but discontinued the hatchery production of
the larvae because of financial constraints. Lagos, Ondo and Rivers supported capture
fisheries through the distribution of fishing gear, and by training fishermen on gear
handling and mechanics on outboard engine maintenance. Only Ondo constructed four
fuel depots to ease fuel and lubricant supply to coastline fishermen, but these had not
been put into use as at the end of the project.
8.    The commercial services were transformed into the agricultural input supply
company (AISC) in all the states except Osun where the government intended to establish
one before the end of 1996. No attempt has been made to divest of some of the shares to
cooperative groups and the private sector and the AISCs were still subject to government
direction. Although preliminary results from Lagos, Ondo and Oyo suggest that AISCs
can be profitable if given a free hand to operate, past experience with similar government-
owned companies in other states, however, suggests otherwise. Private retailers for input
distribution were only appointed in Ondo. Some 307,856T of fertilizer (72 percent of the
target), 834T of grain seed (41 percent) and 779T of agrochemicals (64 percent) were



-4 -
distributed. Fertilizer distribution was controlled by government and the supply often
inadequate.
9.    Altogether, 1,622 km of rural roads (62 percent of the revised target) were
rehabilitated. The roads opened up the rural areas and facilitated the movement of goods
and people. About 64 percent of the achievement in Ondo, Osun and Oyo states was by
force account rather than contract. The performance in routine maintenance was poor (40
percent of the 7,100 km target) because of the inability of the ADPs to establish effective
linkages with the LGCs whose leadership went through frequent changes. For water
supply, the ADPs met 40 percent of the revised well construction target of 970 and 58
percent of the borehole target of 145, and the communities were organized to maintain
the facilities. Oyo and Osun together constructed five dams and reticulated eleven, some
of which are beyond the maintenance capacity of the ADPs and the communities and
need to be handed over to the state water agencies. The sanitation and community health
aspects of water supply were not adequately emphasized by most ADPs. All the ADPs
established pilot irrigation schemes and formed fadama users associations (FUAs) to
manage them.
10.   The ADPs established 1 1 (out of the 16) pilot agro-processing centers,
demonstrated technologies sourced from the research institutes, and trained blacksmiths
to fabricate simple equipment. Technologies for processing of palm oil and tomato puree
were well received in Osun and Lagos, respectively, but most farmer groups required
credit support in order to pay the full cost of the processing equipment. Ondo and Osun
constructed headquarters buildings and all the ADPs constructed, rehabilitated or
extended their service structures. The maintenance, after credit closure, of the heavy
equipment procured by the ADPs is of concern to the state governments. The alternatives
being considered for these equipment include: public auctioning; hiring out to generate
revenue; use by the ADP staff for contract work; and transfer to autonomous public
leasing companies. Past experience in Nigeria has not demonstrated the viability of the
last three options.
11.   The ADP management units met regularly to plan and review work programs.
Credit disbursement was, however, adversely affected by: (i) state government directives
which lowered the permitted management expenditure limits; (ii) infrequent meeting (46
percent of the target of 112) of the Agricultural Development Project Executive
Committee (ADPEC); and (iii) political interference in project management, notably in
the procurement process, in the use of project vehicles and equipment, and through
frequent changes in management staffing. The infrequent meeting of the ADPEC
subcommittees for Agriculture and Infrastructure also resulted in the ineffective
coordination of the activities of the ADP with those of other agencies operating in the
rural areas. As a sign of positive government support, however, all the ADP staff now
enjoy state pension benefits and the ADP budget can be incorporated into the rolling plan
and annual budget. The image of most ADPs needs to be improved by the program
managers through better attention to the publicity of ADP activities and the maintenance
of good external relations, including those with the parent ministry. Staff turnover was



-5 -
high in Lagos and Rivers ADPs because of the lure of the oil companies who offered
better staff pay packages.
12.   The ADP training programs contributed substantially to the enhancement of the
capacity and skills for agricultural development. Apart from the regular fortnightly and
monthly training of the extension staff, staff benefitted from a total of 21,624 short
courses, 99 percent of them locally, helping to strengthen the capacity of local training
institutions. Many staff have readily picked up more lucrative jobs elsewhere after being
trained by the ADP. The Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) departments
prepared annual work plans, monitored project activitites especially through the monthly
progress review meeting, and undertook 473 studies (92 percent of the target of 513) to
identify constraints and assess project impact. There was an improvement in the
analytical capacity of staff as evidenced by the improved quality of periodic reports but
submission was usually late, with the exception of Osun ADP.
13.   To strengthen the sector policy and strategy capacity of the PRSD of the MANR,
the ADPs provided training, vehicles and equipment but the positions of Planning and
Economic Advisers were not filled. Although institutional reviews were done in all the
states, except Oyo where the draft report was yet to be discussed, no serious
reorganization has occured in any of the states as a result of the review. Most of the
PRSDs would prefer to directly manage IDA funds rather than these being channelled
through the ADP. The state governments would like future Bank assistance to the
MANR to be extended to other units beside the PRSD.
14.   FACU strengthened its capacity to articulate rural development policy and to
support the implementation of the ADPs in Nigeria, mainly through supervision missions.
It conducted 56 thematic supervision missions (out of a target of 60), 26 comprehensive
missions and 29 joint missions with the Bank, with outstanding technical inputs by the
staff. There was, however, a weakness in the support to the ADPs on portfolio
management, probably because of the centralization of the finance and expenditure
management function in FACU headquarters. FACU coordinated the preparation of nine
projects, and conducted ten project facilitation teams and eight mid-term reviews. FACU
also successfully relocated its headquarters from Ibadan to Abuja in 1993 and achieved a
smooth transition from expatriate staff (12 in 1990 to four in 1995) to local professionals.
FACU would probably be best remembered for its contribution to the unification of
extension services in Nigeria.
15.   APMEU built up the in-house capacity of the ADPs in analytical work through
training in computer application and the development of new softwares. About 480 staff
of state PRSDs and ADPs were trained. Apart from clearing the backlog of 80
unanalyzed surveys, APMEU prepared a field enumerators' handbook to increase the
reliability of data and installed a local area network to enhance data processing.
APMEU's rigorous training program infused sufficient confidence into the staff to train
non-ADP staff and its training plan was commended by the Bank. The twinning



-6 -
arrangement with the University of East Anglia, however, did not come through because
of changes in government and the consequent delay in approving the program.
16.   The unification of the extension services in the country and Bank funding of
separate project coordinating units for crops, livestock, forestry and agricultural research,
have raised the issue of coordination among these units under the FMANR. The Federal
Government undertook a review of some of the units in 1995, but the outcome is yet to be
made public. There is a view that only two coordinating units are needed and these
should be in the office of the Director General of the FMANR. One would be for
planning and implementation support and the other for monitoring and evaluation for all
the subsectors of agriculture. Although FMANR requested Bank assistance on an
institutional review and a piece of sector work was planned for FY97, there has been no
further focused response from FMANR.
17.   The project substantially increased the capacity of the PRSD of FMANR to
coordinate the collection of data and analyze agricultural policy. Four zonal offices were
established, 17 staff were trained in statistical analysis and agricultural planning, and
backed with twelve micro-computer units, staff can now process, store and retrieve data
for all the subsectors. The National Agricultural Data Bank was established with co-
financing from the UNDP/FAO. The National Agro-Statistics Coordinating Committee
and its state counterparts were also established and the national committee is now the
clearing house for all agricultural data. Three planning workshops organized by PRSD
benefitted 350 staff of the state MANRs as well as other agricultural agencies.
18.   The FRMCSU resulted from the upgrading of the Inspection Section of the
Federal Department of Fisheries. Two decrees, the Sea Fisheries Decree and the Inland
Fisheries Decree, were revised and gazetted in 1992, containing stiffer penalties for
infringement. The enlightenment campaign on the decrees as well as the enforcement by
FRMCSU in collaboration with the Nigerian Navy are bringing some orderliness into sea
fisheries. Between 1992 and 1995, three foreign poaching vessels were arrested and
prosecuted, 22 trawl nets with undersize cod end meshes were confiscated, four trawling
licences were withdrawn, and ten cases of conflict within the five nautical mile zone
between trawlers and artisanal fishermen were resolved. Although FRMCSU did not
complete the rehabilitation of its patrol vessel, basic equipment for monitoring was
procured. The Nigerian Institute for Oceonography and Marine Research (NIOMR),
contracted by FRMCSU to undertake the stock assessment of the commercial fish and
shrimp species, was unable to complete the work because of the lack of funds to recruit
enumerators for data collection. The institute's preliminary work on sea fisheries,
however, indicates that the demersal stock (croaker and shrimp) caught by the trawlers
are already showing signs of over exploitation.
19.   An amendment to the Credit Agreement was made in 1991 to provide SDR 2
million for funding work-in-progress for the Watari Irrigation Scheme in Kano State.
About SDR 0.2 million had been utilized for the payment of some consultancy and civil
works before Kano ADP started drawing on the National Fadama Development Project



-7 -
funds for this scheme. The Kano State Government considers the assistance from the
MSADP III credit very useful for sustaining the activities of the former Kano ADP before
funds from the fadama project loan became available.
20.   Technical Assistance. About 32 man-years were utilized by the ADPs for local
financial controllers, out of the 72 man-years provided for various specialist positions,
consultancies and studies. Most of the other specialist positions were filled by existing
project staff, MANR-assigned staff, and local engineering consultants. Lagos ADP
recruited expatriate technical partners for about seven man-months to assist in the
development of the technology package for the freshwater shrimp. The quality of the
limited technical assistance procured by the states was satisfactory. FACU recruited a
Commercial Coordinator and additional engineering staff to improve the support to the
ADPs.
21.   Studies. The project provided for three major studies by the ADPs: (i) review of
the agricultural institutions in each state; (ii) review of the responsiveness of the private
sector and farmer organizations to participation in input distribution; and (iii) assessment
of the potential of rivers and shallow aquifers for small-scale irrigation development. The
aquifer study was concluded in all states except Rivers whose management did not
initially consider it a priority, and the institutions review in all states except Oyo where
there was disagreement over the implementation procedures between the state MANR
and the ADP. The response of the private sector to participation in input distribution was
not systematically analyzed but AISCs were established in all states except Osun.
22.   FACU conducted four out of the six studies specified by the project. The study
on the comparison of force account and private contractors in road construction was not
completed because FACU was dissatisfied with the competence of the consultants. The
study on fuel distribution was not done because of the reluctance of the Federal
Department of Fisheries to involve FACU. FACU also planned to do 37 other studies but
achieved only nine mainly because of counterpart fund constraints. APMEU was
expected to conduct an unspecified number of policy studies related to the ADPs. It
conducted 17 such studies as well as five other studies and eight ICRs, the results of
which have been used by the ADPs, researchers and the government. The NIOMR did
not conclude the stock assessment study that was to guide the fisheries resources
management program (para. 18). The federal PRSD conducted three out of the six
studies it planned. The rest were considered of low priority. Overall, the quality of the
concluded studies was satisfactory. The information guided management in project
implementation and government in agricultural policy formulation, especially in such
areas as the unification of extension services, the establishment of an endowment fund for
the ADPs to mitigate the effect of dwindling donor assistance, commercialization of input
distribution, increased cost recovery, food security, and beneficiary participation. Table 7
presents the details of the status of the studies.
23.   Overall, by establishing a framework for sectoral refonn, promoting agricultural
growth, supporting private sector participation, and enhancing the role of women in the



-8 -
sector, the project also contributed to the attainment of the sectoral development
objectives of promoting rural growth, reducing rural poverty and enhancing the
sustainability of the resource base, especially in fisheries.
24.   Project Costs, Financing and Timetable. Project costs as at October 18, 1996,
when the final credit disbursement was made, stood at about US$133.1 million as
compared with US$159.4 million at appraisal.  The state components cost about
US$106.3 million, 94 percent of the appraisal estimate of US$113.5 million. The federal
components cost US$26.8 million as against the estimated US$45.9 million. The foreign
cost totalling US$73.1 million was 55 percent of total cost, and close to the appraisal
estimate of 54 percent.
25.   The IDA financing of US$106.1 was 105 percent of its expected contribution of
US$100.9 million, due to fluctuations of the exchange rate of the SDR to the US dollar.
The IDA financed 80 percent of project cost as compared with the appraisal estimate of
63 percent. The states counterpart contribution of US$12.3 million was 91 percent of the
expected contribution of US$13.5 million while beneficiary contribution, which is
lumped with internally generated revenue, stood at an impressive US$3.0 million, 200
percent of the appraisal estimate of US$1.5 million.  The Federal Government
contribution of US$11.7 million was only 27 percent of the expected US$43.5 million.
The total federal contribution of N 230.3 million was less than the N 273.8 million
expected even if there was no change in exchange rate. The poor performance of the
Federal Government was due to dwindling real budgets. The remarkable performance in
beneficiary contribution gives hope for greater participation of beneficiaries in future
projects. Due to delays in achieving loan effectiveness, the project was implemented in
six years as compared with the five years estimated at appraisal.
Factors Affecting the Project
26.   The major factors that adversely affected the project were:  (i) inadequate
counterpart funding; (ii) frequent changes in management; (iii) political interference in
management; (iv) irregular meetings of the project executive councils; (v) political and
fuel crises; and (vi) high staff turnover. The first five factors are subject to government
control while the sixth is beyond its control. Inadequate federal counterpart funding
affected all the project components except the PRSD. For the ADPs, only 79 percent of
the approved federal budget of N 128.8 million was released. The approved provisions
were themselves lower than the appraisal requirements. State counterpart funding which
was often released late, was very inadequate in Rivers while Lagos and Ondo ADPs
received more than their appraisal estimates.
27.   The long break in activities in Rivers ADP during 1994 and 1995 following the
unilateral replacement of the management by the state government without consulting the
other parties to the agreement, led to a large number of civil works not being completed.
The other ADPs had similar problems, although on a smaller scale, with changes in the
management. Political and official interference in project management bordered on:



-9-
prescription of spending limits below the stipulations of the Credit Agreement; the
determination of staffing of the units, including embargoes on recruitment; the
requirement for approval of procurements which are within management limits; and the
utilization of project vehicles and equipment. The situation was compounded by the
infrequent meeting of the executive committees leading to delays in the approval of work
programs and poor disbursement.
28.   The political and fuel crises that dominated the period, 1992-95, increased local
costs and adversely affected staff movement and construction activities.  FACU,
APMEU, and Lagos and Rivers ADPs suffered from very high staff turnover because of
the uncompetitive project incentive packages, the case of Lagos and Rivers being
worsened by the influence of the high paying oil industry.
29.   The Bank's conservative approach to management of special accounts and
disbursements were considered by affected agencies as obstacles to smooth
implementation.  The implementation of the federal PRSD was hampered by the
management of its accounts by FACU. Most of the time, the PRSD did not have an
accurate knowledge of the disbursement made on its behalf. The implementation of the
FRMCSU component suffered an initial delay because of objections raised by the Federal
Department of Fisheries to FACU's management of the credit funds. The amendment of
the Credit Agreement to rectify the problem took more than a year. The state PRSDs also
were not satisfied with the control and operation of their funds by the ADPs. Given the
past experience with special accounts in Nigeria. the Bank had to be cautious and should
continue to be.
Project Sustainability
30.   The project has raised agricultural production, strengthened the institutional
structures in the affected states for the delivery of critical services to smallholder farmers,
and produced skilled manpower for a more effective management of agricultural
interventions. Research-extension linkages have improved to produce more relevant
technologies for the farmers.  Beneficiary participation has increased in extension,
adaptive research, seed multiplication, and the provision and maintenance of water points.
Since the preliminary results from the AISCs are encouraging, private participation in
input distribution should be strongly pursued to reduce the pressure of this activity on the
public budget. The ADPs have been scheduled and will benefit from the state budget
allocations. Operating funds have been earmarked for most of the project units from the
Fadama and Agricultural Technology Support facilities, and possibly the Bank-assisted
Environmental Management Project, while future activitities of the FRMCSU may be
funded from the Petroleum Trust Fund. The Federal Government continues to stress its
support for the ADP system and plans to meet the recurrent costs of FACU and APMEU.
All these elements point to a likely sustainability of the project benefits.  Some
improvement would, however, be required in macro-economic management, especially in
the strategies for fertilizer distribution and credit to farmers for production and processing
activities to encourage private sector activity. The key factors that will determine the



- 10-
sustainability of the ADPs are the level of budgetary resources and the perception of the
government and the beneficiaries of the value of the services provided by the ADPs.
Given the already unsatisfactory record of counterpart fund support, frequent changes in
state political heads, the inadequate publicity of the ADPs' results and the low level of
beneficiary consultations by officials, their sustainability is uncertain.
Bank Performance
31.   Bank performance was satisfactory during project appraisal and implementation.
Supervision was fairly regular and the response to project implementation issues prompt.
The state PRSD components, however, complained that they were not usually contacted
by supervision missions. Some of the project units also complained about the non-
specification in the appraisal report of clear targets in several activity areas and the
absence of detailed implementation guidelines in areas such as the involvement of LGCs
in road maintenance. Part of the second problem was addressed during the mid-term
review when targets were specified in some areas while the coordinating agencies were
expected to provide implementation guidelines to the project units as part of their support
to them.
Borrower Performance
32.   The project was prepared by FACU based on Nigeria's experience in the
implementation of earlier ADPs but units such as the FRMCSU and the PRSD claim not
to have been involved at the preparation phase. Federal Government commitment to the
project was demonstrated through the regular release of counterpart funds, although the
amounts fell short of appraisal targets. Government handling of fertilizer distribution
remained one area of weakness throughout project implementation.   The state
governments supported the ADPs by taking care of the salaries of most of the staff, in
addition to the counterpart fund contributions.  Most of the credit covenants were
complied with, except the timely release of adequate counterpart funds, infrequent
meetings of the executive committees, and interference in project management. On the
whole, Borrower performance was satisfactory.
Assessment of Outcome
33.   Overall, the outcome of the project is satisfactory. The major objectives of
stimulating agricultural growth and improving agricultural services and rural
infrastructure were achieved. The re-estimated economic rate of return of 26.1 percent
exceeds the 17.0 percent estimated at appraisal. The factors highlighted in para. 30
support sustainability of the project benefits provided there is macro-economic stability
and a substantial policy thrust to enhance private sector participation in project activities.
34.   The ERR is calculated for a period of 20 years (1990-2009). Benefits and costs
taken into account are those for the 5 state ADPs only. costs and benefits peak in the sixth
year of the project and stabilize for rest of the period. Sixty percent of the peak-year
benefits are derived from incremental production of cocoa originating from rehabilitation



and new cocoa plantings initiated by the project (para. 5). Yam and maize account for 14
and 12 percent, respectively, with the introduction and promotion by the project of
improved/disease-resistant varieties and new propagation techniques. It is assumed that
part of the agricultural benefits are attributable to better infrastructure and 50 percent of
the cost of the road works have been included in the cost stream. Selection f roads for
rehabilitation/maintenance under the project was based on a minimum ERR of 15 percent
derived from vehicular cost savings. Thirty-three percent of annual project costs from
1995 onwards are for roads. A standard conversion factor of 0.85 is applied to non-
tradeables.
Future Operations
35.   The technical and institutional arrangements in the operational plans prepared by
the project units are adequate (annex to Appendix A). Focus is on the maintenance of the
core activities, which in the ADPs include technology adaptation and extension and
promotion of private sector involvement in project activities, and for the federal units, the
effective coordination, monitoring and evaluation of agricultural development policy and
programs. The effectiveness of the operational plans will, however, depend on: (i) the
selection by the government of a few priority agricultural services to support at a time in
line with dwindling public resources; (ii) implementation of the recommendations of the
institutional reviews, especially, with respect to the duplication of functions and the
involvement of communities and the private sector in project activities; and
(iii) implementation of the various proposals to enhance private sector participation in
fertilizer distribution. The key performance indicators during the operational phase are
shown in Table 6.
Key Lessons Learned
36.   The lessons from the implementation of the MSADP III are significant for the
implementing agencies, the government and the Bank. The key lessons for the Bank are:
(i) all agencies to be included in a project should be involved from the project preparation
stage to instil a sense of ownership. The FRMCSU and the state and federal PRSD
components regarded their inclusion in the project as accidental because the relevant
departments were not rigorously involved at preparation; (ii) while proliferation of
special accounts is not desirable, there is a need to devise a system that provides
revolving fund proceeds efficiently to units that do not manage special accounts. The
state and federal PRSD components were dissatisfied with the management of their
accounts by the ADP and FACU, respectively, and the FRMCSU lost more than one year
in its attempt to have a separate special account; (iii) a careful definition of targets during
appraisal facilitates project implementation and ultimate evaluation; and (iv) institutional
arrangements, such as the frequency of executive committee meetings, as well as the
policy environment need to be monitored more closely during supervision missions. This
will enable remedial measures, including sanctions, to be introduced to facilitate
implementation.



- 12 -
37.   For the government, the lessons are:  (i) it should focus on a few priority
interventions in agriculture at a time, especially in the face of dwindling public resources,
and the private sector should be encouraged to participate in project activities in order to
take the pressure off lean public resources; (ii) for the selected priority interventions,
counterpart fund provisions should be adequate and released on time to facilitate project
implementation and credit disbursement; and (iii) political and official interference in the
day-to-day management of projects should be minimized while broader policy support
should be enhanced for effective implementation. The setting of arbitrary staffing and
spending limits, interference in procurement and the use of project equipment, and
irregular meetings of the project executive councils denied the project the needed policy
guidance and impeded the development of an accountable management system.
38.   The major lessons for the implementing agencies are: (i) the involvement of the
private sector and other beneficiaries in project activities is very important for the
sustainability of project benefits. The involvement of communities in water supply,
LGCs in funding the MTRM, and private outgrowers in seed multiplication reduced the
pressure on ADP resources during implementation and will ensure the continuation of the
activities after the project; and (ii) publicity and the maintenance of good external
relations are vital for the survival of the ADP system in the competitive environment of
multiple government interventions in the agricultural sector. Project managers have an
important role to play to create the right image of their projects in the minds of
government and the public.



- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievementof Objectives         Substantial        Partial         Negligible      Not ApDlicable
(0,'/                      ()                       (V)
Macro Policies                      E                E                E                  0
Sector Policies                     E                E                E                  E
Financial Objectives                E                0                 0                 0
Institutional Development                   0                          0El
Physical Objectives                 El               0                 al                El
Poverty Reduction                    E                0               E                  E
Gender Issues                        0                0                0                 0
Other Social Objectives             [                E                E                  0
EnvironmentalObjectives             E                E                E                  E
Public Sector Management             E                0               E                  E
Private Sector Development           E                0               E                  E
Other (specify)                      E               E                E                  E
B. Project Sustainability               Likelv                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
Cont'd....



- 14 -
Hiehly
C. Bank Performance                     Satisfactorv          Satisfactory                Deficient
(V)                      (V)                        (1)
Identification                                                                          E ni
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal
Supervision                                                                             E [zi
Hiehly
D. Borrower Performance                       Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
(- )            (V)             (1)
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)                      q               q
Hiehly                                             Hiehly
E. Assessment of Outcome               Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
E/              S/                /                  /



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose                         Approval       Status
Preceeding Operations
.   Ln. 1092-UNI, Funtua ADP              Integrated Rural Dev.              1975       Completed
2.    Ln. 1099-UNI, Gusau ADP                                                1975           "
3.    Ln. 1164-UNI, Gombe ADP                                                1975
4.    Ln. 1454-UNI, Lafia ADP                                                1977
5.    Ln. 1455-UJNI, Ayangba ADP                                             1977
6.    Ln. 1667-UNI, Bida ADP                                                 1979
7.    Ln. 1668-UNI, Ilorin ADP                                               1979
8     Ln. 1719-UNI, ARMTI                 Agric./Mgt. Training               1979
9.    Ln. 1838-UNI, Oyo North ADP         Integrated Rural Dev.              1980
10.   Ln. 1854-UNI, Ekiti-Akoko ADP                                          1980
11.   Ln. 1981-UNI, Bauchi ADP                                               1981
12.   Ln. 1982-UNI, Kano ADP                                                 1981
13.   Ln. 2029-UNI ATAP                                                      1981
14.  Ln. 2185-UNI, Sokoto ADP                                                1982
15.  Ln. 2436-UNI, Kaduna ADP                                                1984
16.   Ln. 2733-UNI, MSADP I                                                  1986
17.   Ln. 2988-UNI, MSADP 11                                                 1988
Following Operations
1.    Ln. 3183-UNI, Nat. Seed             Improved Seed Supply               1990        Ongoing
2.    Ln. 226 1-UNI, Nat. Agric. Res.     Improved Applied Research          1991
3..   Ln. 345 1-UJNI, Nat. Fadama         Small Scale Irrigation             1992
4.    Ln. 3483-UNI, Agric. Tech.          Extension/Adaptive Research        1992



- 16-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned                Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification (EPS)                1979-86                    March 16, 1987
Preparation                                                    1986/87
Pre-appraisal                                   -              October 1987
Appraisal                          March 1988                  May 1988
Negotiations                       November 1988               November 14, 1988
Board presentation                 May 15, 1989                June 13, 1989
Signing                            June 6, 1989                August 4, 1989
Effectiveness                      September 4, 1989           March 29, 1990
Mid-term review                    December 1991               Oct.-Nov., 1993
Project completion                 June 30, 1994               October 18, 1996
Credit closing                      March 31, 1995             March 31, 1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursements -- Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year       FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate (a)   3.0    17.0   20.0    21.0    28.0      11.9
Cumulative             3.0     20.0    40.0    61.0    89.0    100.9
Actual(b)                               14.2    17.5    18.7     31.0   10.2      14.0     0.5
Cumulative(c)                           14.2    31.7    50.4     81.4  91.6    105.6   106.1
Actual as % of         0.0     0.0      35.5    52.0    56.6    80.7   90.8    104.7   105.2
estimate
Date of final disbursement: October 18, 1996
(a) It was anticipated at appraisal that disbursement would start in the last quarter of FY89.
(b) Credit was extended beyond the original closing date of March 31,1995 by one year.
(c) Actual cumulative disbursement exceeded appraisal estimate because of exchange rate changes of SDR to US$.



- 17-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                       Estimated                             Actual
1. Agricultural Services
(a) Unification of         All advice on crop, livestock,      Advice in all subsectors was given
extension services      fisheries, tree crops, and home     by a single staff, but a few female
economics to be given by a single  agents interacted with women on
staff (the VEA).                   group activities.
(b) VEA/farm family ratio    1:800 - 1,000                     1:1,411
(c) Adaptive research      Support to ADPs to be formalized    Each ADP signed a contract with a
arrangements            with research institutes by September  research institute between 1990 and
1989.                              1992.
(d) Seed and planting      ADPs to identify and train outgrowers  Outgrowers produced 2,107 tonnes
material production     to produce tree seedlings, and all the    of grain seed by 1995, but tree
arable crop seeds.                 seedlings were produced by the ADP
or the ministry.
2. Fisheries
(a) Fingerling production  Public hatcheries to be established  Public hatcheries established only in
only if arrangements with private  two states. 31 outgrowers identified.
hatcheries fail.
(b) Technology for prawns    Lagos to develop package for giant  None successfully concluded the
and shrimps            prawn and Rivers for marine shrimp.   hatchery and larvae production
stages.
(c) Fuel distribution      Ondo, Lagos and Rivers to provide   Only Ondo established four depots,
facilities and agree on operation with   but these were not in use as at end of
fuel companies.                    project.
3. Rural Infrastructure
(a) Road rehabilitation and    Rehabilitate 2,230 km, recurrent  Rehabilitation 1,622 km, recurrent
maintenance             maintenance 7,960 km, routine 9,990   maintenance 4,601 km, routine 2,850
km, waterways construction 180 km.   km. No waterways construction.
(b) Development of private   No expansion of force account .    53 percent of rehabilitation done on
contractors for road    Contractors to handle most          force account. Most maintenance on
works                   rehabilitation and maintenance.     force account.
(c) Rural water supply and    Construct 2,400 wells. Each com-  388 wells, 84 boreholes and some
maintenance             munity to contribute 10 percent of  dams built. Communities
capital cost and all maintenance cost   contributed 10 percent for wells and
through users association.          maintained them.



- 18-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (cont'd)
Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                         Estimated                            Actual
4. Commercial Services
(a) Privatization of input   ADPs to establish input supply     Input companies established in four
distribution             companies in collaboration with     out of five ADPs but with government
cooperatives and private sector, and    as sole owner. Only one appointed
appoint private retailers.         private retailers.
5. Project Management
(a) ADPEC Meeting            Four times a year, target of 112.  52 meetings only.
(b) Technical assistance     ADPs to utilize 72 man-years for   About 32 man-years utilized for local
various positions and consultancies.    financial controllers, the rest for
consultancies.
6. Institutional Development
(a) Sector policy and        Appointment of Planning and        Advisers not appointed. Equipment
strategy                 Economic Advisers and provision of   provided, but often inadequate.
equipment.
(b) Institutional review     Each state to do institutional reviews.   Review done by four out of five states.
7. FACU
(a) Project facilitation team  To be organized for Ondo and Oyo  Organized for Ondo, Osun and Oyo
(MSADP III) and others.            (MSADP III) and 7 others.
(b) Implementation           To be organized to assist ADPs in  Many missions done but constrained
assistance missions      various technical areas.            by funding problems.
(c) Mid-term review          To be done for MSADP III (by       Done for MSADP III in 1993, six
December 31, 1991) and other       other ADPs and National Agric.
projects as due.                   Research Project.
(d) Studies for rural        FACU planned 43.                   Only 13 done because of funding
development policy                                           constraints.
(e) Supervision of ADPs      FACU planned 83 missions.          Total of 82 done.
8. APMEU
(a) Survey design            APMEU to focus on design of        Done.
surveys.
(b) Training on evaluation   To be given to ADP staff to improve    Training given to 480 staff out of
analytical capability.             APMEU target of 837.



- 19-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (cont'd)
Key Implementation            [                                    I
Indicators in SAR                          Estimated                             Actual
(c) Policy analysis           APMEU to establish Policy Analysis    Section established and 22 (out of
Section.                            29 studies) done.
(d) PCRs and ICRs             To be done for relevant ADPs.        Total of 8 done.
9. PRSD
(a) Agricultural data bank    Establish one.                       Established.
(b) Agro-statistics           Establish national and state         All had been established by 1995.
committees                 committees.
(c) Policy studies            Conduct as appropriate.              Three done out of six.
10. FRMCSU
(a) Resources survey and      To be done on contract by research   Not completed because of funding
stock assessment           institute (NIOMR).                   constraints.
(b) Monitoring, control and   System to be designed and established   FRMCSU formed. Full operation yet
surveillance               for 200 mile EEZ.                   to start.
Modified Indicators                         Estimated                            Actual
1. Agricultural Services
(a) Small plot adoption       Establish 467,800 plots covering all  365,200 plots established, 89.0
technique                  subsectors.                          percent of it on crops.
(b) Women groups              Establish 2,083.                     1,745 formed, most registered.
(c) On-farm adaptive          Establish 2,420 trials.              2,128 trials established.
research
2. Rural Infrastructure
(a) Rural roads               Rehabilitate 2,606 km, recurrent     Rehabilitated 1,622 km, recurrent
maintenance 6,401 km, routine 7,100    maintenance 4,601 km, routine 2,850
km.                                 km.
(b) Rural water supply        Construct 970 wells and 145          388 wells and 84 boreholes
boreholes.                          constructed.
3. Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) Special studies           Conduct 127 studies.                 108 studies done.
(b) Monthly progress          Organize 332 meetings.               240 meetings organized.



- 20 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(no indicators were specified in the SAR)
Modified Indicators for
Future Operation                                           Estimated
1. Agricultural Services
(a) Unified extension              Extension agents to conduct annually a total of 72,160
SPATs covering crop and non-crop subsectors.
(b) Adaptive research              Extension agents to conduct annually 902 on-farm adaptive
research trials on crop and non-crop subsectors.
(c) Seed production                Outgrowers to produce annually 550 tonnes of certified grain
seed.
(d) Funding of monthly workshops   Local government councils to take up all cost of monthly
and fortnightly training        workshop and fortnightly training except staff transport to
venue from January 1997.
2. Rural Infrastructure
(a) Rural roads                    Users/beneficiaries to maintain annually 500 km. ADP only to
provide training and technical advise.
(b) Rural water supply             Water users associations to finance all capital costs of new
wells, and also maintenance.
(c) Dams                           All big dams in Oyo and Osun to be handed over to State
Water Board by December 1996.
3. Commercial Services
(a) Input distribution             Government to divest of 50 percent of shares of input
companies to cooperatives and private sector by December
1997 and by December 1998, retain not more than 25 percent.



- 21-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined at
Study                Appraisal/Redefined              Status            Impact of Study
1. Review of agricultural   To rationalize the role of   Completed in four out  Report still being studied
institutions           service institutions in each state  of five states in 1995.  by government.
for sustainability.
2.  Responsiveness of the    To ascertain responsiveness of   No systematic review    Not applicable
private sector to      private sector to become      done but licensed
participation in input    licensed dealers ,and farmer  dealers appointed in
distribution           organizations' constraints in    one state.
input distribution.
3.  Potential of shallow   To provide information on     Completed in four out  Complying states have
aquifers and rivers for   irrigation development     of five states.       got allocations from
small scale irrigation    potentials.                                      Fadama Facility for
fadama development.
4. Additional wage incen-   To determine motivational    Completed 1995.       Report being circulated
tive scheme for ADP    schemes for ADP staff in line                       by FACU for comments.
staff                  with their responsibilities.
5.  Comparison offorce     To determine the proportion of  Not done.           Not applicable.
account and private    resources to devote to each
contractors in road    method, related to its
construction           effectiveness.
6. Review of FACU's skill  To draw up program of         Completed.            FACU management
requirements           recruitment and training of                         restructured based on
Nigerians to senior posts.                          program approach.
7.  Update jointly with    To improve the availability of   Not done.          Not applicable.
Federal Fisheries the    fuel and lubricants to coastal
NOL CHEM study on      fishermen.
fuel distribution
8. Review of caliber,      To determine the need for TSC   Completed.          Result used by FACU to
performance and need   staff.                                               guide recruitment and
for TSC staff and                                                           succession planning.
counterparts
9.  Rural markets (FACU)   To assess the rural marketing    Completed.         Proposal submitted to
system for food crops.                              Bank for funding.
10. Fertilizer consumption,   To analyze fertilzer distribution  Completed in 1990  Used for formulating
demand and stock       parameters.                   by APMEU.              fertilizer policy.



-22-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (cont'd)
Purpose as Defined at
Study              Appraisal/Redefined              Status            Impact of Study
11. Rural water supply     To determine implementation    Completed in 1991    Used to assess benefits
scheme in Sokoto and    and beneficiary utilizaiton , and  and 1995 by APMEU.  of scheme and impact
Impact assessment of    impact.                                            in selected ADPs.
rural water supply.
12. Buffer stock           To determine the magnitude    Completed in 1991 by   Used for buffer stock
and quality of existing stock.    APMEU.            policy.
13. ADP M&E Resource       To determine the capacity of    Completed by        Used to evaluate
Availability           human and other resources for   APMEU in 1992.      sustainability of M&E
effective M&E.                                      activities.
14. Analysis offarm size,    To generate information on  Completed by          Used by researchers
cropping pattern and   smallholder cropping patterns    APMEU in 1992.     for analysis of farming
productivity of selected   and productivity.                                patterns and
crops in northern                                                          productivity.
Nigeria
15. Seasonal and spatial   To determine price trends.    Conducted in 1992     Used by researchers
variation in commodity                               and 1994 by APMEU.  for price trend studies.
prices
16. Farmers adoption of    To generate information on    Completed in 1992 by   Used in ICRs.
technical packages     adoption rates.               APMEU.
17. Extension performance   To evaluate the performance of  Completed in 1992 by   Used in ICRs.
in Bauchi, Kano and    the extension system.         APMEU.
Sokoto ADPs
18. Crop area and          To obtain information for     Completed in 1993 by   Used by researchers
production data in     improvement.                  APMEU.                 and government for
Nigeria - sources and                                                      policy.
quality
19. Growth trend in area,    To predict future growth rates.   Completed in 1993 by   Used for growth
production and                                       APMEU.                 projections.
productivity
20. Contributions of M&E    To stimulate ADP management  Completed by          Increased appreciation
to Nigeria's agric.    understtanding of importance    APMEU in 1993.      of M&E function by
development            of M&E.                                              ADP managers.
21. Degree of women        To determine level of         Conducted in 1994 by   Used by government
participation in       involvement.                  APMEU and others.    for policy and by
agriculture                                                                 various implementing
____________________________________________ _I  .   ,           agencies.



- 23 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project (cont'd)
Purpose as Defined at   1                      l
Study             Appraisal/Redefined               Status           Impact of Study
22. Crop and weather       To generate planning data.   Conducted in 1994     Used for policy
situation in Nigeri                                  and 1995 by APMEU.  formulation.
23. Socio-economic impact  To evaluate impact of ADP    Completed draft report  Report being studied
ofJADP system          system.                       in 1995.             by government.
24. Agricultural policy and   To analyse impact of fiscal  Completed in 1993.    Issues raised in PER to
budget analysis (PRSD)  measures on agriculture.    Study on public       be discussed at
expenditure review   National Council of
still on going in the  Agriculture.
states.
25. Food security (PRSD)    To analyse food security    Concluded in 1993.    Aided policy on food
situation in Nigeria.                              self-sufficiency.
26. Comprehensive tarrif    To develop model for        Concluded in          Aided review of ban
review (PRSD)          reviewing tarrif issues.      collaboration with   on importation and
Finance and Customs.  exportation of cassava
and grains.
27. Agricultural technology  To establish data base of  Not done by PRSD.    Not applicable.
in Nigeria             current technology.
28. Cost ofproduction of    To determine profitability of    Not done by PRSD.    Not applicable.
majorfood items        production.
29. Food stock and prices    To determine production,   Not done by PRSD.    Not applicable.
supply and marketing of major
staples.
30. Resources survey and    To provide data for monitoring   Not completed.   Not applicable.
stock assessment       and management of coastal
(FRMCSU)               fisheries.



- 24 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                         (US$M)(a)
Local   Foreign                  Local   Foreign
Item                  Costs      Costs      Total      Costs      Costs       Total
1. Project Management               5.6         3.7        9.3       5.3        3.4         8.7
2. Technical Services               7.0         4.7       11.7       6.6        4.4        11.0
3. Extension Services              11.3         6.7       18.0       10.8       6.3        17.1
4. Infrastructure                   16.2       32.0       48.2       15.2      30.3        45.5
5. Commercial Services              2.4        10.5       12.9       2.2       10.0        12.2
6. Fisheries                         1.5        3.1        4.6        1.2       2.3         3.5
7. State PRSD                       2.3         6.5        8.8       2.2        6.1         8.3
8. Federal Fisheries                3.2         3.4        6.6        [.0       1.1         2.1
10. FACU                           15.7         8.3       24.0      11.3        5.9        17.2
11. APMEU                           8.8         5.5       14.3       4.0        2.6         6.6
12. PRSD                            0.2         0.8        1.0       0.2        0.5         0.7
13. Watari Irrgation                0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.2         0.2
Total                           74.2        85.2      159.4      60.0       73.1       133.1
Note:  (a) Actual as at October 18, 1996.



- 25 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest
(US$M)                    Estimate(US$M)(a)
Local   Foreign                 Local  Foreign
Source                 Costs      Costs    Total        Costs    Costs       Total
IDA                                15.7        85.2     100.9       15.0      91.1      106.1
Federal Government                 43.5         0.0      43.5       11.7       0.0       11.7
State Government                   13.5         0.0      13.5       12.3       0.0       12.3
Beneficiaries                        1.5        0.0       1.5        3.0       0.0        3.0
Total                           74.2        85.2     159.4       42.0      91.1      133.1
Note:  (a) Actual as at October 18, 1996.



- 26 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits*
(Naira million)
Year              Project Costs         Total Benefit          Net Benefit
1990                  132.7                 113.8                 -18.9
1991                 229.9                   92.6                -137.3
1992                 323.6                   63.0                -260.6
1993                 596.3                   61.2                -535.1
1994                 747.8                  648.5                 -99.3
1995                 878.3                 1,285.4                407.1
1996                 878.3                 1,285.4                407.1
1997                 878.3                 1,285.4                407.1
1998                 878.3                 1,285.4                407.1
1999                 878.3                 1,285.4                407.1
2000                  878.3                1,285.4                407.1
2001                  878.3                1,285.4                407.1
2002                  878.3                1,285.4                407.1
2003                  878.3                1,285.4                407.1
2004                  878.3                1,285.4                407.1
2005                  878.3                1,285.4                407.1
2006                  878.3                1,285.4                407.1
2007                  878.3                1,285.4                407.1
2008                  878.3                1,285.4                407.1
2009                  878.3                1,285.4                407.1
Note:  Costs and benefits are only for the five ADPs.
Discount rate         = 0.104
NPV (Naira million)   = 1,101.6
ERR                   = 26.1
*Details of costs and benefits are available from the ICR mission notes in the Project Files.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-                   Covenant    Present       Original      Revised
ment        Section        Type       Status     Fulfilment   Fulfilment   Description of Covenant                                        Comments
Date         Date
Credit      2.02 (b)         I           C          06/89           -       Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars, special accounts in a
20350                                                                       commercial bank satisfactory to the Association.
3.01(e)         4          CP          01/90           -       Borrower shall: (i) provide in the annual budget amounts sufficient to  The accounts were
cover Borrower's counterpart fund contributions to the costs of the    opened but
project; (ii) open and maintain the Federal Project Account; (iii) pay   budgetary
into the Federal Project Account the equivalent of $1,500,000 for  provisions were
FACU, $700,000 for APMEU. and $90,000 for PRSD; (iv) pay into   generally
each State Project Account, $230,000 for Lagos, $330,000 for Ondo,  inadequate and
$380,000 for Oyo and $275,000 for Rivers; and (v) thereafter pay in   payments were
advance its quarterly counterpart fund contributions.         often delayed.
Borrower to provide sufficient funds to cover full salary costs of
3.01(f)        4            C          01/90          -        Borrower staff assigned to FACU and APMEU.
Borrower to establish and maintain a FADPEC. FADPEC to meet at  Only five meetings
3.02(a) &        5           C          12/90           -       least four times a year to formulate policies for APMEU and FACU  were held out of 20.
Sch. 4B                                                        and approve budgets, accounts, work programs, staffing and relevant
contracts of the units.
Covenant Types:                                                                                                         Present Status:
1.      Accounts/audits                            10. =   Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9        C   =   covenant complied with
2.  =   Financial performance/revenue generation   11. =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation  CP =   complied with partially
from beneficiaries                         12. =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action  CD =   complied with after delay
3.      Flow and utilization of project funds      13. =   Other                                                        NC =   not complied with
4.  =   Counterpart funding
5.  =   Management aspects of the project or
executing agency
6.  =   Environmental covenants
7.  =   Involuntary resettlement
8.  =   Indigenous people
9.  =   Monitoring, review, and reporting



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Agree-                    Covenant    Present       Original       Revised
ment        Section         Type        Status    Fulfilment    Fulfilment   Description of Covenant                                    Comments
Date          Date
Credit       3.02 (b)         5           C          12/90            -        Borrower to establish and maintain PCC, FACU, APMEU and   Six out of nine PCC
20350       & Sch. 4A                                                          PRSD in satisfactory form and functions. PCC to meet at least  meetings were held.
twice yearly to review progress of all federal and state  FACU, APMEU and
agricultural development projects and resolve coordination  PRSD were satisfactorily
issues.                                                   established.
3.02 (c)         5           C          06/91         12/95      Borrower to cause states to prepare under PRSD's guidance,    All states now have agro-
an action plan to harmonize data collection.              statistics committees.
4.01 (a)         I           C          01/90           -        Borrower to cause to be maintained records and accounts for    Records were examined
(i) & (iii)                                                       SOE, and enable Bank staff examine such records.          by Bank supervision
missions.
4.01 (a)         I         NYD            -             -        Borrower to ensure that records are retained until at least one
(ii)                                                           year after the Association has received the audit report for the                         0
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made.
Sch. 4C          3          NC          12/91           -        FACU to, jointly with the states and the Association review  Performance of consultant
the costs and benefits of using force account and private  unsatisfactory to FACU.
contractors for road works.
Sch. 4C          5          CD          12/91         03/93      FACU to, jointly with the states and other project units carry    Done two years behind
out a mid-term review of the project.                     schedule.
Sch. 4C          5          CP          12/89         12/94      FACU to organize at least two seminars to plan and discuss  Only one full seminar held
the institutions review.                                  after Kwara review.
Sch. 4C          5           C          06/89           -        FACU to, among others support the programs of the ADP's    FACU supported the
and the FMANR which affect on-farm activities of          programs through
smallholders.                                             missions and workshops.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Agree-                    Covenant    Present       Original      Revised
ment        Section        Type        Status     Fulfilment    Fulfilment   Description of Covenant                                  Comments
Date         Date
Credit       Sch. 4C         5            C          09/89         12/89     FACU to employ additional engineering staff for Benin and
20350                                                                        Enugu regional offices.
Sch. 4D         5            C          12/89        01/90      APMEU to prepare project completion reports, carry out
policy studies arising from ADPs, publish annual digest and
reports on ADPs.
Sch. 6          5          CP          12/91         03/96     Borrower to arrange with fuel distribution companies for  Done in Ondo. Study
installation of distribution system for fishermen.      done in Lagos and Rivers.
Sch. 6         5            C          06/89         12/92     Borrower to review use of Technical Services contract.
Sch. 6         5            C          09/89         12/89     FMANR to conclude arrangements with FMST for support in   Agricultural research
carrying out adaptive research in the ADPs.             institutes now in FMANR.     ,
Project      2.01 (b)         4          CP          06/89         12/89      Each state to pay into the State Project Account 25% of its  Initial payments made, but
counterpart contribution to the first year's project costs, and  subsequent ones
thereafter in advance, its quarterly contribution.      inadequate or released
late.
3.01 (c)        4           C          0 1/90          -        Each state to provide in budget sufficient funds for assigned
staff.
2.02 (a)        5           C           06/89           -       Each state to establish ADPEC and ADPMU.                 Only 52 ADPEC meetings
held out of target of 112.
2.02 (b)        5           CP          12/89        03/96      Each state to establish AISC.                            Osun did not.
Sch. 2          5          CP          06/89           -       ADPEC to have two sub-committees for Agriculture and     Rivers did not.
Infrastructure.
Sch. 2          5          NC          12/89           -       ADPMU to arrange with LGC for routine road maintenance.    Frequent changes in
leadership of LGCs.



- 30 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Project complied with all applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources -- Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual
Weeks         US$('000)
Preparation to appraisal                  84.5          194.5
Appraisal                                 59.6           133.4
Negotiations thru Board-effectiveness     21.9           45.2
Supervision                              495.5          888.5
Completion                                16.7            13.8
TOTAL                                    678.3          1275.4



-31 -
Table 13: Bank Resources -- Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project    Month/Year   Number   Days    Specialized    Implemen    Develop-              Types of Problems
Cycle                            of        in      StaffSkills     -tation      ment
Persons    Field    Represented     Status     Objectives
Through Appraisal    10/79- 5/88        13       58        a.b.e,h.ij
Appraisal through    6/88 - 6/89        10       33        a,b.e.hj
Board Approval
Board Approval thru    7/90 - 3/90      2        45          ej
Effectiveness
Supervision I        2/90 - 3/90        2        30          ij             I            I       Establishmentofeffective
managementunits.
Supervision2         11/90              2         17         gJ                                  Delay in counterpart
fund ing.
Supervision3         11/90- 12/90       3         11         c,e.f          -            -       Disbursementof federal
components.
Supervision4         5/91 - 6/91        3        53          a,f,g          2            2       Disbursementof federal
components
Supervision5         6/91               2        20          f,h            -            -       Delay in effectivenessof
Fisheries component.
Supervision6         6/91 - 7/91        3        43          b,d            -            -       Improvementof Extension
component.
Supervision 7        9/91               3         9          e,f            2            2        Disbursementof PRSD
Comp.
Supervision8         10/91              1         5           a             -            -       Accounts of FACU and
ADPLA.
Supervision9         12/91              I         7           g             -            -       Inadequatecounterpart
funding by FGN.
Supervision 0       2/92               1         3           f             3            2        Disbursementof PSRD
component.
Supervision I1       3/92 & 5/92        4        36         a,e,f.g         2            2        lmplementationof FACU
and APMEU components.
Supervisionl2        3/92               3         15         b,g            -            -        Implementationof Lagos
component.
Supervision 13       6/92               3         15         b.g            -            -        Implementationof Rivers
component.
Supervision 14       7/92 - 8/92        3        81         a,e,g           2            2       Slow pace of infrastructure
comp. in Oyo, Osun and
Ondo.



- 32 -
Table 13: Bank Resources -- Missions (cont'd.)
PerformanceRating
Stage of Project    Month/Year   Number   Days    Specialized   Impleme            Develop-       Types of Problems
Cycle                            of        in      StaffSkills    n-tation      ment
Persons   Field    Represented      Status    Objectives
Supervision 15       11/92              2        20          fJ            2            2        Mgmt.ofFACU'sReg.
Offices& cost estimates of
civil works.
Supervision 16       2/93               1         3           f            2            2        Fisheries component
progress.
Supervision 17       10/93 - 11/93      6        120       c.d.e.f,g       2            2        Mid-Term Review.
Supervision 18       11/93              4        28         a,c,e,f         -           -        ImplementationofPRSD,
APMEU & Fish.. comp.
Supervision 19       2/94               4        17         c,f,g          2            2        Implementationof FACU,
APMEU and Fisheries.
components.
Supervision2O        5/94 - 6/94        3        37         c.f,h          2            2        Fisheriescomponent.
Supervision21        12/94              3        18          a,c,f         2            2        APMEU,Fisheriesand
PSRD components.
Supervision22        3/95               4        16        a,c,f,g,         -                    FACU component.
Supervision23        1/96               2        30          b,g                                 Pre-ICRmission.
Completion           4/96 - 6/96        2        56          b,g                                ICR Preparation.
Key to Staff Skills:
a = Financial Analyst                      b = Agriculturist                     c = Procurement Analyst
d = Extension Specialist                   e = Economist                         f= Coop./Credit Specialist
g = Operations Officer                     h = Fisheries Specialist              i = Roads Engineer
j = Rural Engineer
Performance Rating:
2 = Satisfactory
3 = Unsatisfactory
Note:   This project involves six state and four federal units which were supervised by several state-
specific missions, sometimes in parallel. Since most of the missions submitted only Back-to-
Office Reports or Aide-Memoires rather than forms 590, performance ratings were not available
for some supervision missions. Form 590 updates were, however, prepared for the ARPP and
mid-year reviews.



- 33 -
Appendix A
NIGERIA
THIRD MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2035-UNII
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission assisted by staff of the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF), the
Federal Ministry of Water Resources (FMWR), the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
(FACU) and the Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU)I undertook a
final supervision of the Third Multi-State Agricultural Development Project (MSADP 111) during
April 15 to June 19, 1996, in preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). A
joint mission of the Bank and the Borrower had, during January 15 to February 2, 1996,
reviewed with the implementing units the process and data requirements for the ICR, agreed on a
timetable for its delivery, and assisted the Borrower to commence action on the preparation of its
Final Evaluation Report (FER) on the project.
2.     The mission visited the Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs) in Lagos, Ondo,
Osun, Oyo and Rivers states, the Fisheries Resources Monitoring, Control and Surveillance Unit
(FMCSU) in Lagos, FACU and the Planning, Research and Statistics Department (PRSD) of the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMANR) in Abuja, APMEU in Kaduna,
and the Watari Irrigation Scheme in Kano State. The mission visited some of the project sites,
discussed with the staff and clients as well as the senior officials of the supervising ministries,
and paid courtesy calls on the military administrators in the states to brief them on its objectives.
A wrap-up meeting held in Abuja on June 19, 1996, and attended by the heads of the
implementing units, officials of the FMANR and FMF, and representatives of the state ministries
of agriculture discussed the observations of the mission as reflected in the draft aide-memoire.
Their comments have been utilized, as appropriate, in this aide-memoire. The mission is grateful
for all the courtesies extended to it by the management and staff of the federal ministries and the
project units.
3.     This aide-memoire, which is subject to review by Bank management, summarizes the
mission's findings and conclusions, the agreements reached with the Borrower and the
implementing units, the operational plan of the project and the follow-up actions required under
the ICR process. It assesses the objectives of the project and their achievement, the major
factors that affected project implementation, the performance of the Bank and the Borrower, the
sustainability of the benefits of the project and the key lessons learned from implementation.
The mission comprised Messrs: Samuel Eremie (Mission Leader), Ogbonnaya Nduaka (Consultant, World Bank), M.
Shaba (FMF), J. Kwanashie, N.J. Afolayan, Chris Maduabuchi (FMWR), Bola Ajala, Reni-Callie Okoro, Bola
Adepoju, Santokh S. Cheema, I.M. Ogunsuyi, Onyekaozuru Okeke, John Eboigbe (FACU) and Ben Aniakor
(APMEU).



- 34 -
Project Background and Objectives
4.     Background. The credit of SDR 75.Om (US$100.9m equivalent) was approved by the
Bank on August 4, 1989, to support some of the initiatives of the Federal Government of Nigeria
(FGN) in boosting small farmer production and incomes and in creating suitable management
systems for the agricultural sector. Nigeria was at this time trying to exploit its agricultural
potential in order to boost growth and raise living conditions in the rural areas through the
structural adjustment program launched in 1986. The government had also found the ADP to be
an effective management system for smallholder agricultural development and was willing to
support, albeit with considerations for the sustainability of the system. The credit was to be
disbursed in five years.
5.     Obiectives and Components. The objectives of the project as stated in the Credit
Agreement were to:
(d)    assist in the preparation and carrying out of programs that would stimulate
agricultural growth, exports and employment;
(e)    improve agricultural services and rural infrastructure; and
(f)    focus attention at federal and state levels on the critical issues affecting
agriculural and fisheries development in Nigeria.
6.     The project had the following seven components, the first six of which were for the
states:
(a)    Agricultural Services, with provision for the establishment of unified extension
services for about 1,059,000 farm families, farm and crop development, on-farm
adaptive research,planting material multiplication, small-scale pilot irrigation,
improvement of small ruminant livestock husbandry, agro-processing, and
additional agricultural sector programs satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)    Fisheries, with provision for fisheries development, adaptive research for the
development of technological packages for the culture of the freshwater giant
prawn in Lagos State and the marine shrimp in Rivers State, fish feed
development, a marine inshore capture fisheries program, and an adaptive
technology program;
(c)    Commercial Agricultural Services, with support for input supply services and
the commercialization of agricultural services;
(d)    Rural Roads and Water Supply, for the rehabilitation of 2,330km, recurrent
maintenance of 7,960km, and routine maintenance of 9,990km of feeder roads,
the establishment of 180km waterways in the coastal areas of Lagos, Ondo and
Rivers states, the assistance of village communities to rehabilitate existing water
points and construct new ones and the organization and training of the water
users to maintain the facilities;



- 35 -
(e)    Project Management. Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation, to establish a
sustainable management and provide for monitoring, evaluation and training;
(f)    Institutional Development, to strengthen the sector policy and strategy capacity
of the PRSDs of the state Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANRs), and assist in the review of the agricultural institutions in each state;
and
(g)    Federal Components, comprising fisheries resources management, establishment
of a monitoring, control and surveillance system for the fisheries within the 200
nautical miles Exclusive Economic Zone, fuel supply for fishermen, and support
to FACU, APMEU and PRSD.
7.     Among the covenants to facilitate project implementation were the provision of adequate
counterpart contributions through the annual budgets of the state and federal governments, the
establishment of semi-autonomous project implementation units, and the establishment and
maintenance of structures for coordination, monitoring and evaluation. The objectives and
components of the project remained unchanged during the mid-term review of the project in
1993 but some of the targets were revised in line with implementation experience. The
objectives are relevant for Nigeria and in line with the country's agricultural policy as well as the
Bank's experience in providing assistance to smallholder agricultural development.  The
physical targets and performance indicators were, however, not adequately defined for most
components during the appraisal, making evaluation more problematic.
Achievement of Objectives at State Level
8.     Tables I and 2 summarize the targets and achievements of the five ADPs.
9.     Extension Services (Table 1). All the ADPs operated the unified agricultural extension
service (UAES) with livestock, fisheries and agro-forestry components coming in from 1992.
Fisheries extension was initially separate in Lagos and Rivers states but was later integrated with
the rest of the extension system. The project reached 1,273,000 farm families as compared with
the appraisal estimate of 1,059,000. The difference was mainly from Lagos and Rivers states
whose farm family population was underestimated. Between 1990 and 1995, there were an
average of 902 village extension agents (VEAs), giving a VEA/farm family ratio of 1:1,411 as
compared with the target of 1:1,000. Technology dissemination was mainly through the small
plot adoption technique (SPAT) and 365,200 SPATs were established, 89 percent of them on
crops since technologies on the non-crop subsectors came in later. The SPAT was supported by
field days, radio and television programs and publications. Rivers ADP had an outstanding
achievement in the number of field days conducted (93 percent of 7596) because of its emphasis
on this activity.
10.    The most prominent technologies adopted by the farmers include: (i) improved cassava
varieties (TMS 30572, 30555, 50395 and 4[2]1425), adopted by over 60 percent of the farmers
and resulting in the increase of yields from about 8T/ha to 13T/ha; (ii) downy mildew resistant
maize varieties, especially in Ondo, Osun and Oyo states; (iii) improved upland rice variety (ITA
150) and lowland varieties (FARO 36 and 37); (iv) local cowpea variety, 'iya iyawo', with low
plant protection requirements; (v) plant protection in vegetables and tree crops; (vi) use of local
food items and residues in livestock feed; (vii) soyabean utilization; and (viii) homestead fish



- 36 -
ponds. One technology that has not been well adopted is alley farming whose demand for land is
considered to conflict with that for other crops, and which appears acceptable only when it is
combined with livestock production.
I.    Technical Services (Table 1). All the ADPs successfully strengthened their linkages
with the research institutions for the generation and adaptation of technology and for the training
of the subject matter specialists (SMSs). About 14 diagnostic surveys were done on the basis of
which 2,128 on-farm adaptive research trials (OFAR) were conducted, some of them gender
specific. Monthly technology review meetings (MTRMs) were held regularly, usually preceded
by field visits to serve as case for discussions. Among the technologies developed by the project
were improved varieties of cassava and rice, downy mildew resistant maize varieties, cultural
practices for Cassava/Maize/Yam/Egusi Melon mixtures, fertilizer application and spacing for
various crops, and local feeds for livestock. The later part of the project coincided with Bank
assistance to agricultural research in the country resulting in a clearer definition of the working
relationships between the ADPs and the research institutes in technology development and
dissemmination. The ADPs are now to concentrate on simple on-farm trials that will be
implemented by the VEAs.



- 37 -
Table 1: Achievements of the ADPs in Extension, Technical Services, Fisheries and
Rural Infrastructure
Achievement
Item                  Target*        Quantity    %                Remark
Extension Services
Farm families ('000 No.)              1059         1273      120      Rivers had more than
appraisal estimate.
Village ext. agents (No.)              998         902        90
Farm families per VEA (No.)           1000         1411       71
SPAT ('000 No.)
- crops                              428          325        76      Oyo had 42% of total.
- others                             39.8        40.2       101      Ondo had 32% of total.
Field days (No.)                      6920        7596        110     Rivers had 93% of total.
Radio/TV programs (No.)               3797        3050        80      Oyo had 36% of total.
Women groups formed (No.)             2083         1745       84      Osun had 42% of total.
Technical Services
Diagnostic surveys (No.)                14           14      100
OFAR trials (No.)
- crops                             1946         1715        88      Ondo had 32% of total.
- non-crop subsectors (excl.
fisheries)                          403         342        85      Ondo had 35% of total.
- gender specific                     71           71       100
Grain seed production (T)
- direct                              777         610        79      Ondo had 65% of total.
- outgrowers                        2348         2107        90      Ondo had 45% of total.
Breeding stock prod. (No.)
- rabbit                            5874         4947        84      Ondo had 54% of total.
- sheep and goat                    3800          820        21      Lagos had 41 % of total.
Fisheries
OFAR trials (No.)                      91            79       87
Fingerling production
- direct ('000 No.)                  950          715        75      Lagos had 87% of total.
- outgrowers assisted (No.)           31           31       100      Oyo had 39% of total.
Rural Infrastructure
Road (Kmb                            2606          1622       62      53% by force account.
- rehabilitation
- recurrent maintenance             6401         4601        72      Oyo had 57% of total.
- routine maintenance               7100         2850        40      Oyo had 71% of total.
Water (No.)
-Waell Nonst o                       970          388        40      Ondo had 43% of total.
- well construction
borehole construction               145           84        58      Lagos had 44% of total.
- WUA formation                      843          496        59      Ondo had 35% of total.
- earth dam construction              37            5        14      Only Oyo did it.
Pilot irrigation (Ha.)                 229          115       50      Oyo had 42% of total.
- FUA formation (No.)                  -          172         -
Agro-processing centers (No.)           16           11       69       Ondo had 55% of total.
* As specified at appraisal and revised at mid-term review. Figures are for 1990 - 95, except for Osun,
1992 - 95.



- 38 -
12.   The Women in Agriculture (WIA) unit moved between the Extension Services
Department(ESD) and the Technical Services Department (TSD) of the ADPs, depending on the
perception of WIA either as primarily a technology disemmination arrangement to meet the
needs of women farmers, or as a subject matter area for which technology sourcing and
adaptation are the key requirements. As at the end of the credit, the unit was in the TSD in
Lagos, Ondo and Osun states and in the ESD in Oyo and Rivers states. Where the head of the
WIA unit is in the TSD and the WIA field level staff are in the ESD, the mission observed gaps
in information flow on women activities between the headquarters and the field. In FACU, the
National Coordinator for WIA is in the Extension Program. It is planned that the Bank and
FACU would jointly assess the relative effectiveness of the WIA unit in the two departments.
Despite the organizational hiatus, the WIA unit has made a lot of impact in popularizing
soyabean utilization and rabbitory production, the organization of women into self-supporting
groups, and evaluation of gender-specific tehnologies. In Oyo ADP, the head of the WIA Unit
has been made a member of the Project Management Unit (PMU) and her contributions found
very helpful for shaping the ADP's interventions for women farmers.
13.    Emphasis is well placed on the production of seeds by outgrowers.  Outgrowers
accounted for 78 percent of the 2,717T of grain seeds and 80 percent of the 176,500 bundles of
improved cassava cuttings produced. Outgrower input was, however, low in the production of
tree seedlings as well as breeding stock of rabbits, sheep and goats. Ondo ADP had a Tree Crop
Unit which produced about 6.8m seedlings, mainly of cocoa, before the unit was moved to the
MANR. Osun ADP collaborated effectively with the Tree Crop Unit of the MANR to distribute
about 1.3m seedlings to farmers through the extension services.  The linkages with other
seedling producing agencies were weak in Oyo and Rivers states. The ADPs were not very
effective in incorporating soil erosion control measures into their technologies for farmers.
14.    Fisheries (Table 1). Lagos, Ondo and Rivers ADPs had major fisheries components
involving adaptive research, aquaculture development and support to inshore capture fisheries,
while the other ADPs concentrated on the promotion of aquaculture. Lagos successfully
developed a package for the extensive culture of the freshwater shrimp using juveniles from the
wild but only got up to Stage V (out of eleven stages) in the laboratory hatchery trial because of
technical constraints. Rivers also developed technology for the extensive culture of the marine
shrimp but discontinued the hatchery production of the larvae because of financial constraints.
The three ADPs trained some fishermen on gear handling and a few mechanics on the
maintenance of outboard engines. Various fishing gear were also distributed, Lagos being the
most outstanding in this regard. Only Ondo established four fuel depots to ease fuel and
lubricants supply to coastline fishermen, although even these depots were yet to be
commissioned at the end of the credit and the private sector was insufficiently involved for
sustainable operations.
15.    Hatcheries for fingerling production were established in Lagos and Ondo states and a
total of 31 fingerling outgrowers were identified and assisted in Lagos, Osun, Oyo and Rivers
states. The demand for fingerlings was reasonably met through the combination of direct and
outgrower production, in addition to sourcing from the wild.  Homestead fish pond was
popularized by the fisheries component. Rivers had 894 of these and Ondo 640. Some of the
ponds have been integrated with livestock production. Adaptive research in fisheries has led to
the development of fish feed using locally available materials, polyculture and pond fertilization
and the production in Rivers of Moina species as a live feed for the juveniles of fin and shell
fish.



- 39 -
16.    Rural Infrastructure (Table 1). The ADPs rehabilitated 1,622km of rural roads, 62
percent of the revised target, 64 percent of it through force account rather than private
contractors in Ondo, Osun and Oyo states. Some of the roads have already been taken over by
the state governments for permanent surfacing, a testimony to the high quality of work. A total
of 4,601km (72 percent of the revised target) was achieved in recurrent maintenance.
Performance in routine maintenance was low (40 percent of the 7,1 00km revised target) because
the ADPs were unable to establish effective linkages with the local government councils (LGCs)
whose leadership went through frequent changes during the project. There was no routine
maintenance of roads in Lagos and Rivers. None of Lagos, Ondo and Rivers ADPs constructed
waterways although the studies for them were done. Only Ondo maintained about 10km of
waterways to facilitate the movement of fishermen.
17.    Little was achieved in the rehabilitation of water points, except in Oyo (26 wells) and
Rivers (75 boreholes). Achievement in well construction was 40 percent of the target of 970,
while borehole construction was 58 percent of the target of 145. Oyo emphasized dams,
constructing five and reticulating nine. In Osun two dams were reticulated. In all the states, the
communities were actively involved in the rehabilitation and maintenance of the water points.
Some of the dams in Oyo and Osun are, however, beyond the technical capacity of the ADPs and
communities to maintain. These need to be handed over to appropriate state agencies and in
future greater support needs to be given to the ADPs by FACU in determining the threshold for
ADP engineering activities. Issues of community health and sanitation around water points were
not emphasized in the project documents and were poorly addressed in most states. All the
ADPs established pilot irrigation schemes and formed fadama users associations to manage
them. Aquifer studies have been done in all the states except Rivers, and allocations have been
made to the four states from the National Fadama Development Fund Facility (NFDFF) to
support small-scale irrigation.
18.   Agro-processing was promoted in the five ADPs through the establishment of 11 (out of
16) pilot centers, the sourcing of technology from research institutes, the demonstration of these
technologies, and the training of blacksmiths to fabricate simple equipment. Palm oil processing
(Osun) and preparation of tomato puree (Lagos) have been well received. Some ADPs have sold
the processing equipment below market price. Many user groups would need to be linked to
credit agencies to raise the funds required to buy the equipment. Although little provision was
made in the SAR for buildings, all the ADPs constructed or rehabilitated their service structures.
Headquarters office buildings were constructed in Ondo and Osun, and extensions made in the
other states to facilitate project implementation.  The maintenance of the fleet of heavy
equipment procured by the ADPs is of concern to most of the state governments. Some of the
ADPs are considering the hiring out of the equipment to generate revenue, but previous
experience indicates that this operation is not viable and would lead to the rapid demise of the
equipment. The public auctioning of the equipment, contract work by ADP staff and the
establishment of autonomous leasing companies may be alternatives. As at the close of the
credit, about N 56m was tied up as spare parts in the states, most of this in slow moving parts.
Only Lagos and Rivers did not maintain spare parts stock.
19.   Commercial Services (Table 2). Agricultural input supply companies (AISCs) were
successfully established in all the states except Osun where the state government intends to start
one before the end of 1996. In all the states with AISC, the government is the sole owner and no
attempt has been made to divest of some of the shares to cooperative groups and the private
sector. This has affected the level of capitalization and constrained the management of the



- 40 -
companies as the government sometimes instructed on input distribution. Preliminary results
from Lagos, Ondo and Oyo suggest that AISCs can be profitable if given a free hand to operate.
Apart from Ondo, none of the ADPs appointed private retailers for input distribution. Some of
the AISCs are still maintaining too many primary distribution points and farm service centers for
profitable operations.
Table 2: Achievements of the ADPs in Commercial Services, Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation, Training, Management and Funding
l  |    Achievement
Item                 Target*        Quantity    %               Remark
Commercial Services
Input companies est. (No.)            5            4        80       Osun did not establish.
Input distribution
- fertilizer ('000 T)             426           308        72
- grain seed (T)                 2059           834        41      Oyo had 53% of total.
- agrochemicals (T)              1212           779        64      Ondo had 54% of total.
Groups formed (No.)                   -         2381          -
Credit facilitated (Nm)               -          24.5        -       Lagos had 43% of total
Plan., Mon. & Eval. (No.)
Annual work plans                   32             32      100
Core surveys                       386           365        95
Special studies                    127            108       85       Lagos had 50% of total.
Monthly progress review            332           240        72       Oyo was most regular.
Periodic reports                   812           742        91
Training (No. of staff)
Local - in house                 12860         12637        98
Local - off project              11132          8783        79
Overseas                           513           204        40
Management (No.)
ADPEC Meeting                      112            52        46       Ondo had the least (8).
ADPEC Sub-committees est.           10             8        80       None in Rivers.
Funding (US$m)* *
State Government                  13.5           12.3       91       Excludes salaries.
Federal Government                20.0            6.8       34
Beneficiaries/Internal Revenue     1.5            3.0      200
IDA                               78.5           77.0       98
Total                            113.5           99.1       87
* As specified at appraisal and revised at mid-term review. Figures are for 1990 - 95
except for Osun, 1992 - 95.
** Counterpart fund contributions are converted at prevailing average exchange rates in
year of release. Achievement is as at March 31, 1996.



- 41 -
20.    About 307,856T of fertilizer (72 percent of the target), 834T of grain seed (41 percent of
target) and 779T of agrochemicals (64 percent of target) was distributed by the project.
Fertilizer distribution was constrained by the scarcity of the commodity and its control by the
government. The pricing of non-fertilizer inputs was generally satisfactory and although prices
of some inputs were higher than market price, the ADPs were still patronized by the farmers who
were asssured of genuine products. With the formation of AISCs, there tended to be a dilution of
the effort to mobilize farmer groups for increasing self-reliance.  In one ADP, the group
mobilzation function was spread between two departments and in another, completely
abandoned. The AISCs do not consider group mobilization and formation profitable activities
and the responsibility may have to be undertaken by some Rural Institutions Development (RID)
unit in the ADP, an action that is eing promoted by FAC[J.
21.    Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (Table 2).  The Planning Monitoring and
Evaluation (PME) departments of the ADPs prepared annual work plans, monitored project
implementation especially through the monthly progress review meeting (MPRM) and undertook
a number of studies to identify constraints as well as project impact. There has been an
improvement in the analytical capacity of staff as evidenced by the clearing of the backlog of
survey reports. The presence of the PME in the PMU has enhanced its independence but
management support to PME needs to improve in some states. Although the quality of reporting
has improved, periodic reports are still submitted late by the projects, with the exception of Osun
ADP.
22.    Human Resources Development (Table 2). This is one area of remarkable achievement
in the ADPs. Apart from the regular training of extension staff during fortnightly training and
MTRMs, 21,624 staff benefited from short courses, 99 percent of them locally, helping to further
strenghten the capacity of local training institutions. Training was based on skill gap analyses of
staff and the multiplier effect was increased through post-course seminars organized for trained
staff to share their experience with others. Many staff have readily picked up more lucrative jobs
elsewhere after being trained by the ADP, a further contribution of the system to the economy.
23.    Management (Table 2). The PMUs of the ADPs met regularly to plan and review their
programs and consist largely of qualified and experienced staff. There was relative stability in
the management of the ADPs with each having on the average two program managers during the
life of the project. There was a long break in activities in Rivers ADP during 1994 and 1995
following the unilateral sack of the PMU by the state government and the refusal of the other
parties to the credit to recognize the new management. Directives from the state governments
lowered the expenditure limits of the PMUs resulting in longer clearance procedures and
consequent slowing down of disbursement. The meeting of the ADPEC was infrequent in many
ADPs (only 46 percent of the target of 112 meetings was achieved) leading to delays in approval
of ADP programs. The two ADPEC subcommittees for Agriculture and Infrastructure were
established in all the states except Rivers, but their meetings were very infrequent. This resulted
in poor coordination of the interventions of the ADPs and other agencies and duplication of
effort in the rural areas. Program managers need to regard publicity as well as the maintenance of
good external relations, including those with the parent ministry, key responsibilities. The five
ADPs have been scheduled so that all the staff now enjoy state pension benefits. All the state
governments asked for a continuation of the ADP.
24.    Funding (Table 2). As at March 31, 1996, about US$99.1m has been spent in the five
ADPs compared with the US$1 13.5m estimated at appraisal. State counterpart fund accounted



- 42 -
for 12 percent of this amount similar to the appraisal estimate. Federal Government funding was
seven percent as compared with 18 percent while IDA funding accounted for 78 percent as
compared with 69 percent. The performance in beneficiary contribution which is merged with
internally generated revenue in most ADPs is outstanding, being 3 percent of the total
expenditure as compared with the appraisal estimate of one percent. Over the six year period,
the Federal Government budgeted N 128.8m for the five ADPs and released 79 percent
(N101.3m) while the State Governments budgeted N 337.6m and released 65 percent (N218.3m).
Federal and state government funding was affected by the dwindling real budgets and adverse
changes in exchange rate, and the releases were often late.  State counterpart funding
performance was very poor in Rivers State while Lagos and Ondo provided their ADPs more
than the appraisal amount.
25.   Institutional Development. All the ADPs provided support in varying degrees to the
PRSD of the MANR through training and the provision of vehicles and equipment, helping to
strengthen the sector policy and strategy capacity. None filled the positions of Planning and
Economic Advisers. The institutional review was completed in all the states except Oyo where a
draft report is yet to be discussed. No serious reorganization of agricultural institutions has
occured in any of the states as a result of the review. Most of the PRSDs would prefer to directly
manage credit resources for their support rather than channeling them through the ADP. Most
governments also called for support to the MANR beyond the PRSD.
Achievement of Objectives at Federal Level
26.   Table 3 shows the achievements of some of the federal components of the project.
27.    FACU.  The assistance to FACU  was to strengthen its capacity to support the
implementation of the ADPs as well as assist with the articulation of Federal Government policy
for rural development. The supervision mission was to be the main medium for contact with the
ADPs. Between 1990 and 1995, FACU conducted 56 thematic supervision missions (out of a
target of 60), 26 comprehensive missions and,with the Bank, 29 joint missions. The technical
input of FACU staff to the missions was outstanding. Support to the ADPs in loan portfolio
management was however weak, probably because of the centralization of finance and accounts
management in FACU headquarters. FACU coordinated the preparation of seven Bank- and
IFAD-assisted projects as well as two FGN projects, the National Economic Recovery Program
for Agriculture (NERPA) and the Roots and Tubers Expansion Program (RTEP). Ten project
facilitation teams (PFTs) were conducted for the new ADPs resulting from the bifurcation of
states in 1991as well as the National Agricultural Technology Support Project (NATSP), the
National Fadama Development Project (NFDP), the National Agricultural Research Project
(NARP) and IFAD-assisted projects. Mid-term reviews were done for eight projects and the
resulting redesign incorporated the lessons of experience as well as new initiatives.
28.   A total of 13 studies were done, 30 percent of the target of 43. Six of these were
specified in the MSADP 111. The studies contributed to FACU's input to the development of
policies for sustained agricultural development. The recommendations of the study include the
unification of the extension services, the establishment of an endowment fund for the sustained
funding of the ADPs with diminishing donor assistance, commercialization of input distribution,
and increased cost recovery and beneficiary participation. Overall, FACU has well exceeded the
mandate prescribed by the MSADP III and gained national and international recognition as a
coordinating unit for agricultural development. It has received a large number of officials from



- 43 -
other African countries who have come to study the FACU and ADP system. FACU would
probably be best remembered for the unification of extension services in Nigeria. It has put in
place a succession plan involving training and understudy that has enabled a smooth transition
from expartriate staff to local professionals. The expartriate staff strength of FACU has reduced
from 12 in 1990 to four in 1995. FACU successfully relocated its headquarters from Ibadan to
Abuja in 1993. It has, however, been plagued by a high staff turnover in recent years. Between
January 1993 and March 1995, 71 staff resigned, 28 of them professional staff.
29.    APMEU. This unit has become much stronger following a change in the management at
the beginning of the credit. The unit has built up the in-house capacity of the ADPs in analytical
work through training in computer application and the development of new softwares. The back-
log (80 altogether) of unanalyzed survey data has been cleared and a comprehensive field
enumerators' handbook developed to increase the reliability of data. APMEU conducted 22
studies (out of a target of 29), the results of which have been used by researchers, the ADPs and
the government for policy. A local area network has been installed to enhance data processing
and ICRs done for eight projects. APMEU's rigorous training program has infused confidence
into the staff who now train staff of projects other than the ADPs. About 420 APMEU staff were
trained locally and 33 overseas, although the twinning arrangement with the infused confidence
into the staff who now train staff of projects other than the ADPs. University of East Anglia did
not come through because of changes in government and the consequent delay in approving the
program. About 480 staff of state PRSDs and ADPs were trained and APMEU's training plan
has been commended by the Bank and circulated in the Africa Region as "Best Practice". The
FMANR considers APMEU reports relevant and the working relations between APMEU and the
Federal PRSD have improved.
30.    The performance of FACU and APMEU has been limited by delays in procurement, low
government-prescribed spending limits, inadequate counterpart funding and high staff turnover.
The unification of the extension services in the country raised the issue of the coordination of the
activities of the coordinating agencies under the FMANR, two of which are funded by the
MSADP III credit. In additon to FACU and APMEU, there are coordinating units for forestry,
livestock, and agricultural research all of which have been funded by the Bank. The Federal
Government has appreciated the need for the harmonization of the activities of the apex units and
undertaken a review of some of the units in 1995, the outcome of which is yet to be made public.
Some of the officials look on the Bank whose funding support has contributed to the
proliferation of the coordinating units to help in the harmonization process. One possibilty is the
establishment of two apex units in the office of the Director General of the FMANR, one for
planning and implementation support and the other for monitoring and evaluation, for all the
sub-sectors of agriculture.
31.    PRSD. The project substantially increased the capacity of the PRSD of the FMANR to
coordinate data collection and to analyze agricultural policy initiatives. Seventeen staff were
trained, ten of them locally in areas such as statistical analysis, agricultural planning and
computer programming and engineering. Twelve micro-computer units were procured and the
staff are now capable of processing, storing and retrieving data for all the subectors of
agriculture. Four zonal offices have been established and linked up with the headquarters and
other agencies by radio. The National Agricultural Data Bank was established with co-financing
from the UNDP/FAO. The National Agro-Statistics Coordinating Committee and its state
counterparts were also established with the national committee now acting as a clearing house
for all agricultural data. Three planning workshops have been organized benefitting 350 staff of



- 44 -
the state MANRs and other agricultural agencies. PRSD undertook three out of the six studies
included in the project. Funding of the PRSD component by the Federal Government was very
good but there were serious implementation problems with the management of the PRSD
accounts by FACU. The PRSD operated most of the time without accurate knowledge of the
credit disbursements made on its behalf.



- 45 -
Table 3: Achievements of the Federal Components
Achievement
Item                 Target*         Quantity   %              Remark
FACU
Supervision missions (No.)
- thematic/comprehensive           83            82        99      FACU's participation
-jointly with Bank                 15            29       193     in missions spread to
PFT                                  1 1           10        91      other apex units.
Mid-term review                      7              8       114
Studies                              43            13        30
Staff training (No.) - local       325            228        70
- overseas        158             80       51
Funding (U$$m)** -FG               16.2            3.0       19
-IDA              13.6          13.0       96
-Total           29.8           16.0       54
FADPEC Meetings (No.)                20             5        25
PCC Meetings (No.)                   9              6        67
APMEU
Supervision missions (No.)
- implementation assistance       183            169       92
- ICR                               8              8       100
Studies and reviews (No.)            29            22        76
Staff training (No.) - local        553           420        76
- overseas          35            33        94
ADP staff training (No.)            837           480        57
Funding (US$m)** - FG               5.9            1.6       27
- IDA              5.6            4.6       82
- Total           11.5            6.2       54
PRSD
Studies and reviews (No.)            6              3        50
Staff training (No.) - local        10             10       100
- overseas          8              7        88
Training of other staff (No.)      350            350       100
Funding (US$m)** - FG               0.1            0.1      100
- IDA             0.5             0.5      100
- Total           0.6             0.6      100
FRMCSU
Staff training (No.) - local                       92         -
- overseas           -             9        -
PIC Meeting                          18             4        22
Funding (US$m)** - FG               1.3            0.2       15
- IDA              2.5            1.8       72
- Total            3.8            2.0       53
* As specified by the project unit and revised at mid-termn review
** Counterpart fund is converted at prevailing average exchange rates in
year of release. Achievement is as at March 31, 1996.



- 46 -
32.    FRMCSU. This component had a delayed start because of the objection of the Federal
Department of Fisheries (FDF) to implement the project with the funds under FACU
management. The Credit Agreement had to be amended to allow the unit have its own Special
Account. The credit facilitated the upgrading of the Fisheries Inspection Section of FDF into the
FRMCSU with subrunits for Enforcement, PME, Administration and Accounts and four zones
for effective monitoring and control. Two decrees were revised and gazetted in 1992, the Sea
Fisheries Decree and the Inland Fisheries Decree. A seminar on the Inland Fisheries Decree was
organized in 1994, involving all the state departments of fisheries, the ADPs, the river basin
development authorities (RBDAs) and the ministries of justice and the states are expected to
enact edicts in line with the decree. The Sea Fisheries Decree contains stiffer penalties for
infringement and its enforcement by the FRMCSU is bringing sanity into sea fisheries. Three
foreign poaching vessels have been arrested and prosecuted, 22 trawl nets with undersize cod
end meshes have been confiscated, and four trawling licences have been withdrawn. Good
working relationships have been established with the Nigerian Navy, Marine Police, trawler
operators and artisanal fishermen. Ten cases of conflicts within the five nautical mile zone
between trawlers and artisanal fishermen have been resolved. Awareness for the sustainable
development of the fisheries resources is being created.
33.    About 22 staff of the unit are undergoing a masters degree program  in Fisheries
Resource Management at the University of Lagos with assistance from the FAO and with a focus
on practical training.  Rehabilitation of the patrol vessel, the Sea Porcupine, is yet to be
completed but the unit has acquired eight vehicles, six computers, a radar boat, radio
communication and navigation equipment. With the refurbishing of the patrol vessel, it is
expected that there would be effective patrol of the 200 nautical miles Exclusive Economic
Zone. The unit needs to have a maintenance arrangement for the equipment. The Nigerian
Institute for Oceonography and Marine Research (NIOMR) contracted by the unit to assess the
stock of commercial fish and shrimp species could not complete the job because funds were not
made available for the employment of about 210 enumerators for data collection and because of
a communication gap between the agencies. NIOMR has, however, compiled data on fishing
villages, number of fishermen and gear, assessed the profitability of six types of canoe fisheries,
and documented the migration pattern of the major species. The preliminary results indicate that
the demersal stock (croaker and shrimp) caught by the trawlers are already showing signs of over
exploitation.   Project implementation was affected by poor counterpart funding, low
management autonomy in spending and infrequent meetings of the project Implementation
Committee (PIC) to approve plans and procurements.
34.   Watari Irrigation Scheme. An amendment to the Credit Agreement was made in 1991 to
provide SDR 1.979m for the completion of the scheme following a request from the FGN to that
effect. Before Kano ADP started drawing on the NFDP funds to continue with the scheme, a
total of SDR 0.153m had been utilized for the payment of some consultancy and civil works at
the scheme. The Government of Kano State considers the assistance from the MSADP Ill credit
as very useful for the maintenance of the operations of Kano ADP during the transition between
the former Kano ADP loan and the NFDP.
Factors Affecting Project Performance
35.   Inadequate counterpart funding and the late release of approved funds was a major cause
of poor implementation performance at both the state and federal levels.  With the rapid
deterioration of the exchange rate of the local currency, high inflation and dwindling public



- 47 -
resources, it became very difficult for the governments to meet their targets.  Outside
interference in project management, especially in staffing, procurement, the setting up of
arbitrary expenditure limits and in the utilization of project vehicles and equipment also
adversely affected implementation. Political and fuel crises that dominated most of the life of
the project in some cases crippled operations for months. There was also inadequate policy
support for the project units from their executive committees whose meetings were irregular.
The irregular meetings of the ADPEC sub-committees for Agriculture and Infrastructure in the
states deprived the ADPs the opportunity of harmonizing more effectively their operations with
those of other agencies operating in the rural areas. Staff turnover was also very high in some of
the units. The commitment of the federal and state governments to the ADP system as well as
the support provided by the federal apex units were two positive factors  for project
implementation.
Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
36.    The performance of the Bank at appraisal and during implementation was satisfactory.
There was prompt response to proposals from the units, fast reimbursements for completed
activities and fairly regular supervision. The state PRSD components complained of poor
intensity of Bank supervision. There were also complaints from most of the units about the non-
specification in the appraisal report of monitorable targets in most activity areas and the absence
of clear implementation guidelines in areas such as the involvement of local governments in road
maintenance.
37.    The performance of the Borrower was also satisfactory. FACU prepared the MSADP III
and together with APMEU and other federal agencies provided the units with the desired
implementation support, but improvement is needed in helping the units to manage their loan
portfolio and in deciding reasonable thresholds for engineering activities.  The level of
counterpart funding was poor especially from the Federal Government.
Project Outcome and Sustainability
38.    Overall, the outcome of the project is satisfactory. There has been a capacity build up at
both the state and federal levels for the effective management of agricultural development
initiatives. Farmers have experienced modest increases in yield and area under cultivation and
the re-estimated econmic rate of return of 25 percent compares favorably with the 17 percent
estimated at appraisal.  With the increasing trend towards beneficiary participation, cost
recovery, commercialization of input distribution, and clearer definition of priorities and roles of
the different agencies, the project activities are likely to be sustainable.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
39.    The operational plans of the project units for the period 1996 to 1998 are attached to this
aide-memoire. Most of the units would benefit from resources from the NFDFF and the NATSP
Facility. Some of the programs have already been incorporated in the National Rolling Plan for
funding and there are assurances from the government for continued funding of the activities.
40.    The key lessons learned include: (i) the need to involve all units to be included in a
project right from the preparation stage and to have separate special accounts for project units
that fall in different departments. The implementation of the PRSD and FRMCSU components



- 48 -
was hampered by the low involvement of the departments at the preparation stage and the
operation of joint special accounts with FACU; (ii) the need to more carefully define the
implementation targets during appraisal in order to arrive at meaningful evaluation at the end of
the project; (iii) the need to adequately fund a few key priority interventions in agriculture
especially in the face of dwindling public resources, and to include the deduction at source of
counterpart funds for the state project units; (iv) the need for the regular monitoring by Bank
missions of the fulfilment of institutional conditions such as the regular meeting of the ADPEC
and its sub-committees; and (v) that outside interference in project management, notably in
staffing, in the procurement process and in the use of project vehicles and equipment can unduly
delay project implementation.
Next Actions
41.    The following are the proposals for the delivery of the ICR:
06/28/96:     Send aide-memoire to Borrower
07/12/96:     Send draft ICR (with Borrower's FER) for Divisional review
07/29-08/16:  Mission Leader revises draft ICR at Divisional headquarters
08/30/96:     Send final draft ICR to Borrower
12/06/96:     Submit final ICR to Board.
Samuel Eremie
Mission Leader
Abuja
June 19, 1996.



THIRD MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLANS (APRIL 1996 TO DECEMBER 1998)
t. Lagos State Agric. Development Program (LSADP)
l                        Physical Target                                       Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.1                 Item                   |   Unit              1996         1997         1998        Total|        1996         1997          1998        Total
A. Application of Fund
1. Management and Administration
Administration                               Lump                 I            I            1            3        6,104        7,057        7,462       20,623
Human Resources Development                  Lump                 I            I            1            3        1,950        2,300        2.350        6,600
Finance, Salaries and Intemal Audit          Lump                 I            I            1            3       15,075       17,678       20,697       53,450
Sub-total                                                                                                        23,129       27,035       30,509       80,673
2. Extension
SPAT                                          No.             2,000        4,200        4,200       10,400           39           39           48          126
Fortnightly Training                         No.                45           60           60           165           35           43           42          120
Field Visit                                  No.             50,500       70,700       70,700      191.900          230          230          230          690
Media                                        Lump                 I            I            1            3          590          592          626         1,808
Equipment and Maintenance                    Lump                I             I            1            3        4,755        3.476        3,407        11,638 
Sub-total                                                                                                         5,649        4,380        4,353        14,382
3. Technical Services
Agroprocessing                               Lump                 I            I            1            3        1,670          670          779         3,119
Crops                                        Lump                 I            I            1            3        1,120         1.340        1.350        3,81
Fisheries                                    Lump                 I            I            1            3        1,230        1,160         1.080        3,470
Livestock                                    Lump                I             I            1            3        1,207        1,176         1,128        3,511
Agroforestry and Land Use                    Lump                 I            I            1            3          170          270          340          780
WIA                                          Lump                I             I            I            3        1,690        1,860          950        4,500
Seed Multiplication                         Tonne                 I            I            1            3          300          400          100          800
Sub-total                                                                                                         7,387        6,876        5,727        19,990
4. Engineering
Fadama Development                           Lump                 I            I            1            3        1,000        1.500            0        2,500
Farm Mechanization                           Lump                 I            I            1            3          450          160          120          730
Rural Infrastructure Maintenance             Lump                I             I            1           3         2.000          300          100        2.400
Equipment and Maintenance                    Lump                I             I            1            3        8,200        8,079        7,755       24,034
Sub-total                                                                                                        11,650       10,039        7,975       29,66



1. Lagos State Agric. Development Program (LSADP) (cont'd)
Physical Target                                      Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                       Unit             1996         1997         1998         Total        1996          1997         1998        Total
5. Planning, Monitoring and Eval.
Studies                                      Lump                 I            I            1            3          500          630          800         1,930
Equipment and Maintenance                    Lump                              I            1           3         1,595        2,950        2,366        6,911
Sub-total                                                                                                         2,095        3,580        3,166        8,841
TOTAL                                                                                                            49,910       51,910       51,730       153,550
B. Sources of Fund
1. Intemally Generated Revenue                                                                                      4,000        5,000         6,000       15,000
2. Counterpart Funding - Federal                                                                                    4,000         4,000        4,000       12,000
Counterpart Funding - State                                                                                      22,230       33,230       41,730       97,190
3. IBRD - ATSF                                                                                                      11,480        9,680            0       21,160
IBRD - NFDF                                                                                                       8,200            0            0         8,20
TOTAL                                                                                                            49,910       51,910        51,730      153,550
2. Lagos State Agric. Input Supply Company (LSAISC)
Physical Target                                      Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                       Unit             1996         1997         1998         Total        1996          1997         1998        Total
A. Application of Fund
Input Distribution
Fertilizer                                  Tonne            10,000       15,000       20,000       45,000       93,000      105,000      120,000      318,000
Agrochemical                                Tonne             1,000        1,000        1,000        3,000          750          750          750         2,250
Seed                                        Tonne               50           65           80           195        1,950        2.675        3,400         8,025
Fishing Inputs                               Lump                 I            I            1            3      119,000      133,000      147,000      399,000
Farm Equipment                               Lump                 I            I            1            3        1,600        2,600        3,600         7,800
TOTAL                                                                                                           216,300      244,025      274,750       735,075
B. Sources of Fund
1. Fertilizer purchases will be made with budgetary provisions of State Govemment
2. Purchase of other inputs will be with proceeds from sales



3. Ondo State Agric. Development Program (ODADP)
Physical Target                                     Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                  Item                       Unit             1996         1997         1998        Total         1996         1997         1998        Total
A. Application of Fund
1. Management and Administration
Administration                              Lump                 I            I            1           3        5,848        4,773        3,182       13.803
Human Resources Development                  No.                5            7            8           20        2,780        2,020          772        5,572
Finance, Salaries and Internal Audit        Lump                 I           I            1            3        9,524       10,303       11,122       30,949
Sub-total                                                                                                      18,152       17,096       15,076       50,324
2. Extension
SPAT                                         No.            18,400       18,400       18,400      55.200          922          803          567        2,292
Fortnightly Training                         No.               59           78           78          215          407          641          500        1.548
Media                                       Lump                 I           I            1            3         1.904        1,359       1.202        4,465
Equipment and Maintenance                   Lump                 I            I           1            3        3,868        3,324        2,347        9.539
Sub-total                                                                                                       7,101        6,127        4,616       17,844
3. Technical services
Crops                                       Lump                 I            I            1           3        4,995        4,350        2,519        11,864
Livestock                                   Lump                 I           I            I            3         1,274        1,110         783        3,167
Fisheries                                   Lump                 I           I            1            3          370          220          100          690
Agroforestry and Land Use                   Lump                 I            I            1           3          142          123           88          353
WIA                                         Lump                 I            I           1            3          401          393          277         1.071
Seed Multiplication                          Ha.               180         132           99          411         1,092         951          668        2.711
Sub-total                                                                                                       8,274        7,147        4.435        19,856
4. Engineering
Agroprocessing                               No.                6            6            6           18          182          159          112          453
Fadama Development                          Lump                 I            I           1            3         1,456        1,268         569        3,293
Equipment and Maintenance                   Lump                 I           I            1            3        2,002         1,744        1,231       4,979
Sub-total                                                                                                       3,640        3,171         1,912       8,723
5. PME and PRSD
Studies                                      No.                3            5            5           13        2,319         1,714        1.400       5,433
Equipment and Maintenance                   Lump                 I            I           1            3        3,066        2,858        2,560        8,484
Group Formation                             Lump                 I            I            1           3          886         1,540        1,441       3,867
PRSD                                        Lump                 I           I            1            3          910          793          560        2,263
Sub-total                                                                                                       7,181        6,905        5,961       20,047
TOTAL                                                                                                          44,348       40,446       32,000      116,794



3. Ondo State Agric. Development Program (ODADP) (cont'd)
Physical Target                                      Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                       Unit             1996         1997         1998         Total         1996         1997         1998        Total
B. Sources of Fund
1. Intemally Generated Revenue                                                                                      9,000         6,000        6,000       21,000
2. Counterpart Funding - Federal                                                                                    10,000       10,000       10,000       30,000
Counterpart Funding - State                                                                                      16,000        16,000       16,000       48,000
3. IBRD - ATSF                                                                                                       9,348        8,446            0       17,794
TOTAL                                                                                                            44,348       40,446        32,000      116,794
4. Ondo State Agric. Input Supply Company (ODAISC)
Physical Target                                      Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                       Unit             1996         1997         1998         Total         1996         1997         1998         Total
Lu
A. Application of Fund
1. Input Distribution
Fertilizer                                  Tonne            15,000       20,000       25,000       60,000       45,000       60.000        75,000      180,000
Agrochemical                                 Tonne               74           60           80          214        7,340        6,380         8,970       22,690
Seed                                        Tonne               153          117          142          412          978          752          892         2,622
Other inputs                                 Lump                 I            I            I            3          968          880         1,230        3,078
Renovation of FSCs                            No.               26            10           10           46        2,600         1.000        1,000        3,600
Sub-total                                                                                                        56,886       68,335        87,092      211,313
2. Public Enlightenment and Training
Public Enlightenment                         Lump                 I            I            1            3          128          155          180          463
Training                                      No.              243           275          325          843         1,525       2,000         2,550        6,075
Sub-total                                                                                                         1,653        2,155         2,730        6,538
3. Building and Oftice Equipment               Lump                 I            I            I            3          840         2010             0         2850
TOTAL                                                                                                            59,379       72,500        89,822      221,701
B. Sources of Fund
Cost of all activities will be met from sales proceeds.



5. Osun State Agric. Development Program (OSADP)
Physical Target                                      Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                       Unit             1996         1997         1998         Total         1996         1997         1998        Total
A. Application of Fund
1. Management and Administration
Administration                               Lump                 I            I            1            3         1,738         595         1,500        3,833
Human Resources Development                   No.               50           50             0          100        1,535         1,435       3,000         5,970
Finance, Salaries and Intemal Audit          Lump                 I            I            1            3       24,796       28,740       30,250        83,786
Sub-total                                                                                                        28,069       30,770       34,750        93,589
2. Extension
Fortnightly Training                          No.               20           26           26            72          386          656          351         1,393
Media                                        Lump                 I            I            1            3          950          950          340         2,240
Equipment and Maintenance                    Lump                 I            I            1            3        1.530         1,530        2,517        5,577
Subtotal                                                                                                          2,866        3,136         3,208        9,210
3. Technical Services
Crops                                        Lump                 I            I            1            3          455          654         1,273        2,382    w
Livestock                                    Lump                 I            I            1            3          910          730          372         2,012
Fisheries                                    Lump                 I            I            1            3          888          518         1,500        2,906
Agrorestry and Land Use                      Lump                 I            I            I            3          260          260          303           823
WIA                                          Lump                 I            I            1            3          225          125          315          665
Sub-total                                                                                                         2,738        2,287         3,763        8,788
4. Engineering
Agroprocessing                               Lump                 I            I            1            3          660          210            0          870
Fadama Development                            No.               118           0             0          118       16,650            0            0        16,650
Rural Water                                   No.                7           22            13           42        6,001        3,700          850        10,551
Road Maintenance                             Km.                50           195         244           489        2,167       12,112        10,930       25,209
Sub-total                                                                                                        25,479       16,022        11,780       53,280
5. PME and PRSD
Studies                                       No.                2             2            0            4          480          480            0          960
Equipment and Maintenance                    Lump                 I            I            1            3        2,140        3,759        2,389         8,288
PRSD                                         Lump                 I            I            1            3          766          366          200         1,332
lSub-total                                                                                                         3,386        4,605        2,589       10,50



5. Osun State Agric. Development P rogram (OSADP) (cont'd)
Physical Target                                      Financil Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                       Unit             1996         1997         1998         Total        1996          1997         1998        Total
6. Commercial Services
Input Distribution                           Lump                 I            I            1            3        1,253        2,810         1,910        5,973
Cooperative Development                      Lump                 I            I            1            3        1,275          925            0         2,200
Sub-total                                                                                                         2,528        3,735         1,910        8,173
TOTAL                                                                                                            65,065       60,555       58,000       183,620
B. Sources of Fund
1. Intemally Generated Revenue                                                                                      4,000        4,500         5,291       13,791
2. Counterpart Funding - Federal                                                                                     6,000        8,000       10,000       24,000
Counterpart Funding - State                                                                                      29,000       35,500       40,000       104,500
3. IBRD - ATSF                                                                                                      12,385       10,330            0       22,715
IBRD - NFDF                                                                                                      18,614            0            0        18,614
TOTAL                                                                                                            69,999       58,330        55,291      183,62
I,
6. Oyo State Agric. Development Program (OYADP)
Physical Target                                      Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                       Unit             1996         1997         1998         Total        1996          1997         1998        Total
A. Application of Fund
1. Management and Administration
Administration                               Lump                 I            I            1            3        I,100         1,280         895         3,275
Human Resources Development                  Lump                 I            I            1            3        2,300        2,700         1,790        6,790
Cooperative Development                      Lump                 I            I            1            3          860         1,100         358         2,318
Finance, Salaries and Intemal Audit          Lump                 I            I            1            3       37,998       38,610       46,545       123,153
Sub-total                                                                                                        42,258       43,690       49,588       135,536
2. Extension
SPAT                                         No.              7,500        7,600        7,600       22,800          115          180          150          430
Fortnightly Training                          No.               20           26           26            72          280          440          589         1,309
Field Visit                                   No.           42,500        42,500       42,500      127,500          100          180          150          430
Media                                        Lump                 I            I            1            3        1.795        1,915        2,165         5,875



6. Oyo State Agric. Development Program (OYADP) (cont'd)
Physical Target                                      Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                       llnit            1996         1997         1998         Total         1996         1997         1998        Total
Skill Development Center                      No.                3             2            0            5        2,100         1,900           0         4,000
Equipment and Maintenance                    Lump                 I            I            1            3          790         1,285        1.600        3,675
Sub-total                                                                                                         5,180        5,900         4,654       15,734
3. Technical Services
MTRM                                          No.                9            12           12           33          464          530          412         1,406
OFAR (all sub-sectors)                        No.               156          192          136          484         1.856       2,120         1,647        5,623
Seed Multiplication                           Ha.                I1           15 11                     41          464          530          412         1,406
Livestock Development                        Lump                 I            I            1            3          232          265          206          703
Equipment and Maintenance                    Lump                 I            I            1            3        1,624         1,855        1,440        4,919
Sub-total                                                                                                         4,640        5,300         4,117       14,057
4. Rural Infrastructure
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance          Km.                50            50           47          147          820         1,045         980         2.845
Rural Water                                   No.                7             8            7           22        2,020         1,530          40         3,590    ' '
Equipment and Maintenance                    Lump                 I            I            1            3        3,310        2.075         2,925        8,310
Farm Mechanization                           Lump                 I            I            1            3          702          350           195        1,247
Fadama Development                           Lump                 I            I            1            3       10,000        14,000           0        24,000
Sub-total                                                                                                        16,852        19,000        4,140       39,992
5. PME and PRSD
Studies                                      Lump                 I            I            I            3          565          950          650         2,165
Equipment and Maintenance                    Lump                 I            I            I            3        3815         4,350         2.214       10,379
PRSD                                         Lump                 I            I            1            3          690          810          537         2.037
Subtotal                                                                                                          5,070        6,110         3,401       14,581
TOTAL                                                                                                            74,000       80,000        65,900      219,900
B. Sources of Fund
1. Counterpart Funding - Federal                                                                                    10.000       10.000       12,000       32.000
Counterpart Funding - State                                                                                      48,000       48,000        48,000      144,000
2. IBRD - ATSF                                                                                                       6,000        8,000        5,900       19,900
IBRD - NFDF                                                                                                      10,000        14,000           0        24,000
TOTAL                                                                                                            74,000       80,000        65,900      219,900



7. Oyo State Agric. Input Supply Company (OYAISC)
Physical Target                                       Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                        Unit               1996         1997         1998        'I'otal       1996         1997         1998         Total
A. Application of Fund
1. Management and Administration
Administration                               Lump                   I             I            1           3         5.930        7,119        8,540       21,589
Training and Consultancy                     Lump                    I            I            1           3         3,427        4,112        4,935       12,474
Sub-total                                                                                                            9,357       11,231       13,475       34,063
2. Input Distribution
Agrochemicals                                Tonne                 16           20           22           58         9.023       10,460       22,427       41.910
Seed                                         Tonne                 97          130          112          342         2.680        3.982        3,725       10,387
Minor Equipment                               No.               2,000        2,750        3.500         8.250        2.465        2.750        3.500        8,715
Sub-total                                                                                                           14,168       17,192       29,652       61,012
TOTAL                                                                                                               23,525       28,423       43,127       95,075
B. Sources of Fund
Costs wkill be met through grants from the ADP and sales proceeds.
8. Rivers State Agric. Development Program (RVADP)
Physical Target                                       Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                        tinit            1996         1997          1998        Total         1996          1997         1998         Total
A. Application of Fund
1. Management and Administration
Administration                               Lump                  I            I            I            3         2,780        2,950         2.720        8.450
Human Resources Development                  Lump                  I            I            1            3         1.410         1.520         720         3,650
Finance, Salaries and Intemal Audit          Lump                  I            I            I            3        21.510       22.710        22.540       66,760
Rural Institutions Development               Lump                  I            I            1            3         1.200         1,190        1.090        3.480
Sub-total                                                                                                          26,900       28,370        27,070       82,340
2. Extension
SPAT                                         Lump                  I            I            1            3           650          710          200         1,560
Fortnightly Training                          No.               153           204          204          561         1,190         1,580         400         3,170
Field Visit                                   No.              8.333        8,333        8.333       25,000         1,550         1,600         280         3.430



8. Rivers State Agric. Development Program (RVADP) (cont'd)
Physical Target                                     Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                  Item                       Unit             1996         1997         1998        Total        1996         1997         1998        Total
WIA                                         Lump                I            I            1            3          370          550         230         1,156
Media                                       Lump                I            I            1            3          610          820         390         1,820
Sub-total                                                                                                       4,370        5,260        1,500       11,130
3. Technical Services
MTRM and Field Visits                       Lump                I            I            1            3          670          670          280        1,620
Crops                                       Lump                I            I            I            3          320          270          110          700
Livestock                                   Lump                I            I            1            3          870          940          490        2,300
Fisheries                                   Lump                I            I            1            3          470          500          270        1,240
Agroforestry and Land Use                   Lump                I            I            1            3          330          350          190          870
Seed Multiplication                         Lump                I            I            I            3          560          610          250        1,420
Sub-total                                                                                                       3,220        3,340        1,590        8,150
4. Engineering
Building and Maintenance                    Lump                I            I            1            3          620          810          900        2,330 
Fadama Development                          Lump                I            I            1            3          200          260          240          700
Farm Mechanization                          Lump                I            I            1            3           80          130          160          370
Sub-total                                                                                                         900        1,200        1,300        3,400
5. Planning, Monitoring and Eval.
Studies                                      No.                6            5            4           15          800          250          150        1,200
Field Monitoring Visits                      No.               15           15           10           40          350          250          100          700
Equipment and Maintenance                   Lump                I            I            1            3        1,280          900          400        2,580
Sub-total                                                                                                       2,430        1,400          650        4,480
TOTAL                                                                                                          37,820       39,570       32,110      109,500
B. Sources of Fund
1. Intemally Generated Revenue                                                                                      500          650          800        1,950
2. Counterpart Funding - Federal                                                                                   3,500        3.500        3,500       10,500
Counterpart Funding - State                                                                                    25,060       27,410       27.940       80,410
3. IBRD - ATSF                                                                                                    9,200         7,440           0        16,640
TOTAL                                                                                                          38,260       39,000       32,240      109,500



9. Rivers State Agricultural Input Supply Company (RVAISC)
Physical Target                                      Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No                   Item                       Unit             1996         1997         1998         Total         1996         1997         1998        Total
A. Application of Fund
I. Management and Administration
Administration                               Lump                 I            I            I           3         1,400        1,750        2,200        5,350
2. Input Distribution
Fertilizer                                  Tonne            9,000        10,800       12,960       32,760       27,000       32,400       15,552       74,952
Agrochemicals                                Tonne               I1          12           12           35        12,960       13,280        13,920      40,160
Fishing Inputs                               Lump                I             I            I            3       18,600       21,744       26,960       67,304
Planting Materials                           Lump                I             I            1           3           538          595          652         1,785
Farming Implements                           Lump                 I            I            I            3          935        1,183         1,431       3,549
Food Staple                                 Tonne                17          20           23           60         2,790        3,310        3,925        10,025
Sub-total                                                                                                        62,823       72,512       62,440       197,775
TOTAL                                                                                                            64,223       74,262       64,640       203,125
B. Sources of Fund
Costs will be met through sales proceeds.                                                                                                                         c
10. Planning, Research and Statistics Department (PRSD)
Physical Target                                      Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                       Unit             1996         1997         1998         Total        1996          1997         1998        Total
A. Application of Fund
1. National Agric. Data Bank                   Lump                 1            l            1            3         1,709       4,042         4,042        9.793
(Networking, Publication of Annual
Agro-statistics Document)
2. Macro-Economic Policy and Analysis          Lump                 I            I            1            3         1,021        2,415        2,415        5,851
(Capacity Building Workshop, Studies
on Impact of GATT, PER for the
States, Poverty Alleviation. Agric
Marketing, Sector Budget Analysis)



10. Planning, Research and Statistics Deprtment (PRSD) (cont'd)
Physical Target                                        Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                         Unit             1996          1997         1998         Total         1996          1997          1998        Total
3. Agric. Sector Feasibilty and Research         Lump                 I             I            I3                       317           750          750         1,817
Studies
(Two Policy and Research Studies,
Publish Journal on Agric. Dev.)
4. Improvement ofAgric. Planning                 Lump                 I             I            I3                       681         1,611         1,611        3.903
Capacity
(Training, Agric. Planning Workshop)
TOTAL                                                                                                                 3,728        8,818         8,818       21,364
B. Sources of Fund
Costs would be met from budgetary allocations.
11. Federal Agric. Coordinating Unit (FACU)
Physical Target                                        Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                        llnit         1996              1997         1998         Total         1996          1997          1998        Total
A. Application of Fund
1. Financing and Expenditure Manage.
Supervision Missions                           No.           18                 18            18           54         3.538        3.343         4.338        11,266
Workshops and Meetings                         No.            7                  7             7           21         1,001         1.101        1,211         3.313
Research, Studies and Publications             No.            5                  5             5           15          272           299           329          900
Equipment and Maintenance                     Lump            I                  I             1            3          719           791           870         2,380
Sub-total                                                                                                             5,577        5,534         6,748        17,859
2. Adaptive Research
Supervision Missions                           No.           168               144           134          446         7,376        7.511         7,641       22,528
Workshops and Meetings                         No.           80                 76           76           232         4,839        4,725         4,845        14,409
Research and Studies                           No.           49                 28           28           105         4,390        2,830         2,830        10.050
Publications and Documentaries                Lump            I                  I             I            3         1.455         1,470        1,490        4,415
Equipment and Maintenance                     Lump            I                  I             I            3         1,250        4,350         3.380        8,980
Sub-total                                                                                                            19,310       20,886        20,186       60,382



II. Federal Agric. Coordinating Unit (FACU) (cont'd)
Physical Target                                     Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                  Item                       Unit         1996             1997         1998        Total         1996        1997         1998         Total
3. Extension
Supervision Missions                         No.          226              193          177          596       10,487       11,987       16,389       38,863
Workshops and Meetings                       No.          186              169          170          525       10,462       13,683       15,410       39,555
Research, Studies, Publication and Library  Lump           I                 I            1            3        6,122        5,851        6,270       18,243
Sub-total                                                                                                      27,071       31,521       38,069       96,661
4. Program Development and Planning
Supervision Missions                         No.          108               91           94          293        9,606        4,070        5,463       19,139
Workshops and Meetings                       No.          16                16           16           48        2,348        2,393        2,489        7,230
Research and Studies                         No.           7                10            6           23        3,608        5,257        1,165       10,030
Publications                                 No.           4                 4            4           12           75           90          115          280
Equipment and Maintenance                   Lump           I                 I            1            3       10,455        7,260        3,704       21,479
Sub-total                                                                                                      26,092       19,070       12,936       58,098
5. Ettgineering
Supervision Missions                         No.          47                43           38          128          802          886          816        2,504    O
Workshops and Meetings                       No.          23                25           23           71          440          490          400        1,330 l
Research, Studies and Publications           No.          II                10            8           29          490          450          450        1,390
Civil Works, Equipment and Maintenance      Lump           I                 I            1            3        9,375       68,425        8.900       86.050
Sub-total                                                                                                      11,107       70,251       10,566       91,924
6. Nlanagement and Administration
Administration                              Lump           I                 I            1            3       27.456       23,315       15,219       65,990
Salaries and Allowances                     Lump           I                 I            1            3        6,048        6.346        7,233       19,627
Subtotal                                                                                                       33,504       29,661       22,452       85,617
TOTAL                                                                                                         122,661      176,923      110,957      410,541
B. Sources of Fund
1. Federal Grant and RTEP                                                                                        30.000       67,109       92,682      189,791
2. IBRD - NATSP                                                                                                   78,911      93,089            0       172,000
IBRD - NFDP                                                                                                     8,500        9.350        9.775       27,625
3. IFAD Sokoto ACDP                                                                                                4,250       6,375        8.500        19.125
4. UNDP 4th Country Program                                                                                        1,000        1,000           0        2,000
TOTAL                                                                                                         122,661      176,923      110,957      410,541



12. Agric. Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APM EU)
Physical Target                                       Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                   Uinit                  1996         1997         1998        Total         1996          1997         1998        Total
A. Application of Fund
1. Management and Administration
Administration                               Lump                  I            I             1            3        4.959        5,020         5.085       15.064
Training and Twinning Arrangement            Lump                  I            I             1            3        9.121        8,520         8.165       25,806
Civil Works                                  Lump                  I            I             1            3       50.890       50.890        50,890      152.670
Vehicles and Equipment                       Lump                  I            I             1            3       64.120        5,370            0        69,490
Finance and Salaries                         Lump                  I            I             1           3         9,794       10.750        11,428       31.972
Sub-total                                                                                                         138,884       80.550        75,568      295,002
2. Monitoring Program
Periodic Report Production                    No.                 26           26           26            78          500          500          440         1,440
Quick Monitoring and Other Studies            No.                  5            4            3            12          875          675          523         2,073
PBMS Development                             Lump                  I            I             1            3        1,200          256         1,104        2,560
Data Storage and Retrieval and Op. Costs     Lump                  I            I             1            3        2,234         1,954        1,719        5,907
Sub-total                                                                                                           4,809        3,385         3,786       11,980    a
3. Evaluation Program
Mid-year Review and ICR                       No.                 31           33           31           95           310          710          310         1.330
Core Surveys Supervision and Op Costs        Lump                  I            I             1            3        1,277         1,477        2,292        5,046
Evaluation Instruments and Supervision       Lump                  I            I             I            3          842          842          842         2,526
Remote Sensing Survey                         No.                  0            1            0             1            0        5,000            0         5,000
Evaluation Studies                           Lump                  I            I             1           3           850          850          850         2,550
FAMSU Survey                                  No.                  I            I            1            3         1,500        1,500         1,500        4,500
Sub-total                                                                                                           4,779       10,379         5,794       20,952
4. Engineering Program                          Lump                  I            I            1            3        2,471         3.188          400        6,059
5. Special Services Program                     Lump                  I            I            1            3        7,011         5,434        6,362       18,807
TOTAL                                                                                                             155,695       99,916       87,529       343,140
B. Sources of Fund
Federal Grant                                                                                                      67,890       73.131      101,890       242,911
IBRD - ATSF                                                                                                        13.764        7,764            0        21.528
IBRD - NFDP                                                                                                        54.620       24.081            0        78,701
lTOTAL                                                                                                             136,274      104,976      101,890      343,140



13. Fisheries Resources Monitoring Control and Surveillance Unit (FRMCSU)
Physical Target                                        Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                   Item                        Unit              1996          1997         1998         Total         1996          1997          1998        Total
A. Application of Fund
1. Management and Administration
Office Refurbishment                           No.                30             0             0           30        43,050            0             0       43.050
Vehicles and Equipment
INMARSAT                                     No.                 30            0             0           30        27.675             0            0        27.675
Motor Vehicles                               No.                  9            6             6           21        25,584        15.744       15.744        57.072
Patrol Vessel                                No.                  1            0             0             1      110.700             0            0       110.700
Boats                                        No.                  3            3             0            6         8.200         8,200            0        16,400
Technical Assistance                           MM                  2             2             2            6         2,460        2,460         2,460         7.380
Local Staff Salaries                          Lump                  I            I             I            3        11.808        14.170       17,003       42.981
Sub-total                                                                                                           229,477       40,574        35,207      305,258
2. MCS Operating Costs
Repair and Maintenance                        Lump                  I            I             1            3         8.118        8.856         9,758        26,732 I  ay
Vessel Management                             Lump                  I            I             1            3        59,122        6.150         6,150        71,422
Vessel Fuel                                   Lump                  I            I             1            3        16,400        16.400       16.400       49.200
Sub-total                                                                                                            83,640       31,406        32,308       147,354
TOTAL                                                                                                               313,117       71,980        67,515       452,612
B. Sources of Fund
Costs will be met with resources from the Pctroleum Trust Fund and budgetary releases by Federal Government.



- 63 -
Appendix B
SECTOR-SPECIFIC DATA
Table 1: Achievements of the ADPs in Extension, Technical Services, Fisheries
and Commercial Services
Lagos          Ondo          Osun (a)         Oyo           Rivers         All ADPs
Item                              T                  A    T    A    T |A    T A                T   A           T     A
Extension
Farm families ('000 No.)           60      45    300    288             25(0   592    344    107    346    1059   1273
Village extension agents (No.)     60      64    300    192    262    2(0    269    261    107    178    998    902
Farm families/VEA (No)           1000    703   1000   1500         -   1208   1000   1318   I0(J(  1944    1000    1411
SPAT ('000 No.):
- Crop                          20.9   18.7    112   77.8   71.8   57.2    174    136   49.6   35 6    428    325
- Others                          5.1    7.9   11.6   12.7    6.6       7 0   13.4   10 2    3.1    2.4   39.8    40.2
Field days (No.)                  200    203    135       68    116       91    165    135   6304   7099   6920   7596
Radio/TV programs (No.)           292    208    995    645    855    681   1085   1085    570    431    3797   3050
Women groups formed (No.)         160    143    296    260    870    734    177    177    580    431    2083    1745
Technical Services
Diagnostic surveys (No.)            2       2       4      4       5       5      2       2       I      I      14       14
OFAR trials (No.)                 371    327    702    670    317    245    580    451    450    435   2420   2128
Grain seed production (tonnes):
- direct                          92      10    371    397       25     22    244    136       45      45     777    610
- outgrowers                      23       0   1200    958    271    326    714    683    140    140   2348   2107
Breeding stock production (No.)
- rabbit                        3124   1540   2100   2672    100    143          0       0    550    592   5874   4974
- sheep and goat                3120    335    280    273    100        68       0       0    300    144   3800    820
Fisheries
OFAR trials (No.)                  31      26      18      13      6       6     24      24      12     I(      91      79
Fingerling production:
- direct ('000 No.)              850    625    100       90       0       0      0       t)     0       0    950    715
- outgrowers (No.)                 6       6       0      0       8       8     12      12      5       5      31      31
Commercial Services
Input distribution:
- fertilizer ('000 T)             55      33      52     52      83     37    143       93     93      93     426    308
- grain seed (T)                 234    105    864    275         0       0    950    443       11     11   2059    834
- agrochemicals (T)               45      33    630    421    149    104    367    200         22      22    1212    779
Note:   T  =    Target
A   =    Achievement
(a) =   Figures are for 1992 - 95 for Osun and 1990 - 95 for the rest.



- 64 -
Table 2: Achievements of the ADPs in Infrastructure and Management
Lagos    |    Ondo            Osun (a)          Oyo            Rivers         All ADPs
Item                           T       A       T       A       T       A       T       A       T       A       T        A
Infrastructure
Rural roads (Km):
- rehabilitation              705    307      500    387    417    479    867    324    117           125    2606      1622
- recurrent maint.            900    326      650    285   1426   1072   2875   2624    550           294    6401    4601
- routine maint.              490       0    1000    387   1306    450   3304   2013   1000             0    7100    2850
Water supply (No.)
- well construction           270     131     400    167       30      46     120      42    150        2      970      388
- borehole constr.             46      37       12      10      7       7       5       1      75      29      145       84
- earth dam constr.             0       0       32       0      0       0       5       5       0       0       37        5
- WUA formation               168      168    432      175     55      55      40      40    148       58      843      496
Pilot irrigation (Ha.)          60      25       60     20      21       14     78      48      10       8      229      115
Agro-processing centers (No.)     I       1       6       6      4        1       1       1      4       2       16      I 
Management
ADPEC Meeting                   24        9      24       8      16     13      24       12     24      10      112       52
Funding (US$m) (b):
- State Government             2.5     3.2     3.2    3.6    0.0    0.8        4.8    3.3    3.0       1.4    13.5    12.3
- Federal Government           3.8     1.3     5.5     I.4    0.0    0.5       6.2     1.9    4.5      1.7    20.0      6.8
- Beneficiaries                0.4     0.6     0.5    0.0    0.0    0.4    0.1         1.2    0.5     0.8       1.5     3.0
- IDA                         15.1    16.0    24.4   23.0      0.0    9.1   24.3    17.2   14.7    11.7    78.5    77.0
Total                         21.8   21.1    33.6   28.0    0.0    10.8    35.4   23.6   22.7    15.6    113.5         99.1
Training (No.)
- local -in house            2020    1476   2900   1949   1151    1653   3511   3285   3278   4274    12860   12637
- local -offproject           355    277    5900   5878    527    382    1113   1399   3237           847   11132    8783
- overseas                     38      34      113     67      53       19    253      53      56      31      513      204
Planning,, Monitoring and
Evaluation (No.):                 7       7       7       7      4        4      7       7       7       7       32       32
- annual work plan             83      81       83     78      54      50      83      76      83      80      386      365
- core survey                  57      54       1 1      9      1 1    11      30      26      18      18      127      108
- special study
monthly progress:
- review meeting               72      55       72     52      48      44      72      68      72      21      332      240
- periodic report             174    174       174    157    116    102       174    174    174       135      812      742
Note:   (a)  =   Figures are for 1992 - 95 for Osun and 1990 - 95 for the rest.
(b)  =   Achievement as at March 31, 1996. Counterpart fund contributions are converted at prevailing
average exchange rates in year of release.



- 65 -
Appendix C
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO ICR
1. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
PREFACE
This is the Borrower's Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for
the Third Multi-State Agricultural Development Project (MSADP-
III), IDA Credit NO 2035 UNI in the amount of 75m SDR (US$100.9m)
The loan was approved in August  1989 and became effective in
March 1990. A Mid-Term Review was conducted in November, 1993.
The loan closed on 31 March 1996 after one year extension. The
loan was almost fully drawn down. Final disbursement is expected
to be 31st Juily, 1996.
The Borrower's ICR was prepared by the Agricultural Projects
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU) in March 1996. All data
and information used in the preparation of this document were
derived from project documents, reports, discussions with project
staff, and field visits carried out by the ICR team between 10 -
26 March, 1996. The first draft was reviewed by the Head of Unit,
APMEU which was further reviewed at a workshop held on the 8th
July, 1996 and chaired by the Director, Federal Department of
Agriculture with the implementing agencies in attendance.
i



- 66 -
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.    The agreement for the Third Multi-State Agricultural
Development Project which covered Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Lagos, Rivers
States and the Federal Components of APMEU, FACU, Federal
Departments of Planning Research and Statistics and Fisheries was
signed on the 4th of August 1989 and became disbursement
effective in March 1990. The project lasted for six years after a
one year extension to March 1996.
2.   The main objective of the project was to increase food crop
production and incomes of small holder farmers through a progamme
of  integrated  unified  extension,  adaptive  'research,  seed
multiplication, agro-forestry and land use, fisheries, road
rehabilitation and maintenance, water supply and farm input
supply and distribution.
3.   The total project costs at appraisal was US$159.4m out of
which IBRD was expected.to provide .63.3k US$100.9m.  The Federal
Government of Nigeria and State Governments were to provide 27.3%
US$43.5m (N187.05m) and 8.5% US$13.5m (N58.05m) respectively,
while the beneficiaries were to contribute 0.9% US$1.5m (N6.45m).
The overall credit draw down was utilized for the purpose it was
meant for at closing. Drawdown from IDA stood at US$96.40m as at
31st January,  1996   out of US$100.9m.   The   FGN   contributed
US$11.57m (N237.96m) against  US$43.50m (N187.05m) while the SGs
contributed US$12.40m (N228.15m) against US$13.50m (58.05m)  and
the beneficiaries contributed US$3.17m (N51.38m) against US$1.Sm
(N6.45m) SAR targets. The local counterpart funding of the
Federal and State Governments and the beneficiaries when compared
with the appraisal estimates is significant in Naira terms.
4.    All the state agencies implemented the Unified Extension
System. The VEA:FF ratio was 1:1778 against SAR target of 1:1000.
A total of 307,073 (69k) of targeted of 443,070 SPAT plots were
established and the WIA componient formed 25940 (70%) of 36918
target groups.
5.   The main activities of Technical Services sub-program were
directed at the conduct of diagnostic surveys, On-Station
research and On-farm Adaptive research towards developing
appropriate technologies for dissemination through SPATs by
extension.  Tlhe performance of. the component was satisfactory.
Many packages of recommendations on improved crop varieties,
optimum plant population, pest control, cropping systems etc were
developed. About 19 diagnostic surveys, 301 On-Station trials,
and 1204 OFAR covering all subsectors were conducted.   The
extension research linkage has been strengthened with all ADPs
working closely with FACU and Research Institutes to establish
the trials arid traiii research - extension staff.
ii



- 67 -
6.    Under the rural roads  rehabilitation and maintenance and
the provision of potable water, the project performed
satisfactorily. However, due to high cost of materials resulting
from inflation and initial early delays, the targets of most
engineering components were reduced during MTR and supervision
missions. The project rehabilitated 1685km, maintained 4884Km
(recurrent)  and   2497Km  (routine)  out  of  revised  targets  of
1504Km, 3993Km and 3144Km respectively. The rural water
development component drilled 95 boreholes out of 184, dug 417
open wells against 663 and constructed 6 dams. Thirty (30) out of
the 42 targeted Agro-processing centres were established.
Building programme was satisfactory as most required buildings
were completed.
7.    Ondo, Oyo and Lagos States established Agricultural Input
Supply Companies (AISC) from their Commercial Services sub-
programmes. About 392,569Mt of fertilizers and 465Mt of agro-
chemicals were distributed.
8.     Support  services  components  of  Planning Monitoring  and
Evaluation (PME), Administration, Finance and Human Resources
Development performed satisfactorily by providing the desired
support. Quantitative indicators emanating from PME surveys and
studies provided necessary data and information for decision
making and assesment of project implementation particularly at
the Monthly Progress Review Meetings (MPRMs).
9.   The ADPECs and PMUs of the ADPs were fully composed, however
only 53 out of expected 112 ADPEC meejtings were held. The
frequency of PMU meetings was satisfactory, 297 out of 336
scheduled meetings were held.
10.   All projects except Oyo ADP did not recruit the required
number of staff. About 4,015 staff were on board against a target
of 4,414 different categories of staff.   A total of 210 staff
were trained overseas against a target of 413 and  23,085 staff
benefited from local/inhouse trainings against 25,326 planned.
11.   The Federal components of APMEU,  FACU,  PRSD,  and FRMSCU
performed  satisfactorily  in  implementing  their  respective
supporting roles.
12.   The  key  factors that  affected project  implementation
included delays in project take-off, political and fuel crisis,
Structural Adjustment Programme, limited management autonomy
which affected implementation decisions. The economic environment
during implementation was also not favourable due to foreign
exchange fluctuations and high inflation. The cumbersomeness of
the procurement and approval proceedures slowed the rate of draw
down and delayed execution of some vital services and delivery of
goods.  The experience gained during the implemeiitation of the
earlier projects assisted in project
iii



- 68 -
execution. The FGN and World Bank support was satisfactory
throughout project life.
13.   Overall project outcome was satisfactory. The overall ERR
for the project was 26k against SAR estimate of 17%. The project
has in place institutional and physical structures that could
ensure sustainability and future development efforts.
14.   The various states and Federal components have become
institutional realities and important organs of government
agricultural development efforts. The operational plan for the
next three years is realistic and attainable provided both
Federal and State Governments continue with and improve on their
levels of committment to the ADP system.
15. The project is sustainable as it has put in place the basic
structures and institutions necessary for delivery of critical
services to the small-holder farmers for increased agricultural
productioni in the states if only the Federal and the State
Governments' funding are timely and adequate.
16. One major lesson learnt was that the AISCs were viable if
given a free hand to operate. This was proved by the performance
of Ondo, Lagos and Oyo State AISCs. The AISCs will perform better
if state Governments divest majority of the shares to cooperative
farmer groups, other relevant private sector organizations and
individuals for the AISCs to achieve higher levels of
capitalization and privatization.
17. Other Lessons Learnt included:
-  The need to ensure the education of political appointees on
loan/credit conditionalities/aggreements to improve implemen-
tation.
-  The low level of renumeration within the ADP system relative
to other sectors created difficulty in retaining high level
professional/technical staff in posts.
-  The  group  formation  concept within  the WIA and  other
beneficiary user's associations has enabled these groups to
embark on laudable projects which benefitted them as
individuals, groups as well as the community.
iv



NIGERIA
:"e Cs Eel s , e R                                     > \ XMULTI-STATE
AGRICULTURAL
-ake  DEVELOPMENT
'6 / {:A'e ',               J-.O0AI>S=PROJECT  III
PROJECT STATES:
MSADP III
BORNO                                     i agog State
Onido) State
MAIDUGURI                    Oyc State
Rivers State
s  tr: t ^;  (    nvJ                t        K*4s >U\t   Ss \,           r                   i                     d                 { E     COMPLETED:
Ceser,So/rA I 9   BAUCHI  Sy              __            1  Funtua (Loan 1092-UNI)
Resenwir                        BAUCHI                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 Gusau (Loan 1099-UNI)
3  Gomnbe (Loan 1164-UNI)
ml                                               >                                                 \ANA e2   p <4 Ayangba (Loan 1455-UNI)
5   Lafia (Loan 1454-UNI)
v; 79 2 X-) ) v < YOLA  J                 , > 6   Bida (Loan 1667-UNI)
7   lorin (Loan 1668-UN!)
E Ikiti Akoko (Loan 1854-UNI)
0- YO                                 4     u   gNJ               /          a_5gJ   <g9  Oyo North (Loan 1838-UNI)
EXIST!ING:
I.           ~~~Bauchi St. (Loan 1981 -UN!)
Sokoto St. (Loan 2185-UN!)
Ct  4   ,X NITY  2ffiS      >    P at^ ^               Y    y             Rivers                             Kano St. (Loan 1982-UNI)
__________                                                                                                               IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  aduna St. (Loan 2436-UN!)
readen and,s tcIusivt for the l*Z  n  National Capital              MSADP I (Loan 2733-UNI)
.sed ad -. -olye shown        State Capitals                       Borno (Loan 2741-UNi)
nD,:!tLAA                                      Gulf e3f Guir7ea K z   ' '   'APPROVED: MSADP if
9  Gulf of Guinea                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries -  1g.S?
CT                                                                KILOMETERS OL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40  80 120 160               K-aaState
MILES 6 20 40 60 80 100                               Niger State
xr                                                                                                                                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _






IBRD 20799
/ ~~~~ o~~~- -~~~~ N                I   G      E    R _>       
BU RKINA FASO               .        SOKOTO I             _         KAT.S INA                       -   .                                            r
V. ti/\                                                _    
z  X   a   W                  -.             \   1-         K~~~~~~KA N O                 
- i2;j      79     )Sl/                                                             KANO Br                                             0  R N 0                        1
j   I cNp                                    4'-~~~~~~ ~~                                  ~ ~~~~~KADN -- I   
or  <  \-- xp--/  K A D U N A    t Z                                     X    -  F                            <~~~B AU C/ I 
B E N I N  g  essezvos \ * <    (  '       ) ~~~~-KADUNA                                                                                    C    )  ,,_ y,w
( tC N I G-E R gtsNA S t 1 > / ) 9 \ 4 - HAD 1~~~BLICHI 
AD//S\tf\ TER/ORS  LA  EA  /9  _N I G-ERIA
>/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,tN .HADI          b                                      (   G                LAL=  GIUTUA  EEOMN
fE9R L                        @
-6' 4 . z 7 J F S ~lp                                - ,/ tS5_, Nl I G E R Iwm Ao 
e. ;_ILMO > ROSS                                                                                                     MULhTICCAATRScsCF   elfv  -POETSTATES
_ieww~~ YO                                          Q                                   Q_                0mlk Nf G 0 EA lARICULTRA,) DEEcl gclZns lce}|tnhs OP1<lMblE NdlTe
S |~~~~ E N UY E 8 









IMAGING
Report No.:          16767
Type:      ICR



