Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2035 UNI
       (Third Multi-State Agricultural Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                      RIVERS STATE OF NIGERIA
                       Dated August 4, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2035 UNI
                  RIVERS STATE PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August   4,   1989  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and  RIVERS  STATE OF
NIGERIA (Rivers State).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Federal  Republic  of Nigeria (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association  has agreed to make available
to the Borrower  an  amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to
seventy five million  Special  Drawing  Rights (SDR 75,000,000) on
the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the Development Credit
Agreement, but  only  on  condition  that  Rivers  State agrees to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth
in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary  loan  agreement  (the Rivers State Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement) to  be  entered  into between the Borrower
and Rivers State, a part  of  the  proceeds  of the Credit will be
made available to Rivers  State  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the Rivers State Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS Rivers State,  in  consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the  several terms defined in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement,  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement and the
General Conditions (as  so  defined)  have the respective meanings
therein set forth  and  the  following  additional  terms have the
following meanings;
     (a)  "Rivers  State  Project   Account"   means  the  account
referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Rivers  State  Special   Account"   means  the  account
referred to in Section 2.01 (d) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Rivers  State  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  the
agreement referred to in Recital B of this Agreement;
     (d)  "ADPEC"  means  the   Agricultural  Development  Project
Executive Committee established by Rivers State and referred to in
Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
     (e)  "ADPMU"  means  the   Agricultural  Development  Project
Management Unit established  by  Rivers  State  and referred to in
Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
     (f)  "AISC" means the  Agricultural  Inputs Supply Company to
be established by Rivers  State  pursuant  to  Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
     (g)  "PRSD"  means  the  Planning,  Research  and  Statistics
Department of MANR; and
     (h)  "MANR" means  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture and Natural
Resources of Rivers State.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Rivers State declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement,  and  to  this  end, shall carry out
Parts A through F of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and  in  conformity  with  appropriate  administrative, financial,
engineering and  agricultural  practices,  and  shall  provide, or
cause to be provided  promptly  as  needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources  required  for  the said Parts of the
Project.
     (b)  Without  any  limitation   or  restriction  upon  Rivers
State's obligations under  paragraph  (a)  of this Section, Rivers
State shall: (i) provide  in  its annual budget amounts sufficient
to cover Rivers State's counterpart  contributions to the costs of
the Project; (ii) open  and  maintain  an  account at a commercial
bank (the Rivers State Project Account) to be used exclusively for
expenditures under the Project;  (iii)  pay  into the Rivers State
Project Account an initial  amount  equivalent to $160,000, repre-
senting 25% of  Rivers  State's  counterpart  contributions to the
first year's Project costs;  and  (iv) thereafter pay each quarter
into the Rivers State Project Account (commencing from the quarter
immediately following the quarter  in which the Development Credit
Page  3
Agreement becomes effective and no  later  than the first month of
each quarter) the  respective  counterpart contributions of Rivers
State to the costs of the Project, adjusted to take account of any
payment by Rivers State of the initial amount specified above. The
Borrower and Rivers State  presently estimate the said counterpart
contributions to amount  in  1988  prices to $2,600,000 equivalent
over the Project period.
     (c)  Rivers State  undertakes  to  provide  in  its recurrent
budget amounts sufficient to  cover  the  salaries of all existing
staff of Rivers  State  seconded  or  assigned  to the Project, in
addition to any other contributions of Rivers State to incremental
Project costs.
     (d)  Rivers State shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  a  special account (the Rivers State
Special Account) in  a  commercial  bank  on  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits  into, and payments out
of, the Rivers State Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. (a) Rivers State  shall continue to maintain in
a form and with  functions  and  staffing satisfactory to the Bor-
rower and the  Association,  its  Agricultural Development Project
Executive  Committee  (ADPEC)  and  its  Agricultural  Development
Project Management Unit  (ADPMU).  Further  provisions relating to
ADPEC and ADPMU are set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Rivers State shall establish  and thereafter maintain in
a form and with functions  and  staffing satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation an Agricultural Inputs Supply Company (AISC).
     Section  2.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Parts A through F  of  the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the  Credit shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.04. Rivers  State  shall  carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to  insurance,  use of goods and ser-
vices, plans and schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement.
     Section 2.05. Rivers State shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Rivers State  Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as
the Borrower and  the  Association  shall  otherwise agree, Rivers
State shall not take or concur  in any action which would have the
effect of amending,  abrogating,  assigning  or waiving the Rivers
State Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a) Rivers State  shall,  at the request of the
Borrower or the Association, exchange  views with the Borrower and
the Association with regard  to  the  progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under  this Agreement and under the
Rivers State Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  Rivers State shall promptly  inform the Borrower and the
Association of  any  condition  which  interferes  or threatens to
interfere with the progress of  the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or  the performance by Rivers State of
its obligations under this  Agreement  and  under the Rivers State
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section  2.07.  Rivers  State  shall  carry  out  the actions
described in Schedule 3 to  this  Agreement to the satisfaction of
the Association, said Schedule  being subject to modification from
time to time by agreement  between  the Borrower, Rivers State and
the Association.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  4
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) Rivers State  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting   practices  the  operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of the
departments or agencies of  Rivers  State responsible for carrying
out the Project.
     (b)  Rivers State shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
               this Section  (including  the  Rivers State Special
               Account) for each  fiscal  year  audited, in accor-
               dance with appropriate  auditing principles consis-
               tently applied, by  independent auditors acceptable
               to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial  statements   relating   to  the  Project
               (including those of ADPMU  and  AISC) for such year
               as so audited, and (B)  the report of such audit by
               said auditors of such  scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested;
               and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made  on behalf of Rivers State under
the Project on  the  basis  of  statements  of expenditure, Rivers
State shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the  audit  report for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Page  5
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of Rivers State  thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
Rivers State of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Rivers State:
          The Honorable Commissioner
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          Block B
          Secretariat Complex
          Port Harcourt, Rivers State
          Nigeria
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Rivers State,  or by Rivers State on behalf
of the Borrower  under  the  Development  Credit Agreement, may be
taken or executed by  Commissioner  of  Finance and Economic Plan-
ning, Rivers State or such other person or persons as Rivers State
shall designate in writing, and  Rivers State shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of  the  authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
Page  6
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    RIVERS STATE OF NIGERIA
                    By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
                    Parts A to F of the Project
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works (exclud-
ing all road works) shall  be  procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with  procedures  consistent  with  those  set forth in
Sections I and II  of  the  "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated  to cost an amount equivalent to
$500,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a)  All goods  estimated  to  cost  an  amount equivalent to
$60,000 or more but less than $500,000 per contract and, except as
provided in Part C.1 (b)  hereof,  all  works estimated to cost an
amount equivalent to  less  than  $500,000  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  Road works may: (i)  be procured under contracts awarded
on  the  basis  of  competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in
accordance with  procedures  satisfactory  to  the Association; or
(ii) be carried out by force account.
2.   All goods estimated to cost an amount equivalent to less than
$60,000 may be procured  under  contracts  awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited  from  a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under  the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Agro-chemicals and veterinary inputs  of a proprietary nature
obtainable only from one  source  may  be purchased by direct con-
Page  7
tracting from original  suppliers  or  sources  in accordance with
paragraph 3.5 (c) of the Guidelines.
4.   Bidders for works included in Part D (1) of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 (i) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract  for goods and works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent  of  $500,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2  and  4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for  such  contract are to be made out
of the Rivers  State  Special  Account,  such  procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the  two  conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to  the Association pursuant to paragraph
2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Rivers State Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are  to  be  made  out  of  the Rivers State Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract, together with the other informa-
tion required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to para-
graph 3 of said Appendix, shall be furnished to the Association as
part of the evidence to  be  furnished  pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  3.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist Rivers  State in carrying out the Project,
Rivers State shall employ  consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and  conditions  of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Borrower  and  the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on  the  basis  of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Project Executing Agencies
A.   Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee (ADPEC)
1.   ADPEC's membership shall include the following:
     (a)  State Governor                                  Chairman
     (b)  Commissioner of                          Deputy Chairman
           Agriculture and Natural
Page  8
           Resources
     (c)  Commissioner of Community                         Member
           Development and
           Environment
     (d)  Commissioner of Finance                           Member
           and Economic Planning
     (e)  Commissioner of Works                             Member
          and Transport
     (f)  Commissioner of                                   Member
           Commerce and Industry
     (g)  Commissioner of Special                           Member
           Duties
     (h)  Commissioner of Works                             Member
           and Housing
     (i)  Director General (MANR)                           Member
     (j)  Director (FDARD)                                  Member
     (k)  Director, Federal Department                      Member
           of Fisheries and Agri-
           cultural Co-operatives
     (l)  Head of FACU                                      Member
     (m)  General Manager, Niger Delta
           Basin Development Authority                      Member
     (n)  State Director, Directorate
           of Food, Roads and Rural
           Infrastructure                                   Member
     (o)  Program Manager (ADPMU)                           Member
2.   ADPEC shall meet at least  once every three months during the
first two years of the Project  and thereafter at such times as it
shall determine.  Its  functions  shall,  in  addition  to policy,
finance  and   coordination   of   Project   activities,  include:
(i)  approval  of  the  annual   Project  budget  and  work  plan;
(ii)  appointment   of   principal   staff;   and  (iii)  ensuring
availability of adequate Project funds.
3.   ADPEC shall: (i) approve  all  contracts estimated to cost an
amount above $200,000  equivalent;  and  (ii) authorize the estab-
lishment in ADPMU of an  internal tender committee to be responsi-
ble for the review and approval of all contracts estimated to cost
an amount equivalent to $200,000  or less, being contracts awarded
on the basis of  local  or international competitive bidding; pro-
vided that (A) no  contracts  estimated  to cost more than $50,000
equivalent shall be awarded  without  the clearance of the Commis-
sioner of Agriculture and Natural Resources, and (B) all contracts
estimated to cost an  amount  above $200,000 equivalent being con-
tracts to be  awarded  on  the  basis of international competitive
bidding shall be reviewed  and  approved  by Rivers State's Tender
Board.
4.   ADPMU's tender  committee  shall  be  chaired  by the Program
Manager  (ADPMU)  and  shall   include  the  Financial  Controller
(ADPMU),  the  head,  Fisheries  Sub-Program  (ADPMU),  the  head,
Extension Services Sub-Program (ADPMU), the Chief Engineer (ADPMU)
and the Chief  Administrative  Officer  (ADPMU)  who  shall be the
Secretary.
5.   ADPEC shall have  two  subcommittees, namely, an agricultural
services subcommittee to be  responsible for coordinating services
to farmers and  an  infrastructure  development subcommittee to be
Page  9
responsible for coordinating infrastructure programs. The chairman
of the agricultural services  sub-committee  shall be the Director
General (MANR) and  the  other  members  of the subcommittee shall
include the Director (PRSD), the Director, Agricultural Department
(MANR), the Program Manager  (ADPMU),  the Chief Extension Officer
(ADPMU) and  the  Manager  (AISC).  The infrastructure development
subcommittee shall also be chaired  by the Director General (MANR)
and its  other  members  shall  include  the  Director (PRSD), the
Program Manager (ADPMU), the head of Community Development Depart-
ment, Ministry of Community  Development and Environment, the head
of Civil Engineering, (Ministry  of  Works  and Transport) and the
Chief Engineer (ADPMU).
6.   (a)  ADPEC shall employ: (i) not later than January 1, 1989 a
Program Manager and  a  Financial  Controller;  and (ii) not later
than October 31, 1989  an  Internal  Auditor  and a Civil Engineer
(Roads), all  of  whom  shall  have  qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association.
     (b)  ADPEC  shall  not  later   than  June  30,  1990  employ
independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the  Association  to  audit
ADPMU's accounts.
B.   Agricultural Development Project Management Unit (ADPMU)
1.   (a)  ADPMU shall, under  the  policy guidelines and direction
of ADPEC, be responsible for  the  carrying  out of the Project in
accordance with this  Agreement  and  the  Rivers State Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. ADPMU shall  be  headed  by a Program Manager with
responsibility  for  overseeing  the  following  three operational
divisions of ADPMU,  namely,  the Agricultural Extension/Agronomy/
Research Division, the Fisheries  Division and the Infrastructural
(Engineering)  Services  Division.  ADPMU  shall  also  have  five
support units, namely, the  administration unit, the finance unit,
the planning unit,  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  unit and the
manpower development and training unit (MDTU).
     (b)  MDTU shall be  responsible  for: (i) establishing proce-
dures and criteria for determining staff training needs; (ii) pre-
paring criteria for the selection  of training programs and candi-
dates; (iii) developing procedures  for the evaluation of training
activities;  and  (iv)  organizing  a  record-keeping  system  for
trainees. MDTU shall  be  headed  by  a  qualified senior training
officer assisted initially by a manpower development specialist.
     (c)  ADPMU shall prepare and  submit  to the Borrower and the
Association not later than December  31, 1989 a five-year manpower
development and training program for the Project.
2.   ADPMU  shall  have  an  executive  management  committee, the
membership of  which  shall  include  the  Program  Manager, ADPMU
(Chairman), the  heads  of  Departments  of  ADPMU  and each Zonal
Manager of ADPMU. The executive management committee shall meet at
least once every month.
3.   ADPMU shall establish two zones to be responsible for the day
to day carrying  out  of  Project  activities.  Each zone shall be
headed by a zonal manager. A zone shall have appropriate technical
and support staff and shall look to ADPMU for technical advice and
overall program guidance.
4.   A zonal development committee  shall  be constituted for each
of ADPMU's zones. Each such  committee shall be concerned with the
planning and review of the zone's programs and the facilitation of
coordination and cooperation among agencies and farmers' organiza-
tions operating in the zone.  The membership of the zonal develop-
ment  committee  shall  include  representatives  of  ADPMU, local
government councils, the State's  Farmers Organizations, the Agri-
cultural  Inputs  Supply  Company   (AISC)  and  other  recognized
farmers' groups or co-operatives in the zone.
5.   (a)  ADPMU shall enter into  arrangements satisfactory to the
Page  10
Association for  local  government  councils  to undertake routine
maintenance of feeder  roads.  Each  such local government council
must have a road maintenance unit with adequate staff headed by an
engineer or  technician  experienced  in  road  maintenance. ADPMU
shall assist the local government  councils in setting up the road
maintenance units.
     (b)  ADPMU shall no later than  November 1 of each year, pre-
pare and furnish to  the  Association  and to the Federal Agricul-
tural Coordinating Unit (FACU)  annual work programs for periodic,
recurrent and routine  road  maintenance  under  the Project to be
carried out in the following year.
6.   (a)  ADPMU shall prepare and furnish  to the Borrower and the
Association no later than  December  31, 1989, the following stra-
tegy, and a plan  to  be  carried  out  by  rural women under Part
A(1)(ii) of  the  Project,  namely  an  extension  strategy  and a
development action plan satisfactory to the Association.
     (b)  ADPMU shall with  FACU's  assistance prepare and furnish
to the Association no later than  December 31, 1989, for the Asso-
ciation's review and comments: (i) maintenance standards for rural
roads; (ii) the terms  of  draft  contracts  to be entered into by
ADPMU and local government  authorities selected for routine main-
tenance of rehabilitated Project  roads;  and (iii) the qualifying
criteria for the selection of such local government authorities.
     (c)  ADPMU shall prepare and furnish to FACU and the Associa-
tion by June 30, 1989  a  plan satisfactory to the Association for
the execution of the rural  water  supply schemes under Part D (2)
of the Project. The said plan  shall provide for: (i) the criteria
for the selection of villages  to  participate in any such scheme;
and (ii) provision by scheme beneficiaries  of at least 10% of the
capital and all of the maintenance costs of a scheme.
     (d)  ADPMU shall no  later  than  June  30, 1990, prepare and
furnish to the  Borrower  and  the  Association a maintenance plan
satisfactory to  the  Association  for  the  maintenance of wells,
boreholes  and pumps on a self-sustaining basis.
     (e)  ADPMU shall: (i) no  later  than December 31, 1989, pre-
pare and furnish to  the  Association  for its review and comments
proposals for  the  structure  and  operating  procedures of pilot
water users associations  for  the small-scale irrigation develop-
ment under Part A  (5)  of  the  Project;  and  (ii) no later than
December 31, 1990  establish  at  least  three  of the pilot water
users associations.
     (f)  ADPMU shall prepare and  furnish  to the Association and
the Borrower for  their  review  and  comments ADPMU's annual work
programs and plans,  survey  results,  annual  reports and audited
accounts and its quarterly progress reports.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Actions Referred to in Section 2.07.
1.   Rivers State shall: (i) no  later than July 1, 1989 establish
an agricultural institutions review team  in a form and with func-
tions and staffing satisfactory  to  the  Association; and (ii) no
later than March  31,  1990  furnish  to  the Association terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association  for the carrying out of
the  agricultural  public   institutions   review  required  under
Part F.2 of the  Project.  The  membership  of the said team shall
include a public administration  specialist (team leader), a State
finances specialist and an agricultural planning specialist.
2.   Rivers State undertakes that no agro-processing unit shall be
installed under Part A.7 of  the Project unless prior arrangements
satisfactory to  the  Association  have  been  made  for:  (i) its
operation and management by  persons  contributing at least 10% of
the capital costs of the unit; and (ii) cost recovery.
Page  11
3.   Rivers State shall: (i) no  later than December 31, 1991 with
the assistance of FACU carry out a mid-term review of the Project;
(ii) promptly thereafter  discuss  with  FDARD and the Association
the  findings  of  the  mid-term  review,  including  any proposed
changes in the  Project;  and  (iii)  assist  APMEU to prepare the
project completion report required  under  Section 9.07 (c) of the
General Conditions.
4.   Rivers State shall annually  agree  with the Borrower and the
Association upon the  staffing  levels  appropriate to the Project
and shall not exceed  said  levels  without the prior agreement of
the Association and the Borrower.
5.   Rivers State shall no later than December 31, 1990: (i) carry
out a review of (A)  the  responsiveness  of the private sector to
participation, as  registered  retailers,  in  the distribution of
agricultural  inputs,  (B)  the  performance  of  such  registered
retailers, (C) the role of  farmer organizations in inputs distri-
bution; and  (D)  the  constraints  on  the  participation of such
organizations in  inputs  distribution;  and  (ii)  furnish to the
Association and the Borrower the results of the review.
6.   (a)  Rivers  State  shall  cause  AISC  to  sell agricultural
inputs (other than fertilizers)  at  rates adequate to enable AISC
and retailers to cover their overall costs.
     (b)  Rivers State shall cause  ADPMU  and AISC to prepare and
furnish to the Association and  the  Borrower for their review and
comments their respective annual  work  programs and plans, survey
results, annual reports and  audited  accounts and their quarterly
progress reports.
     (c)  Rivers State  shall  no  later  than  September 30, 1989
employ consultants to prepare  and  carry  out  a program to train
agricultural cooperatives  to  develop  business  skills  in input
supplies distribution management.
     (d)  Rivers State shall take  all necessary action to facili-
tate the participation by  registered private retailers (including
farmers organizations) in the distribution of fertilizer and other
agricultural inputs and shall not  take  or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent  or  interfere with the distribution of
inputs by such private retailers.
     (e)  Rivers State shall no later  than December 31, 1989 pre-
pare and furnish to the Association the Articles of Association of
AISC and the schedule for the  transfer of shares of AISC owned by
Rivers State.
7.   Rivers State shall: (i) with the assistance of FACU carry out
a review of the relative costs and benefits of using force account
units and private contractors to  carry  out road works; (ii) fur-
nish the results of  such  review  to  the  Association as soon as
available;  and  (iii)  disband,  and  dispose  of  the  plant and
equipment of, any force account unit operating uneconomically.
8.   Rivers State shall  jointly  with  the Borrower: (i) conclude
arrangements with fuel distribution  company  or companies for the
installation of an efficient  fuel distribution system for fisher-
men; and (ii) furnish to  the  Association for its review no later
than December 31, 1989 the details of the said arrangements.
9.   Rivers State shall not later  than June 30, 1989, prepare and
furnish to the Bank:  (i)  a  plan satisfactory to the Association
setting out the terms and  conditions  on which loans will be made
under Part A.1 (iv)  of  the  Project  for  the purchase of motor-
cycles; (ii) details of the travel allowance to be paid to Project
staff; and  (iii)  proposals  for  review  by  the  Association of
arrangements for the bulk purchase of motorcycles.
10.  Rivers State shall no later than June 30, 1990, cause AISC to
Page  12
employ independent auditors acceptable to the Association to audit
AISC's accounts.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                   Rivers State Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (d),
(2) (a) (iv) and (b)  (iv),  (3)  (d),  (4)  (d) and (5) (a) (iv),
(b) (iii) and (c) (iv) set  forth  in  the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $1,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited  into  the  Rivers  State  Special  Account  pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of  the  Rivers  State  Special Account shall be
made exclusively for eligible  expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Rivers  State  Special  Account  has been duly opened,
withdrawals of  the  Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent with-
drawals to replenish  the  Rivers  State  Special Account shall be
made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Rivers State
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Rivers  State Special
                Account, the Borrower  shall  furnish to the Asso-
                ciation  requests  for  deposits  into  the Rivers
                State Special  Account  at  such  intervals as the
                Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Rivers State  Special  Account  such amount as
                the Borrower  shall  have  requested  and as shall
                have been shown by  said  documents and other evi-
                dence to have been  made  out  of the Rivers State
                Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Rivers State
Special Account, the Borrower shall,  at such time as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the Association such
Page  13
documents and other evidence  showing  that  such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Rivers State Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories  less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the  General  Conditions  with respect to the Pro-
ject, shall  equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Rivers
State Special Account  as  of  the  date  of  such  notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Rivers State Special Account: (i) was
made for an expenditure or  in  an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2  of  this  Schedule;  (ii)  was  not  justified by the
evidence  furnished  to  the   Association,  the  Borrower  shall,
promptly upon notice from  the  Association (A) provide such addi-
tional evidence as  the  Association  may  request, or (B) deposit
into the Rivers  State  Special  Account  (or,  if the Association
shall so request, refund  to  the  Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or  the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless  the  Association  shall  otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the  Association  into the Rivers State Special
Account  shall  be  made  until  the  Borrower  has  provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Rivers State Special Account
will not  be  required  to  cover  further  payments  for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Rivers State Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association  made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
