Report No. 629a-PAN
Panama                                                                           FILE COPY
Appraisal of a
Fishing Port Project
April 9, 1975
Latin America and Caribbean Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It rnay not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00 = B 1.00 (one Balboa)
Fiscal Year (Government and National Port Authority)
ganuary 2 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric                      US Units
1 meter (n)          =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)    =       0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)             2.2 pounds (lb)
1 ton 1/             =      2,205 lb = 1,000 kg
1 long ton                  2,240 lb
1 short ton                2,000 lb
1 US gallon                3.8 liters
1 hectare                   2.47 acres
Abbreviations
APN                  -      Autoridad Portuaria Nacional (National Port Authority)
CYRA.               -       Commission's Yellowfin Regulatory Area
FAO                  -      Food and Agriculture Organization
GTRT                 -      Gross Registered Tonnage
IATTC                -      Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission
'IDB                 -      Inter-American Development Bank
UNCTAD              -       United Nations Cowmission for Trade and Development
UNDP                -       United Nations Development Program
USAID               -       United States Agency for International Development
/ Unless specifically mentioned otherwise, a ton means a metric ton
throughout this report.



PANAMA
APPRAISAL OF A FISHING PORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..................................                        i-ii
1.    INTRODUCTION  .............................................                            1
2.    BACKGROUND  ...............................................                            2
A.  General ..........................    2
B.    The Fishing Industry ..........................;                                2
3.    PORT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .........................                            6
A.    General  Situation  ...................................                         6
B.    National Port Authority  .............................                          6
C.    Administration  of the Fishing Port ..................                          7
4.    THlE PROJECT  ..............................................8
A.    Project  Objectives  and Description  ..................                        8
B.    Cost Estimates  ......................................                          9
C.    Project Execution  ...................................                         10
D.    Financing Plan for the Project  ......................                         10
E.    Procurement  .........................................                         10
F.    Disbursement  ........................................                         10
G.    Road Access, Power and Water Supply and Housing                                11
H.    Transfer of Fishing Industries  to the New Port  ......                        11
I.    Ecology  .............................................                         12
5.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ......................................                           12
A.    General  .............................................                         12
B.    Demand Forecasts  ....................................                         12
C.    Methodology of Economic Evaluation  ..................                         13
D.    Economic Benefits to the Panamanian Economy  ....                   .....      14
E.    Economic Return  .....................................                         15
F.    Adjustment of the Economic Rate of Return by
Shadow Pricing Labor Costs  ........................                        16
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. R.N. Vinekar (Engineer)
J.W. Parker (Financial Analyst), and F. Kada (Fisheries Expert) and has been
edited by Miss V. Foster.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                   Page No.
6.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION ......................................   16
A.   Present  Position   ...... ............ ...................  16
B.   Tariff  Policy   .................... ....................  17
C.  Audit  and  Insurance   ..................................  17
D.  Investment Plan ......................                    17
E.  Fishing Port Financial Forecasts .....................   17
F.  Extraordinary Capital Gain .....     ......................    18
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................   19
TABLES
1. Shrimp Landings
2. Shrimp Catch and Export
3. Demand for Tuna Transshipment Facilities in Panama
4. Annual Port Traffic in Panama (Excluding Fish)
5. Cost Estimates
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7. Fishing Industry Processors' Concessions
8. Forecast Shrimp Landings
9. Projected Calls of Tuna Seiners
10. Tuna Cold Storage and Cold Container Filling Operations
11. Changes in Land Values due to the Project
12. Preliminary Capital Investment Program 1975-1979
13. Fishing Port Revenues
14. Forecast Revenues 1978-1987
15. Revenues from Rentals of Land and Buildings and Charges for Services
16.  Pro Forma Income Statement
17. Pro Forma Sources and Uses of Funds
18. Pro Forma Balance Sheet
ANNEXES
1. Present Status of the Fishing Industry
2. Future Organization of the National Port Authority
3. Project Description
4. Terms of Reference and Qualifications of the Special Project Team
5. Estimated Schedule of Project Execution
6. Base Case Economic Benefits
7. Economic Savings for Tuna Vessels Transshipping through Cold Storage
Facilities at the New Port
8. Extraordinary Capital Gain from Land Purchase and Sale of Land around the
Fishing Port
MAPS IBRD 11415    Fishing Grounds
Sketch Map 1  Existing Fish Landing Facilities
Sketch Map 2  Eastern Pacific Tuna Fishing Area
IBRD 11416    Proposed Port at Punta Vacamonte



PANAMA
APPRAISAL OF A FISHING PORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Improvement of the fisheries industry ranks high in the develop-
ment plans of the Republic of Panama. Because there is scope for increasing
the earnings from fisheries exports and services to the international tuna
fleet and for augmenting the country's food production through increased
supply and consumption of food fish, the Government has prepared a compre-
hensive program for fisheries development in which the construction of a
fishing port at Punta Vacamonte has a high priority.
ii.       In the Gulf of Panama, where the country's principal fishing grounds
are located, there is a lack of adequate port facilities. Of the five wharves
available for landing shrimp and the two serving the fishmeal factories, six
are dry at low tide and are exposed to the wave conditions in the bay. Food
fish is landed on the sea wall and other places along the shore in the city.
Tuna transshipment is carried out in the stream since alongside facilities
are not available. Because three of the shrimp wharves are located along
the waterfront in the heart of the city, the shrimp plants served by them
lack room to expand, and the central part of the city is subjected to con-
siderable nuisance. The construction of suitable port facilities some dis-
tance away from the city is necessary, not only for the efficient operation
and development of the fishing industry but also for improving environmental
conditions in Panama City. Such a port will make it possible to exploit the
newly discovered resources of deepwater species of shrimp and to develop the
national tuna fleet and the fish canning industry.
iii.      The project, which is based on the consultants' studies financed
under Loan 784-PAN, provides for the construction of a modern fishing port
at Punta Vacamonte, about 30 km from Panama City. The port will be shel-
tered by a breakwater and will have berths for landing shrimp and food fish,
for transshipment of tuna, and for servicing all fisheries vessels; build-
ings for fish processing and cold storage, fish marketing and offices, and
ship repair yard and utilities will also be provided. The facilities will
be adequate to meet the demand forecast for 1987, with provision for further
expansion at a later date. The project, which also includes consultant ser-
vices for supervision of construction, and technical assistance for port
operation and management and for training of the Port Authority's staff, is
estimated to cost US$34.0 million, with a foreign exchange component of
US$20.5 million. Project execution is expected to take three years and be
completed by March 1, 1979. Interest during construction, estimated at
US$3.5 million, is recommended for financing by the Bank.



- ii -t
iv.       Contracts for civil engineering works and equipment will be awarded
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank "Guidelines".
v.        Autoridad Portuaria Nacional (APN), the newly established National
Port Authority, will be the executing agency for the project. It will have
a special project team which will be assisted by consultants acceptable to
the Bank.
vi.       The local currency costs of the project will be financed by the
Government, and the amount will be treated as its equity contribution to
APN. It will be a condition of the loan that APN will maintain the port
tariffs at the new fishing port so as to produce revenues sufficient to yield
an acceptable return on the port's net fixed assets and will pay a dividend
to the Government on its contribution. The level of tariffs to meet the rate
of return will be justified by the benefits accruing to the fishing industry
from the use of the new port.
vii.      The project is economically justified, with a rate of return of
15%.
viii.     The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of US$24.0
million (US$20.5 million foreign exchange cost plus US$3.5 million interest
during construction) to APN with a guarantee of the Government for a term
of 20 years, including a grace period of four years.



PANAMA
APPRAISAL OF A FISHING PORT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Panama has requested the Bank to help finance the
construction of a new fishing port at Punta Vacamonte to fulfill an impor-
tant need of the country's fisheries industry. The FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program mission, which identified and prepared a fisheries project ror Panama
in 1969, noted that, while there was need and scope for the development of
the fisheries industry, which could earn more foreign exchange by increased
exports of products and better service to the international tuna fleet and
also supply more food fish for consumption in the country, the expansion of
the fisheries industry was hampered by the lack of suitable port facilities
in the Gulf of Panama. It recommended, therefore, that the construction
of a fishing port should be given high priority in the fisheries development
program. Accordingly, in the loan of US$3.4 million (Loan 784-PAN) made by
the Bank in 1971 for a fisheries project, a sum of US$400,000 was included
for a feasibility study for a fishing port. On the basis of the study car-
ried out by Messrs. Livesey & Henderson, Consulting Engineers of U.K., the
Government proposed to provide a modern port for the fishing industry at
Punta Vacamonte, about 30 km west of Panama City.
1.02      The proposed project involves construction of a breakwater to
create a sheltered harbor which will be equipped with all necessary facili-
ties for the berthing, servicing and repair of the shrimp, tuna and inshore
fishing fleet based in Panama Bay as well as for the processing of its
catch. In addition to providing improved conditions for the operation and
growth of the major part of the fisheries industry in Panama, the proposed
project will also facilitate the implementation of the urban development
plan of Panama City, which has been slowed down by the present location of
the fishing industry in the proximity of the City's business center. The
cost of the project, including provision for consultant services and train-
ing of Port Authority staff, is estimated at US$34 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$20.5 million.
1.03      This will be the first port project to be financed by the Bank in
Panama and the second project related to the fisheries industry. Under the
first fisheries project (Loan 784-PAN), presently under execution, 40 old
wooden shrimp trawlers were intended to be replaced by standard steel traw-
lers, but, owing to the steep rise in shipbuilding costs, only 23 vessels
would be procured. The project, as amended, is expected to be completed by
July 1976. Bank operations in Panama include four loans in the agricultural
sector, three in the power sector and three in the transport sector, with
a total lending of US$118.1 million.



- 2 -
1.04      The appraisal of the project is based on the feasibility study
prepared by the consultants Livesey & Henderson, information furnished by
the Government and the findings of a Bank mission comprising Messrs. R. N.
Vinekar (Engineer), J. W. Parker (Financial Analyst), and F. Kada (Fisheries
Expert), which visited Panama in April and September 1974. The report has
been edited by Miss V. Foster.
2. BACKGROUlD
A. General
2.01      Panama, a long isthmus occupying about 74,000 km  stretching east-
west between Costa Rica and Colombia, has a population of about 1.5 million,
which is growing at the rate of 3% per annum. A mountain range, which runs
east-west almost in the middle of the country, has a strong influence on the
climatic conditions, population distribution and regional economy, especially
in the area west of the Panama Canal. The range divides the Caribbean and
the Pacific Coastal areas into two separate and economically different re-
gions. The former gets heavy rains and is densely forested. Apart from
banana cultivation in some favorable locations, the region is largely un-
developed and is inhabited by a little more than 1% of the country's popula-
tion. The Pacific Coast region, on the other hand, has many fertile valleys
which provide good scope for agriculture and cattle raising. Being well
served by the Pan-American Highway and a good network of roads, it has at-
tracted about 45% of the country's population. The bulk of the remaining
population lives in the Metropolitan Area, adjacent to the Canal Zone, which
constitutes the main axis of economic activity. The eastern part of Panama,
the Darien, is presently the least developed and inhabited area, mainly due
to lack of transport facilities, but conditions there should improve when
the existing gap in the Pan-American Highway is bridged. The Metropolitan
Area and the western Pacific Coastal region will continue to dominate the
country's economic activity.
B.  The Fishing Industry
(i) Role in the National Economy
2.02      In spite of the lack of adequate port facilities, the fisheries
industry has developed vigorously during the last two decades. About 7,500
tons of fish and shellfish are landed each year. About 4,600, or 1% of the
economically active population, are employed by the fisheries industry, in
which over US$20 million have been invested. The bulk of the Panamanian
shrimp catch is processed and exported, yielding a foreign exchange income
in 1973 of about US$17 million. Fisheries are thus one of the major sources
of foreign exchange for the Republic of Panama.
2.03      In spite of an active fishing industry and considerable imports
of salted cod, canned sardines and tuna (amounting to more than US$2.0 mil-
lion), the annual per capita consumption of fish in Panama is only about



- 3 -
4 kg, which is low compared with that of many other nations; this is probably
due to cultural preferences reinforced by poor marketing practices. The
Government has sponsored fish cooking demonstrations and television shows to
encourage consumption of food fish and has also promoted fishermen's coopera-
tives for improving the marketing of food fish. Under a project financed by
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), coastal fishermen are being pro-
vided with fishing boats, ice plants and better landing facilities. Further
development of the food fish industry is necessary in order to bring up the
protein intake to a desirable level.
(ii) Development and Administration
2.04      The improvement of the fishing industry ranks high in the economic
development plan of the Government of Panama. Included in the comprehensive
program for this purpose are: (a) resource surveys through exploratory
fishing by the research vessel Canopus (UNDP/FAO-assisted project); (b)
modernization of the fishing fleet (IBRD Loan 784-PAN); (c) strengthening
of the infrastructure for local distribution and marketing of food fish
(UNDP/FAO regional project); (d) promotional campaigns designed to increase
local fish consumption (USAID assistance); (e) development of coastal fishing
(IDB Loan); and (f) construction of a new fishing port. In addition to
these efforts in the public sector, the Government has also been encourag-
ing the private sector to develop fish processing/canning and boat building.
2.05      The Directorate for Marine Resources, under the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce, is responsible for the administration and develop-
ment of the fishing industry. This Directorate formulates and enforces
fishing regulations and legislation, conducts biological investigations,
performs exploratory fishing, collects and publishes fishing statistics,
and assists in fish marketing efforts and the development of coastal fish-
ing. In the discharge of these responsibilities, the Directorate receives
guidance and advice from the National Fisheries Commission, comprising rep-
resentatives of public organizations, the fishing industry and the seamen's
trade unions, which reviews and makes recommendations concerning key fish-
ing policies and legislative issues.
2.06      The National Association of the Panamanian Fishing Industry, an
active trade association whose membership includes nearly all processing
companies and over 75% of the vessel owners, works closely with the Govern-
ment in its efforts to develop the fishing industry. -
2.07      All commercial fishing activities in Panama are licensed and reg-
ulated by the Directorate of Marine Resources. In order to ensure that the
catch does not go beyond the sustainable yield of the shrimp fishing grounds,
the Directorate has set limits on the number, size and engine power of the
fishing vessels and the installed capacity of the processing plant. In re-
cent years, the Directorate has also been forbidding shrimp fishing in the
main fishing grounds from February 15 to April 15 in order to prevent the
fishing of white shrimp before they are fully grown.



-4-
(iii)     Fishing Port Facilities
2.08      The fishing industry in Panama has developed so far without the
benefit of adequate port facilities, but further expansion, for which there
is scope and need, will not be possible unless proper facilities are made
available. In the Gulf of Panama, where the most important fish resources
are concentrated (Map IBRD 11415), the existing facilities comprise five
wharves for landing shrimp and two wharves for landing anchovy and thread
herring. Their location is shown in Sketch Map 1. All the shrimp landing
wharves are dry at low tide, thereby severely restricting the time available
for the approach and departure of the vessels using them. Three of them are
located along the waterfront in the heart of Panama City while the fourth
lies immediately to the east of Paitilla Airport and the fifth is out of
the city at the mouth of the Rio Juan Diaz. Except for the last, which is
a marginal berth in a sheltered part of the river, all the berths are finger
jetties fully exposed to the natural wave conditions in the Panama Bay area.
While alongside these jetties, the vessels are subject to considerable buf-
feting, resulting in damage both to themselves and to the jetties.
2.09      The jetties in Panama City serve shrimp processing plants located
immediately inshore. The plants are hemmed in by the sea on one side and by
streets on the other and have no room for expansion. The presence of the
shrimp plants and the shallow water jetties close to the center of the city
is a nuisance to the citizens and a hindrance to the urban development plan
of the Government. Construction of suitable port facilities some distance
away from the city has consequently become necessary, not only for the effi-
cient operation and development of the shrimp industry, but also for improv-
ing environmental conditions in Panama City.
2.10      Of the two wharves serving the fishmeal industry, one is located
at Taboga Island and the other at Caimito in the Bay of Chorrera. The lat-
ter has restricted water depth at low tide, but this is not a serious prob-
lem since the fast unloading of anchovy/herring by pumping takes less than
an hour. No special landing facilities have been provided in the Panama
City area for coastal fishermen; they use the sea wall in the city and
other accessible sites along the shore as landing places. Tuna transship-
ment is presently carried out mainly in stream off Taboga Island, and the
lack of adequate facilities is inhibiting the growth of this operation,
which could offer considerable economic benefits to Panama. The existing
fishing port facilities are far from satisfactory, and the construction of
a new fishing port is a prerequisite for the development of Panama's fish-
eries.
(iv) Fisheries
2.11      The main activities pursued by the Panamanian fisheries industry
are: shrimp trawling and processing, fish reduction, inshore fishing for
food fish, and servicing of the international tuna fleet. Fish canning and
tuna fishing are carried out presently only to a small extent. The present
status of the fisheries industry is described in some detail in Annex 1 and
is summarized as follows.



-5-
(a) Shrimp
2.12      During the last decade, the Panamanian shrimp catch has averaged
about 6,000 tons per annum. The landed value of the catch in 1973 was
US$14.7 million (Tables 1 and 2). The shrimp grounds within the 6-fathom
line, which are currently being exploited, have reached the maximum sus-
tainable yield and there is little scope for increase of this resource, but
the recently discovered new varieties of deepwater shrimp offer good pros-
pects for further growth. According to current regulations, the number of
licensed shrimp boats (above 20 gross tons) is limited to 238 and Lhe en-
gine horsepower to 260. For exploiting the deepwater shrimp, bigger bo,ats
with more powerful engines and winches will be needed. Because such boats
will not be able to operate from the existing wharves, the development of
the new resources will be possible only after the proposed fishing port is
ready.
(b) Fishmeal
2.13      In 1972, the production of fishmeal amounted to 9,063 tons and
that of fish oil to 2,641 tons; the production fluctuates markedly accord-
ing to the catch of anchovy and thread herring. There is scope for in-
creasing the catch through improved fishing effort. The combined capacity
of the two fishmeal plants is considerably in excess of the present or po-
tential catch. While the plants have some disadvantages in their present
locations at Taboga and Caimito, it is unlikely that they would find it
worthwhile to move to the new port in the near future.
(c) Food Fish
2.14      The production of food fish grew from 2,377 tons in 1963 to 4,729
tons in 1972; the incidental catch of the shrimp trawlers and fishmeal boats
and the catch of the semi-industrialized and coastal fishery are the sources.
There is scope for considerable increase in the contribution of the latter,
which presently is only 20%. The Government's policy of encouraging fish-
ermen's cooperatives, the IDB-financed project for developing coastal fish-
ing, and the promotional measures being sponsored by the Government to in-
crease the consumption of food fish (para. 2.03) will facilitate the growth
of this fishery sector. However, lack of suitable port facilities in the
Panama Bay area hampers the development of the inshore fishery.
(d) Tuna Fishing
2.15      Panama lies at the geographical center of the eastern Pacific tuna
fishing grounds, in which a large international fleet competes for the prime
species of tuna (yellowfin) (Sketch Map 2).  Fishing of yellowfin is regu-
lated by the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission and is limited to the
first quarter of the year.  Because of the short duration of the fishing
season, the distance of the ports of delivery, the prohibition pertaining to
the landing of fish in U.S. ports by foreign flag vessels and the recent
steep rise in fuel costs, transshipment of tuna offers economic advantages.
At present, tuna is transshipped in Panama Bay, mostly off Taboga Island.



- 6 -
Table 3 shows the number of operations and the quantity transshipped in the
years 1968-1973. Because no cold storage facilities or a low cost container
filling location are available, transshipment must take place directly from
the fishing vessel to the reefer, resulting in costly detention to both
vessels; but for these disincentives, transshipment would have been practiced
on a much larger scale than hitherto. Due to its central location, ready
availability of spare parts and skilled labor, Panama is very convenient for
the servicing of the international tuna fleet, which comprised about 400
vessels in 1974. Although some vessels carried the Panamanian flag, none
belonged to the country until mid-1974, when a national tuna fleet was estab-
lished in Panama.
(e) Ship Repairs
2.16      Minor repairs and maintenance of the fishing vessels are carried
out by a number of small workshops in Panama City. The mechanics usually
have to make more than one trip between the workshop and the vessel anchored
in stream or moored at the jetty before the repairs are completed. For re-
pairs below the waterline, vessels are beached or hauled up on slipways.
A ship repair and construction yard in the San Francisco suburban area of
Panama and two fleet operators have installed slipways, but access to them
is possible only at high tide. Although the capacity of the repair firms
is adequate, their service is not efficient due the distance of the work-
shops from the vessels.
3. PORT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   General Situation
3.01      The five major ports which serve Panama at present are either
foreign controlled or principally related to foreign controlled enterprises.
The two major ports of Balboa and Cristobal are controlled and administered
by the U.S. Panama Canal Company and handle about 70% of national imports.
Petroleum imports are handled through the oil refinery terminal at Bahia
de Las Minas. The two banana ports of Armuelles and Almirante handle more
than 80% of national exports. Most of the remaining international and
local traffic is handled through small Government-owned and operated light-
erage facilities in Panama City, Colon and other locations. Traffic sta-
tistics for these ports are shown in Table 4.
B.   National Port Authority
3.02      Prior to the formation of the National Port Authority (APN) in
May of 1974, no Government agency had specific responsibility for adminis-
tering the national ports. The National Treasury collected port dues, and
the Ministry of Public Works was responsible for building and maintaining
piers. Although the Treasury was responsible for maintaining navigational
aids, it had no resources to fulfill its responsibility.



3.03      APN has been empowered to plan, design, build, operate and improve
all national ports, to provide navigational aids and to grant concessions.
It is authorized to set and collect tariffs as well as to contract loans,
so that its revenue should cover its operating costs and debt amortization.
The Basic Law of APN was drawn up with the advice of an UNCTAD expert on
port administration and is considered generally acceptable to the Bank.
The management and direction of APN are the responsibilities of its Executive
Committee, composed of the Minister of Commerce and Industry as its chair-
man; the Ministers of Public Works, Finance and Treasury, Planning and
Economy; and one representative each for port workers and port users. The
recently appointed Director General has good qualifications and is a capable
administrator. APN's future organization chart is shown in Annex 2. Its
present staff is quite small, with 40 budgeted staff personnel and SO port
workers; of the latter, about 20 are assigned to Panama City and 20 to Colon,
with only an administrator and an assistant at each of the two banana ports
and at two other locations. Since the Basic Law of APN does not adequately
specify the qualifications of the Director General, or the Directors of
Finance, Operations, and Engineering, agreement was reached during negotia-
tions regarding the qualifications of the future appointees to these senior
positions.
3.04      The Director General is expanding his staff, arranging for increas-
ing its technical assistance and developing a training program. An UNCTAD
advisor will be hired to begin the installation of a cost accounting sys-
tem, and his terms of reference have been agreed with the Bank. Twenty man-
months of overseas fellowships are presently available to APN from other
sources for training local staff. APN has provided the Bank with a detailed
and satisfactory inventory of training requirements and the resources avail-
able to it under UNDP. Although the training program forms part of the
project description, it will be financed by UNDP and the Government.
C.   Administration of the Fishing Port
3.05      APN will own and operate the fishing port, and its administrator
will report directly to the Director General. Due to the size, complexity
and specialized nature of the fishing port, a fishing port committee should
be created, chaired by the Director General of APN and consisting of the
fishing port administrator and representatives of concerned Government de-
partments such as the Directorate of Marine Resources and representatives
of the fishing industries. It would provide a forum for the discussion of
problems of all those concerned with port activities and would advise the
Director General on policies to be carried out by the fishing port adminis-
trator. Agreement was reached during negotiations that such a committee
will be permanently established by December 31, 1975, and that, by July 1,
1976, the borrower will appoint and thereafter employ a fishing port adminis-
trator whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Bank.
3.06      The consultants have included, in the fishing port feasibility
study (para. 1.01), recommendations for the port's organization and opera-
iton. All buildings and service connections will be provided by APN and



-8-
leased to the various processors, who will be responsible for supplying
the equipment each uses. The tuna cold store building and equipment will be
owned and operated by APN, although private participation in this business
will be arranged, if possible. Labor for the tuna transshipment and stor-
age operation is expected to be supplied by a private stevedoring company.
APN will build and staff the food fish auction hall and ice plant. The
land and buildings for the ship repair businesses will be leased from APN,
which will also provide and operate the syncro-lift. Fuel will be distribu-
ted by the National Association of the Panamanian Fishing Industry, which
will pay APN a concession fee, presently estimated at 2, per gallon, for the
distribution rights.
4. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to promote efficient operation and growth of the fisheries
industry by providing adequate port facilities;
(b) to provide improved transshipment and other services to
the national and international tuna fleet by installing
a cold storage plant on the mainland;
(c) to provide better facilities for inshore fishermen oper-
ating in Panama Bay;
(d) to facilitate the implementation of the urban development
plan for the Maranon Section of Panama City by the removal
of the fisheries industry from the city; and
(e) to assist in developing the management capability of
APN through technical assistance and staff training
programs.
4.02      The project consists of:
(a) construction, at Punta Vacamonte, of a fishing port with
a protective breakwater, a dredged access channel, 10
berths for shrimp trawlers, four berths for tuna clippers,
adequate quays for berthing inshore fishing vessels and
for servicing trawlers, a ship repair berth and yard,
buildings for shrimp processing and tuna cold store
plants, a fish market, administrative and other offices,
storage areas, roads and utility services within the
port area;



-9-
(b)  provision of consultant services for design and supervision
of construction; preparation of administrative and operational
procedures and cost accounting and budget control systems
required by APN and each of its ports; and
(c) a program for training the Port Authority's staff (to be
financed by UNDP).
Project design has been based on proposals of consultants, which optimized
the capacity of the port with the pattern of demand, the cost of the facil-
ities and the quality of service. The original design was revised by the
Bank, in agreement with APN, to further cut costs without significantly re-
ducing capacity. A more detailed description of the project components is
given in Annex 3. The layout of the proposed fishing port is shown on MAP
IBRD 11416.
B. Cost Estimates
4.03      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$34.0 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$20.5 million. The following is a
summary of the estimates given in Table 5.
(B or US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total      % of Total Cost
A. Harbor Works       8.52       10.66      19.18              56
B. Buildings          0.57        0.83       1.40               4
C.  Equipment         0.13        1.42       1.55               5
D. Consultant
Services       0.79         1.14       1.93               6
Sub-Total   10.01        14.05     24.06              71
E. Contingencies
Physical        1.05        1.43       2.48               7
Price          2.44         5.02       7.46              22
Sub-Total    3.49         6.45      9.94              29
TOTAL       13.50        20.50     34.00             100
4.04      The base estimate cost for harbor works, buildings and equipment
is derived by updating, to March 1975, the consultants' estimates, which were
based on December 1973 prices; contingency provision includes (a) physical
variation in civil engineering works at 15% on dredging and breakwater and
10% on other items and (b) price escalation at varying rates between 1975 and
1978 amounting to 31% of estimated base cost (Table 5).
4.05      Interest during construction, which is recommended for Bank
financing (para. 6.01), is estimated at US$3.5 million approximately.



- 10 -
C.  Project Execution
4.06      APN will be the executing agency for the project.  It has entrusted
the detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents to a consortium
of consulting engineers - Livesey & Henderson (U.K.), Greiner (U.S.A.) and
PISTSA (Panama) - whose qualifications and terms of reference are satisfac-
tory. For this assignment, retroactive financing is recommended up to
US$300,000 toward foreign exchange costs incurred after January 1, 1975. Be-
cause its own staff has had little experience in administering large civil
engineering contracts, APN will retain consulting engineers acceptable to the
Bank for the technical supervision of the contract. In addition, for attend-
ing to the administrative matters pertaining to the day-to-day execution of
the project, a special project team should be appointed under the Director
General of APN. The team should comprise an adequate number of professionals
with experience in large construction contracts (possibly seconded from the
Ministry of Public Works), and will be headed by a qualified project manager.
The terms of reference of the project team and the qualifications of the team
members have been agreed with APN (Annex 4). The dates for the appointment
of the members of the project team were agreed during negotiations. The
appointment of the project manager under the agreed terms will be a condition
for the effectiveness of the loan. With the assistance of the consultants
and the proposed project team, APN can be expected to have the capability to
execute the project satisfactorily.
D. Financing Plan for the Project
4.07      The Bank loan for the project will cover the estimated foreign
exchange cost (US$20.5 million) and interest during construction (US$3.5
million), making a total amount of US$24.0 million for the loan. The balance
will be provided by the Government as contribution to APN (para. 6.08); this
was agreed during negotiations. APN, the project beneficiary, will be the
borrower with a guarantee from the Government.
E. Procurement
4.08      All contracts for civil works and equipment will be procured by
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank "Guidelines". Bid
documents for the civil works will permit bidding either for the entire work
or for separate groups of items such as harbor works, buildings, paving
utilities, etc. It is possible that local contractors may perform part of
the civil works either as direct contractors for smaller items or as sub-
contractors or partners in major contracts. It is not expected that domestic
suppliers will participate in the tenders for equipment.
F. Disbursement
4.09      A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Table 6; it is
based on a provisional project execution program shown in Annex 5. The Bank
will disburse on the basis of;



(a) 56% of the total expenditures for civil works (representing
the estimated foreign exchange component).
(b) In the case of equipment, 100% of the foreign exchange cost.
(c) In the case of consultants' services, 60Z of the total cost.
Upon completion of the project, any savings in the loan account might be
used for similar items, in consultation with the Bank.
G. Road Access, Power and Water Supply and Housing
4.10      The Government will construct the road connecting the Pan-American
Highway to the port site. About 10 km in length, the proposed road will
additionally serve some residential areas to be developed in the region.
Since the fishing port will be one of the beneficiaries of this road, the
Government will charge 25% of its cost to APN. Provision for this amount
has been made in the estimate of the project cost.
4.11      The Government has also prepared schemes for extending the utility
service lines up to the port limits. The cost of bringing water pipes, elec-
tric cables and telephone lines up to the port entrance will be borne by the
Government agencies concerned and recovered through the normal tariff for
these services. APN will not have to make any capital investment for the
utilities, except for the services inside the port area.
4.12      Development of residential areas with necessary community services
has also been planned by the Government close to the port site where port
employees could find housing.
4.13      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that
the access road will be built before the contracts for the main civil
works of the port are awarded, that the utility services will be ready before
the port works are completed and that housing facilities will be provided as
needed.
H. Transfer of Fishing Industries to the New Port
4.14      In order to achieve the goals of the project, it is necessary that
the major components of the fisheries industry move to, and use, the new port
as soon as it is ready. The shrimp processing plants and dockyards operate
under concessions granted by the Government (Table 7). The benefits offered
by the new port facilities are expected to provide an inducement for such trans-
fer (paras.5.07-5.10), and there are indications that the industry intends to
move. In .addition, in order to assure the full and early achievement of economic
benefits at the new port as soon as it is completed, the Government has enacted
legislation requiring this transfer; it was agreed during negotiations that the
Government will furnish, by June 30, 1976, a timetable for such transfer.



- 12 -
4.15      APN has already obtained letters from a substantial number of tuna
vessel owners, declaring their intention to use the transshipment cold storage
and servicing facilities proposed at the new port.
I. Ecology
4.16      The proposed project will improve the ecology of the Maranon section
of Panama City, where considerable nuisance is caused by the fisheries indus-
try.  The piers serving the processing plants are located in shallow waters,
and the sea bed becomes dry during low water; consequently, the fish dropped
during unloading operations and the organic matter discharged by the process-
ing plants decompose quickly under exposure to the tropical sun and give off
an offensive odor. The removal of the fisheries industry to Punta Vacamonte
will eliminate the problem. Since the berths at the new fishing port will
always have sufficient depth of water to prevent decomposition of the dead
fish, and because a small hill separates the new port from the areas proposed
for residential development, the fisheries in the new location will not be a
source of nuisance.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The construction of a specialized fishing port at Vacamonte will
create many benefits for the Panamanian economy. The greatest ones will, of
course, accrue to the fishing industries, but valuable land in the heart of
Panama City will also be freed for urban renewal. The economy will benefit
from the servicing, transshipment and cold storage operations of the inter-
national tuna fleet. A new port will act as a stimulus for economic activity
to the west of the Canal and will offer new opportunities for the development
of a national tuna fleet and related industries.
B.   Demand Forecasts
(i) Shrimp Catch
5.02      The future catch from present resources is assumed to remain at its
past ten-year average of about 6,000 tons (Table 1). Landings of a new species
(Cabezon and Fidel), as well as an unnamed, very deepwater species which was
discovered last year by the FAO exploratory fishing program, are assumed to
grow from 900 tons in 1978 to 2,000 tons by 1985. The deepwater species will
require a larger, deeper draft vessel, which can be berthed only at the new
port. The total shrimp catch is thus conservatively forecast to reach 8,000
tons by 1987, as shown in Table 8. Because this forecast is based on present
Government regulations and legislation designed to prevent overfishing, any
change in this legislation, adversely affecting the project, should be con-
sidered as a basis for default of the proposed loan. This was agreed by
the Government during negotiations.



- 13 -
5.03      The average annual catch per vessel lhas fluctuated between 24 and
30 tons in the past and is presently about 24 tons. The maximum number of
vessels fixed by law is not expected to increase in the future; therefore, the
average catch per vessel, including all species, is forecast to increase from
30 tons per vessel in 1978 to 34 tons by 1987. Such an increase is well
within the performance attained elsewhere in the world and is considered
likely in this case since older vessels are being replaced with larger, more
efficient ones.
(ii) Food Fish Catch
5.04      The Government, with the help of FAO technical assistance and an IDB
loan, is trying to increase coastal fishing and the per capita consumption of
fish in Panama. Although both institutions and the Government are projecting
higher rates of growth, for the purpose of assigning economic benefits to the
new port, the Bank has projected a 5.5% p.a. growth in food fish demand over
the project period, compared to the continued growth of the market population
of 4.5% p.a. After 1977, tie incidental catch of shrimp and fishmeal vessels
is expected to decline due to the capacity constraints of the industry, but
landings by other fishing boats are projected to increase to meet the expected
demand of 5.5% p.a. already mentioned. In order to achieve this growth rate,
the number of larger food fish boats which will use the new port must increase
from about 34 in 1977 to 60 in 1987.
(iii) Tuna Transshipment and Servicing Calls
5.05      The Government plans to discontinue the transshipment operations at
their present locations when the new fishing port is completed. The consul-
tants' forecasts as revised by the Bank are shown in Table 3. The demand for
transshipment--direct ship to ship, with cold storage facilities or with cold
containers--is expected to grow from an estimated 24,300 tons in 1974 to
40,000 tons by 1979. Transshipment and storage demand at the new port is
expected to grow at about 3.5% p.a. until 1987, when it will reach 64,500 tons
and will stabilize (Table 9). The demand for fuel and repair facilities at
the new port is related to the number of vessels transshipping there, plus
an estimate of the requirements of the other tuna vessels that might operate
in the area. Because of the port's proximity to the Canal and the inter-
national fishing fleet's practice of moving back and forth between the
Atlantic and Pacific fisheries, the Bank has forecast approximately 420 vessel
calls for servicing each year after 1978.
C.  Methodology of Economic Evaluation
5.06      For the purposes of this evaluation, it is conservatively assumed
that, without the new fishing port, the fisheries industry would continue to
operate indefinitely at its present location while, in fact, the pressures
for redeveloping the urban center would force them to move or to go out of
business. The rate of return calculation is based on the incremental, or
marginal, benefits which result from the investment in a new port.



- 14 -
D.   Economic Benefits to the Panamanian Economy
(i) Benefits Included
5.07      Quantifiable benefits are expected to accrue to shrimp vessel owners
and operators, shrimp processors, coastal fishermen, the Government as a land
owner, and the labor force by creating new jobs. The economic benefits also
include net value added in Panama by the expected increase of tuna transshipment
operations. A detailed description of these benefits is included in the follcw-
ing paragraphs, and the US dollar value by year and beneficiary is shown in
Annex 6. A calculation of the present value of project benefits indicates that
they will accrue to the various beneficiaries in the following proportions:
shrimp boats, 22.3%; shrimp processors, 25.9%; coastal fishing, 14.0%; foreign
exchange from tuna services, 27.7%; and the Government as land owner, 10.1%.
5.08      For shrimp vessels, the economic benefits average about US$3,600
per vessel for the first year of port operation. They include savings in
repair, maintenance and waiting time associated with a deepwater port which
is not affected by tides. A reduction in damage to the vessel's catch of
about 1% is forecast with the use of a 24-hour facility and better handling
methods. A deepwater port will also allow the construction of the larger,
deeper draft vessels necessary for the fishing of the deepest shrimp varieties
(500 tons by 1987); therefore, the net value added, generated by this catch,
has been included as a benefit.
5.09      For the processing sector, the net value added on both the reduction
in damaged shrimp and the new deepest shrimp species is counted as benefits.
The additional work space provided at the new port will allow the processors
to produce larger amounts of individual quick frozen shrimp (1,250 tons p.a.)
as well as to process scallops (45 tons p.a.). The net value added on these
amounts is included.
5.10      The capacity constraints at the present food fish landing facilities
will limit the growth and marketing of this catch to about 3% p.a. after 1978.
The net value added on the difference in growth rates for the catch of 3% p.a.
without a new port and the 5.5% p.a. forecast with the new port are included
as benefits.
5.11      Because a large part of the tuna fleet is internationally owned, only
benefits to the Panamanian economy are included in the analysis. (Benefits
which apply only to the tuna fleet are discussed in Annex 7.) Berthing, fuel
concessions and transshipping fees collected by the port authority are benefits,
as well as the value added generated by the cold storage and cold container
operation (Table 10). The net value added on the increase in handling of tuna
at the new port over the present operation at Taboga is also included.
5.12      The calculation of benefits was based on the average trend prices for
shrimp and food fish landed in Panama as of March 1975. All prices were held
constant after this date, but a strong case can be made for expecting a real
increase in shrimp prices of about 2% p.a. thereafter.
(ii) Increase in Land Value due to the Project
5.13      The relocation of the shrimp processing plants in the Maranon area
and the ship repair yard in the San Francisco suburban area at the new port



- 15 -
will release some valuable land in Panama City for development purposes. The
Government is presently finalizing an urban renewal plan for Maranon which
calls for the removal of the shrimp plants. The value of the land acquired
or reclaimed for a port at Vacamonte is a cost to the project, and the value
of the land released for urban renewal is considered as a benefit since there
is a shortage of prime development sites in the city. The difference between
the March 1975 value of the existing plots, given their current usage and their
value after removal of the fishing industry in March 1975 prices (but before
any further development takes place), provides an additional economic benefit.
These benefits, which go primarily to the Government, are conservatively valued
at US$2.4 million, and are taken during the last two years of port construc-
tion and the first three years of operation (Table 11).
5.14      The enhancement in value of the adjacent property as a result of the
industry removal has also been counted as an economic benefit, but it is as-
sumed to increase only half as much; thus, a further US$1.6 million would
result. A large portion of these benefits will accrue to the Government since
its Ministry of Housing and APN either own the land or have options to
purchase it at frozen prices.
(iii) Bernefits not Included
5.15      APN has the option to purchase the most desirable tracts of land
around the new port at Vacamonte for resale once the area is developed, but
increases in the value of this property, probably exceeding US$4.5 million
over the years 1979-1981, have not been included as an economic benefit.
Benefits which were not included because they could not be quantified include
the enhancement of the city center's urban environment, the encouragement of
Panama City's expansion to the west of the Canal, the use of the port for
handling the small volume of coastal traffic, and the retention of present
tuna transshipment operations in Panama.
E.   Economic Return
5.16      The economic return for the project has been calculated on the proj-
ect as a whole, since a major part of the infrastructure (breakwater, dredging
and roads) is required for almost all activities. Although benefits to the
four user groups (shrimp vessels and processors and food fish and tuna vessels)
are segregated, no means of assigning the capital costs to these groups is
practical. Because there is excess capacity in the shrimp fleet and processing
plants, only the additional investment required for catching the deepest shrimp
varieties (para. 5.08), for processing quick frozen shrimp and scallops (para.
5.09), and for catching food fish (para. 5.10) are included in-the economic
costs. This cost-benefit analysis is a comparison of the costs of the new port
with the additional benefits that will result from its operation. The costs
of moving the shrimp plants to the new port are included in the analysis and
are estimated by the consultants at US$435,000.
5.17      In addition to the capital costs of the project, there are annual
costs for administration and maintenance of US$650,000 in 1978, which grow



- 16 -
in real terms at 2% p.a. until 1992. In addition, maintenance dredging, which
must be undertaken at five-year intervals, is estimated to cost US$660,000 per
time. All costs, both capital and operating, are stated in terms of March
1975 US$.
5.18      This project is assumed to have an economic life of 25 years with
no growth in costs or benefits after 15 years of operation. The tuna cold
storage equipment is expected to last 15 years, and the cost of renewing the
investment after this period is included. It is probable that the fishing
industry will continue to make use of the port after the end of the 25-year
period. A residual value of US$15.0 million is included in the calculations.
5.19      The project is expected to yield an economic rate of return of about
15% over its 25-year life, with a first year benefit of 15%. Sensitivity
analysis shows that, if project costs increase 20% more than anticipated, the
return is 13%, and, if they increase by 30%, the return becomes 12%. If the
real price of shrimp increases at about 2% a year, which it has done in the
past, the return on the project increases to 16%. If tuna transshipment traf-
fic is reduced by 30%, the return drops to 12%, and, if the new deepwater
shrimp catch does not materialize, the return becomes 13%. When the in-
creases in land values around the new port at Vacamonte are included in the
calculation, the return rises to 17%, and, if no increases in land values in
Panama City or Vacamonte are included, the return drops to 13%.
F.   Adjustment of the Economic Rate of Return by Shadow Pricing Labor Costs
5.20      Unemployment for the unskilled labor population of the Panama and
Colon provinces is about 14%. Since unskilled labor will be employed in pro-'
ject construction as well as in the operation of the port, the transshipment
of tuna, the processing of shrimp and the marketing of food fish, the costs
and benefits of the project can be recalculated using a shadow price for this
unskilled labor. No exact estimate of the opportunity cost of unemployed
labor in Panama is available; assuming the opportunity cost to be 30% or 50%
of the nominal wage rate, the economic return becomes, respectively, 16% and
15%.
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Present Position
6.01      Before the formation of APN, the national ports were not administer-
ed in a commercial manner; therefore, records of costs and revenues are in-
complete. True operating costs, including maintenance of navigation aids and
depreciation, will not be known until the cost accounting study (para. 3.04)
is completed. Revenues from port charges increased from about US$280,000 in
1971 to about US$450,000 in 1974 on higher volume of traffic. The prelimi-
nary operating budget for 1975, which does not include capital investment,
some maintenance costs or the costs of the detailed engineering for the new



- 17 -
fishing port, totals about US$650,000. Because APN is a new organization with
little operating revenue, it is recommended that the Bank finance interest
during construction amounting to approximately US$3.5 million.
B.   Tariff Policy
6.02      APN is planning to increase both the navigation fees and the port
charges to cover respective costs as soon as they are known. Tariffs should
be revised from time to time so that APN's total revenues will produce an
adequate return on investment. However, if economic factors so require,
tariffs in a particular port could be lowered below fully distributed costs,
but not lower than the relevant marginal cost. Agreement was reached with
APN and the Government during negotiations thet revenues from each port should
be sufficient to cover the full costs of services provided at each port and
to earn a reasonable return on the-net fixed assets of each port. It was
also agreed that, to accomplish this, independent commercial accounts will be
kept for each port, which identify working costs, depreciation, central
overhead, interest and repayments of any debts contracted by APN for facilities
or equipment at each port.
C.   Audit and Insurance
6.03      APN's By-laws call for it to be audited by the Government's General
Accounting Office.  Agreement was reached during negotiations that APN will
also employ independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Aside from em-
ployee insurance, APN has not yet insured itself against fire, theft and
other business risks; therefore, agreement was reached during negotiations
that adequate insurance will be maintained in the future.
D.   Investment Plan
6.04      APN's preliminary five-year plan, 1975-1979, shown in Table 12, must
be considered tentative. Aside from this project, a container port project
costing about US$25.1 million is planned, as well as the spending of US$4.2
million for improvements to existing national ports. Such expenditures would
have to be financed with Government equity contributions or debt, since APN's
cash flow will be inadequate. For this reason, agreement was reached during
negotiations that, before undertaking any investment in excess of US$1.0
million per year prior to December 31, 1985, APN will satisfy the Bank that
such investment will not adversely affect its obligations under the loan
agreement, and that APN will not incur any long-term debt without the prior
approval of the Bank, if its consolidated net revenues for the 12-month
period ended prior to the incurrence of the debt is less than 1.4 times its
maximum future debt service requirements in any succeeding financial year.
E.  Fishing Port Financial Forecasts
6.05      Financial forecasts have been made only for the new fishing port,
since it is expected to make up about 80% of APN's future revenues, and the
costs of APN's existing operations will not be clearly defined until after
the cost accounting study is completed. Shrimp, food fish and repair opera-
tions are expected to begin at the new port in March of 1978, and tuna
activities at the beginning of 1979; therefore, the costs and revenues re-
lating to these industries have been inflated until their starting dates,



- 18 -
and then held constant in current terms, with increases due only to volume
changes thereafter. For this purpose, a yearly inflation rate of 15% for
1975 and 10% p.a. thereafter was used for both costs and revenues. Costs
are based on the consultant's feasibility study and revenues on the demand
forecast in the economic evaluation. Table 13 outlines pricing and growth
assumptions in 1975 prices. In principle, charges are designed to recover
about 70-80% of the calculated economic benefits, the difference to be an
incentive for each industry to use the new port. These revenues generate
a financial internal rate of return of about 9%.  If it develops that use of
the port facilities by the international tuna fleet is only half of that
forecast, the financial return will probably drop to 7.5%.
6.06      The greater difference between the financial return and the 15%
economic return is primarily due to the increases in land value and value
added to fishing operations, which were included in the economic calculation but
which would not be recovered in port charges for reasons indicated in the pre-
vious paragraph. If the increase in land values and the resulting tax revenues
in the years that follow are included in the overall calculation of the internal
financial rate of return, it increases from 9%1 to 11%.
6.07      Pro forma income statement, cash flow and balance sheet for the fish-
ing port (1978-1987) are shown in Tables 14-18. After including full interest
and repayments of the Bank Loan, the fishing port is still expected to generate
a substantial cash surplus. Interest is capitalized until the beginning of
the first full year of operation in 1979, and repayments will begin, after
four years of grace, in 1979. Return on net fixed assets is projected to
increase from 6.7% in 1979 to over 10% after 1986.
6.08      The Government's contribution to this project should amount to
US$13.5 million or about 36% of total project costs of US$37.5 million. The
forecast financial statements show that the fishing port should be in a
position to begin paying out a partial dividend in the third full year of
operation, 1981, and that this dividend can be increased to 5% in 1984 and
maintained at this level thereafter. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that APN -will maintain user charges at the fishing port sufficient
(a) to yield annual rates of return on the fishing port's net fixed assets
in use of not less than 7% in the second and third full years of operation,
8% in the fourth and fifth and 9% in the years that follow, and (b) to pay
the Government a return on its contribution to the fishing port's financing
plan of 3% in the third, fourth and fifth full years of operation, and 5% in
the sixth and followling years. This payment may be reduced in any one year
if the Government agrees that APN can better use this cash for internal
capital investment.
F.   Extraordinary Capital Gain
6.09      APN is planning to take options on 100 hectares of land behind the
new fishing port site at Vacamonte and to sell this to developers when the
main services have been connected. The net profit on this transaction might



- 19 -
yield US$6.6 million over the period 1979-1981. This revenue has not been
included in the financial forecast, but it should be noted as a potential
source of additional cash flow in early years of the project life. Details
on the calculation are shown in Annex 8.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with APN and the
Government on the following points:
(a) Qualifications of future appointees to senior positions of
the Director General, and the Directors of Finance, Opera-
tions and Engineering, of APN (para. 3.03);
(b) A fishing port committee to be permanently established by
December 31, 1975, and the fishing port administrator, whose
qualifications and experience will be satisfactory to the
Bank, to be appointed by July 1, 1976 (para. 3.05);
(c) The members of the project team to be appointed by agreed
dates (para. 4.06);
(d) The cost of the fishing port in excess of the loan amount
to be provided by the Government as contribution to APN
(para. 4.07);
(e) Access road to be built before the contracts for the
main civil works of the port are awarded, utility services
to be ready before the port works are completed, and housing
facilities to be provided as needed (para. 4.13);
(f)  The Government to furnish, by June 30, 1976, a timetable
for the transfer of fishing industries to the new port
(para. 4.14);
(g) Any change in present Government regulations regarding over-
fishing, adversely affecting the project, to be considered
as a basis for default of the proposed loan.(para. 5.02);
(h) Revenues from each port to be sufficient to cover the full
costs of services provided at each port and to earn a
reasonable return on the net fixed assets of each port
(para. 6.02);
(i) Independent commercial accounts to be kept for each port in
order to accomplish (h) preceding (para. 6.02);



- 20 -
(j) APN to employ independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
and to maintain adequate insurance against fire, theft and
other business risks (para. 6.03);
(k) Before undertaking investments prior to December 31, 1985
in excess of US$1.0 million per year, APN to satisfy the
Bank that such investment will not adversely affect its
obligations under the loan agreement (para. 6.04);
(1)  APN not to incur any long-term debt without the prior approval of
the Bank if its consolidated net revenues for the 12-monthi per.lod
prior to the incurrence of the debt is less than 1.4 times its
maximum debt servicing requirement in any succeeding financial
year (para. 6.04); and
(m)  APN to maintain user charges at the fishing port sufficient
(a) to yield annual rates of return on the fishing port's net
fixed assets in use of not less than 7% in the second and third
full years of operation, 8% in the fourth and fifth and 9% in
the years that follow, and (b) to pay the Government a return
on its contribution to the fishing port's financing plan of
3% in the third, fourth and fifth full years of operation, and
5% in the sixth and following years (para. 6.08).
7.02      Retroactive financing is recommended up to US$300,000 toward foreign
exchange costs for detailed engineering incurred after January 1, 1975 (para.-
4.06).
7.03      Appointment of the project manager to the satisfaction of the Bank
will be a condition for the effectiveness of the loan (para. 4.06).
7.04      Since APN is a newly constituted Port Authority with a small income,
it is recommended that interest during construction, which is estimated at
US$3.5 million, be financed by the Bank (para. 6.01).
7.05      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$24.0
million (including interest during construction) to APN, with a guarantee of
the Government, for a term of 20 years inclusive of a grace period of four
years.
Ato.ril 9., '.Q7-



0ANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Shrimp Landin
(In Metric Tons)
Year      White           Red            Titi       Carabali Solenocera      Fidel   Cabezon      Total
1967      2,476          1,275           2,595          98        12                     -        6,456
1968      1,967          1,914           1,981         130        14           -         -        6,oo6
1969      1,931          1,030           2,519          80       105           -         -        5,665
1970      1,981          1,167           3,657          95         9           -         -       6,909
1971      1,927          1,341           1,948          92        47           -         -       5,355
1972      2,327          1,356           l,424          99        86           -         -        5,292
1973      2,338          1,392           1,311         131        40          94        269       5,575
1974      1,743          1,373          1,667          165        47          67        230       5,292
Source:  Direccion General de Recursos Marinos                                                                     w
March 1975



PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Shrknp Catch and Export
Year          L              Landed Value       Average Price       ort         FOB Value   Average Price
(Net Weight in    Tus .)           (per Metric ton (Net Weight in               (per Metric ton
Metric ton)                         in US$)         MIetric ton)                in US$)
1962           5,575          4,389,063             787
1963          5,583           3,873,561            694              -
1964           7,o55           5,933,945            841           5,595         7,404,809      1,323
1965           5,851           5,001,4a0            857           4,776         7,782,o54      1,629
1966           5,643          5,002,553             887           4,570         8,971,911      1,963
1967           6,456          6,493,352           1,007           5,o68         9,185,?92      1,812
1968          6,oo6           6,910,183          1,151            4,779         9,727,207      2,035
1969           5,665          7,226,823           1,276          4,42c         9,740,545      2,204
1970          6,90?            7,287,753         1,n55            5,058        10,168,319      2,010
1971           5,355          9,756,400           1,821           4,985        11,952,615      2,398
1972           5,292         12,641,600           2,3<3           4,521        14,631,339      3,236
1973          5,575         14,765,400          2,790            4,413        16,706,605      3,786
1974          5,292          10,56o,ooo (Est)   1,995 (Est)         -               -            -          |-
Source: Direccion General de Recursos Marinos
March 1975



TABLEi
PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Demand for Tuna Transshipment Facilities in Panama
Year             Number of Tuna    -Direct Siener to  -Use of Cold   Use of Cold
VesselsTransshipi        Reefer Vessel        Storage       Containers
-Metric Tons - - - - - - - -
1968                  10                  1,274
1969                   1                  . 161              -              -
1970                  i1                  2,940              -              -
1971                  53                 17,757              -              -
1972                  48                 15,763              -              -
1973                  66                 25,409              -              _
1974 (Est)            47                 22,307              -            2,000
Forecast
1979                  90                 15,000            15,000       10,000
1987                 122                 20,000            27,000       17,500
Non-US flag vessels which presently do about 90% of the transshipment
in Panama are expected to continue to transship about 30% of their total catch,
while U.S. flag vessels which presently transship only about 2% of their total
catch are forecast to transship about 5% of it by 1979. Total tuna catch both
in and out of the regulated area is projected to grow from 277,000 tons in 1974
to 330,000 tons by 1979. The non-US flag share of these totals is forecast
to increase from 27% to 35% over the same period.
Tuna Catch in The Tropical Eastern Pacific Ocean (1,000 metric ton)
Yellowfin                   Skipiack    Total (Yellowfin/
Year              In           Out          Total   Total (In/Out)        Skipjack)
1970            129.7         27.1          156.8           56.2            213.0
1971            103.2         21.3          124.5          104.5            229.0
1972            138.5         40.7          179.3           33.5            212.8
1973            159.9         50.0          209.9           44.4            254.3
1974            166.0         36.4          202.4           74.4            276.8
1979 Forecast   175.0         50.0          225.0          105.0            330.0
Source: Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission
L&Vesey and Henderson
Bank Appraisal Mission
March 1975



TABLE 4
PANAMA
FISMING PORT PROTECT
Annual Port Traffic in Panama (Excluding Fishj
(000' metric tons)
Canal Zone & Banana  Ports                     1970                      1973
Balboa                                 102                       142
Cristobal                              257                       266
Armuelles                               412                      331
Almirante                              365                       335
1,136                    1, 12!4
APN Ports
Panama City                             235                       240
Colon                                    67                        34
Aguadulce                                73                      103
Pedregal                                 47                        60
Darien                                   24                        40
Bahia de las Minas (general cargo)    36                         144
Other                                     7                        20
489                      6241
Source: Livesey and Henderson
National Port Authority
March 1975



?APIAMA                                 TABLE 5
FISHING ?ORT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
'000 Balboas or US$            Foreign
Exchange
Local        Foreign           Total        %
A.   Harbour Works
1.  Dredging and Navigational
Aids                         1,030          2,374           3,404        70
2.  Breakwater                      1,807           3,314           5,121       65
3. Reclamation                      3,362           1,440           4,802       30
4. Wharves and Jetties              1,045           1,922           2,967       65
5.  "aved Yards and Roads             211              90             301       30
6.  Access Road (25% share)           482                             482
7. Ship Renair yard                   211             392             603       65
8.  Services                          374           1,133           1,507       75
Sub-total                 8,522         10,665          19,187        56
B.   Buildings
1.  Shrimn 'rocessing                 253             470             723       65
2.  Inshore Fisheries                  60              60             120       50
3.  Shi- Reoair Workshops              46              87             133       65
4. Ship RepAir Store/Office            72              72             144       50
5. Administrative Offices of
lort Authority                  76              76            152        50
6.  Customs Office                     15              15              30       50
7. Offices for Ship and
Tuna Agents                     48              48             96        50
Sub-total                   570             828          1,398        59
C.   Equipment
1.  Harbour Launches                    3              55              58       95
2.  Tugboat                            15             275             290       95
3.  Cold Store ?iant and Building    100              900           1,000       90
4.  Cranes                              4              77              81       95
5. Vehicles                             3              55              58       95
6.  VMiscellaneous                      3              55              58       95
Sub-total                   128          1,417           1,545        92
D.   Consultant Services
1.  Engineering and Sunervision       700           1,000           1,700       60
2.  Management                         9             140             230       60
Sub-total                   790          1,140           1,930        60
Total A-! B + C + D                10,010          14,050          24,060       58
B.   Contingencies
1.  Physical 15% on A 1 and 2
3 to 8 nd B 1 tn 7  1,050            1,434           2,484
2.  "rice                           2,440           5,16            7,456
Sub-total                 3,490          6,450           9,940
Grand total         13,500         20,500          34,000        60
Note: (i) Base estimate up-dsted to Mlarch 1, 1975
(ii) Price contingencies allow for the following rates of % increases during
the years 1975-1978
1975      1976       1977      1978
Civil works         16         14       - 
Equipment            14        10          8         8
Services              9         8          7         7
Source: Livesey and Henderson
and Bank Appraisal Mission
January 1975



TABLE 6
PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$TO-00~
Fiscal Year and                Disbursment                  Cumulative
Quarter Ending                  during. Quarter             Disbursments
FY 1976
December 31, 1975              300                          300
March 31, 1976                 300                          600
June 30, 1976                1,500                        2,100
FY 1977
Sentember 30, 1976           2,000                        4,100
December 31, 1976            2,300                        6,400
March 31, 1977               2,500                        8,900
June 30, 1977                2,700                       11,600
FY 1978
Sentember 30, 1977           2,500                       14,100
December 31, 1977            2,200                       16,300
March 30, 1978               2,000                       18,300
June 30, 1978                1,900                       20,200
FY 1979
Sentember 30, 1978           1,500                       21,700
December 31, 1978            1,300                       23,000
March 31, 1979               1,000                       24,000
Source: Bank Aooraisal Mission
January 1975



PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Fishing Industry Processors' Concessions
Company'r Name               Contract Number   Date of Contract    rerm or    Expiration Date                              Activity
__________                                                             Duration
Flan Meal Processors
PROMARINA, S;A .      .......................    10           April 25, 1955      25.years     October 25, 1980       Fish meal manufacturing and exportation
PESQUERA TABOGUILLA S.A. .    ..............     93           December 17, 1964  16 years       October 21, 1980      Fish meal manufacturing and exportation.
Shrimp Processors
CIA, MARISCOS ISLAS DE LAS PERLAS ....           34           August 10, 1955    25 years       Augmst 30, 1981       Fishing,exportation, cold storage preservation and
packing of maritime products. Plant and
Wharf at Maranon.
FAUNA DEL MAR S.A. .1...................    MCI-13            October 23, 1969    6 years       December 7, 1975      Fishing, exportation, cold storage preservation and
packing of maritime products. Only
their trawlers operate from Maranon,
CIA, DE PRODUCTOS CRUSTACEOS S.A.                79           August 26, 1957    18 years       December 7, 1975      Fishing, exportation, cold storage preservation and
packing of maritime products. Plant and
wbarf at Juan Dias.
EMPACADORA NACIONAL S.A. . .............         13           December 30, 1963  25 years       March 11, 1989        Fishing, exportation, cold storage
preservation and packing of maritime
products. Plant and wharf at Paitilla.
CARLoS CAMBRA E HIJOS S.A. .   ...........       14           March 13, 1962      13 years      Decemtber 7, 1975     Fishing, exportation, cold storage
preservation and packing of maritime
products. Plant and wharf at Maranon.
PANAMA PACENG CORPORATION ............           45           November 14, 1955  25 years       November 14, 1980    Fishing, exportation, cold storage
preservation and packing of maritime
products. Plant and wharf at
Boca la Caja, Paitilla.
Dockyards
MODERN FIBERGLASS INCORPORATED .......            13          March 2, 1972       15 years      May 8, 1987           Construction of vessels and boats with
fibre-glass helmet special for shrimp
fishing and others for marketing and
sporting uses.
CONSTRUCCIONES NAVALES DE PANAMA S,A.            16           December 26, 1973  14 years       May 8, 1987           Construction and repair of vessels
made in steel and/or wood.
FABRICACIONES MARINAS S.A. ..........            20           December 26, 1973  14 years       May 8, 1987           Construction of Vessels, boats and
Source:  National Port Authnrity (APr) crafts for shrimp fishing and others
for industrial, marketing or pleasure uses.
December 1974



PANAMA
PISHING PORT PROJECT
Forecast   Shrimp Landings
(metric tons)
Edst    Species   Cabeson & Fidel   Unnamed, Very Deep Species   Total Catch
1978                         6,060                800                       100                   6,960
1979                         6,060                900                       150                   7,110
1980                         6,060              1,000                       175                   7,235
1981                         6,060              1,100                       200                   7,360
1982                         6,060              1,200                       250                   7,510
1983                         6,060              1,300                       300                   7,660
1984                         6,060              1,400                       350                   7,810
1985                         6,060              1,500                       400                   7,960
1986                         6,060              1,500                       450                   8,010
1987                         6,060              1,500                       500                   8,060
1988                         6,060              1,500                       500                   8)060
Source: Bank Appraisal Mission
March 1975



PANAMA                           TABLE 9
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Projected Calls of Tuna Seiners
(1975)
Average
Flag       Unit  old          Number of        Total Hold      Expected           Projected
CaDacity          Seiners          Capacity        Number of          Amount of
(Metric Ton)                       (Metric Ton)   Transshipments   Transshipment
(Metric Ton)
U.S.(P.R.)      949              47               44,603            47              33,557
U.S.(S.D.)      488              76               37,088            -                   0
Canada          699               8                5,592             8                4,474
France        1,319               3                3,957             2                3,166
Spain         1,008               5                5,040             5                h4032
Japan           490               2                  980             2                  784
Panama          537               7                3,759             7                3,007
others 1/       387              50               19,350            50               15,480
Total                           198              120,369          122                64,500
Fishing Vessel               Expected calls                Expected calls           Total
for transshipment             for  servicing
and servicing                 only
Tuna Long Liners                      0                          300                300
Tuna Purse Seiners                  122                            78               200
Reefers                              22                            0                 22
Total                               144                          378                522
Note:  1/ Others include Costa Rica, Mexico, Venezuela, Bermuda, lJetherland, Peru
and Ecuador. Cuba is excluded.
Japanese Tuna Long Liners
Year           Number of Calls at Panama          Estimated Number of
Tuna Long Liners
1973                      2h2                              So
197[                      300 (est.)                      loo
Source: Japan Tuna (Panama) Corp.
December 1974



PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Tuna Cold Storage and Cold Container Filling Operations
(Revenue US$ '000 of 1979)
1979           1980           1981           1982           1983            1984           1985            1986
Cold Storage Operation
Quantity in Metric Tons '000                    15             17             19             21             23              25             26              27
Revenue                                       689             781            873            965          1,036          1,148           1,194          1,240
Working Costs
Labor                                    115            115            115             115            115            175             175            175
Maintenance                               45             50              50             50             50             70              70             70
Rent to APN                              145            145             145            145            145            145             145            145
Electric Power                           206            234            260             290            315            345             360            375
Total Working Costs               511             544            570            600             625            735            750             765
Depreciation                                   100            100            100            100            100             150            150            150
Total Operating Costs              611            644            670            700             725            885            900             915
Net Operating Income                            78            137            203            265             331            263            294             325
Profit on Handling                             67              77             86             95            104             113            117             122
Net Income                                     145            214            289            360            435             376            411             447
Cold Container Loading Operation
Quantity in Metric Tons                         10             11             12             13              14             15             16              17
US$ 6.0 per ton profit                         60              66             72             78                             90             9              1Q
Total Income Cold Storage                     205             280            361            438             519            466            507             549
and Contairers                                 _             ___2                            =             __                             -
US$ of March 1975 x 1.531 - us$ of June 1, 1979
Source:  Bank Appraisal Mission
March 1975



PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Chanaee in and aluenl due to the Project
(All Values as' of March 1975)
eURRENT               TOTAL         PRICE AFTER REMOVAL OF      TITAL VTLUU      INCREASE IN
AREA       MARKET PRICE         CURRENT VALUE        FISHING INDUSTRY         AFTER REMOVAL    TOTAL VALUE
(sq meter)  (B/. per sq meter)         (B/1)           (B/. per aq meter)            (B/.)             B/.
Panama City Center (Marainon)         2,594             108                280,152                  180                466,920          186,768
Paitilla                              7,600              60               456,000                    90                684,000          228,000
Boat Repair (San Francisco)          14,000              48                672,000                   90              1,260,000          588,OOO
Total                                24,194                              1,408,152                                   2,410,920        1,002,766
Enhancement in value of surrounding land
Maranon                              16,000             108                   -                     144                   -              576,000
San Francisco                        50,000              48                                          69                  -            1,050,000
Total                                66,000                                                                                           1,626,000
2,628,768
The total current land value of B/. 1,408,152 was taken as an economic benefit in the last two
years of project construction 1977-1978 and the increase in total value of B/. 2,628,768 is
taken as a benefit in years 1979-1981.
Source:  Livesey and Henderson
March 1975



PANAMA
FISHITNG PORT PRDJECT
Preliminary Capital Investment Program 1975-1979
('000 Balboas) Current Prices
Total        1975          1976          1977          1978         1979
Fishing Port Project                 33,630       911           10,218        19,243        3,258             _
Container Port Project              25,100         -             5,200.      10,500        9,400              -
National Port Improvement             3,300       500              300           500       1,000         1,000
Port of Aguadulce (dredging)            900       900             -             -             -               -
Total Investment          62,930     2,311           15,718        30,243        13,658        1,000
Source: National Port Authority (APN)
December 1974



PANAMA                                  TABLE 13
Fl5ISG PORT PROJECT
Fishing Port Revenues
(March 1975 Prices)
Average Anual         Basis for Charge      1978         1979
Growth Rates                            B/. 'OOO  B/. rooo    %
Shrimp Vessels
Port and Berthing
Charges                                     B/. 3,600 per vessel    857        857     29
Food Fish Vessels
Port and Berthing
Charges                5.5% 1978-1993       2% catch value            46        4B      2
Tuna Industry
Berthing                  2% 1979-1987        630/ft Oal/Day            -         75      3
Transshipment Charge      4% 1979-1987        2% of S.D. price          -        557     19
Other Revenues
Building Rentals                -             see Table 15             694       864     29
Cold store profit        7% 1979-1987         see Table 10              -        126      4
Fuel concession
Local                    1.2%, 1978-1987      20 per gallon            337       344     12
Tuna                     2% 1979-1987         !, per gallon            -         95      3
Total Revenue (1975 prices)                                               1,934    2,966    100
Inflation Rates           Cummxlative
Factor
end    1975     15,
end    1976     101      1.265
end    1977     1O0;     1.392
end    1978     10%      1.531
No escaation for fuel concession
Source: National Port Authority (APN)
and Bank Appraisal Mission
March 1975



PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Forec ast Reveus-4j1 j 2/
1978       1979     .1980      .1981     1982      1983      .1984     JZ985      1986      1987
*Shrimp boats        895      1,193     1,193      1,193     1,193     1,193     1,193    1,,193     1,193      1,193
Food fish vessels     48         68        71        75        79         84        88       93         98       104
Tuna berthing       -           115       118       121       123       126        128      131        133       136
Transshipment    -           853       886       922       959       997      1,037    1,078      1,121     1,166
Rents                725      1,200     1,200     1,200     1,200     1,200      1,200    1,200      1,200     1,200
Cold store and
Containers          -           205       280       361        438       519       466      507        549        549
Fuel local           253        344       350       356        363       371       378      385        388        390
Fuel tuna           -            95        99       102        106       110       115      119        124        129
Total Revenue      1,921      4,073     4,197     4,330     4,461     4,600     4,605    4,706       4,806     4,867
1/ Current price of 1978-79
Source: National Port Authority (APN)
anid Bank Appraisal Mission
March 1975



TABLE 1I
PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Revenues from Rentals of Land and Buildings and Charges for Services
March 1975 Prices
Capital Cost
Area      (including    Annual Rental   Total Annual
sq. m.     Engineering    per sq. m.        Rental
& Contingencies)
B/ 000           B/           B/000
Building Rentals:
Shrinp processing
plants                   5h400           795            34              182
Inshore Fisheries
M4arket, etc             1,000           132            24               24
Port Authority
Buildings                  -             167             -                -
Shin repair
Workshops                  700           146            40               28
Ship repair
Offices                  1,000           158            30               30
Ship repair yard           -             656             -             125
Agents' Office             500           139            40               20
Total Building Rentals
without Tuna                                                            410
Service Charges:
Electricity supply
and distribution,
Water supply and
distribution and
telephones                  -          1,8oo                            360
Total Rents and Service
Charges without Tuna        _           _                              770
Cold Store ground rent   k,700            -             20              94
Total Rents and Service
Charges with Tuna                                                       864
Source: Livesey and Henderson
March 1975



PANAMA
,FISHING PORT PROJECT
Pro Forma Income Statement
I000 US$
1978      1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984        1985       1986       1987
Total Revenue                                1,921      4,073      4,197      4,330      4,461      4,600      4,505      4,706      4,806      4,867
Operating Expenses
Wages                                     562        573       584         596        608       620         633        646        658        672
Maintenance                               167       167        167        167        167        167         167        167        167        167
Accrued Dredging Costs                    153       153        153        153        153        153         153        153        153        153
Utilities                                  28        28         28         28         28         28         28          28         28         28
Other                                      70        70         70         70          70        70         70          70         70         70
Sub-total Working Costs             980        951      1,002      1,014      1,026      1,038      1,051      1,064      1,076      1,090
Depreciation                             495        660        660        660        660        660        660        660         660        660
Total Operating Expeises         1,475      1,651      1,662      1,674      1,686      1,693      1,711      1,724      1,736      1,750
Net Operating Revenue                          446      2,422      2,535      2,656      2,775      2,907      2,9Y4      2,892      3,070      3,117
Less Interest                              -      2,040      2,000      1,926      1,852      1 772      1 685      1 591      1 488       1 377
Net Income                                                                                 9 2 3a 5 70 3  1,35 8 1t74
Dividend                                        _          _                    400        400        400        700        700        700        700
% Return of Equity                              -          -          _           3%         3%         3%         5%         5%         5%         5%
Return on Net Fixed Assets                       1.2        6.7        7.1        7.6        8.1        8.6        8.9        9.2        9.7       10.0
Source: Livesey and Henderson
and Bank Appraisal Mission
March 1975



PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Pro Forma Sources and Uses of Fnmdm
'000 TtSt
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984      1985       1986       1987
*Sources
Total Revenue                         1,921     4,073      4,197      4,330     4,461      4,600      4,605     4,706      4,806      4,867
Less Working Costs                      980        991     1.002  1, 014        1,026      1,038      1,051      1,064     1-076      1.090
Cash Generation                         941      3,082     3,195      3,316     3,435      3,562      3,554      3,642     3,730      3,777
Total Sources                       941     3.082      3,195      3,316     3,435      3,562      3,554      3,642     3,730      3,777
Application
Interest                                -       2,040      2,000      1,926     1,852      1,772      1,685      1,591     1,488      1,377
Repayments                              -          365       780        854        928     1,008      1,095      1,189     1,292      1,403
Dividend                                -         -          -          400        400       400        700        700        700        700
Total Application                          2,405      2,780      3,180     3,180      3,180      3,480      3,480     3,480      3,480
Cash Surplus in Year                         941        677        415       136        255        382         74       162        250        297
Source:  Bank Appraisal Mission
March 1975                                                                                                                                              1!



PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Pro Forma Balance Sheet
1978       1979       1980       1931       1982        1983       1984       1985        1986       1987
Cash                                            80         160        160        165         170        180        180         185        190        200
Cash Available for Investment                   921      1.608      2 028      2 159      2 414       2 786      2 865      3 022       3 272      3,559
Total Current Assets                          1,R01   1,7           6 5 3  3  3   462  3,759
Fixed Assets                                37,500    37,500    37,500    37,500    37,500    37,500    37,500    37,500    37,500    37,500
Less Accumulated Depreciation                   495      1,155      1,815      2,475       3,135      3,795      4 5         5,115      5775       6,435
Net Fixed Assets                             37,005    36,345    35,685    35,025    34,365    33,705    33,045    32,385    31,725    31,065
Total Assets                                38,006    33,113    37,873    37,349    36,949    36,671    36,090    35,592    35,187    34,824
Current Liabilities                              60        150         155        155        163        160         165        165        170         170
Long Term Debt                              24,000    23,635    22,855    22,001    21,073    20,065            18,970    17,781    16,489        15,036
Equity                                       13,500    13,500    13,500    13,500    13,500    13,500    13,500    13,500    13,500    13,500
Retained Earnings                               446        828      1,363      1,693       2,216      2,946      3,455       4,146      5,028      6,068
Total Equity                                 14,046    14,328    14,863    15,193    15,716    16,446    16,955    17,646    18,528               19,568
Total Liabilities and Capital               38,006    38,113    37,873    37,349    36,949    36,671    36,090    35,592    35,187    34,824
Source: Livesey and Henderson
and Bank Appraisal Mission
March 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Present Status of the Fishing Industy
A.   Shrimp Fishery
(i) Resources
1.        Coastal waters on the Caribbean side are poor in fish resources,
and their exploitation is hampered by lack of roads and scarcity of popula-
tion along the coast. On the Pacific side, on the other hand, conditions
are favorable for fish culture-. Seasonal upwellings in the Gulf of Panama
account for a light biological production which supports sizable stocks of
commercially important fish species. The alluvia brought down by many rivers
and accumulating in the layer of mud in the gulf also provide a favorable
habitat for shrimp.
2.        The principal shrimp fishing grounds of Panama are located in the
Gulf of Panama and the Gulf of Chiriqui. At the present time, shrimp re-
sources are extensively exploited up to the 60-fathom line. The areas cur-
rently fished are shown on Map IBRD 11415. They are all located within the
200-mile limit of territorial waters claimed by Panama.
3.        The three main species of shrimp found in Panama are:
(a)  White shrimp (Penacus Occidentalis) - this is the
most sought after species because of its large size
and higher commercial value.
(b) Pink shrimp (Penacus Brevirostris) - these are
smaller in size and therefore command a lower price
than the white variety.
(c)  Titi or Sea Bob (Xiphopenacus Rivertis) - these are
very small and, although found in large quantities in
very shallow waters, have a low commercial rating.
In addition to these major species, small quantities of Carabali and Solenocera
are also fished. The average annual Panamanian shrimp catch has been about
6,000 tons. Details of catch by species in the years 196( to 1974 are given
in Table 1 of the report. The available data suggest ttnat the shrimp grounds
within the 60-fathom line currently being fished are fully exploited to their
maximum sustainable yield and that no further increases can be expected.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        The recent discovery, by the FAO's exploratory fishing vessel
Canopus, of new varieties of deepwater shrimp has opened up good prospects
for considerable addition to Panama's shrimp catch. Two such species dis-
covered in 1973 are:
(a) Fidel (Solenocera Agasizi) - found in 100 to 150
fathom deepwaters, this red shrimp is medium to
small and is said to have an excellent taste.
(b) Cabezon (Heterocarpus Vicarious) - this is also a
small red shrimp with a large head and hard shell
found in depths of 150 to 200 fathoms.
Commercial fishing for their varieties commenced in the second half of 1973
and the catches made were encouraging.
5.        Further trail fishing by Canopus resulted in the discovery, in 1974,
of two more varieties (as yet not named) in depths of 450 to 550 fathoms.
The trails so far have indicated that these snecies are found over a wide
area and in commercial quantities. Both these varieties are commercially
more attractive than fidel and cabezon because they are larger in size and
one of them is white. Exploitation of the new fishing grounds in deeper and
more exposed waters calls for bigger and more powerful fishing craft which
will not be able to operate from the existing wharves. The development of
the substantial resources 6f these new species will be possible only after
the proposed fishing port is ready.
(ii) Fleet
6.        The shrimp fishing fleet in operation in 1973 consisted of 232
boats.  A license is required for operating a shrimp boat over 20 CRT, and,
under the present regulations, the maximum number of licenses is fixed at
238. Details of age, size and engine power of the 229 boats which had
valid licenses in 1973 are given in Table 1 of this Annex. While some of
these licensed boats are non-operative, there are in operation some small
boats not requiring a license, making the total operative fleet of 323
units. Except for a small number (between 12 and 18) of boats based in
Pedregal, the bulk of the fleet operates from Panama Bay, where nearly 95%
of the shrimp catch is landed. Nearly 75% of the boats are still of wood,
but the trend toward steel hulls is increasing. The 23 new trawlers being
financed under Loan 784-PAN will all be of steel construction. In accord-
ance with current regulations, the power of the boat engines is limited to
260 hp. Ownership of the shrimp fleet is divided between the processors
and the independent owners. The processors already own the major part of
the fleet, and the trend is toward increasing their share of ownership
since access to the raw material is critical for the success of their
operations.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(iii) Production
7.        The average annual catch per vessel has fluctuated quite markedly
over the years 1963 to 1972, but the general trend has been downward, with
a maximum of 38,981 kg in 1964 to a minimum of 23,473 kg in 1970, possibly
reflecting the increase in the number and age of the boats. With a restric-
tion on the number of licenses and a program for replacing older units, the
production trend should improve. The shrimp processing capacity available
in the six plants in Panama is adequate for the type of processing currently
being done in peeling and freezing. Recourse to other forms of processing,
such as individual quick freezing (IQF), canning, and, possibly, breading of
shrimp, may be desirable for securing a higher return. For this purpose
and for the processing of the expected additional catch of new varieties,
some expansion of the processing capacity may be required.
(iv) Market
8.        The principal market for Panamanian shrimp is the United States
of America, to which 97% of the country's supplies are exported. Since
the United States depends on imports for about half of its growing demand,
Panama, which supplies only 5 to 6% of that import, should have no difficulty
in retaining its share of the market at the ruling world prices. Japan and
the Western European countries, the other major consumers, also have to rely
increasingly on imports to satisfy local demand. A large increase in world
trade in shrimp and a reasonably substantial rise in its real price is ex-
pected. The United States National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) has
estimated that, between 1970 and 1985, the real price of shrimp would in-
crease by 38%, or about 2% per annum, and that the rise would be steeper
as time passes.
B.   Fishmeal
(i) Resourees
9.        The main species fished for reduction to fishmeal are anchovy and
thread herring. The total catch, during the last eight years for which
figures are available, has fluctuated markedly, with a high of 66,000 tons
in 1966 and a low of 22,700 tons in 1969 (Table 2 of this Annex). Of the
two species, anchovy has been exploited more intensively. There is a strong
seasonal pattern in the catch for fishmeal, anchovy being abundant between
April and August and thread herring between September and November. The
present constraint on the volume of catch appears to be the unsatisfactory
condition of the fleet rather than availability of the fish. The FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program Mission concluded that use of improved vessels and gear
would increase the catch, especially of thread herring. The consultants
estimate that a potential exists for improving the catch up to 112,000 tons
(62,000 tons of anchovy and 50,000 tons of thread herring) if there is an
effective fishing effort.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(ii) Fleet
10.       In 1973, the fleet operating for the fishmeal industry comprised
25 vessels (23 licensed, being over 20 GTR, and two smaller unlicensed).
Fourteen of these vessels are old, converted shrimp trawlers unsuited for
purse seining. The remaining eleven are purse seiners, seven of them pur-
chased second-hand from Peru and only four newly built in Mexico. Due to
the age of the major part of the fleet, the effective fishing period is
considerably reduced. The two fishmeal factories which own the fleet have
plans for acquiring additional purse seiners up to the full limit of 20
vessels allowed to each under the current regulations.
(iii) Production
11.       In 1972, Panama produced 9,063 tons of fishmeal and 2,641 tons of
fish oil. The processing is done by two factories, both of which are located
in Panama Bay, one on Taboga Island and the other at Caimito on the main-
land. Each plant has a jetty capable of berthing two vessels and equipped
with pumps for unloading the catch. The combined capacity of the two plants,
estimated at more than 300,000 tons of raw fish, is considerably in excess of
the present and forecast catch. The plant at Caimito is severely restricted
in its operation due to the berths being dry at low tide and to the lack of
space on the land side where it is surrounded by-the village.  The Taboga
plant does not have these problems, but its island lbcation adds considerably
to its operating costs. Despite these deficiencies, it appears unlikely that
these plants would be inclined to move from their present locations since
their present operations, involving short voyages and fast unloading by
pumping, and the level of production expected in the short run do not make
the benefits associated with such moving sufficiently attractive.
(iv) Market
12.       Nearly all the production of fishmeal and fish oil is exported
to Central American countries. Even though this exported quantity is neg-
ligible in comparison to the world production of over 5 million tons, it brings
more than US$1.2 million at current favorable prices.  It is expected that,
with the progressive reduction in the availability of raw materials, the
growth rate in world production of fishmeal will tend to fall, and, according
to the estimate of the U.S. National Marine Fisheries Service, it will level
off by 1985 to about 6 million tons.  Since this should result in the con-
tinuation of the upward trend of world price, Panama's production, even if
increased to the full level of its potential catch, should easily find a
market.
C.   Inshore Fisheries
(i) Resources
13.       The production of food fish in Panama has steadily risen from 2,377
in 1963 to 4,729 tons in 1972; a major part of this catch is consumed in



ANNEX 1
Pag,e 5
Panama City. About 3,600 tons, or over 75% of the catch in 1972, are es-
timated to have been landed in Panama Bay. The catch comes from three
principal sources: (a) the incidental catch of the shrimp trawlers and
fishmeal purse seiners; (b) the semi-industrialized fishery consisting of
ex-shrimp and fishmeal vessels and (c) the coastal fishery consisting of
many boats and canoes, some with outboard motors, owned by individual
fishermen or by cooperatives. The proportion of landings contributed by
these sources is roughly 80, 15 and 5%, respectively. Food fishing is
entirely an inshore operation, and, since inshore shrimp trawling has
reached the maximum sustainable level, the semi-industrialized and coastal
fisheries will mainly have to be relied upon for the bulk of growth in food
fish landings. There is no indication that the food fish resources are
anywhere near fully exploited. Scope exists for increasing the catch of
not only the popular varieties of fish such as corvina, pargo, lenguado,
etc. but also of sharks, which can he a substitute for imported dried cod.
(ii) Fleet
14.       Apart from the shrimp trawlers and fishmeal purse seiners which
participate in incidental fishing for food fish, the other vessels engaged
in this trade in 1972 included 14 trawlers, 18 small purse seiners and 39
open boats without board motors comprising the semi-industrialized fishery
and 21 small motorized vessels and some 190 canoe type boats belonging to
cooperatives and individual fishermen. Fishermen's cooperatives are re-
ceiving encouragement and increased from four in 1968 to 20 in 1972. El
Chorrillo cooperative in Panama City, which provides refrigeration, ice-
making facilities and marketing services for its members, is an example of
the growth of this institution.
(iii) Promotional Measures
15.       For encouraging increased production and consumption of food fish,
the Government sponsors fish cooking demonstrations and TV shows. Improved
storage, transportation and marketing facilities are made available to the
coastal fishermen through cooperatives. Under a project financed by the
Inter-American Development Bank, 90 medium-sized fishing boats and some ice
plants and the shore facilities are to be provided.
D.   Tuna Fish Industry
(i) Resources
16.       Panama lies almost at the geographical center of the extensive
tropical tuna fishing grounds which extend from California Bay to the Gulf
of Guayaquil. The major part of this area is regulated by the Inter-American
Tropical Tuna Commission (IATTC) as a fisheries conservation zone with a
view toward preventing overfishing of yellowfin tuna, currently the most
popular species. IATTC sets the maximum limit beyond which yellowfin shall
not be fished in tile year within the regulatory zone. This ranges between



ANNEX 1
Page 6
118,000 and 140,000 tons. The other principal variety of tuna caught in
the area is skipjack. Sketch Map 2 shows the location of the tuna fishing
grounds and the Commission's Yellowfin Regulatory Area (CYRA), inshore and
offshore.
17.       IATTC's regulatory system results in making tuna fishing a seasonal
operation, especially for the large vessels. Unrestricted fishing for yellow-
fin is permitted from January 1 each year until such time as the IATTC orders
the closure for the season. The closing date is so fixed that the total catch
of yellowfin would match closely with the limit set for the year, leaving a
balance reserved for the small boats of the member countries (Canada, Costa
Rica, Ecuador, Japan, Mexico, Panama and the United States). As a consequence,
the large tuna fleets fish for yellowfin from January 1 to the closing date
(March 5 in 1974), and the smaller vessels operate during the remaining part
of the year. After completing the last voyage after the closing date, the
larger vessels withdraw from the CYRA to the central Pacific or to the
Atlantic or African fishing grounds via the Panama Canal. They return to
the CYRA area and are in port by Christmas in readiness for the next season.
Table 3 of this Annex shows the typical seasonal distribution of yellowfin
catch in CYRA with a high concentration in the first quarter; the catch
also shows a marked regional distribution, almost 50% being caught north of
the Equator and south of the 10th parallel. More than half of this (or 26%
of the total) is caught north of the 5th and south of the 10th parallel,
i.e., in the area closest to Panama.
(ii) Fleet
18.       Tuna vessels of several countries operate regularly in CYRA.  Dur-
ing the last decade, the international tuna fleet has grown considerably in
numbers and capacity as will be evident from Table 4 of this Annex, which
does not include Japanese long-line vessels or small vessels of Central and
South American countries. The growth was marked after 1967 mainly under the
incentive provided by the IATTC regulatory system. When the open season for
yellowfin begins, the competing fishing enterprises are literally engaged in
a race to claim as large a share of the quota as possible before the closing
date, and the expansion of the fleet has been their effective method of
achieving that objective. The distribution of the international fleet accord-
ing to country and according to the types of vessels is shown in Table 5 of
this Annex. Purse seiners of the larger size (over 363 tons) have become the
dominant vessel type for the tuna fleet in CYRA. Until recently, although
some vessels in the tuna fleet carried the Panamanian flag, none belonged to
the country. In mid-1974, a Panamanian national tuna fleet was established
with secondhand purse seiners purchased from Peru.
(iii) Tuna Transshipment
19.       Since there are no processing facilities for tuna in Panama, trans-
shipment is the only tuna operation being carried out in the country. The
number of such operations and the quantity of tuna transshipped during the



ANNEX 1
Page 7
years 1968-1974 are shown in Table 3 of the report. These operations take
place mostly in the sheltered waters north of Taboga Island but sometimes in
the port of Balboa, where, most recently, the use of cold containers for the
transshipment of tuna have been used. Labor costs at Balboa are high; there-
fore, the lower handling costs associated with the new fishing port should
greatly expand this type of service. The containers would be filled at the
fishing port and trucked to Balboa for loading on container vessels. Because
no cold storage facilities or a lower cost location for filling containers are
presently available, transshipment has to take place directly from fishing
vessel to reefer, which inavariably results in costly detention either to the
tuna boat or the reefer. But for this disincentive, transshipment would have
been practiced on a much larger scale than hitherto because the fishing
vessels would normally wish to spend as much of their productive time as
possible at the fishing grounds in order to take the fullest advantage of
the short season. Encouraging transshipment of tuna by providing cold storage,
a low cost location for filling containers and servicing facilities would
benefit the international tuna fleet as well as the Panamanian economy.
20.       More than 50 tuna vessels presently start the season from Balboa,
which they use as a pre-season port; the port management is finding it in-
creasingly difficult to accommodate them. The international tuna fleet
considers Panama Bay a convenient base because of the good repair service
it offers through ready availability of spare parts and skilled labor. It
would, therefore, welcome the provision of suitable port facilities.
E. Ship Repairs
21.       Repair service to the fisheries industry is provided to a large
extent by a number of small mechanical workshops, mostly located in the old
commercial center of Panama City. They send out crews to vessels anchored
in the Bay or moored at the jetty. Parts requiring repairs or replacement
usually must be taken to the workshop and brought back for being fitted.
Because of the distance between the vessel and the workshops, and the
frequent need to cover a part of it by boat, the repairs often involve more
than one trip and take much longer than they should. Repairs requiring the
vessel to be taken out of the water are conducted by beaching the vessel or
by handling it up a slipway. One shipyard at San Francisco, in the eastern
section of Panama City, and two fleet operators at Paitilla and Juan Diaz
have provided slipways for this purpose. All the slipways, however, are
sited in tidal waters, and access to them is restricted, The tidal condi-
tion also limits the size of the vessel which can be serviced on the slipway.
22.       Adequate skilled labor and spare parts are available, and the capabil-
ity of the repair service is good, but efficiency is not satisfactory, mainly
because of the workshops being located far away from the vessels and the tidal
condition of the slipways. Faster and more economical repairs would be pos-
sible with the facilities proposed at the new fishing port.
March 1975



ANNEX 1
PANAMA                              TA_LE 1
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Age, Size and Engine Capacity of Shrimp Fleet - July 1973
VESS!MS                          LENGTH (in metres)    HORSEPOWE  OF ENGINE
Year of                Percent
Construction  Number  of total          Range          Average       Range       Average
1973           11         4.8         18.3 - 25.3        21.7      225 - 380       335.5
1972           11         4.8         21.3 - 26.8        23.3       340 - 425      372.3
1971            4         1.7         1823 - 22.9        21.0       225 - 500      367.5
1970            5         2.2         21.3  21.9         21.8       220- 425       352.0
1969            1         3.1         19.8 - 22.9        21.2       220 - 385      350.0
1968           18         7.9         15.5 - 25.3        19.8      170 - 380       300.8
1967           17         7.4         18.3 - 25,6        21.8      220 - 380       349.8
1966           13         5.7         14.0 - 23.1        19.14     220 - 385       323.1
1965           23        10.0         14.6 - 22.6        19.1      150 - 380       248.3
1964           17         7.4         15.8 - 20.4        19.0       170 - 320      225.6
1963            6         2.6         28.3 - 21.3        19.6       170 - 225      200.0
1962            5         2.2         17.4 - 19.2        18.3      170 --225       212.0
1961           14        1.7          13.7 = 21.3        18.3      150 - 325       216.3
1960            4         1.7         12.5 - 19.2        16.6      135 - 250       196.3
1959            9         3.9         16.2 - 18.3        17.8       203 - 380      235.7
1958           27       11.8          16.3 - 22.3        18.6      110 - 365       198.3
1957           34       14.8          15.2 - 19.2        18.2      150 - 225       18 .7
1956           11         4.8         i6.2 ; 22.9        18.4      150 - 225       172.3
1955            1         0.4            18.3            18.3         150          150.0
1952            1         0.4            18.9            18.9          270         270.0
1948            1         0.4            16.2            16.2          180         180.0
Total        229       100.0          12.5 - 26.8        19.5      110 - 425       256,0
Fleet
Source: Direcoion General de BecurSos Aarinos
-December 1974



AIT.'''X  1
TABL3  2
PA..AMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Anchovy and Thread Herring Catch
(Metric Tons)
Year               Anchovy           Thread Herring            Total
1966                53,1d4              12,873                66,017
1967                 36,837             26,828                63,665
1968                53,156              12,195                65,352
1969                  8,799             13,912                22,711
1970                28, 634              6,859                35,493
1971                51,570               5,775                57,346
1972                 3h,500             1h,312                L,812
1973                56,800              20,277                77,077
1974                13,170              35,742                L9,912
Source: Direccion General de Recursos Marinos Panama
Dec6mber 1974



I'NEX L
TABLE 3
PANAIIA
FISHI1JG PORT PROJECT
Seasonal Distribution of Tana Catch
In GYHA lY6(-iy7U
Percentage Distribution
Period            Yellowfin            Skipjack                Total
lst,Quarter           5o.3                 21.8                  39.9
2nd.Quarter           40.3                 40.0                  40h1
3rd. Quarter           7.1                 23.6                  13.2
hth. Quarter           2.3                 14.6                   608
Source: Livesey and Henderson: Fishing Port Study
December 1974



A','  ThX I1
TA!BLE )
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Growth of Tuna Fleet Operating in CTRA
Year          No. of Vessels     Capacity (Metric Tons)
1963                249                   40,7O7
1964                251                   41,623
1665                253                   42,773
1966                245                   42,336
1967                239                   42,134
1968                249                   51,825
1969                250                   59,561
1970                270                   66,168
1971                352                   86,216
1972                373                  104.,996
1973                355                  125,6oo
1974                322                  129,700
Source: IATTO Report
January 1975



ANI V, 1
TABLE T
PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Number and Capacity of Vessels Operating
in CYRA 1967 and 1974
I. According to Flag
Country                    No. of Vessels               Capacitv         (Metric Tons)
1967            1974              1967              1974
U.S.A.                  153               197            37,514            95,865
Canada                    3                 8               741             5,591
Mexico                    6                22             1,021             8,496
Ecuador                  65                66             1,474             3,556
Others                   12                29             1,382            16,167
Total        239               322            42,135           129,675
II. According to Size and Type of Vessel
Type of Vessel             No. of Vessels                Capacity         (Metric Tons)
1967            1974              1967               1974
Purse Seiners
under 363 m tons        98               79            22,199             18,833 (est.)
Purse Seiners
over 363 m tons         24              123            14,203            103,600 (est.)
Baitboats *             109              111              5,551              7,o58
Bolicheros *              8                4                182                100
Jigs*                     0                5                  0                 84
Total        239              322             42,135            129,675
* These are all small boats with capacity less than 363 metric tons.
Source: Livesey and Henderson: Fishing Port Study
January 1975



ORGANIGRAt-viA DE LA AUTORIDAD PORTUARIA NACIONAL
A MEX 2
COMITE EJECUTIVO
AUOITORIA DE
| A CONTLORIA   |
DIRCCCION GENERAL
COMITE DE 
ASESORIA LECAL
AUDITORI INTERNA                                   CONSULTORIA
tIlER  NA                           EXTER?A
RELACIONES
PIJSLICAS
DlRECCION DE
ADMIN;STRACION
DEPTO. DECOP.PRAS         OLPTO. DE               OPTGDE
Y PROVECDU;              PERSONAL          ISRVC;  CEHERLESL
rOiRCCIOtl DE                      DIRECCION DE
IZE I   A E:A    I A                EXPLOTAC ION   J
DEPTO   OE   .                                DEPTO. OE                        GEPTO. DE SiSTEMASJ
P.ESUPUESTO                                    ESTUDIOS Y                             METODOS Y
PROYECTOS                         PROCEDIM!!NOs,
r     E' DIE                                 DEPTO.CE                             DEPTO DP-
CONTASILIOAO                                 MATNIMIENTO                           OPERACIOES
Y OSNAS                            bRITIAS
DcP I'-tO. CE1 P    DE
Ls  I                                                                        -ttA_
;^;^   4 vr   I COLON   Y          AGUADULCE              PEDREGALY              ALAMIRA:.TE    I
Li   LA'    PA I ..   L ~AHIA LAS MINAS           IY                      AMU. IAE LL  | Y SOCAS  DEL TORC I
December 19714 .



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHINC PORT PROJECT
Project Description
The project consists of (i) construction of a fishing port at Punta
Vacamonte, (ii) provision of consultancy services and (iii) training of APN
staff.
The proposal for the fishing port at Vacamonte is based on the
feasibility study carried out for the Government of Panama by Messrs. Livesey
and Henderson (U.K.) and Abad y Asociados (Panama). After making a preliminary
investigation of three possible sites indicated by the Government, i.e., Punta
Paitilla, Punta Vacamonte and Mansabe, the consultants concluded that Punta
Vacamonte was the most suitable for the development of a fishing port. A
detailed study of the Vacamonte site, covering hydrographical and topogra-
phical surveys, tide and wave observations and soil investigations was
carried out by the consultants. The main findings regarding site conditions
are as follows:
Mean High Water Springs             +5.0 m
Mean High Water Neaps               +3.8 m
Wave Height - max. observed          1.6 m
Wave Period - max. observed         13.8 seconds
Current Velocity - max. observed   0.5 knots
Suspended Material (max.)          627 ppm
After examining a number of alternative schemes, it was determined
that a tidal port which was possible without requiring rock dredging (since
the borings had indicated that the rock levels were sufficiently low) would
be more advantageous than a locked one. The study also concluded that a
breakwater, preferably of the rubble-mound type, would be necessary to pro-
vide the required quietude in the harbor for the fishing craft, and that an
easterly entrance to the port would be preferable. The layout proposed for
the fishing port is in accordance with these findings.
The project consists of the following elements:
A.   Fishing Port at Punta Vacamonte Comprising
(i)  A rubble-mound breakwater about 1,200 m long and enclosing
approximately 35 hectares of sheltered water area.
(ii)  Reclamation of about 9 hectares of land.
(iii)  Access channel dredged to 5.50 m and adequately provided
with navigational aids. (The depth of the channel is designed



ANNEX 3
Page 2
to enable tuna carriers drawing up to 7.0 m to enter or
leave the port during five hours each tide).
(iv)  Two jetties with a quayage of 230 m for berthing 10 shrimp
traxlers (20 m long and 2.5 m draft).
(v)  Tuna wharf 240 m long with water depth of 9.0 m to berth
four purse seiners (50 m long) or one reefer (110 m long)
and two purse seiners for transshipment and for servicing.
(vi)  Food fish wharf 92 m long to berth eight vessels (10.0 m
long) for landing fish or for servicing.
(vii)  Four servicing jetties with a total length of 580 m for
servicing 80 shrimp trawlers.
(viii)  Ship repair yard including one synchro-lift of 250 tons
capacity and fitting out wharf, and about 18,000 m2 of
paved area.
(ix)  Buildings for shrimD processing plants, fish market, ship
repair workshops, offices for ship repairs, agents, customs
and port authority with a total floor area of about 14,200
mn2.
(x) A cold storage plant for tuna of about 3,000 tons capacity.
(xi)  One tugboat of about 400 h.p. and two harbor launches about
12 m long and 150 h.p.
(xii)  Access road linking the port to the Pan-American Hlighway
(one-fourth share of the cost allocated to the fishing
port project).
(xiii)  Roads, pavements and drainage within  the port area.
(xiv)  Fxtending electric, water and telephone services to port
side(no capital cost allocated to the fishing port
project).
(xv)  Electricity, water, and fuel supply and telephone services
within the port area.
B.   Consultant Services
(i) Engineering services for preparation of design, drawings
and bid documents and for the supervision of construction
of the port works.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(ii)  Operations consultant services for preparing (a) adminis-
trative manuals for general, financial, personnel and
public relations management; (b) operations manuals for
port services to fishing vessels, processors and ship
repairers, and (c) by-laws and regulations for the
fishing port.
(iii)  Accounting consultant services for completing the
designing and installation of the accounting and
costing systems and procedures for the principal
ports of APN, and for establishing (a) procedures
for preparing annual and long-term operating and
capital budgets; (b) an internal audit system; and
(c) basis and procedure for framing tariffs.
C.   Staff Training
(i)  Continuation of the training program already being
implemented with the assistance of ITNY)P. ((Although
this program forms part of the project description,
it is not to be financed from the proceeds of the
loan.)
March 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Terms of Reference and Qualifications
of the Special Project Team
A.   Terms of Reference
The special team will:
(i)  Assist the Director General of APN in executing all
components of the project in an efficient and expedi-
tious manner.
(ii)  Draw up, in consultation with the consultants, a
realistic program for all principal items of work
and prepare a critical path analysis.
(iii)   Keep a close watch on the progress of the work and
take prompt action for correcting any slippage
therein.
(iv)  Provide all necessary liaison and coordination with
other agencies, ministries, Government departments,
etc.
(v)  Keep proper accounts of the expenditures of the project
and ensure that payments are made to the contractors and
suppliers promptly and in accordance with the conditions
of the contract.
(vi)  Prepare monthly and quarterly reports on the progress of
the project in accordance with the requirements of the
Bank.
(vii)  Prepare and process all necessary documentation for
withdrawal of funds from the Bank loan.
(viii)  Bring promptly to the notice of the Director General
and the Bank any developments which are likely to
increase the cost of the project.
(ix) Review and make recommendations to the Director General
or take necessary action on any proposals of the consultants
regarding variation orders on contractors/subcontractors,
day work orders, claims of contractors and disputes with
the contractors, etc.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
B.   Qualifications
(i)  The Project Manager, who will head the special Project Team,
will be a qualified civil engineer with at least 12 years'
standing and will have considerable experience in the admin-
istration of major civil engineering contracts. He will
have a working knowledge of English.
(ii)  The Project Accountant will be a chartered public accountant
with at least five years of accounting practice and will have
a working knowledge of English. Experience in civil engineer-
ing contract accounts will be desirable.
(iii)  The Administrator will be a university graduate with at least
five years of experience in a commercial or Government office
and will have a working knowledge of English.
January 1975



ANNEX, 5
PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Project Execution
TEAR                     1975             1976           1977             1978
QUARTER             I  TT  III TV   I III  III  IV  I   II TI- IV          II111  IV
I. Port Construlction
Loan Effectiveness               +
Detailed Engineering      P M-X
Tender Documents             OEM"
Prequalification of
Bidders
Invite and Receive bids
Award Contract                             4'
Access Road                   - 
Breakwaterad Recliata             .                    -
Wharves and Jetties
Dredging                                                                 -  mm. -  --
Roads and Pavements                       ,-
Services
Buildings
Ship repaif yard
II. Technical Assistance
Selection and Appoint-
ment of Consultants
Report Preparation
December 1974



ANNEX 6
PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Base Case Economic Benefits
OOO'US$ of March 1975
Shrimp          Shrimp      Coastal                 Government    Total
Years       Boats         Processin    Fisi          Tuna           Land        Benefits
1977           -             -           -                           732          732
1978          948           959           67           -             732        2,706
1979          983         1,029          140         1,095           874        4,121
1980          978         1,063          222         1,205           874        4,342
1981          964         1,099          305         1,313           874        4,557
1982          987         1,168          399         1,426           -          3,980
1983        1,032         1,239          498         1,538            -         4,307
1984        1,077         1,308          606         1,650            -         4,641
1985        1,121         1,378           722        1,690            -         4,911
1986        1,164         1,447           847        1,731            -         5,189
1987        1,206         1,515           982        1,770            -         5,473
1988,       1,2o6         1,515        1,126         1,806            -         5,653
1989        1,206         1,515        1,281         1,840           -          5,842
1990        1,206         1,515        1,447         1,850            -         6,018
1991        1,206         1,515        1,626         1,850            -         6,197
1992        1,206         1,515        1,818         1,850           -          6,389
1993        1,206         1,515        2,022         1,850           -          6,593
1994-2003  Benefits are constant
Source:  Bank Appraisal Mission
April 1975



ANNEXY 7
Page 1
PANAMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Economic Savings for Tuna Vessels Transshipping
through Cold Storage Facilities at the New Port
Economic Savings for Tuna Seiner in 1975 Prices
1.     Saving on Unloading Time
At Taboga Island, Panama tuna seiners presently take about
four days to transship 600 tons of tuna alongside a reefer vessel.
It is estimated that the use of special handling equipment
and a cold storage will decrease handling time by 25%, thus creating a
one-day time savings. The value of this day is equal to the profit to
be made fishing.
$510 per ton x 15 tons per day average catch = $7,650
Less one day fishing cost differential          $1,240
$6, 41o
Divided by 600 tons                            $10.68 per ton saving
per day
2.     Waiting for a Reefer
The average tuna seiner will save about two days.
Two days x $10.68 per ton/per day = $21.36 per ton saving
3.     Saving in Servicing Time
At the present time,fueling at Taboga is done after transshipping
at the new port. This can be done at the same time and should save 1/2 a day.
Minor repairs and provisioning must be done separately at Balboa. With a new
port, this servicing could be done at the same time, saving another day.  Total
time savings equal 1-1/2 days.
1-1/2 days x $10.68 per ton/per day = $16.00 per ton saving
4.     Saving in Fuel Costs
The new port will sell fuel at 1/2 cent less per gallon than Balboa
or Taboga in order to encourage the tuna vessels to use the new port. Seiners
are expected to buy 400 gallons of fuel for every ton transshipped.
400 x 1/2 cent = $2.00 per ton saving



ANNEX 7
Page 2
5.     Total Saving    $50 per ton
Financial costs to tuna seiner:
1975 US$ per ton
Cold storage fee                       26.50
Extra handling over Taboga             10.00
Port dues                               3.00
Transshipment fee                       7.50
47.00
Economic Incentive to use cold storage              $3.00 per ton
Economic Savings for a Tuna Reefer Vessel in 1975 Prices
1.     Faster Turn-Around Time
Two days :=;,-d x  '.2,400 $- $4,800
Tuna transshipped per reefer vessel 2,400 tons
Total Savings                          $2.00 per ton savings
Financial costs to tuna reefer vessel:
Port Charges                           $1.50 per ton
Economic Incentive to use cold storage       $0.50 per ton
MIarch 1975



ANNEX 8
PA4AMA
FISHING PORT PROJECT
Extraordinary Cpital Gain from Land
Purchase and Sale of Land around the Fishin Port
Sales     Less cost    Net proceeds   Net proceeds
Value     ofp_tion    1974 R4ces    1978 2irices
(i.e. assuming
10% p.a. inflation)
US$000       US$000          US$000          US$000
1979    50 hectares             2,500          250           2,250            3,285
1980    30 hectares             1,500          150           1,350            1,971
1981    20 hectares             1,000          100             900            1,314
Total  100 hectares             5,000          500           4,500            6,570
It is expected that the cost of the land when the options are
obtained will be about 50 cents per square meter, and that, upon completion
of the port and connection of main services, the land can be sold for about
US$5.00 per square meter. The proceeds of sale are expected to be approx-
imately as above.
The revenue expected from the sales of land is not included in the
financial statements, but it should be noted as a potential source of addi-
tional cash flow in the early years of the project's life.
Source: Livesey and Henderson.
January 1975






IBRD -114 15
.a.                                               |                                                                                                     t*                              D  bECEMBER 1974
C   A   R   F   8   E   E   A                                                               E S   E   A
F                                                                    PANAMA                                                          ;PQt b I0COLON                                      *  ISLAS Df 54            -
dcl 7MB - 5-xFISHiNG  PORT  PROJECT                                                                     i             'or Ia '*1*
$Z<'">;5{4i U.F.C. < ,.4 FISHING GROUNDS                                                              :-   P,1t6 PopI -                                                                  - V
'>    I                  ;SI~    '#  ' t                            ;          N                                            r-0                       F   So0
> $; } > N < V E R A ~~~G f    >\>      
B-  o~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~COLON                                                                                                                                  Toue            CatnoN'I1p
7hw l/Zxnd: 1n shslWl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                  o En hh pMado t             &    S  -.'  -  --    '         f ,  H P A N AfM ll A\           /      !        f   6 tertoo;Ofot1>
N A MN
v/P *C.".  '-i- ChOLi                                                                                                                                               -
U    /S.n.AnoICA _ *v0DC1   '.  Lt.*  '  B EAS  DE L  T O R                       '         n                                                      \    C.a.pr
C 0 C L E T..b,. ~~/                                                            -0  AR\
iCanoa w N      CotoEAriu          Roaac               i                                 "                                                 Caiit '.7                                                                                                                   N "'   ,t-'V"';Nt:; X /
;HIRIQUI               *                                        0i5, ItiE l t                                                                                                                                                                    r D     A
Alanje   SAbalo                              ~~~~~~~~~V ER AG U AS          \-   La pO'ro-
\Anrea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.n.~~~C..                                              C.  SnIabgo                                                                       of0Ult   oo
~~  OF>  CH/R/QCI/                          Zapa~~~~~~                             ~~                                                                ~~tIlla  C  '    pA..int,,,  Hnaah-yo,no  HaoaG~oa-h ,                       E
to I, coda,, ullooc On 100 "ar 40 00 >1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~ ~ ~~~O Artrfma*d"                                                                               ., 1dlngatipa
-    I  -                      Guarumal  o:~~~~~~~~~'~s,;,    ~~~~'gHERRR cj2   yus                                       -~ ltaaaoa i-             e
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IHN  GRUNS                                                                                                      ,
a~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~O    SANTOS1-1-h,t  bh,n  ... d--                                                                                                              OSC
P-InkSlee   -      -
GULF OF MEXIC                                                                  Li  d.                                                                                                                                                         f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eEh eMee,  ' 
COT     AMAMA,    U-D                                         -- O                                                                                                                                                     ~
PAEIFCC  OCEAN   Canal   ~ O4OIBENA SE                                                      l                                     A                                              WNhil.0  eioto $.    b~1,     Wj --d                                ~                C 0 L0 M B                    
ONDWt                                                                                               T
at                             00'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dph ~Mt






1:APiALM
FISHING  PO1I* PROJECT
,                                   EKISTING FI1.FI L_^tVIblNC
VCAMONTE                                                AAAA~~
CAt ? ITOI
<                                              rJ1                                           F4vC%L.8tJS.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UL0  -
A   I~ ~ ~~~~ 
I CA.9f9G  FACRY  A FAA  (SF      RANCISCO X4Ab
3 fm^vLs                       i W4
TA--OGA
IFl %Kf>F -AL ?LAwr
.  'l   .   B                               X
19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



5k-ITcH M ' 
120        _      __00                              80_
- -----,-AN                A   -F        HI    G         F
EASTERN PACIFIC YELLOWFIN TUNA
REGULATORY AREA
40      ^ >         UNITTD STATES IS4
20_                                    S                                           20'
_   X - 5 ',O~~~~NDUF *5 ,
ARX J~NICAR WA
COLOMBIA
0_        ,                                  C -   _  .ALAPA.053 1S.
ECUADORt
I            I                   ;,J  
0. ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~      . 
20 __           __         __ __               _ ____ __ __ _
.                     l                        JC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HILF ; 
NATIONAL MARINE FH I   S
NATIONAL MARI NE FISHER IES SERVICE



IBRD 11416
200
|   -  -   | 0200J O   S3JAMAICA
-        IZ>ts ._  F E  Caribbeona  Sea-
Access
Road                           HNDR.-
PUNTA   VACAMONTE                                                                          GUATE-
MALA~
/            .                                                        /                  \      <            >_  t  CQnol PANA A  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIARG 
Canal
Zone PANAMA   100
RIrt an R
Port facilities >K Xgb #;, a jj 8reakwa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vc i(oter
Hill~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                ~ca are
0 ~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ c0  0   0   0
80
The b,ffdderie A o this ~.eP do n,t
ma                                                  bn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&ply e,dmo,oent or coepto,-o by the
fodfish berths                    7.-- 7::
Shrimp processing plant                         
/
rimp berthsAe  c.an                                                                   .
Rock                                                                    /
outcrLI.'
M ETERS ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~          --0m
~synchroiftF                                                                                                       19T7nberths
PAN AMA
FISHING   PORT  PROJECT           K      ~~~       ~~N.  S rvcing berths                                        -   Tuna cold storage
Proposed Port at Punta Vacamot e  >
W     ~~~ Port facilities                                 -.                                                  Breakwater
Roads
Areais to be dredged
??~~'    Hill area
PROJECT WORKS SHOWN IN RED                                    Poa c/,f/c                  Ocean
0        100      200      300       400
METERS
FEBRUARY 197h



