CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1114 PAN
Guarantee Agreement
(Fishing Port Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 27, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1114 PAN
Guarantee Agreement
(Fishing Port Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 27, 1975


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 27, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Autoridad Portuaria Nacional (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has
agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-four million dollars ($24,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 197 ", with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual


﻿4
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan anu .e punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01   of this   Agreement, the    Guarantor specifically   undertakes to   make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly as needed to carry out the Project,
to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with (a) an amount
equivalent to thirteen million five hundred thousand dollars ($13,500,000); and
(b) whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the
Borrower, including the before-mentioned amount, will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, such other
funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.


﻿5
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall:
(a)   carry out or cause to be carried out Parts J and K of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices; and
(b)   provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall cause the access road included in Part
J of the Project to be adequately maintained and all necessary repairs thereof to
be made, all in accordance with sound engineering practices.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction of the facilities included in Parts J and K of
the Project.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to build, as and when needed, adequate housing facilities close to the Fishing Port
area for the Fishing Port personnel.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall at all times maintain a qualified and
experienced administrator in the position of Director General of the Borrower.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall, not later than June 30, 1976 or such
other later date as the Bank shall agree, furnish to the Bank a timetable, adequate
for the purposes of the Project, for the transfer of all shrimp-processing plants
and ship repair yards operating in the Province of Panamd to the Fishing Port.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Tesoro of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Tesoro
Panami
Repfiblica de Panami
Cable address:
Hacienda
Panama, R.P.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿7
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By /s/ Miguel Sanchiz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


