RESTRICTED
FILE     Copy                    Report No. p-900
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
March 3, 1971






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPRT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$3.5 million
to the People's Republic of the Congo to assist in financing an education
project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Government of the Peoplets Republic of the Congo has requested
the assistance of the Association in financing an education project, including
technical assistance for project implementation and curricula development.
In January/February 1969, a UNESCO mission identified the proposed project,
and in October 1969 another UNESCO mission assisted the Government in pre-
paring it. The project was appraised in March 1970.
3.        Negotiations with a delegation led by Mr. Andre Milongo, Investment
Director, General Coordination of the Planning Services, were completed in
Washington on December 18, 1970.
4.        The following is a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits to Congo
as of January 31, 1971:
Loan or                                             Amount (US$ million)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower       Purpose         Bank  IDA   Undisbursed
480-COB      1967   Corrpagnie des Potash mine     30.0
Potasses du
Congo (CPC)
s6-COB       1969   Congo          Highway          -    0.63      0.14
engineering
189-COB      1970   Congo          Pointe Noire -   -     1.50     1.50
Makola highway
improvement
Total                              30.0   2.13
of which has been repaid to Bank  0.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA     29.3   2.13
Total undisbursed                    -    1.64      1.64






-2    -
5.        The project financed by Loan 480-COB consisted of an underground
sylvinite mine, a refining plant, auxiliary facilities, and a sea terminal
at Pointe Noire. £perations started in 1969, but geological and technical
problems resulted in major operational difficulties and financial losses
for the company. The Bank and the main shareholder, EntreDrise Mini6re et
Chimique (EMC), which is owned by the French Gnvernment, rc presently review-
ing this situation.  With funds supplied by the French Goverrment through EMC,
the company has been making interest payments, and has repaid the first
installment due December 1, 1970.
6.        A UNDP-financed Congo-Ocean railroad study is underway.   An engin-
eering project for the railroad should be appraised in summer 1971. The
project may lead in due course to requests to the Bank Group and other agencies
for assistance in financing railway realignment and track renewal. A highway
maintenance project will be appraised this year.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
7.        Borrower:       The People's Republic of the Congo
Amount:         US$3.5 million equivalent in various currencies
Purpose:        The improvement of teacher and vocational training,
technical education and science teaching, through
the construction of training facilities and the
employment of experts.
Amortization:   In 50 years, including a 10-year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments of one-half of
one percent from April 15, 1981 to October 15, 1990,
and one and one-half Dercent from April 15, 1991 to
October 15, 2020.
Service Charge: 3/4 of one percent per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of an Education Project
in the People's Republic of the Congo" (PE-21a dated March 3, 1971) is
attached. The project consists of:
(a) the construction, farnishing, and equipping of:
(i) an Elementary Vocational Training Center;
(ii) a Technician Training Institute;
(iii) 10 laboratories as additions to two Senior Secondary
General Schools; and
(iv) an Elementary Teacher Training College.
(b) technical assistance for project implementation and
curricula development.






- 3 -
9.        A Project Unit would be responsible for project implementation.
This Unit would consist of a senior officer of the Ministry of Education
as Project Director, to be appointed after consultation with the Association,
and, subject to acceptance of the respective nominees by the Association,
a project coordinator, an educational advisor, and a project architect.
The establishment of the Unit and the appointment of the above-mentioned
officials would be a condition of effectiveness or the credit, and an addi-
tional month would be allowed for the purpose.
10.       The education system consists of a six-year primary course, follow-
ing which selected pupils proceed to a two-year secondary course. After
completion of Grade 8, pupils either (i) continue in the general secondary
schools for two-year junior, irth some proceeding to the three-year senior
secondary courses, or (ii) attend two, four, or five-year courses in technical
schools. Junior secondary education may also be continued by three-year
primary teacher training courses.  Higher education consists of teacher train-
ing for junior secondary schools, and university courses in some other fields.
11.       With school enrolLment amounting to about 200,000, or 70 percent
of the age group 7 - 16, the education system is one of the most advanced
in Africa. However, the system is not geared to the manpower needs of the
economy. At present, not more than 1,30O graduates from secondary education,
teacher training, and the university are available for employment each year.
General secondary school enrollment was almost 22,000 in 1969, but only
2,500 pupils were enrolled in technical and vocational schools, and 670 in
teacher training colleges. Most of the elementary school teachers are not
fully qualified. High repeater incidence also lowers the efficiency of the
system.  As a result, there is a marked shortage of skilled manpower which
hinders development.
12.       In order to remedy the situation, the Government is developing
teacher training, technical and vocational education, and science teaching.
IWith TNESCO assistance, science teaching and practically oriented curricula
are being introduced at the primary and secondary levels. A Prench-financed
curriculum development center has also been set up in late 1968. The Govern-
ment has requested UNDP to continue its technical assistance in the field of
technical education. Recently, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, and
Gabon have jointly approached UNDDP for assistance in the creation of a
Regional Technical Teacher Training College in Libreville (Gabon). Our
proposed project will emphasize curriculum development, provide science
teaching facilities, and increase the annual supply of rural artisans,
industrial technicians, and primary school teachers. It will therefore
help the Government implement and extend its present education policy.
13.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$4.1 million
equivalent. Foreign exchange components are US$2.5 million, or 61 percent
of the project. The remaining US$1.6 million, or 39 percent of the project,
are local expenditures. The proposed credit of US$3.5 million equivalent
would be 85 percent of the total cost. Seventy-one percent of the credit
will finance the foreign exchange component.   The remaining US$1.0 million,






or 29 percent of the credit, would finance local expenditures. Contracts
for civil works and supply of furniture and equipment would be open to
international competitive bidding. Local furniture and equipment manufac-
turers would have a preference of 15 percent or the rate of customs duties
applicable, whichever were less. It is expected that civil works contracts
will go to local contractors.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
14.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of the Congo and the Association, the Recommendation of the Commit-
tee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, and the text of a resolution approving a proposed credit
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
15.       A report "The Economy of Congo (Brazzaville) - Recent Evolution
and Prospects" (AW-7a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 22, 1969 (R69-65). An updating memorandum, based on the findings
of a June 1970 economic mission, is attached. A new economic report is
being prepared, and will be distributed to the Executive Directors in due
course.
16.       In the last four years, the Government has nationalized a number
of private utility and trarnsport companies (Union Electrique d'Outre-Mer,
Societe Equatoriale d'Energie Electrique and Compagnie Generale de Transports
en Afrique Equatoriale). In 1969, it took over the assets of ATEC, a multi-
national transport agency, and established ATC, a national agency. In Sep-
tember 1970, the Government nationalized a large sugar and food complex
(SIAN-SOSUNIARI), which was partly government-owned and was faced with
serious financial difficulties and plagued by conflicts with the workers.
17.       The ATEC issue has been settled by a series of agreements with the
Central African Republic, Gabon and Chad. Discussions are still underway
about UNEICO and CGTAE. Negotiations with SIAN-SOSUNIARI are apparently
proceeding satisfactorily. The Government has already made a compensation
offer. The Bank, which has been contacted by UNELCO, CGTAE and SIAN, is
following these matters closely.
18.       Since the end of the previous Plan period (1964-68), the Govern-
ment, with the assistance of expatriate advisors, has been drawing up a
comprehensive list of projects to be included in the new development plan.
Our economic mission discussed with the Government the major projects inclu-
ded in the abovementioned list and consequently applied selective criteria,
which cut down the list from a total of US$325 million to US$125 million
(see attached memorandum). The selected projects are mainly in infrastructure
and designed to eliminate bottlenecks impeding development in directly pro-
ductive sectors (forestry, agriculture, industry). The Government is in






broad agreement with the selection criteria applied, and is drawing up a
three-year intermediate development plan geared to the elimination of
infrastructure bottlenecks before investment funds can be channelled into
directly productive sectors.
19.       The attached memorandum describes the constraints facing the
Congolese economy, and concludes that borrowing on conventional terms
should be severely limited, and that projects dependent on Government
resources should primarily be financed on concessionary terms. In view
of the need of the economy for external capital, the high priority of the
project, and the difficulties which the Government, in spite of its sub-
stantial fiscal efforts, would have in covering the full amount of local
expenditures, financing by IDA of 62 percent of the local expenditures on
this project is justified.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEIENT
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMENDAT TON
21.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments.
Washington, D.C.
March 3, 1971.






Annex
BASIC DTlA
Area:                                           342,000 sq. km.
Population (1970):                              936,000 of wihich 398,000 urbanized
Growth rate                                   2.2 percent a year
Density                                       2.7 inhabitants per sq. km.
Gross domestic product
at current market prices
Total in 1967                               CFAF 59 billion
Per capita in 1969                          US$ 255
Growth rate 1968-1969                       5% at constant prices
Investment as % of GDP in 1964-1969 Deriod:13%
Domestic public saving as % of GDP:         3%
Government revenue as ' of GDP in 1969      24%
Money, Credit, Prices:      Congo (B) is a member of the BCEE!.C and uses the CFAF
(in billions of CFAF)
1965     1967     1969      1970
Dec.     Dec.     Dec.      June
Money supply                        7.4      9.5     10.6     11.7
Domestic credit                     8.6     12.2     13.Q     14.6
Retail Price index                 107      117      121        n.a
Government Budget (actual revenue and expenditures in billions of CFAF)
1967     1968     1969      1970
budget
Total revenue                      13.1     14.0     15.7     17.7
Total expenditiire                 14.2     13.6     16.2     17.3
of which Budgetary Investment      1.T     -T.       1.2      2.2
Total public investment                  9.2      9.2     13.1      n.a
External Public Debt
Total debt, including undisbursed, Dec. 31, 1969        US$ 100 million
Debt service in 1971                                    US$ 12 million
Ratio in % of 1969 exports                              30p
Balance of Payments                             (in billions of CFAF)
1965     1967     1968      1969
Exports f.o.b.                      8.7     10.4     10.6      11.0
Imports c.i.f.                     15.5     20.4     20.9      20.4
Foreign exchange reserves (Dec.31) 0.5      -0.6      0.5       0.1
Commodity Concentration of exports      1965     1967     1968      1969
Wood                                53%      46%      56%       62%
IMF position    June 30, 1970
Quota:     US$ 10 million
Drawings:  none
Rate of exchange
Before August 11, 1969: US$1.00 = CFAF 246.85
Since August 11, 1969: US$1.00 = CFAF 277.71
March 3, 1971.
Western Africa Department.






MEMORANDUM ON THE
ECONOMIC SITUATION AND PROSPECTS
OF THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
February 25, 1971
Western Africa Department






This memorandum is based on the findings
of a mission to Congo (B) in June 1970.
Mr. Adhemar Byl was chief of the mission.
The green cover report of this mission
will be discussed with the Congolese
authorities in April and distributed in
grey shortly afterwards.






- 1 -
i.        The territory of the People's Republic of the Congo, in shape and
size similar to Italy, stretches for almost 1,600 km along the right bank
of the Congo river and its affluent, the Oubangui.   The population of the
Congo, almost I million, is 40 percent urban. Per capital income was esti-
mated at about $255 in 1969, but unevenly distributed.
ii.       More than sixty percent of the 324,000 sq. km. surface is covered
with tropical forest, but the country is poor in other agricultural resour-
ces. Forestry products constitute a major and growing source of export earn-
ings. Brazzaville, Conao's capital, was the administrative center for the
wliole former French Equatorial Africa, and is still an important transit for
goods coming from the Central African Republic, Cameroon and Chad, destined
to Pointe Noire, the seaport at the end of the Transequatorial Route. 1/
Pointe Noire also handles manganese and timber traffic for Gabon. The ser-
vice sector of Congo's economy, including Govcrnment, is therefore very
large and accounts for about 48 percent of GDP.   Manufacturing is also re-
latively well developed, although some enterprises have recently encountered
difficulties because of the loss of markets in other Equatorial African coun-
tries.
iii.      The 1968 coup d'etat, wliich toppled President Massemba-Debat
brought to power a progressive Government. A new constitution made the
Congolese Workers Party (PCT), with its Political Bureau and its Central
Committee, the major arm of government. Socialist oriented, the top gov-
ernment leaders have remained pragmatic in their approach to cooperation
with potential suppliers of development capital.
iv.       Congo's relations with its neighbors, which had reached an all-
time low after rep-lacement of the Transequatorial Communications Agency
(ATEC) by the Transcongolese Communications Agency (ATC), have improved
considerably. Diplomatic relations with the neighboring Congo Democratic
Republic have been restored, and Congo's former ATEC partners are regain-
ing confidence in Congo's willingness and capability of handling their
transit trade efficiently.
v.        The regional vocation of Congo (B), especially in the field of
transport, remains the major feature of its economy. Transit traffic ac-
counts for an estimated 80 percent of the movement through the river port
of Brazzaville, and about 64 percent of the throughput of the port of
Pointe Noire, Congo's only seaport; more than 50 percent of total rail
1/   The Transequatorial Route is a more than 2,000 km long road-river-rail
network from Chad through the CAR to Pointe-Noire in Congo, managed
until 1969 by the multinational Transequatorial Communications Agency
(ATEC). The Congolese portion of this route is, since October 1969,
managed by the Transcongolese Communications Agency (ATC), a national
institution.



traffic is also transit. As no important shifts in traffic directions
are possible in the medium-run, ATC's transport problems consequently have
to be considered in the light of their implications for Equatorial Africa.
Therefore, in order to maintain and strengthen Congo's role as a major
transit country, and to permit at the same time greater timber exports
from Congo itself, large investments to increase the capacity of the ATC
system are of high priority.
vi.       As ATC's river-rail network serves also Congo's internal trans-
port needs, roads parallel to this route are of secondary importance and of
dubious economic justification, given the size and population distribution
of the country.   On the other hand, insufficient emphasis has been given so
far to the potential role of internal air transport as a complement to the
heavy and slower rail and river transport. The Government has requested as-
sistance from the UNUP for financing of the services of transport experts
to assist in the elaboration of recommendations for internal air transport.
Such a study is of high priority. The Government will also be well advised
to give some thought to the need for feeder roads in support of a program
for developing small scale agriculture.
vii.      The present growth rate of timber production is about 9 percent
per year. If this rate of increase continues, forest reserves in Congo,
which can be roughly estimated at 75 million tons, would be depleted before
the end of this century. Moreover, this would lead eventually to an annual
production of up to 6 million tons. Even if timber exports are stabilized
at the projected level of 1.1 million tons after 1975, present reserves
would still be depleted within about sixty years. Consequently, increased
resources will have to be directed towards a reforestation and forest man-
agement program for hardwoods. It would be difficult to assume that more
than two million tons of wood could be exported annually, even if the most
optimistic railroqd improvements are carried out. It is therefore neces-
sary that the Government make an early decision regarding the optimum
growth of timber production, taking into consideration the forestry deple-
tion issue as well as the transport capacity problem.
viii.     Agriculture is relatively less important in Congo than in other
African countries. The available data show that the rural sector, excluding
forestry, contributes only 10 percent of GDP at current market prices, and
only 6 percent of exports. Agriculture and forestry together nevertheless
provide a living for about 60 percent of the population. The poorly equipped
traditional sector is mainly devoted to the production of food and some cash
crops (cocoa, coffee and groundnuts) while the modern sector, mainly concen-
trated in the Niari Valley, produces the bulk of the cash crops (mainly sugar-
cane) and some meat.
ix.       In the past, the Government set up rather ambitious targets for
agriculture, mainly aiming at an increase in production of export crops and
at import substitution. However, the traditional sector was unable to meet
these targets, which brought the Government to the conclusion that priority
should be given to the consolidation and expansion of a modern farming sec-



tor. This choice was also in line witlh the government's political prefer-
ence for an increase in the number of wage-earners, who could more easily
be incorporated in the labor unions and the party.   The Government has
sought to keep ownership as much as possible in Congolese hands, but in-
dividual Congolese lacked the capital and know-how to implement modern
agriculture. The Government consequently encouraged the development of a
number of State enterprises, and more recently nationalized the two exist-
ing agro-industrial sugar companies. In addition, it tried to reduce the
regional disparity between North and South, by setting up cocoa and palm-
oil programs in the Northern regions.   Investments nevertheless remained
concentrated mostly in the promising Niari Valley.
x.        Staffing and organization of the State enterprise sector has proved
to be a difficult task, and the traditional sector has been further neglected
in the process. The Governnent continues to give priority to modern agricul-
ture. All projects on the provisional list for the new development plan are
highly capital intensive and would require a considerable inflow of costly
expatriate staff. As transport investments are of a higher priority than in-
vestments in agriculture at this stage of development of the Congolese eco-
nomy, investments in agriculture, in the short-run, should be of a capital-
saving nature. In the longer run, however, it should be possible to develop
agriculture by more modern methods, provided the necessary research has been
done.
xi.       This report therefore suggests that renewed emphasis be put on sav-
ing what can still be saved of the "traditional sector". This can be done
through the renewal of previously successful extension programs, through
price incentives, and through the encouragement of small farm production of
foodstuffs. These measures would help eliminate food shortages of local
markets, which have distorted food prices. Effo:ts should also be made to
improve the existing State farms, but new production programs in large units
should not receive priority attention unless the project is mainly financed
by non-public funds. Improvements in the existing State farms and ranches
are needed before large new investments can be justified.
xii.      The Government's forestry policy has centered on two objectives:
increasing African participation in timber exploitation, and encouraging
the establishment of timber processing industries. This policy has been
relatively successful and should be continued. Public and private African
participation in timber production increased from 13 percent of total vol-
ume in 1964 to 26 percent in 1968, and the local share of timber processing
increased from 11 percent in 1962 to 22 percent in 1968.
xiii.     Prospects for increased timber production are good but depend on
the expansion of transport facilities. Forestry exploitation is now pene-
trating untapped forest areas, part of which may be opened up by a project-
ed road connection which may be financed by the EDF and the Bank. In view
of the large share of forestry exports in total exports, 66 percent in 1969,
and the relatively low contribution of forestry taxes to total government
revenue (5 percent), the question arises if forest trunk roads should not



- iv -
be financed by the logging companies rather than by the Government. This
problem and the more specific problem of how to increase revenue from
forestry taxes would merit a separate study.
xiv.      Mining of gold, copper, lead, zinc and petroleum have made margin-
al contributions to the value of Congo's exports (an average of $1 million
annually over the last five years, or somewhat less than 5 percent of total
exports). Recently, however, large investments were made in a potash mine
($100 million), but the company is faced with serious geological difficul-
ties. Production in 1970 is not expected to exceed 30 percent of the plan-
ned production for that year, and the gross contribution to foreign earnings
will not amount to more than US$3-8 million in the period 1970-72, compared
with the originally forecasted US$24 million. It is not until further ex-
ploration is undertaken that one can ascertain the future of potash mining
in Congo. Petroleum exploration off-shore has so far been promising, and
commercial exploitationwhichdepend upon the efficient solution of certain
technical problems, is now apparently assured.
xv.       Manufacturing has assumed new importance and contributed about 14
percent of GDP in 1967, roughly the same amount as agriculture. The rate
of growth of production and the amount of new investments seem to have slow-
ed down considerably in 1970 primarily because major public and private in-
vestments have been completed while the private investment climate tended
to deteriorate due to the loss of preferential markets in the Central African
Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) and political instability.    The major ef-
fort to build a public manufacturing industry has not yet produced results,
in part because of inefficient management and some questionable investment
choices (e.g. factories for phonograph records and bott'les), but also because
of competition from plants in other UDEAC countries, e.g. for textiles and
cement. The drive to establish more public enterprises should be halted un-
til the lack of financial and managerial talent can be overcome. In the imne-
diate future the Government should concentrate on making the existing enter-
prises viable. If necessary, cooperation with the private sector through co-
ownership or management contracts should be sought.
e.1
xvi.      The need for expatriate management can only be eliminated in the
long run through an increase in trained manpower which in turn requires a
reform of the education system. The education system is one of the more
advanced in Africa, but improvements should be made in the utilization of
both financial and human resources. School enrollment comprises about 70
percent of the age group 7-16; however, with the prevailing drop-out rate,
there will be no more than 210 university graduates annually. In 1969,
general secondary school enrollment accounted for almost 22,000 students
compared with only 2,600 students in technical schools and 600 students in
normal schools. This is an unbalanced distribution of students in a coun-
try where there are shortages of skilled manpower. There is a definite
need for increased technical and vocational education and for teacher train-
ing; sixty percent of the elementary school teachers are not fully qualified.
A study of the possibility of converting existing secondary schools into
normal, technical and vocational schools may also be necessary; such conver-



sion would save on construction costs. In addition, more flexibility
should be introduced in the curricula of existing vocational schools to
avoid an over-supply in some fields (e.g. carpenters) while there are
shortages in others (electricians). Other problems which lower the ef-
ficiency of the educational system are high repeater incidence (as high
as 32 percent in elementary and 20 percent in junior secondary schools).
It is to be hoped that better teacher training and a more economic atti-
tude towards this problem may alleviate it progressively.
xvii.     Although the human resource constraint is considerable, Congo of-
fers many opportunities for investment and developnient. In preparation of
a new development plan, a team of French experts has made a comprehensive
inventory of all projects that might be implemented. Out of this inventory,
a provisional program of investments for the period 1970-74 can be derived.
The program includes investments of about CFAF 90 billion ($325 million)
which would amount to an average annual investment of about 25 percent of
GDP. This is clearly an unattainable target even if ATC can continue to
contribute about CFAF 1.5 billion (US$5.4 million) annually from its own
budget for investment, and even if CFAF 20 billion (US$72 million) could
be considered as directly related to the international role of Congo's
transport network and therefore be financed separately from international
sources.
xviii.     Included in the CFAF 90 billion provisional investment target are
more than CFAF 46 billion of investments in the transport sector. The trans-
port sector study (Vol. II) suggests that a maximum of about CFAF 29 billion
should be retained for immediate implementation, with the remainder postponed
for the next four-year period or eliminated entirely. Cuts were especially
suggested in the road-building program, because it included an expensive
north-south road which would needlessly duplicate the existing river-rail
link. The latter should be able to handle all heavy traffic efficiently
once the river investment program under study is implemented.
xix.      Arranging investment priorities in the transport sector is only
part of the problem faced by the Congolese authorities. Other sectors such
as industry and agriculture need expansion, reorganization, and selective
elimination of overly ambitious programs. Immediate decisions are therefore
necessary on sectoral priorities. Consultants completed the preparatory
worl; for the economic development plan, but its completion and final approv-
al by the Government is a matter of high priority.
xx.       In the absence of a clearly defined development plan, this report
estimates the absorptive capacity of Congo for the five-year period 1971-75
at about CFAF 56 billion ($200 million), or annual investments of about 15
percent of the projected GDP. Of this CFAF 56 billion, a maximum of CFAF 13
billion could conceivably be undertaken by the private sector if the neces-
sary guarantees were offered. A further CFAF 16 billion can be expected from
the Congo's public sector, mainly the Government's investment budget, and in-
cluding CFAF 7 to 8 billion of self-financing by ATC. This would leave a gap
of CFAF 27 billion (about $100 million) to be filled by external aid.



- vi -
xxi.      Public savings decreased from CFAF 1.5 hillion in 1968 to CFAF 0.7
billion in   969 notwithstanding the Government's deliberate intention to in-
crease public savings. The budgetary performance, which previously had not
been bad, deteriorated considerably in 1969 and especially in 1970. There
is reason for alarm since this deficit is accompanied by a considerable in-
crease in unpaid bills, and by the use of all available treasury resources
including maximum drawings on the resources of the Central Bank. Large ca-
pital expenditures on inefficient state enterprises, increasing recurrent
expenditures for large public investments, and the ever-present problem of
an inflated bureaucracy are the major reasons for the budgetary deficit.
Import aubstitution has also had a considerable effect on import tax reve-
nues, one of the Government's most important sources of revenue. Actual
budget revenues increased from CFAF 14.0 billion in 1968 to almost CFAF 15.7
billion in 1969, while expenditures rose to CFAF 16.2 billion.
xxii.     There are two fundamental measures required to improve the finan-
cial situation: drastic cuts in Government employment, and a sharp reduc-
tion in subsidies to public enterprises. Several unsuccessful attempts
have already been made to cut employment. As for subsidies to public en-
terprises, they can be reduced only if technical assistance is obtained.
Furthermore,it seems essential that the Government close down those cnter-
prises which cannot break even within a reasonable time period. As these
measures would increase unemployment, alternative job opportunities should
be created, but the temptation to do this by creating more state enterprises
should be resisted un:til sufficient management talent is available.
xxiii.    Congo's trade deficits are offset by inflows of foreign capital
and payments for transport services. There was only a small decline in
the net foreign assets of the banking system of CFAF 0.4 billion in 1969
compared with a surplus of CFAF 1.1 billion in 1968. It is difficult to
project balance ot payments developments for the next five years because
of the prevailing uncertainties concerning exports of potash and petro-
leum, and because of the uncertain inflow of foreign aid funds and priv-
ate capital due to the changed political situation. However, in view of
the favorable timber export projections, and assuming a continued inflow
of public external capital the balance of payments in the near future will
be manageable if the level of imports continues to be kept under control
and if projected foreign aid flows materialize.
xxiv.     The major portion of public investment 1ias been financed from ex-
ternal aid, but the grant portion in this aid has declined considerably in
recent years; the increase in the loan component has raised the foreign debt
service to over US$12 million by 1971. This amounts to as much as 22 per-
cent of merchandise exports and net service receipts.
xxv.      The management of the external debt can be improved in several
respects. At present, individual ministries or Government agencies sign
new external loan agreements without passing on the information to the
Director of External Financial Relations. In the future, all new loan
agreements should be subject to central approval, made on the basis of a



- vii -
policy restricting new loans to high priority projects and on appropriate
terms. Data on new loans should be collected and recorded by the Director
under a suitable data recording system.
xxvi.     Congo's creditworthiness is severly constrained by the present re-
latively high debt burden, the difficulties in increasing budget savings and
the fact that increased exports of potash will not materialize. In these
circumstances, the Government should refrain from contracting new credits on
supplier terms. Loans on conventional terms should be confined to institu-
tions such as ATC, which are independent of the budget and have projects with
high economic priority. Assistance to projects in the rural and social sec-
tors, dependent on Government resources, should preferably be on concession-
ary term. The case for concessionary lending to tihe Congo is strengthened by
the fact that, although per capita GDP was about $255 in 1970, 60% of the pop-
ulation lives in rural conditions which are probably worse than in most other
African countries.



