                                                                      78523
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL                                                 1




LV/er        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AJJD DEVELOP~~-ENT

                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                  Joint r..1eeting




                           Tuesday, March 16, 1971




                    A meeting of the Executive Directors of the

         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and

         the International Development Association was convened at

         10 : 00 o'clock a.m. in the Board Room, 1818 H Street, Northwest

         Nashington r D. C., Mr. Robert S. f,.,_cNamara, President,

         oresiding as chairman.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL                                               2




                                  C 0 N T E N T S




         4.   Proposed Credit -- People's Republic of the Congo .       7


         •                                                              •
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                7




           -                                             ---
                                                         -·
                        -                                -·
                    - --
                    MR. McNAMARA:   -    -




           - --                              -
                                                 --
                                                 ---
                                                  -·
                    Hearing none,that hrings us to Agenda Item No. 4,

           a proposal for credit in the amount of $3.5 million to the

           People's Republic of the Congo for an education project.

           I will ask Mr. Leduc to come to the table and present it to

           us.
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                   8




                      MR. LEDUC:   :r.~r.   Chairman, members of the Board,

           the education project before you is of critical importance

           to the economy of the People's Republic of the Congo.         Indeed,

           more than in most African countries, the needs for reform of

           the education system is particularly acute and pressing.

           Until 1960, Brazzaville was the administrative center for

           the entire region kno"m as French Equatorial Africa, and

           today composed of four countries -- the Congo, the Central

           African Republic, Chad and Gabon.

                      Even after these countries gained their independence,

            the Congo's administrative organization continued to gr0\-1,

            in spite of efforts to halt this trend.        Urban population

            has also grown considerably and is now about 40 percent of

            the country's total population.

                      As a result of these factors, the education system

            is well developed and relatively advanced.        However, its

            output mainly consists of generalists only with a marked lack

            of specialists and technicians.

                      The project before you helps fill this gap.        It is

            also a first step for reorienting the system toward meeting

            the needs of the economy.        Because of the geography of the

            region, Congo has always supplied the transit services for th

            external trade of Chad, the Central African Republic and
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                9




            parts of Gabon and Cameroon.   The River, roads and railway

            system terminates at Pointe Noire in the Congo, the region's

            only seaport.

                      As a result of this transit system, the Congo's

            economy is service oriented and its role as an interregional

            transport center is its dominant feature.     Services including

            government account for about half of the GDP.    Transport is

            a major bottleneck to economic development.     Improvement of

            the railroad is a precondition to the effective use of

            Congo's resources, particularly in forestry.    Consequently,

            our proposed operation concentrates on helping meet these

            transportation requirements.

                      Large public investments have been made in recent

            years in manufacturing which now comprises about 15 percent

            of GDP.   The manufacturing sector is currently experiencing

            some operational and financial difficulties due to the enforc d

            infiltration of competing plants in neighboring countries,

            investments in some marginal enterprises and the lack of

            adequate management and skilled personnel.

                       The Government is very much concerned about the

            need for improved management and high quality middle level

            manpower which is required to secure proper operation of

            existing plants and to assure the implementation of investmen s
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                     10




           planned for the future.     The proposed project addresses itself

           to these needs as wel J as to other manpo\'7er shortages in the

           economy.

                      The Congo's agriculture is mainly of a subsistence

           nature, except for forestry exploitation, sugar and cocoa

           production.   Only forestry and the sugar industry have

           contributed significantly to export earnings.        Domestic food

           production has not been able to keep up with local demand.

                      To improve this situation, better agricultural

           techniques need to be developed among small farmers who should

           also be supplied with adequate marketing services.        The

           project will reduce the manpower shortage in important

           economic sectors, improve the quality of primary and secondary

           education, and therefore contribute significantly to the

           economic development of the country.

                      Thank you.

                      MR. McNAMARA:    Thank you, sir.

                      Gentlemen, may I have your questions?

                      Yes, Hr. Rota.

                      MR. ROTA:    Thank you, r-1r. Chairman.

                      I am very much in favor of this project because it

           touches one of the fundamental needs of a developing country.

            So I have no particular observations.     There is only one poin
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                        11




           that has left me a little surprised about local expenses.

                        First of all, there is not really an explicit

           justification for it, although it is implicit that local

           entrepreneurs will probably be winning the business, et cetera

           et cetera.      But, furthermore, if we compare pages 3 and 5 of

           your report, I see two percentages which are contrasting

           really.

                        On page 3 it says that 71 percent of the credit

           will finance the foreign exchange components of the credit.

           The remaining $1 million, or 29 percent of the credit,. would

           finance local expenditures.

                        On page 5 at the end of paragraph 19 you see that

           financing by IDA of 62 percent of the local expenditures on

           this project is justified.             I imagine it's a slip because betw en

           29 percent and 62 --

                        MR. McNAMARA :      No.

                        MR. ROTA:      It says of IDA credit.

                        ~-iR.   McNAMARA:   No, it's a different base.

                        Mr. Leduc, perhaps you would explain it.

                        MR. ROTA:      I have not been able to find the differen

           basis.

                        MR. LEDUC:      The amount of , let's call it $1 million
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                       12




           is 29 percent of the credit.        This 29 percent of the credit

           "t-lill finance 62 percent of the amount of local expenditures.

                      MR. McNAMARA:    You might look at the bottom of

           page 3, Hr. Rota, and the foreign exchange components is

           $2.5 or $4.1, the difference of local expenditure being

           $1.6.   And the one million dollars difference between two

           and a half and three and a half is 62 percent of 1.6.        It's

           a different base.     It's rather confusing the tt-Tay we have

           expressed it.

                     MR. ROTA;     I understand now, but it is not very clea .

                     MR. McNAMARA:     It is not.     You are quite right.

                     Ma. ROTA:    There was some misunderstandinq.

                     r-1R. McNAHARA:   Yes.

                     Mr. Tornqvist.

                     MR. TORN(?VIST:    ~1r.   Chairman, I have no objections

           to this project.     I think it probably is not absolutely the

           best educational project for the people of the Congo as

           60 percent of the population lives on aqriculture and

           forestry as is stated in the document and the project seems

           to provide in, say, ten years only mechanics, office workers,

           and other urban professionals, but no skilled workers for the

           arms or foresters.     In fact, the economic memo clearly

           indicates that what the Conqo needs is more tax revenues from
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                         13




           the forest and an intensive forestry and wood processinq

           urogram.     I do really hope that such a program could be

           identified in the future.

                       Thank you.

                       HR. HcNAHARA:         Thank you.

                        I will ask Mr. Chaufournier or       ~r.   Thalwitz

           ~rhaps   to comment on the general development program of the

           Congo.     But before doinq so, perhaps Mr. Ballantine would

           address this --

                       VOICE:      Mr. Bahr.

                       MR. McNM1A.RA:        All right, !>1r. Bahr. Perhaps you'd

           address the issue, Duncan, of agricultural education versus

           technical education of the kind proposed in the project.

                        MR. BALLANTINE:        Correct, Mr. Chairman.

                        We understand that FED and FAC are both working

           and assisting in the field of agricultural education and for

           that reason it is not included in this project.

                        MR.   ~·1cNA.MARA:   Thank you.

                        Roger, do you wish to add, or rlo you wish Mr.

           Thah·d tz to add to the material that is in the paper on the

           general development program for the Congo and particularly

           the point Mr. Tornqvist makes on the need for the develonment

           of the forestry resources.
STRICTLY C NFIDENTIAL                                                 14




                     HR. CHAUFOURNIER:    All I can add is that the

           Government of the Congo doesn't have at the present time a

           development program.   It is working on a development program.

           We have our Economic Mission which was in the field at the

           time when the program was being developed and has already

           commented on the program and is going to comment in discussing

           its conclusions with the Congolese Government.     We have not

           finalized our conclusions, but they are clearly going in the

           direction that you have indicated.    '.Ve in fact see limited

           possibility for increasing public savings, increasing

           revenues which are already high, a proportion of 25 percent

           of current revenues representing 25 percent of GDP.      But if

           there is an area where there is a possibility of increase,

           it's perhaps in reviewing the present status of concession

           in the forestry industry.

                     Now, this is a difficult matter.      We have not been

           able to give assistance to the Congolese Government at this

           time essentially because of staff limitation, but this is an

           area we propose to look into as we are doing in the general

           area where it is a particular problem for countries like

           Gabon, Brazzaville and the Cameroon as well.

                     MR. McNM1ARA:     Thank you, Roger.

                     Gentlemen, are there other comments or questions?
STRICTLY C NFIDENTIAL                                                   15




                    We will consider the project approved.

                    Mr. Kochman, do you wish to comment?

                    MR. KOCHMAN:     Well, Mr. Chairman, I would like

           first of all to congratulate Mr. Leduc for his very able and

           thorough and complete presentation and express my deep

           appreciation for the way in which these negotiations for this

           credit have been handled by the staff.

                     Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for having presented to

           the Board at this particular juncture this credit.

                     And last but not least, I thank my colleagues for

           approving this credit.

                     MR. McNM1ARA:    Thank you, sir.



              --·-      -
           -----·
               -  -·----
                   -
           - •          •
           - --
           ·-· -   ----
                 ---·--
