CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 237 COB
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 26, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 237 COB
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 26, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 1971, between THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF THE CONGO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand
dollars ($3,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿4
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than coisultants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 15   and    October 15   commencing     April 15, 1981   and   ending
October 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
October 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and
educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall establish and maintain in the Ministry of Education a Project Unit with such
responsibilities and powers as are specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, under
the authority of a Project Director who, as well as any successor, shall be appointed
after consultation with the Association. The Project Director shall be responsible


﻿5
directly to the Minister of Education and shall be assisted by a Coordinator, an
Educational Advisor, and a Project Architect, all to be acceptable to the Association
and all to be employed on a full-time basis. The Borrower shall provide such Project
Unit promptly as needed with such qualified and experienced supporting staff,
facilities and other resources as shall be required for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ qualified and experienced architectural consultants and contractors
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
(b)   In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
qualified and experienced experts acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contracts, work schedules and
master lists of instructional equipment and furniture required for the Project, and
any material modifications or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and 'to disclose the use thereof
in the Project, (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed- out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents, and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) adequately maintain the buildings,
furniture and equipment of the educational institutions included in the Project
and make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof in accordance with sound
technical and administrative practices; and (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such maintenance, repairs
and renewals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate the educational institutions included
in the Project in accordance with sound administrative and educational policies
and practices and with due regard to economy, and shall provide such institutions
with qualified teachers and administrators in adequate numbers and -on a full-time
basis.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall establish in its Ministry of Education, not
later than February 1, 1972, a senior civil service position directly responsible to
the Secretary General of Education and shall thereafter maintain a senior official
in such position. Such official shall be in charge of technical education and
vocational training. The Borrower shall provide such senior official promptly as
needed with all qualified and experienced staff, facilities and other resources
required for the efficient execution of his functions.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall establish, not later than February 1, 1972,
and thereafter maintain a board of advisers to the Technician Training Institute
included in the Project, comprising representatives of industrial and business
employers, of the Technician Training Institute, of the Senior Secondary Technical
School of Brazzaville and the senior official referred to in Section 4.04 of this
Agreement, or his representative, who shall be the Chairman of the board of
advisers. The board shall have as its primary task to assist the Institute in the
placement of students during the period of training in industry and business, in
the continuous adaptation of curricula to the needs of industry and business and
in the placement of students after their graduation. The board of advisers shall
be convened by its Chairman.


﻿7
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall establish, not later than February 1, 1972,
and thereafter maintain a board of advisers to the Elementary Vocational Training
Center included in the Project, comprising representatives of the Center, the Chef
du district of the Boko region, the official referred to in Section 4.04 of this
Agreement or his representative, two representatives of the Ministry of Development
and two representatives of agricultural ,ooperatives in the Boko region. The board
shall have as its primary task to assist the Center in the placement of its trainees
at the end of their courses, in the continuous adaptation of its curricula to the
needs of the region, in the development of refresher courses and in the integration
of the functions of such Center into the developmental program for the Boko
region.
Section 4.07. Not later than February 1, 1973 the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association for its review the draft curricula for the Elementary Vocational
Training Center and the Technician Training Institute and afford the Association
a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on such curricula.
Section 4.08. Not later than February 1, 1973 the Borrower shall institute
programs for instructor training, student placement and refresher courses in the
Elementary Vocational Training Center included in the Project.
Section 4.09. Prior to February 1, 1972 the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association satisfactory evidence that the Borrower has completed such legal,
administrative or other actions required to ensure that the sites on which the new
educational facilities are to be built under part A of the Project are available to
the Borrower for such purpose.
Section 4.10. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿8
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the Ministry
of Education and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of the Ministry of Education
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of Ete Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of


﻿9
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has
established the Project Unit referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement and
has appointed its Project Director, Coordinator, Educational Advisor and Project
Architect.
Section 8.02. The date August 2, 197 1 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance and Budget of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Le Ministre des Finances et du Budget de
la R6publique Populaire du Congo
Brazzaville
R6publique Populaire du Congo


﻿10
Cable address:
Minifinances
Brazzaville
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
By /s/ Nicolas Mondjo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
I.    Construction and               1,500,000           80% of total ex-
site development                                   penditures
II.   Imported furniture              435,000            100% of foreign
and equipment                                      expenditures
III.  Locally procur d                 20,000            40% of total ex-
furniture                                          penditures (rep-
resenting the
estimated for-
eign exchange
component)
IV.   Professional serv-              780,000            80% of total ex-
ices and technical                                 penditures (rep-
assistance                                         resenting the
estimated for-
eign exchange
component)
Unallocated                     765,000
TOTAL         3,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or 'of Switzerland;


﻿12
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also
that of another member of the Bank in the territories of which goods are produced
or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures in such currency
for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for: (i) taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof and (ii) taxes collected by any state
party to the Treaty dated December 8, 1964 establishing the Central African
Economic and Customs Union (C.A.E.C.U.), or any political subdivision of such
state on, or in connection with, the importation of goods included in Categories
I and II of the table in paragraph I above, and which the Borrower shall be entitled
to receive under such Treaty. To the extent that the amount represented by a
percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above would
exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced
to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments
for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿13
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I, Ill
or IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists in the following:
Part A.    The construction of the new, and the expansion of the existing,
educational institutions and facilities listed below, including the provision of
furniture and equipment therefor:
Approximate      Approximate
Number of        Gross A reas
Student Places    of Construc-
after Completion     tion (sq.
Location and Type of Facility             of the Project      meters)
Boko: Elementary Vocational
Training Center (new construc-
tion)                                            100            1,000
Pointe-Noire: Technician Train-
ing Institute (new construction)                 290            4,130
Pointe-Noire: Lyc6e Victor
Augagneur                                   unchanged
(new addition of science labor-
atories)                                       (144)              440
Brazzaville: Lyc6e Chaminade                unchanged
(new addition of science labor-
atories)                                        (96)              300
Dolisie: Elementary Teacher
Training College (new construc-
tion)                                            520            3,480
Part B.    The employment by the Borrower of experts to provide technical
services, including training, to assist the Ministry of Education of the Borrower
in curriculum development and in the execution of Part A of the Project; including
arrangements for improving inspection of technical and vocational education and
instruction (including counterpart training and instructor training) in the institutions
included in such Part A, and for student placement and refresher courses.


﻿15
Such experts shall be employed in the numbers, for the periods of time
and with the duties and responsibilities set forth below:
(a)   for the Technician Training Institute in Pointe-Noire, three training
specialists, one in electro-mech-nics who will act as vice principal of the Institute,
one in mechanical engineering, one in civil engineering, the first one for 42 months
and the two others for 36 months, to develop technicians' courses, undertake
instruction, and train counterparts;
(b)   for the Elementary Vocational Training Center in Boko, four training
specialists, one in general agriculture who will act as vice principal of the Center,
one in general metal work and automotive mechanics, one in carpentry and
masonry, one in home economics and rural economy, the first one for 30 months
and the other three for 24 months, to develop curricula, undertake instruction,
train counterparts, develop instructor training and refresher courses;
(c)   one Educational Advisor and one Project Architect, each for 48
months, who will form part of the Project Unit referred to in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement and assist the Project Director and the Coordinator in the
supervision of the Project and its proper execution.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Prequalification of contractors for civil works is required. The Borrower
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of
any applicant from prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower
shall make such additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to th: Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the spe,-ifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification or addition to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report of the Project Unit
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the Project Director, and the reasons for the
intended award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it
has any objection to the intended award and shall state the reasons for any objection
it may have.
4.    If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection or
if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    A conformed copy of the contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution.


﻿17
6.    The Borrower will request the Association's prior approval for any
proposed change in a civil works contract involving a price increase of 10% or
more of the contract sum together with an explanation of the proposed change.
B.    Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
1.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Association, for
its approval, the following:
(a)   lists of all items of equipment and furniture required for the Project
showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price of each item.
Items will be indexed, coded and numbered for identification with (i) the Project
institutions and (ii) the spaces for which the items are required. The items to
be purchased will be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall be
consistent with sound technical and procurement practices. Modifications to the
furniture and equipment lists proposed subsequent to the Association's approval
which do not ex-,.-d the equivalent of $1,000 for any one group, or in the
aggregate, 10% of L-- total proceeds of the Credit allocated to equipment and
furniture, and which are in accordance with sound educational practices, may be
made without the prior approval of the Association;
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
descriptions of the methods to be used for obtaining bids on an international basis.
2.    Financing out of the proceeds of the Credit will be limited to those
items of equipment and furniture specified in the approved lists described above
and identified in contract documents by the same indices, codes and numbers as
in the lists.
3.    For evaluating any competing bids received for imported and for locally
manufactured furniture or equipment for the purposes of comparison, the following
method will be used:
(a)   The term  Local Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured or
processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association)
in the territories of the Borrower; any bid offering other goods shall be deemed
a Foreign Bid.
(b)   The comparison bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the
following amounts:


﻿18
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid
the comparison bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. price of such goods net of any taxes on their
importation, including the estimated amount of any such taxes
which would be levied under the Treaty described in paragraph
3 (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement;
(ii)        any such taxes, as generally apply to such goods if imported
into the territories of the Borrower by non-exempt importers,
or 15% of the amount specified in (c) (i) above, whichever shall
be lower; and
(iii)      inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
4.    If (a) Foreign and Local Bids have been compared as provided in
paragraph 3 above, or (b) a contract is proposed to be awarded to a bidder other
than the lowest evaluated bidder (taking into account, if applicable, the foregoing
paragraph B 3), or (c) a proposed award involves a difference in price of 10%
or more from the original estimate as shown pursuant to paragraph B I (a) above,
the Borrower will, after the bids have been evaluated and before making the award,
send to the Association for its prompt approval, a summary and analysis thereof
and a brief justification of the Borrower's proposal for the award.
5.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and a contract has been
awarded and before submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds in respect of such contract, the following will be sent to
the Association (if not already furnished under paragraph B 4 above):
(a)   certificate signed by the Project Director that the goods covered by
the contract are in accordance with the quantities and specifications in the list
approved by the Association;
(b)   list of the bids received;


﻿19
(c)   brief analysis of the bids and justification for the Borrower's decision
in making the award; and
(d)   conformed copy of the contract.
6.    The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement
described in Section 2.03 of this Agreement and, in such event, no expenditures
under such contract shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit shall be responsible, and have the necessary powers, for
the execution of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a)   the coordination of the Project with ministries and government services
other than the Ministry of Education;
(b)   the approval of the civil works design of the educational institutions
included in the Project;
(c)   the preparation of detailed lists of the furniture and equipment
required for Part A of the Project;
(d)   the procurement of civil works, furniture and equipment, including
the preparation of bidding documents, the analysis of bids and the making of
recommendations regarding the award of contracts;
(e)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the firms of
architects and contractors provided for in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(f)   the regular inspection of all construction work;
(g)   the keeping of records, including financial records, of the execution
of the Project, and the preparation of regular reports to the Association; and
(h)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the experts for
curriculum development and instruction.
2.    The   specific  responsibilities  and  functions of the Project Director,
Coordinator, Project Architect and Educational Advisor shall be as follows:
(a)   Project Director: overall guidance, supervision and execution of the
Project, including all such arrangements with other ministries and government
services as shall be necessary for Project implementation;
(b)   Coordinator: management of the Project Unit's acitivites under the
supervision of the Project Director;
(c)   Project Architect: guidance and supervision of the Project's civil works
and, more particularly, of the architectural consultants;


﻿21
(d)   Educational Advisor: advising the Project Director and the Coordinator
with regard to: (i) the overall execution of the Project; (ii) the coordination of
technical services provided under Part B (Technical Assistance) of the Project; and
(iii) the procurement of furniture and equipment required for the Project.


