Document of                             flDV
The World Bank                    I11  tNV I
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3100-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
.EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
STOPANSKA BANKA ZDRUZENA BANKA-SKOPJE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
MACEDONIA III AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 23, 1981
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of |
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Calendar 1980                    May 29, 1981
Currency Unit                      Yugoslav Dinar
Ub$1                               Din. 24.9114                      Din. 33.42
Din. 1                             US$ 0.040                         US$   0.030
Din. 1,000                         US$ 40,14                         US$  29.92
Din. 1,000,000                     US$ 40,142.00                     US$  29,923.99
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL                      -   Basic Organization of Associated Labor
GDP                       -   Gross Domestic Product
GMP                       -   Gross Material Product
ICB                       -   International Competitive Bidding
LDR                       -   Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
bBb                       -   Stopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka-Skopje
sDK                       -   Sluzba Drustvenog Knjigovodstva or
Social Accounting Service



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
MACEDONIA III AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Stopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka Skopje.
Guarantor:            Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Beneficiaries:        About forty-five social sector agricultural enterprises
and individual sector cooperatives.
Amount:               US$80 million, equivalent, in various currencies.
Terms:                Amortization in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, wit}
interest at 9.6%. Repayment would be according to a
schedule reflecting the composite amortization schedules
of the sub-loans financed.
Re-Lending Terms:    The proceeds of the loan to be utilized for the primary
production, irrigation and cold storage components would
be on-lent to the beneficiaries at 11% per annum and for
the pilot biogas plant and forestry demonstration schemes
at a minimum 0.5% spread above the interest rate
applicable to the Bank Loan. The foreign exchange risk
of the Bank loan will be borne by the sub-borrowers in
the social sector and by the Government of Macedonia for
the individual farmers. Grace periods ranging from 1 to
6 years and repayment periods on the sub-loans generally
ranging from 5 to 15 years, including grace periods,
would be applied on basis of projections of sub-project
cash flow.
Project Description: The project's main objectives are: (a) increasing agri-
cultural and forestry production; (b) increasing capacity
utilization of existing processing facilities; (c) im-
proving rural incomes, productivity and employment oppor-
tunities, particularly in the individual farm sector; (d)
increasing agricultural exports; (e) assisting in the
development of alternative energy sources for agricultural
production; and (f) contributing to institution building
by strengthening the appraisal and supervision capacity of
the borrower. The project objectives will be achieved by
providing finance for; (a) borticulture and livestock
development; (b) cold stores; (c) small- scale irrigation
schemes; (d) pilot forestry demonstration schemes; (e) a
pilot biogas plant; and (f) a feasibility study for
geothermal water development.
This document has a restricted distribution snd may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Direct beneficiaries of the project would total about
7,000 individual farm families.   About 25% of these
direct beneficiaries are expected to belong to the target
group witb per capita incomes below US$530. The incomes
of individual farmers are expected to increase by 70% to
200% as compared to pre-project incomes. At full devel-
opment, the equivalent of 4,300 full-time jobs would be
created. The risks of substantial implementational dif-
ficulties in the project are considered minimal due to
the experience gained under the previous agricultural
projects in Macedonia and the fact that the organizations
and institutional structures of the project are sub-
stantially identical to those developed and utilized in a
generally successful manner under those projects.
Estimated Cost:                          -----  US$ Million  -----   % of Total
Local    Foreign    Total  Project Cost
bocial Sector
Horticulture                       43.1       20.3       63.4        27
Cold btorage                       15.6       10.4       26.0        11
Forestry                             2.5       2.0        4.5         2
Sub-total                        61.2       32.7       93.9        40
Individual sector
Horticulture                         6.3       2.6        8.9         4
Livestock                           5.5        2.7        8.2         4
Tobacco Driers                      0.6        0.4        1.0         1
Mechanization                        1.1       1.2        2.3         1
Sub-total                        13.5        6.9       20.4        10
Irrigation                            25.1       14.7       39.8        17
Pilot Biogas Plant                      0.1        0.5       0.6        -
Feasibility btudy                       0.1        0.6       0.7         _
Total Base Cost                 100.0       55.4      155.4        67
Contingency Allowance
Physical    (7%)                    7.0        4.1       11.1         5
Price       (39%)                  55.6       10.1       65.7        28
Sub-total                      62.6       14.2       76.8        33
Total Project Cost a/                 162.6       69.6     232.2       100
(including contingencies)
Interest During
Construction                     26.1       23.1 b/   49.2
Total Project Financial
Requirements                    188.7       92.7      281.4
a/ Including import duties and taxes estimated at US$10.0 million.
b/ Estimated interest during construction on proposed Bank loan, US$10.0
million of which to be financed from Bank loan.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                           -----  US$ Million  -----   % of Total
Local    Foreign    Total    Financing
Sources
IBRD                                 -         80.0       80.0        28
SBS a/                             124.1        9.6      133.7        48
Sub-borrowers a/                    64.6        3.1       67.7        24
Total Project
Financial Requirements              188.7       92.7      281.4        100
------------ US $ Millions ------------
Estimated Disbursements:   Bank FY   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Annual                              4      14      20     22      12       8
Cumulative                          4      18      38     60      72      80
Rate of Return: About 17%
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 3354a-YU                     Date:  June 22, 1981
a/ Includes financing from Federal and Republic special development funds.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
STOPANSKA BANKA ZDRUZENA BANKA SKOPJE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$80 million to Stopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka Skopje (SBS)
with the guarantee of the bocialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to help
finance a part of the foreign exchange costs of a third agricultural
development project in Macedonia. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace with interest at 9.6% per annum. The proceeds of
the loan would be on-lent to individual farmers, mainly through cooperatives,
for on-farm development and to social sector enterprises mainly for primary
production, cold stores and irrigation investments, for periods generally
ranging from 5 to 15 years including up to 6 years of grace, with an interest
rate of 11%. The foreign exchange risk of the Bank loan would be borne by
the sub-borrowers in the social sector and by the Government of Macedonia for
the individual farmers.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.       A Basic Economic Mission visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and the
Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in March
1979; its report entitled "Yugoslavia. Recent Economic Developments",
2623-YU, was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 8, 1979. In
November, 1979 an economic mission visited Yugoslavia and its report entitled
"Yugoslavia: Export Performance and Policies", 2972-YU, was distributed to
the Executive Directors on November 5, 1980. Basic data on the economy are
given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.       The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85% of GDP and employs over half of the
total labor force. The private sector consists predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly engaged in handicrafts, construction,
trade, transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by
the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
1/ Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from Part I of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Kosovo Agricultural
Development Project (Report No. P-3030-YU) of April 15, 1981.



- 2 -
evolved over the years with important changes introduced through the
Constitution of 1974. Responsibility for important social and economic
decisions has been shifted from the federation to the republics, autonomous
provinces and communes. Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives over
the socially owned means of production has been increased by a restructuring of
all economic organizations into legally autonomous Basic Organizations of
Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest units of production producing a
marketable output.
4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, recent changes have extended the concept of workers'
management to encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments called
social compacts and self-management agreements have gradually become a part of
the system of macroeconomic management. These measures enable the
participation of all economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy
while maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy implementation. In
the last medium-term plan (1976-80) these instruments were used to augment more
conventional monetary and fiscal policy measures in the areas of prices,
incomes, and employment.
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic and
social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision making with
consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks to
establish a national consensus on the major medium-term goals for the economy.
Thereafter, plan formulation is based on participation of all economic and
social units, including government bodies, on a non-hierarchical basis. An
exhaustive interchange of information and several iterations are required to
achieve consistency among the plans of economic units concurrent with broader
social objectives. Once consistency is achieved, economic units enter into
legally binding medium-term agreements on supply, demand and investment
intentions. In case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date, the
state is permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1979, GDP grew at an average annual rate of
about 6% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, averaging 30% in recent years. As population growth has
been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled during the
period. Per capita GNP in 1979 is estimated to be US$2,430 at 1979 market
prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been the driving
force of the economy with the share of industry in GDP increasing to about 45%
while agriculture has declined to about 12%. The past two decades have also
been associated with the growing integration of Yugoslavia into the world
economy. Between 1960 and 1978 merchandise exports and imports grew by around
67o and 8% per annum in real terms, respectively; much of this was with markets
in the convertible currency areas.
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



- 3 -
7.         Wbile overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional income disparities persist. The republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita income, and the autonomous province of Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference
between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed,
Kosovo, is 6 to 1. In addition to these interregional disparities there are
large intraregional disparities with differences in per capita income
between communes as high as 10 to I . These disparities reflect several
factors, notably the greater incidence of low productivity agriculture in
the LDR and their higher dependency ratios and population growth rates.
Since 1971 sizeable concessionary credits (with about 50% grant element),
equal to about 10% of the social product of the LDR, have been transferred
to the LDR through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the
Less Developed Regions, which is financed through a tax on all social sector
enterprises in the economy.
8.         Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the modern
sector. Since 1954 employment in the modern social sector has increased by
around 4% per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, productivity and income
differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the traditional
(private or individual agricultural) sectors. The persistence of these
differentials has resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on
the part of the rural labor force. The increase of the working age
population caused by relatively high population growth in the LDR has
further added to employment demand. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought
temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973
Yugoslavia had about 1,100,000 external migrants. However, since 1973, with
changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries, this trend
has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing added
pressure on the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates
have risen rapidly from about 7% in 1971 to over 12% in 1978. 1/ The
incidence of unemployment is highly regionalized, because population and
labor force growth rates, as well as the proportion of agricultural
employment, are all much higher in the LDR. In 1978 unemployment rates
ranged from 26.9% in Kosovo to 1.5% in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.         Yugoslavia has been successful in maintaining a relatively high
growth rate over much of its recent (1976-80) economic plan. Over the first
four years of the plan GDP growth exceeded 5% per year. The pattern of
growth has been markedly cyclical and heavily influenced by policy responses
to balance of payments difficulties and to inflation. Following relative
stagnation in 1976, macroeconomic policy became more expansionary in 1977,
and resulted in three years of rapid growth. This revival at a time wben
1/ These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries. They
represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some currently
employed) to social sector labor force. The ratio of registered job
seekers to total resident labor force would have been about 8.3% in 1978.



- 4 -
the world economy was relatively sluggish put pressure on Yugoslavia's balance
of payments. These strains were considerably worsened by special developments
in 1979 including sharp increases in the price of imported oil, poor
agricultural conditions and an earthquake in Montenegro. As a consequence the
deficit in the current account of the balance of payments reached $3.7 billion
in 1979, or about 5.5% of GDP. Faster growth and renewed international
inflation also led to significant worsening in domestic inflation. In
response to these developments the tone of macro policy became sharply
contractionary in late 1979 and 1980, and economic management in 1980 was
dominated by the goal of improving the balance of payments. As a result of
the purposeful application of a stabilization program the current account
deficit was reduced to $2.2 billion (approximately 3% of GDP), largely
reflecting an improvement in the trade deficit. The elements of the program
(which was supported by a standby arrangement with the IMF) included a 30%
devaluation of the dinar in June 1980, tight monetary policy, effective
incomes policies and targeted cuts in investment, particularly for noneconomic
purposes. As a result of these measures output growth was reduced from
previous years, and gross social product in 1980 is estimated to have grown by
no more than 2.5%.
10.        The main source of Yugoslavia's economic growth in the 1976-80 plan
was industry. While industrial production rose by only 4% in 1980, this
followed growth of almost 7% per year in the preceding four years. The plan
placed particular emphasis on production of energy, raw materials and
intermediate goods production to increase import substitution. These priority
sectors performed well during the first three years of the plan although
production fell slightly short of planned targets, while nonpriority sectors,
particularly consumer goods, grew at a rate faster than projected. Climatic
factors have resulted in marked annual fluctuations in agricultural output,
which rose between 1976 and 1979 at an average annual rate of 2.9% (compared
to a target of 4%).
11.        Fixed investment grew at an average rate of almost 9.5% between
1976 and 1979, considerably exceeding the 8.0% plan target. The plan's
emphasis on import substitution led to heavy investment in the priority
sectors: energy, mining, metallurgy, electrical machinery and cbemicals. The
share of gross fixed investment in GDP rose from 28% in 1975 to almost 32% in
1979. In 1980, however, fixed investment is estimated to have declined by
1.5% in real terms, as a result of increasing restrictions placed on
investment activity, particularly in non-priority fields. In addition to
buoyant domestic demand, strong social pressures on enterprises to create new
work places may have been important in causing the higher than planned level
of investment. Overall social sector employment growth in the plan has been
rapid, at about 4% per annum (compared to a plan target of 3.5%) and has been
even faster in the LDR where the bulk of the structural unemployment is
located. Despite these achievements, the combined impact of net immigration,
demographic factors and the contraction in the rural labor force caused the
ratio of job-seekers to social sector labor force to rise from about 10% in
1975 to over 12% in 1979.
12.        Inflation rates have varied widely over the course of the plan.
btabilization measures introduced in 1975 and 1976 reduced the inflation rate
(as measured by the retail price index) from 25% in 1975 to 9% in 1976.  The



subsequent revival in economic activity was accompanied by a resurgence of
inflation. In both 1977 and 1978 inflation was 13%; in 1979, in part due to
increases in indirect taxes and fuel prices it increased to 22%. The sharp
reduction in economic activity in 1980 affected the inflation rate much less
than had been hoped, and the rate of inflation was 30%, in contrast to the 17%
that had been projected. Much of the deterioration in price performance can
be attributed to the higher prices of imported goods, resulting from both a
higher rate of international inflation and the effects of the devaluation of
the dinar. There has also been some dismantling of domestic price controls in
oraer to promote efficient resource allocation in manufacturing as well as
price increases administered to stimulate agricultural production and to
rationalize energy use. As a result of effective incomes policies, wage
pressures were muted in 1980, with personal incomes in the social sector
falling by 7%.
13.        As noted above, Yugoslavia's balance of payments bas remained an
issue of concern to policymakers throughout the plan. The plan itself
proposed substantial import substitution while maintaining an export growth
rate of 8%. While import growth fluctuated widely between 1976 and 1980
overall it remained below the 4.5% annual rate targeted in the plan, primarily
by the imposition of deep import cuts in 1976 and 1980. Export performance
however was disappointing; despite a recovery in 1980, when merchandise
exports grew by an estimated 9%, export growth over the plan was about 4.6%
per year instead of the 8% targeted. The consequences of this export
shortfall were exacerbated by the deterioration in the terms of trade and
other special factors referred to earlier. Even though workers' remittances
were more buoyant than had been anticipated, the cumulative current account
deficit over the plan period was 60% higher than had been planned. The
government's program to put the balance of payments on a more secure footing
was supported by a two-year standby arrangement concluded with IMF in June
1980 in the amount of SDR 339 million per year. This standby was replaced in
January 1981 by a three year program for a total amount of SDR 1662 million.
The government's annual plan for 1981 continues to stress stabilization of the
economy in pursuit of balance of payments adjustment. The current account
deticit for 1981 is targeted at $1.8 billion; this is to be achieved through
export growth of 7% and a reduction in import volumes of 3%, chiefly in
capital goods. Social product is anticipated to grow by 3%; this slow growth
will be reconciled with the export target by further cuts in fixed capital
formation.
Medium Term Prospects
14.        The five year plan for 1981-85 projects continued slow growth in
social product and even slower growth in domestic expenditure to allow
resources to be released for exports; this strategy implies continued
reductions in the rate of fixed capital formation. As before, the plan
projects simultaneous import substitution and export promotion, and aims to
reduce the current account deficit from the present 3% of GDP to approximately
1% by 1985. The priorities to be stressed are the development of domestic
energy sources and raw materials, production of basic metals, basic chemicals
and capital goods. The plan also stresses agricultural development in order
to reduce tood imports and to expand food exports.



-6-
15.         blower growth will make it more difficult for the social sector to
generate additional employment at the pace of the current plan while the
demand for new work places will remain high. Given these difficulties, more
emphasis will be laid on the development of labor intensive activities
including small-scale enterprises.
16.        Finally, the reduction of regional disparities will remain a major
objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial transfers between
republics will play an important role in this process, and the transfer
mechanisms for the forthcoming plan will lay particular stress on encouraging
social enterprises in the more developed regions (MDR) to make direct
investments in the LDR. As experience is gained, these joint ventures could
make a significant contribution to the overall efficiency of production within
the LDRs by facilitating the transfer of technological and managerial knowhow
within Yugoslavia. Regional disparities, however, are expected to remain
significant over the medium-term.
Creditworthiness
17.        Gross medium- and long-term capital flows averaged $2.6 billion
between 1976 and 1979 and increased to an estimated $3.6 billion in 1980.
Total medium- and long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated in
excess of $13 bn. at the end of 1979. Short term capital inflows were erratic
between 1976 and 1978, but short-term debt increased by about $280 million in
1979 to about $650 million. Foreign exchange reserves fell by $1.9 billion in
1979 and at the end of that year amounted to slightly under $2.0 billion.
There was some restocking of official reserves in 1980, and at the end of the
year these amounted to $1.4 billion, roughly one month of imports of goods and
services from the convertible currency area. It is expected that the
resources provided by the Fund will permit Yugoslavia to retire some of its
short term debt, and to build up official foreign exchange reserves.
18.        About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in recent
years has been provided in convertible currencies through commercial sources.
The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form of suppliers'
credits. Nevertheless, financial credits obtained in the eurocurrency market
have become increasingly important for financing the economy's foreign
exchange requirements. The World Bank is the principal source of
non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to
require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to achieve its
medium-term objectives. The debt service ratio which--taking into account
workers' remittances--averaged 16% between 1976 and 1979, is expected to
increase to over 20% during the next medium term plan (1981-85). Given
Yugoslavia's past debt service record, pragmatism and its demonstrated
capacity to implement firm stabilization policies when these are called for,
it remains creditworthy for a substantial level of Bank lending.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
19.        The proposed project would be the 69th operation by the Bank in
Yugoslavia totalling about $3,013 million. Of this, approximately 41%
($1,248.4 million) has been for 23 operations in the transportation sector --
12 for highways, 7 for railways, and one each for a natural gas pipeline and
an oil pipeline, and two for a port project. Historically, Bank lending has
concentrated on infrastructure including, in addition to the transportation
loans, five power loans, one telecommunications loan, two water supply and
sewerage ana three multipurpose loans (two of which include substantial
irrigation components). In recent years, Bank lending has increasingly
tocussed on the agriculture sector for which this will be the twelfth
operation totalling $737 million (about 24% of the total). Twenty loans
amounting to $410 million (about 14% of the total) have also been made for
industry. Two loans have been made for tourism and the first Bank loan for
air pollution control was approved in 1976. In addition, IFC has made fifteen
investments in Yugoslavia totalling about $301 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of April 30, 1981, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.        The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its
lending to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(i)   to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(ii)   to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic
infrastructure and credit facilities;
(iii)   to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors by
improving coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv)   to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic
infrastructure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v)   to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term
capital, encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to
tap other sources of medium- and long-term capital, and
supporting projects which generate or conserve foreign
exchange.
1/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Kosovo Agricultural
Development Project (Report No. P-3030-YU) of April 15, 1981.



- 8 -
21.        It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address
all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the less developed
regions (LDR), but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
has increasingly been towards the development of the LDR and the agricultural
sector in particular. Reinforcing this strategy are the economic surveys of
the tour LDR undertaken by the Bank and intensified Bank assistance in
project formulation and ongoing economic and sector analysis.
22.        The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDR is fully in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied in the
1976-80 Development Plan and in the 1981-85 Development Plan. In the last
plan period, the Federal Government agreed with its constituents on the level
of domestic resources to be channeled to the LDR through the Federal Fund
mechanism (para. 7) as well as the distribution of external resources
including Bank lending. The distribution pattern of Bank lending was
determined broadly on the basis of income levels and population size of
particular regions.
23.        Over the past five years, almost two-thirds of Bank lending has
been to the LDR through operations for transportation, power, agricultural
development and industrial credit. In the next few years significant Bank
lending to the LDR through similar operations is expected to continue but
with even more emphasis on agriculture which deserves attention for a number
of development considerations (paras. 28, 30-32). Special attention will be
given to the needs of Kosovo, the least developed of the LDR.
24.        Decentralized management, the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
Constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to
revamp the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for
coordination. Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system (para. 5), the
process of evolving acceptable solutions to problems is cumbersome. The Bank
has therefore seen it important to exert its influence in shaping the policy
framework and fostering coordination, particularly in the transport and
energy sectors where significant progress has been achieved.
25.        Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate
past successes in institutional reform. Further development of the project
preparation, appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the banks will remain
a major objective. In transport, intermodal coordination will be sought
through the implementation of the results of the rail costs and road user
studies undertaken under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU
approved March 15, 1977). The Bank will concentrate its lending operations
in areas where its incremental institutional and/or policy coordination
impact has most potential.
26.        A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has
become a significant vehicle for attracting additional sources of credit
through cofinancing arrangements, forging new banking relationships for
Yugoslavia and in some cases securing improved terms and conditions of



commercial loans. The Bank, however, remains the major source of long-term
external capital for the foreseeable future and, equally important, its
significant level of operations in Yugoslavia is regarded by foreign
financiers as evidence of confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance,
policies and prospects. While an increase in cofinancing on Bank projects is
desirable, both the projects and sub-projects involved must be suitable for
cofinancing given the complex system of management in general and the banking
and foreign exchange allocation systems in particular.
27.        Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about 8.7% of
Yugoslavia's total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is expected
to remain fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt
service was 6.5% in 1980 and is projected to be about 5% by 1985.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agriculture in Yugoslavia
28.        The agriculture sector, which occupied over one-third of the
population and accounted for about 14% of the GMP 1/ in 1978, has grown at an
average annual rate of about 3% during the period 1968-78. Agricultural
development in Yugoslavia is of crucial importance to (a) meet an estimated
4% annual increase in domestic consumption requirements; (b) provide for
increases in exports and reductions in imports; (c) meet the raw material
requirements for expanding the agroindustries subsector; and (d) achieve
employment and income objectives primarily through development of the
individual sector. For these reasons, Yugoslavia's 1981-85 Five Year Plan
stresses agricultural development as one of the country's bigbest priorities.
29.        The country has three distinct climatic zones and a predominantly
mountainous terrain. Agricultural activities are consequently many and
varied. About 58% of the national territory is recorded as agricultural
land, two-thirds of which is arable and the rest pasture. The soil is better
than in other southern European countries, especially in the fertile plain in
the northeast which includes Vojvodina and which, while containing only
one-sixth of the country's total area, includes nearly one-third of the
arable land and produces more than half of the country's wheat and maize
and three-quarters of the sugar beet. In the billy areas covering much of
Serbia, Slovenia and Bosnia, a mixed farm pattern prevails. The mountain-
ous regions to the west and south contain extensive upland pastures suited to
livestock rearing. Along the Adriatic coast, in the Mediterranean climatic
zone, vineyards and olive and citrus groves flourish while further south, in
Macedonia, crops such as tobacco, cotton and rice are grown.
30.        An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence
of social and individual farm sectors. The social sector, which grew out of
postwar collectivization, is made up of a number of institutions including
1/ GMP (Gross Material Product) corresponds to GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
less output of certain services, such as public administration, defense,
education, health and social insurance.



- 10 -
kombinats (integrated factory farms), cooperatives and research institutions;
this sector accounts for about 28% of total agricultural output, controls 16%
of agricultural land, and employs about 5% of agricultural manpower. In
contrast, the individual farm sector, which consists essentially of privately
held family plots not exceeding 10 ha of arable land, controls 84% of the
cultivated land and employs over 90% of agricultural manpower and has been
neglected in terms of provision of basic infrastructure, financing and
technology. For the most part, these two sectors are intricately linked
through marketing and other complementary activities.
31.      Yugoslavia's principal strategy in agricultural development has been
to emphasize growth of the social sector as the principal means to achieve
large-scale production, marketing and self-sufficiency in food. As a result,
agricultural production in the social sector grew at an average annual rate of
10.9% during 1954-72. In contrast, during the same period agricultural
production in the individual sector grew at an annual rate of 2.9%. While the
objective of self-sufficiency in food was substantially achieved through this
emphasis on social sector growth, there remain large income differentials,
with average incomes among individual farmers ranging from less than a third
to less than half of those of workers in the social sector. There has been a
rapid depletion of the labor force in the agriculture sector which has con-
tributed to the rural-urban migration and increased overall unemployment in
the economy.
32.      The strategy of Yugoslavia's draft 1981-85 Agricultural Development
Plan is based on continued development of social sector holdings as the main
vehicle for growth, and increased organization of the individual farm sector
into cooperatives or association with social sector enterprises. The draft
plan stresses the importance of agricultural development and outlines measures
to develop the individual sector as a means of addressing the problems of
unemployment, rural poverty, regional income disparities and low productiv-
ity. The plan aims at growth in agricultural production of 4.5% per annum,
based on annual growth in agricultural production in the social sector of 6%
and in the individual sector of 4%. Agroindustries, a priority activity, are
projected to grow by 7% per annum to meet strong consumer demand. The less
rapid growth projected for the individual sector reflects its limited absorp-
tive capacity and the lack of appropriate inputs and markets available to the
large number of individual farmers. On the basis of past performance these
growth rates seem optimistic, although they represent somewhat more realistic
targets than in the previous plan period.
33.      Responsibility for formulating agricultural policy and plans rests
with the republics and provinces, all of which are represented on the Federal
Committee for Agriculture, the President of which is a member of the Federal
Executive Council with the rank of Minister. Due to decentralized decision-
making, all functions associated with policy and plan implementation rest with
autonomous self-governing organizations, such as agrokombinats and
cooperatives.
34.      The prospects for the development of agriculture in the 1980s in
Yugoslavia are inextricably tied to the fact that Yugoslavia is in the process
of becoming a predominantly urbanized industrialized society. While in the
past the rate and pattern of agricultural growth has been adequate to meet the



- 11 -
domestic demand, a major reorientation of agricultural development is neces-
sary because Yugoslavia has reached a consumption level where most of the
agricultural production has to be processed, stored, and transported to urban
markets. For this purpose reconstruction and modernization of existing agro-
industies is essential. There is a need to improve the overall policy frame-
work in Yugoslavia for agroindustry development. A growing awareness of the
need to balance agricultural production and processing capacity exists at the
federal level and there is recognition of the need to improve the overall
policy framework in Yugoslavia for agroindustry development, including
improved analysis of both interregional and export markets and maintenance of
pricing policies in the agriculture sector to further these objectives.
Therefore, work bas been underway in connection with the preparation of the
new Five Year Plan (1981-85) to develop a long-term agroindustry development
policy for Yugoslavia. The agroindustry study being conducted under the Third
Agriculture Credit Project (Loan No. 1801-YU) would also help in this effort.
35.      The challenge in the 1980s for Yugoslav agriculture is to provide an
ever increasing diversity of secondary processed foods and strengtben and
expand the export base of agricultural and processed food products, while at
the same time increasing the productivity and income of the large individual
sector. This challenge is being increasingly recognized by the government,
particularly in regard to the creation of an industrial complex capable of
meeting the changing consumer demand and export requirements. The expansion
of the cooperation among individual farmers and between individual farmers and
social sector organizations continues to be a central feature of government
agricultural development strategy, but additional means to accelerate the
development of the individual sector need to be explored. To this end, as
part of its sector operations, the Bank will undertake an agriculture sector
survey which inter alia is intended to examine additional ways to increase the
development of the individual sector and is expected to provide the basis for
expanded Bank activities in credit to small farmers.
Agriculture in Macedonia
36.      Macedonia is one of the less developed republics of Yugoslavia with
an estimated per capita income approximately 70% of the national average or
about Us$1,650. Agriculture contributes 23% of the total GMP of Macedonia,
and absorbs 32% of the active working population. Though agriculture's role
has been declining relative to the rest of the economy with the rapid progress
of industrializaton, it remains an important sector. Agricultural production
expanded at an average annual rate of 4.0% in Macedonia between 1966 and
1977. However, unemployment and underemployment remain bigh, relative to
national averages. Lack of employment and income opportunities in the rural
sector has caused widespread emigration of the rural population to the cities
or to work outside Yugoslavia.
37.      Mountainous terrain covers 75% of Macedonia.  These areas are
unsuitable for field crop production, but extensive upland pastures support
sheep and cattle. The plains and valleys suitable for cultivation produce
grain, vegetables and fruit. In the past, expansion and replacement in the
processing industry has not always kept pace with the expansion of fresh
vegetable production. However, more recently and after a period of
accelerated investment in processing facilities, the Government of Macedonia



- 12 -
is emphasizing increased primary production in order to ensure maximum
utilization of existing agroindustrial plants and those under construction.
The proposed project forms a part of this strategy.
38.      In 1978, the social sector held 27% of Macedonia's cultivated land,
employed 9.2% of the agricultural labor force, produced 31% of the agri-
cultural product, and contributed 45% to the republic's marketed agricultural
production. bocial sector agriculture recorded an average increase in
production above 9% annually between 1965 and 1975, about triple that of the
individual sector. The main explanation for rapid growth of social sector
agriculture are: (a) concentration in this sector of more than two-thirds of
the gross fixed investment in agriculture in the postwar period, (b) better
availability of university-trained workers, (c) emphasis on research, and (d)
adoption of modern technology.
39.      The individual sector in Macedonia occupies by far the larger part of
cultivated land and employs more than 90% of the total agricultural labor
force. It consists of about 160,000 private holdings with an average size of
3.1 ha. Production in the individual sector has fallen far below the
performance of the social sector, and there is an increasing productivity gap
between the two sectors. The major causes of low productivity and yields in
the individual sector are: (a) low quality of land remaining in private
hands; (b) the small share of private land under irrigaton; (c) use of
inferior varieties of seeds, plants and animals; (d) low degree of
mechanization; (e) low fertilizer input; and (f) statutory limitations on farm
size and scattered holdings.
40.      The individual and social sectors are mainly complementary, but also
competitive. Labor-intensive crops, such as vegetables and tobacco, are
almost exclusively produced in the individual sector, wbich also has 95-98% of
the cattle and 92-99% of the sheep. Cooperation between the sectors consists
primarily of contracting for joint production, with the social sector
supplying fertilizers, mechanization, marketing and credit services to the
individual sector in exchange for primary production on the basis of agreed
prices. While such cooperation brings benefits to the individual farmers who
due to their geographical proximity can establish such relationships with the
social sector, it does not embrace individual farmers who are isolated.
Furthermore, such arrangements bave not always ensured that the prices paid to
the farmer by the social sector organizations represent adequate incentive to
stimulate increased production and productivity. In addition, the increasing
importance of off-farm income for certain farmers and the dissemination of new
production techniques in the individual sector make contracting for joint
production less attractive for some. While for the individual sector as a
whole expanded cooperation remains the main means to its development,
additional strategies will need to be explored (see para. 35).
Bank Involvement in Yugoslavia's Agriculture Sector
41.      The proposed Macedonia III agriculture project would represent the
twelfth Bank loan for agriculture and agroindustries in Yugoslavia. Since
1971, when it first became involved in the agriculture sector in Yugoslavia,
the Bank has financed three nationwide agricultural credit projects (Loan Nos.
1129-YU, 1477-YU and 1801-YU), six agriculture and agroindustry projects in



- 13 -
Macedonia, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia and Kosovo (Loan Nos.
894-YU, 1370-YU, 1371-YU, 1621-YU, 1951-YU and 1993-YU), one drainage project
in Croatia (Loan No. 1756-YU), and a large-scale irrigation project in
Macedonia (Loan No. 1616-YU), as well as two multipurpose projects in Kosovo
with significant irrigation components (Loan Nos. 777-YU and 1360-YU). The
Bank's involvement in these projects has been both in the social and
individual sectors. As summarized in Annex II, these projects are generally
proceeding satisfactorily.
42.      Within the framework of Yugoslavia's agricultural development plan
and the Government's objectives, considerable Bank lending for agriculture is
an essential element of the Bank's strategy to support the less developed
regions, improve income distribution, alleviate pockets of rural poverty,
increase rural productivity and productive employment opportunities and
contribute to a reduction of imports and an expansion of exports. The Bank
emphasizes the development of primary agricultural production (irrigated and
rainfed) in the individual sector and agricultural processing facilities in
the social sector to provide the outlet for this production. In recent years
both Yugoslavia and the Bank have increased their commitment to the
development of the individual sector. The mix between involvement in the
social and individual agricultural sectors in Bank projects in Yugoslavia is
determined in each particular case, taking into account factors, sucb as, the
federal and republican/provincial governments' own efforts for the social and
individual farm sectors and the relative investment requirements in eacb
republic or province needed to bring about a balanced agricultural development
between primary production and processing capability.
Performance Under Previous Agroindustrial and
Agricultural Credit Projects in Macedonia
43.      Stopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka Skopje (SBS) has been a borrower or
participating bank under 6 Bank loans in the agriculture sector. Under the
First and Second Agriculture and Agroindustrial Projects (Loan No. 894-YU of
1973 and Loan No. 1371-YU of 1977), SBS received US$55.0 million and under the
nationwide First, Second and Third Agricultural Credit Projects (Loans Nos.
1129-YU, 1477-YU and 1801-YU), SBS is a participating bank receiving a total
of Us$45 million. A loan of US$83 million was made througb SBS for the
construction of the Strezevo irrigation scheme (Loan No. 1616-YU of 1978).
44.      While performance under these projects has been generally
satisfactory, the commitments and particularly disbursements under all but the
btrezevo Irrigation Project, have been behind appraisal estimates. These
delays have been caused primarily by delays in identifying and preparing
sub-projects, as well as in procurement delays and in some cases, cost
overruns. The main lag has been in the disbursement of funds to the
individual sector. The appraisal procedures of SBS have been streamlined and
its appraisal reports have shown improvement over the last several years, but
greater attention still needs to be focussed on management information
systems, more frequent supervision and more regular liason with SBS's
constituent branch offices (basic banks) which deal directly with the project
beneficiaries and which, since the advent of the 1978 Federal Bank Law, enjoy
a considerable degree of autonomy. Measures to improve performance in the



- 14 -
timely commitment of funds, particularly to the individual sector, have
recently been instituted by both SBS and the Macedonian government authorities
and are discussed in more detail below (see para. 52). Procurement delays are
expected to be reduced with closer supervision by SBS of sub-project
implementation. To date there have not been any projects in the sector
reviewed by the Operations Evaluation Department.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.      The proposed project is a sequel to the First and Second Agriculture
and Agroindustrial projects undertaken in Macedonia (Loan No. 894-YU of 1973
and Loan No. 1371-YU of 1977). The proposed investments would complement the
programs financed by these and other Bank loans in the agriculture sector in
Macedonia, especially in agricultural product processing, storage and
irrigation (see para. 43). The project was prepared by Stopanska Banka
Zdruzena Banka Skopje (SBS) and assisted by Bank preparation missions and a
subsequent preappraisal in June 1980. The project was appraised in September
1980. Negotiations were held in May 1981 in Washington. The Yugoslav
delegation was led by Mr. Vasil Tudzarov, Vice President of the Executive
Council of Macedonia. Annex III summarizes key events leading to the
presentation to the Executive Directors and special conditions provided for in
the Loan Agreement.
Project Objectives and Description
46.      The proposed loan and project are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in the report
"staff Appraisal Report on the Macedonia III - Agricultural Development
Project," Report No. 3354a-YU, dated June 22, 1981. This report is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
47.      The project's main objectives are: (a) increasing agricultural and
forestry production; (b) increasing capacity utilization of existing
processing facilities; (c) improving rural incomes, productivity and
employment opportunities, particularly in the individual farm sector; (d)
increasing agricultural exports; (e) assisting in the development of
alternative energy sources for agricultural production; and (f) contributing
to institution building by strengthening the appraisal and supervision
capacity of SBS, the proposed borrower.
48.      The project would consist of the following components;
(a)    Horticulture and Livestock:  Sub-loans (i) to social sector
enterprises for about 40 sub-projects involving the
establishment of about 2,500 ha of orchards (apples, pears,
plums, apricots, peaches, sour cherries and almonds), and about
1,400 ha of vineyards (900 ha of table and 500 ha of wine
grapes) and (ii) to an estimated 3,000 farm families in the
individual sector for livestock development (milk, poultry,
pork, sheep, and bees), for vegetable production, for the
establishment of new fruit plantations and vineyards, and
purchase of small-scale on-farm tobacco dryers and appropriate
size tractors. About half the production from all these
components would be supplied to existing processing facilities,
thus increasing capacity utilization;



- 15 -
(b)    Cold btores:  Sub-loans for expanding existing capacity to
store fresh and frozen fruit and vegetables after harvest for
later marketing, thus improving market opportunities and
returns for both social and individual sector produce. It
would include one new 4,000 ton capacity store and the
expansion of three existing facilities, each by about 4,000
tons;
(c)    Forestry:  Sub-loans to establish (i) 300 ha of poplar
plantations (which wood is used for food-box and particle board
production) to demonstrate efficient means for possible future
reafforestation of about 5,000 ha of poplar, (ii) a pilot
demonstration/timber extraction area, and (iii) a forestry
research area for fast growing conifers;
(d)    small-scale irrigation schemes:  Sub-loans for about 7 schemes
to irrigate about 12,000 ha involving an estimated 6,000
individual sector farm families and several social sector
enterprises. The sub-projects partly consist of river
diversion schemes, with some pumping schemes, and involve both
the expansion of existing systems and construction of new ones;
(e)    Pilot biogas plant:  Sub-loan for the installation of a biogas
plant on a social sector pig farm producing about 10,000 pigs
annually subject to the results of a feasibility study;
(f)    Feasibility study for geothermal water development:  Study would
examine possibilities for thermal water development as an energy
source for use in agricultural production and processing.
Project Organization and Implementation
49.        Institutional Arrangements.  The borrower of the proposed loan
would be btopanska Banka Zdruzena Banka Skopje (SBS). SBS has been a borrower
under 10 previous Bank loans, including six agriculture projects (see paras.
43-44) and 4 industrial credit projects (Loans 1012-YU, 1277-YU, 1613-YU and
1912-YU). The Agriculture and Forestry Loans Department of SBS would be
responsible for the overall implementation of the project. SBS performance
under previous agriculture projects has been generally satisfactory.
50.        bBS, an associated bank, is the major bank in Macedonia and,
together with its 24 constituent basic banks (formerly branch offices), plays
a prominent role in mobilizing investment resources in Macedonia. About 75%
of all institutional financing in Macedonia is cbannelled through SBS. SBS
acquires its resources from private and enterprise savings, borrowings from
the National Bank and to a lesser but still important extent, from foreign
credits. Most Federal Fund credits and Republic Government resources are
channeled through SBS. SBS operates as a mixed commercial/investment bank and
its loan accounts are fairly evenly distributed among enterprises in all
sectors of the economy, indicative of a reasonably diversified loan
portfolio. SBS is the major source of credit to the agriculture sector in
Macedonia. The total assets of SBS 1/ as of 1979 were US$3.1 billion. The
tinancial structure and performance of SBS is satisfactory.
1/ Covers consolidated position of associated bank and its member basic banks.



- 16 -
51.        A Federal Banking Law, effective in January 1978, reorganized all
Yugoslav banks to make their services and functions more closely integrated
and directed to the financial needs of their founders (which are their
depositors and borrowers). The new law essentially established the basic
banks (in most cases the former branch offices) as the core of the
restructured banking system. An associated bank is established as a legal
entity through a self-management agreement of two or more basic banks. The
extent to which this reorganization may have affected the decision-making role
and autonomy of the associated banks differs from one republic/province to
another, but in the case of SBS there is evidence that the reorganization
somewhat diminished the associated bank's role, at least temporarily, as
reflected in the subsequent relatively slower commitment and disbursement
record under several agricultural projects.
52.        As a result of these recent developments, SBS is undertaking two
measures to ensure its continued role as an effective channel for Bank
lending. First, it has ensured that all social sector sub-projects considered
under the proposed project form an integral part of Macedonia's new 1981-85
Five-Year Plan and as a condition of effectiveness, SBS will enter into a
separate agreement, a preliminary draft of which has been reviewed by the
Bank, with its basic banks and other relevant republic organizations to define
their mutual responsibilities to the individual farm sector, particularly in
order to ensure better access and a more timely provision of funds to that
sector (Loan Agreement, Recital C and Section 7.01). Second, SBS has prepared
a preliminary proposal for a training program, which has been reviewed by the
Bank, designed to improve the efficiency of subproject appraisal and
supervision of the basic banks and improve liaison between the basic banks,
sub-borrowers and SBS's Agriculture and Forestry Loans Department which
coordinates within bBS all Bank projects in the agriculture sector. Agreement
has been reached that SBb would submit the training program for final review
and comments to the Bank by December 31, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
53.        bBb would continue to be responsible, as under past projects, for
the appraisal of sub-projects to be financed under the proposed project and
for supervising project implementation and procurement activities. It would
on-lend to the sub-borrowers the proceeds of the Bank Loan, together with its
own resources and funds from both the Federal Fund and republic government
sources (see para. 63). The Agriculture and Forestry Loans Department is
responsible for all agroindustry, agriculture, livestock, irrigation and
forestry investments in SBS and would continue its role as the coordination
department for Bank projects in the agriculture sector. The staff includes
tourteen professionals, many with considerable experience and expertise iD
economic and tinancial analysis, as well as in specific agricultural fields.
54.        Implementation and On-Lending Procedures.  Project implementation
would commence in mid-1981 and continue over five years, to 1986. Most
investments would be committed in the first four years, with only some
individual sector investments remaining in the fifth year. Individual sector
development would be a continuation of similar investments made under previous
Bank projects in Macedonia. SBS would on-lend funds to social sector
investors (agrokombinats) and in the individual sector, loans would be made to
individual sub-borrowers mainly through cooperatives. Except for larger
irrigation scbemes (see para. 57), SBS and the participating agrokombinats and



- 17 -
cooperatives have adequate professional staff capable of identifying,
appraising and supervising implementation of sound investment projects. SBS
would be supported by the Republic and Commune extension services, and the
Association of Cooperatives which, in cooperation with SBS and agrokombinats
coordinates investments in the individual sector.
55.        Most of the sub-projects to be started in the first year have been
identified and are in an advanced stage of preparation. For individual sector
sub-loans, bBb has identified most of the prospective borrowing cooperatives
and the various types of investments to be made.
56.        The irrigation component would be implemented over 5 years and would
include seven river diversion and pumping schemes to irrigate about 12,000 ha
and would involve entirely new lands or completing existing unfinished
schemes. On-farm irrigation would be by both sprinkler and gravity. These
sub-projects would be implemented by either the Regional Water Economy
Organizations, responsible in their respective areas for water management and
irrigation schemes (including their design and construction), or by social
sector agrokombinats. About 84% of the land to be irrigated is currently
owned by individual farmers. The irrigation schemes would be in the Vardar
River Valley. The Varder River is the subject of agreements governing
riparian rights between Yugoslavia and Greece. Although the diversions under
the proposed project are comparatively minor, the Government of Yugoslavia bas
submitted to the Bank a statement from the Government of Greece acknowledging
that they have been duly notified that the proposed schemes for the project
comply with the agreements and that the works meet with their approval.
57.        In addition to the appraisal guidelines and methodology to be
followed by SBS in making sub-loans under the project (see para. 59 ), SBS
would ensure for irrigation sub-projects that; (a) cost recovery analysis
would be undertaken by the relevant Regional Water Economy Organization in
order to set water charges that would be sufficient to recover operations and
maintenance costs and a reasonable proportion of the debt service based on
ability-to-pay criteria and (b) arrangements for the use of the irrigated land
and on-farm development will include adequate measures to ensure maximum
production (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 2(B)(a)(v)).
58.        To support Macedonia's efforts to diversify sources of energy used
in agriculture and reduce oil imports, the project would finance the
installation of a biogas plant on a social sector pig farm producing about
10,000 pigs annually. The plant has been successfully tested in other
countries but implementation would proceed only after a feasibility study
(financed by SBS) to be completed by December 31, 1981, has been reviewed by
the Bank and the appraisal report has been approved by the Bank (Loan
Agreement, section 3.02(b) and (c), and Schedule 5, para. 2(C)(b)). A
feasibility study examining the possibilities for geothermal water development
as an energy source for use in agricultural production and processing would
also be undertaken under the proposed project. The study is expected to be
completed by December 1982 by qualified and experienced consultants selected
by SBb on the basis of terms of reference agreed witb the Bank (Loan
Agreement, section 3.02(a), (b) and (c)). Expenditures for this study would
be eligible for financing under the loan. The average cost per man-montb of



- 18 -
consultants' services is estimated to be US$12,000 and an estimated 50
man-months of consultant services are included in the project cost. The
average cost per man-month includes personnel cost, travel cost and
subsistence expenses.
59.        Appraisal Criteria.  The participating organizations under the
project would submit sub-loan applications, through the respective basic banks
in their region, to SBS for approval. Detailed appraisal guidelines and
methodology, similar in most respects to those employed by SBS under previous
Bank agriculture projects, have been developed and agreed between SBS and the
Bank. 6BS would make sub-loans in accordance with those guidelines and would
prepare appraisal reports to ensure that inter alia sub-projects are
technically feasible as well as financially and economically viable; in the
case of social sector sub-projects for horticulture, livestock, cold stores
and irrigation, a minimum 12% financial and economic rate of return would be
required (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paras. 2(B) and (C)). Sub-loans for any
sub-project costing more than US$3.5 million under the horticulture, cold
stores, and irrigation components and all sub-loans for the forestry and
biogas components would be submitted along with SBS's appraisal reports to the
Bank for approval (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paras. 2(C)(a) and (b)). For
irrigation sub-projects estimated to cost more than $5 million, SBS would have
the appraisal report prepared by a special committee comprised of an
agronomist, an agricultural economist and an irrigation engineer (Loan
Agreement, schedule 5, para. 2(B)(a)). If on the basis of these appraisals,
any of the proposed investments are found to be not viable, alternative
investments could be considered for financing as agreed with the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 2, Part A).
Project Monitoring Evaluation
60.         SBb would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the project
and would submit quarterly progress reports and annual evaluation reports to
the Bank. To help prepare the annual evaluation reports, assurances have been
obtained that bBS would by December 31, 1981, engage qualified and experienced
consultants to design and carry out a monitoring and evaluation system in
accordance with agreed terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The first
of the annual evaluation reports would be prepared by June 30, 1983. The
portion of the evaluation reports whicb deal with the pilot biogas plant would
also be made available to other interested agricultural organizations in
Yugoslavia (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(b) and (c)). The total cost of the
evaluation system over an eight-year development period for this project is
estimated to be U6$300,000 (constant prices). This cost would be borne by
bBa. A similar evaluation system has been established for several previous
Bank-financed agriculture projects in Yugoslavia (Loans 1129-YU, 1477-YU,
1621-YU and 1801-YU), but this would be the first undertaken by SBS and
focussing on Macedonia.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
61.         The estimated total project cost, including physical and price
contingencies but excluding interest during construction, is US$232.2 million
with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$69.6 million or 30%. The
cost estimates include import duties and taxes estimated as US$10.0 million.
An average 7% physical contingency has been provided and an average price
contingency of 39% (on base cost price plus physical contingencies) has been



- 19 -
included in project costs to meet expected inflation in foreign and local
costs during the project implementation period of five years. Interest during
construction on the proposed Bank loan would add an additional US$23.1 million
to the foreign exchange requirements of the project. Details of the cost
estimates are shown in the Loan and Project Summary.
62.        The proposed Bank loan of US$80 million would finance 100% of the
estimated foreign exchange cost of equipment and materials, civil works and
consultant services, and about 43% of the estimated interest on the Bank loan
during the period of construction. The proposed Bank loan would represent
about 86% of the total foreign excbange requirements of the project and about
28% of total project financial requirements, including interest during
construction. The loan would finance up to US$10.0 million of the estimated
U6$23.1 million interest and other charges during construction on the Bank
loan, in respect of those sub-projects which would not generate sufficient
cash flow during the implementation period. The projected cash flows indicate
that without the inclusion of such interest during construction financing in
the Bank loan, the cash flow positions of some of the sub-borrowers during the
period of construction would be imprudently stretched in meeting their
obligations.
63.        The proposed loan would be made to SBS for fifteen years, including
3 years of grace.  SBS would on-lend the loan proceeds to the sub-borrowers in
accordance with the terms and procedures described below (see paras. 64-65).
As in the case of otber agricultural loans in Yugoslavia, the foreign exchange
risk of the Bank loan would be borne by the sub-borrowers in the social sector
and by the government of Macedonia for the individual sector farmers. The
Bank loan would be repaid on the basis of an adjustable repayment schedule
reflecting the composite repayments of sub-loans by the sub-borrowers. The
balance of the project financial requirements, US$201.4 million, including
$12.7 million foreign exchange requirements, would be financed as follows:
SBb would provide US$133.7 million from its own funds and the Federal and
Republic bpecial Funds and the sub-borrowers would provide the remaining
Ub$67.7 million from their own funds and internally generated revenues. SBS
would make arrangements for the provision of funds to cover possible cost
overruns (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01, and 5.01).
64.        The terms of the sub-loans under the project would be related to
the cash flow projections of the investment. The repayment period of
individual sector sub-loans would normally not exceed 10 years, including a
grace period of up to 5 years. For sub-loans to the social sector, the
repayment period would not exceed 15 years, including grace periods of up to 6
years (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 3(C)). Sub-borrowers would normally
be required to contribute not less than 20% of total investment costs. In
some cases, where sub-borrowers' resources are not adequate to contribute 20%,
bBb would determine the maximum amount of sub-borrowers' contribution (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 3(A)(a)). In accordance with Yugoslav law,
contributions from the Federal and Republic Special Funds could be treated as
part of sub-borrower contribution.
65.        The interest rates for on-lending under the project would be:  (a)
for Bank funds the on-lending rate to be charged by SBS to sub-borrowers under
the primary production, irrigation and cold store components would be a



- 20 -
minimum of 11%. This is in line with the approximate average cost of
long-term foreign exchange resources in Yugoslavia and in international
capital markets. For the pilot biogas plant and forestry demonstration
schemes under the project, the lending rate would be the Bank rate of 9.6%,
plus an additional spread of at least 0.5% to cover administration costs; (b)
for the portion of domestic funds provided to sub-borrowers from the resources
of bBb, the interest rate would be a minimum of 10%; and (c) for the portion
of domestic funds which are provided to sub-borrowers from the Federal and
Republic special Funds, the interest rate would be determined in accordance
with the prevailing rates set by the Federal and Macedonian authorities,
currently between 4% and 7% (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 3(B)). The
above on-lending arrangements are in line with the principles agreed for the
Morava Regional Development II Project (Loan No. 1951-YU), the Kosovo
Agricultural Development Project (Loan No. 1993-YU) and the Fifth Industrial
Credit Project (Loans Nos. 1909-YU - 1912-YU). The annual rate of inflation
in Yugoslavia has varied considerably over the last 5 years averaging about
17% in the period 1976-80. While inflation has increased sharply in 1981, the
projected annual rate of inflation for the next 3 years is estimated to be
16%. Although the proposed on-lending rate on local bank funds would still
not achieve a positive real rate, it is about 3% more than the current minimum
charged by Yugoslav banks, and the Government argues that interest rates have
a limited though growing role to play in Yugoslav resource allocation. They
also point out that in the social sector where the sub-borrowers bear the
foreign exchange risk, the real interest rate on Bank funds is likely to be
positive. Assurances were obtained under the above-mentioned Fifth Industrial
Credit Project to the effect that the responsible Yugoslav authorities would
review with the Bank, at least annually, the interest rate policy of
Yugoslavia in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Productions and Markets
66.         Investments under the project would induce an annual incremental
output of primary agricultural product valued at full development at about
Ub$63 million at June 1980 prices. Market prospects for incremental
production under the project have been analyzed in considerable detail during
project appraisal. The market analysis shows that good market opportunities
exist for the production expected under the project in view mainly of future
incremental domestic, particularly Macedonian, market requirements. About 8%
of the annual incremental output is expected to be exported. For apricots,
peaches and sour cherries, there is the probability of market constraints,
therefore, understandings have been reached to the effect that the maximum
approximate area to be planted under the project for these products would be
100 ha, 100 ha and 50 ha, respectively, unless otherwise justified on the
basis of updated market analysis.
Accounts and Auditing
67.         SBS would maintain separate accounts for sub-loan disbursements
under the project. bBS is audited annually by the Social Accounting Service
(SDK) following generally accepted international accounting standards to the
extent consistent with Yugoslav law. Over the past several years, SDK has
expanded the scope of its international standard audits, and in 1979 it



- 21 -
started a detailed portfolio analysis of SBS as part of its annual audit. SBS
would submit its audited statements to the Bank witbin 6 months of the close
of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04).
Procurement and Disbursement
68.        Equipment contracts under the cold storage component (expected to
total about US$16.0 million) would be procured following international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Domestic
manufacturers would receive a 15% margin of preference or the actual level of
import duty, whichever is less in bid comparisons. It is estimated that over
half of the contracts to be procured by ICB would be awarded to foreign
suppliers. ICB would not be suitable for the remaining works and equipment as
they are unlikely to be attractive to foreign contractors and suppliers due to
the dispersion of investors, wide differences in the type of construction and
equipment required, phasing of contracts over 5 years, and relatively small
size of each contract. Procurement of these components would be done through
competitive bidding advertised locally or in accordance witb other procedures
acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Scbedule 4). Sufficient commercial
channels and civil work contractors are available in Yugoslavia to provide
adequate competition for the supply of goods and civil works needed under
these components. SBS would assist and supervise the sub-borrowers, who would
be responsible for procurement of the goods and services required for the
project, to ensure that the above procurement arrangements would be followed
and that delays similar to those experienced under previous projects in
Macedonia would be minimized.
69.        Bank disbursements would take about 6 years, although most of the
loan is expected to be committed by end of 1985. The expected annual
disbursement of the proposed loan proceeds is given in the Loan and Project
bummary. Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made as follows: (a) for
individual sector sub-loans, 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local
expenditures for amounts disbursed by SBS, subject to a maximum of 40% of the
total estimated cost of the sub-project; (b) for social sector sub-loans for
horticulture, cold stores, forestry and irrigation, 100% of foreign
expenditures and 40% of amounts disbursed by SBS on account of local
expenditures subject to a maximum of 32% of the total estimated cost of the
sub-project; (c) for the pilot biogas plant, 100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of amounts disbursed by SBS on account of local expenditures, subject to
maximum of 65% of the total estimated cost of the sub-project; (d) for the
feasibility study, 100% of expenditures; and (e) amounts due for Bank interest
and other charges on the loan during construction up to an amount of US$10.0
million (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1). In order to avoid the loss of one
growing season and to speed up project implementation, preliminary land
preparation work under several social sector components has already started.
Retroactive financing of these expenditures up to the amount of US$2.0 million
is therefore recommended under the project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para.
4).
Benefits and Risks
70.        The project investments are designed to reinforce previous Bank
projects in Macedonia and to make a wide impact on the development of



- 22 -
agriculture--the sector in which Macedonia enjoys a strong comparative
advantage within Yugoslavia, but which also contains the poorest and the least
developed segments of the Republic's population. The project also provides
new initiatives towards providing alternative energy sources in agriculture
through the pilot biogas plant component and thermal water development
feasibility study.
71.        Beneficiaries.  Direct beneficiaries of the project would total
about 7,000 individual farm families who would receive sub-loans for
livestock, horticulture, and irrigation development. About 25% of direct
beneficiaries in the project area are expected to belong to the target group
with per capita personal incomes below US$530. The incomes of the direct
beneficiaries are expected to increase by 70% to 200% as compared to the
pre-project incomes. Indirect beneficiaries in social sector agro-processing,
marketing, distribution and in the farm service sector would be at least
double the number of direct beneficiaries.
72.        Employment.  The project's contribution to employment would be
important. At full development, the project would create the equivalent of
about 4,300 full-time jobs in agriculture. About one-third of this would be
for seasonal labor for fruit and grape harvests; about 40% would be increased
family labor requirements on participating farms, which would reduce
underemployment and pressure to migrate from the project area; and the
remainder would be full-time jobs in the social sector. During construction,
the equivalent of about 3,000 seasonal jobs would also be created.
Furthermore, additional employment of about 1,000 jobs would be created in the
supply and marketing subsectors.
73.        Production and Foreign Exchange Effects.  Most of the incremental
production (92%) due to the project would be used to satisfy domestic
consumption needs. However, part of the incremental output valued at US$5
million annually would be exported, resulting in foreign exchange earnings.
74.        Institution Building Effects.  The project's non-quantifiable bene-
fits would include: (a) the continued institutional development of SBS, its
member basic banks, and other participating organizations through provision of
training and through experience gained in preparing, implementing, and eval-
uating development projects; (b) fostering of increased cooperation between
the individual and social sectors and technological improvements of production
systems in Macedonia.
75.        Economic Rate of Return.  A wide range of investments would be
financed under the project and the composition of a substantial number is well
known in view of the state of project preparation. The weighted average
economic rate of return on the whole project is expected to be about 17%.
Changes in investment costs and net benefit streams were made to test the
sensitivity of the project's rate of return to deviations from assumed values
and even under severe adverse assumptions the project's economic rate of
return does not fall below 11%, with the less adverse assumptions ranging
between 14 and 16%. Financial analysis has also been carried out on most
components of the project and the estimated financial rates of return vary
between 12 and 49% for the primary production, and average about 11% for the
cold stores and 15% for the irrigation schemes.



- 23 -
76.        Risks.  The risks of implementational difficulties and of
non-performance in the project are not considered great due to the experience
gained under the previous agricultural projects in Macedonia (see paras.
43-44) and the fact that the organizations and institutional structures of the
project are substantially identical to those developed and utilized in a
generally successful manner under those projects. Most of the first-year
sub-projects have been identified and for the social sector orchards and
vineyards, some have already commenced. While the commitment rate of
individual sector sub-loans under previous projects has not always been
satisfactory, steps have been taken by SBS and Macedonian authorities to
improve the pace of this aspect of project implementation. Yugolavia's
current economic problems of inflation and balance of payments deficits, as
well as the economic stabilization measures being implemented to correct them
by Yugoslav and Macedonian authorities, have contributed to delays in some
cases in the timely availability of local funds for Bank financed on-going
agricultural projects. However, the project design and assurances obtained
from the proposed borrower, SBS, regarding the provision of local funds are
expected to minimize such difficulties.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Stopanska Banka
Zdruzena Banka Skopje, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
78.        Provisions in the Loan Agreement of special interest are noted in
paras. 52 through 69 of this Report and the most important provisions are
listed in bection III of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness for
this proposed Loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01) is that the agreement among
bBb, its basic banks and other relevant republic organizations related to
their mutual rigbts, obligations and responsibilities (including the provision
of funds) to the individual sector has been concluded in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank (referred to in para. 52 of this Report).
79.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachment
June 23, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -
ANNX I
TABLE 3A"ae1o                                                           6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                  sage   1  of  6
YUGOSLAVIA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             255.8                                       MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTUKAL      142.8                   1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                EUROPE              MAREET ECONOMIES
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       370.0        830.0    2430.0                   2609.1                      9444.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          875.1       1554.3    2440.3                    2368.4                     7896.6
PUPULATiON AND VITAL STATISTICS
PUPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    18402.0        20371.0   22139.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    27.9            34.8      41.5                     53.2                       76.4
PUPULATION PROJECTIONS
PUPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             25.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                               29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                        2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             71.9         79.6      86.5                     80.6                      142.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         124.0         139.0     153.7                    133.9                      523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                               30.5        27.4       24.8                     30.1                       22.8
I5-6&  YRS.                             63.2         64.8       66.3                     61.5                       65.6
eS YRS. AND ABOVE                         6.3          7.8       8.8                      8.3                       11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    1.2          1.0       0.9                       1.5                       0.8
URBAN                                    3.6          3.2       2.9                      3.1                        1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           23.2         18.8       17.5                    22.9                       14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            9.8          9.0       8.5                      9.1                        9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    1.4          1.3        1.1                      1.6                        0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..        59.0
1OD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               85.0         93.0      117.0                    119.8                      112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       125.0        130.0      136.0                    125.7                      131.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               93.0         93.0      101.0                     92.5                       98.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            28.0         32.0       39.0                     39.7                       62.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE            5.0          2.6        1.5                     3.4                        0.6
hEALTH
LIFE EKPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          63.2         66.9      70.3                     68.9                       73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PEK
THOUSAND)                                 87.7         55.5      33.6                     25,2                       12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..        33.6
UR8IAN                                 42.4         62.0
RURAL                                    ..         12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                     ..          ..
POPULAIION PER PHYSICLAN                1616.0       1000.0     762.4                    973.3                      621.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           1350.0/c      410.0     409.0                    896.6                      217.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAI RED
TOTAL                                 200.0        179.0      166.0                    262.3                      119.4
URBAN                                     ..         70.0     101.6                    191.8                      120.9
RURAL                                     ..      1610.0    1836.9
ADMISSIUNS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..         17.0       18.2                    18.2                       17.9
IIOUS IbO
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEIIOLD
TOTAL                                    4.0          3.8        3.8
URBAN                                    3.3          3.2        3.3
RURAL                                   4.4           4.3       4.1
AVERAGE NUrIBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TUTAL                                    1.6          1.4
URBAN                                    1.7          1.3        ..                       ..                          .
RURAL                                    1.5          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   54.5         87.9         .
URBAN                                   92.7         98.4
RURAL                                   36.1        80.1



- 25 -
ANNEX I
YUG05LAVLA -ASOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET Page 7 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV'IAGEB
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                EUROPE              MAR",T ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 111.0        106.0       99.0                    105.9                      99.6
MALE                  113.0        108.0      100.0                    109.6                     102.1
FEMALE                108.0        103.0       98.0                    102.2                     101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   58.0         69.0       82.0                     66.3                      89.3
MALE                   63.0         78.0       86.0                     73.2                      83.3
FEMALE                 53.0         58.0       78.0                     59.5                      85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (4 OF SECONDARY)    ..            26.0       21.0                     28.4                       18.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              33.0         27.0       25.0                     26.8                      21.2
SECONDARY                            13.0         22.0       19.0                     23.6                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          77.0         83.5       85.0                     75.4                      98.9
CONSU t4PT lON
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            3.0         35.4       88.5                     83.9                     349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           84.9        165.5      209.1                    181.6                    1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.4         88.2      170.2                    131.1                     400.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST ) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    69.0         85.3       95.9                    123.8                     336.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0             4.0        3.4                      5.7                       4.3
LABOR FURCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        8302.0       8837.6!d  9381.7/d
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     35.0         35.9       36.0                     32.9                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                63.0         51.0       30.9                     34.0                       6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   18.0         23.0       32.9                     28.7                      37.7
PARTICIPATI0N RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  45.1         43.4       42.4                     42.3                      45.7
MaLE                                   60.0         56.6       55.0                     56.5                      58.9
FEMALE                                 30.9         30.6       30.1                     28.5                      33.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.8          0.8        0.8                      0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4/e          15.1/f    13.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.5Je          41.47Tf    38.7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/e           6.N6f      6.6
WWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/e           18.4/f    18.7
POVERTY TARiET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVLL (lS$ PFR CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..      430.0                    385.1
ESTL'IATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLLTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UR BAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..
Not av-ilable
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The groop averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is -nt uniforn.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962; /d Including migrants workers abroad; /e 1963; /f 1968.
May, 1981



- 26 -
ANNiEX I
Page 3 of 6
oEPINliflNf OF SOCIALIlOtCATOth
Nores   although ate data  -e  dr-,  faur-es  ge-.11ly j udged nhc  -05  ae-bon-ta-e  sud reliable, us  htcid al.. be  -ead uher they  aY  -a  hatrer
nat,ioally c-p-blhe b-ca.se of the lack of  ra-d-rdieed definitIos and c                     -cpsued by dtffae-c  cutre c11     co cr   the dac.-   The dait er, htae-
rclhasa.... asfcit de-rba orders of no  lt-de, iaocalc,da, an   haeteasce tomc   Ottff-e-ea  baton. I...prIli
of te   hocrc..rty  (ersa  fa  'Capita   amu  Oll taores    rou  eh:ee  MideAceaNnheritaoPddle East' is chuse  te--s  atsioo
LoD  lA  (ibhasad eqjl.)                                                                                                                                                .  .oo    e   {ato.tO-ou,.he   o   ud- p-ro   .....,
Tota-faall~eec   arscisriaailaosneaediti-ises--                                                      -    -a,unouau   dica~dsdbc.itlnnespuierue   lcns~od
GaP PEt cAyITA fUb1) - Ian cec uapin  si atee  tcre.  .akc                 Iica    s-                  daiaoe at   o   tlft.anlnapil.n.ion   nld   hsali
1970, atd 1979 tar.-                                                                                -adin- aalcs  ,tm ledafa,etnjnacobe  in-nilaietnnco.
itNtiCY  -SatTIaNf    PT1 11amI   -  -nan   ooaplo  of ute -eiltep ol -b inal..nissra   iisirla Intl Osao                                                outa!aealbsocs
sed lgle  peenee,e -ia  g.. and hydn-, tu-l-a  aid peo-h-1 elm--                                    an   us       it.,ab      loalo -nrl  otlal  aid sedical ed stnIuy
_cic-Yic torn   oP .oa.  ai-se- de  une-s  iti. nylso   tn 9tca-SpoaledtsTit -rano9u9d  -ln cedar total
dat.                                                                                              odlboeooieie_ed   T- ToI  -auha  uf udasss--  tea   di-nhrp-
tnoo  tospec-   de-ded by ue t-aen  breda
PIPuIA,ioNl AND Pirlt STbOISOICS
Ontl PrePrlr.  ttdTaa   jhouaid   A  as  f suIt. 1; 1960, 19701,  hd t7lt           caSbN-
date- Purerasenusa-  .                                                                                            lt -cashoA N  curu-rifec_ooctd              h'~4   orta   aolni 0-
asffc.c..itrthlee   16,   t,-    i  lIlt        ... dat. .he...sniooc iatetua   pupo es.
PastaprttIen                                                                           darnauce7tcaersceceeecei.ohn0thnoa
Pialroetyalpl-utslp..ltooaiartcar   hsdaitlheofreaer                                                           nnroitltrao    sdtrlnnpidtese i-a
Iorc p ysisio  Pcep  aconeesadeti- n-reai-tndtoi  t   ae                                  da:lp,rnao ttea                         ..m an. lids .oc-....een ..n..   ne. ee
Prjctio  paesear   fto  _otcycae  osn-ao elord  leetlessios-                                 utOrouple   pants.
leglaTesoecrncnsotettoouaasleptI ccottep'     yrrcaptccoo-ldcest  lcrluuoonec                                            fapies-ca,na,tonl
satsrstonfeotloincaeealshse-to.. ee I& ialb--y'isipdetlite              ..               ofoaota.adcnltttnneoooiey
fertlillttacc-cdlegp Ii  l-ui   Iael and eat ta lyn otaet   partonice
btstoecy  eesart    -In a.. lai-oary ecolcutrec   eoporelc                                   rian-n-l-  oe  eats -ard t esaI_e - cc-t   -oce, nale aid tess-
ibeioheta   eaaaronedatnaustshhcetaasrotacsna.                                            anle co lap srh. encanr  laed    ecer-sa  naet
at.. ni- cetes  rete ...      ce.n...Y   Ohs ateic..a.y  onylato-  sisea_outies etch arecrea                                         ... ...i . aecI"e  sa   auelteacc
a-ts-ed on rhe hatb       f  raerlca   ctnnstabsrusItth " ueI               ate                   atu  -on  repels aretao   or e             -o et   ettrt1 stt-o  555.
ce thecaanll200,  rdrhaeato oftalieecftanttl..efnaleietepec                                       Scdarsbfltca.eleetaaa-opas a_hrenndt
sie -is    --arssltd.                                                                        _usalcelll         l   1   ceera-,~ otse;car-py-de-e-acoa eaar    --serll
Ocoalarias lesaiteh e-tcliidap.
tea    960a It, 190ed171dt.tclaercecl                                                                               uatl    rahepara   hn   prs   easd
Psrs .tia.arlcl -ne  lao-d credsatefsacclual                                                       tclyaradapartsa-t  cf aec-daty i-155ii55
-t1t; 1960, 1970 atd 1978  no                                                                    si-acsreer d.-                   ai   eadsnSrleceee-allld Ii
2PeeLattee AjnSesaas  (aenp- chilol e  n0-isyse. --                 a kig-ag   (lb-                   prmiar  nod sa..sea-y len1s d-odad by sashara oT re-rb-r  Ii rhe
Pieasjsnetlrsd (ib  yeaesedcera    ee-rutrpa  cfsid-nn-pop--rrasp-diplan-t..
latee   lPl  1970, sad 197t dala.                                                                 Ade',lft 1Iarancr   prss   -  Ieae  dlsjb e to rcad sad  -iae)
Peaata   eosbR aaprcn- oa   - i-ss1 tene tIcla  nf  ast1 aid-                                   agyrets                                           .dca   ii   npitIrsa  it peeraad- et
yea  p  ..lai.e  far  .91PC   th-l,      d 1970-7t.
P... 1lael..   ..sa has  joec- c  p             "cba-aul prierh eeas if -rhat pups-             CliflttTIPt
la 1tssti 5is-Pp.  1960-71, at0 19ff-pt                                                   asne   asfa   ihcadacusie -Pssgr tars  -epesi- to
lind. ie   oeje  choaaed          .- tesa  eIIc iltei   e  thoceeto ot .td-y...                     nassaiales   htsi  paraa    slueahsace    era   a
cradelataejataae-ies  desprha..eands  fteid-yasr                                                  Adl  eect   orhsadotete-llctypesuf   -are-oerf-orrsPa
p...leI-atp  1960. 19ff, sad 179 data.                                                           hb-d-etasepee-1 peblic pen thoea...d at ....c1atia;  -eecd bie   e-
Crss -prds-t-o  ate - A..ae...         rot0ctar      tneel  tearjj           anlceedrIler   in  iain ee d in pear  abet reisr-ta   af radii
hstcar-Iatr-ed-crto    peldth:ep-rieca-  preseepaaett -                                           sssa    eferdcforr eti  years  be'iae ....rahlsaiec-
tIIa eas   asl  tuans  anJe.sdoas  196.  unto  ee 97tt.                                 assotteeahan-d li-br Isbee
if hieeh-co-1rd-t-ece  utter acpiusa uT caaca   fasir plaitia  Irge.sa  pbhlir pa  tha...ssed poiiu;eoa    niceiaftrreen
Tssiotlseltelssr  hircei-oartdoaj faruer--genfsarriad                                        teIenisca   ne_reesaiaatoaTseesiffet
...tatchldhsclg ate lit-A4 near)  htous  hirht-coec  deulua  tetcccncroua  o  erruas eel cf                                                    -ths the  --soge ca-
all a-erad -.easi  as I     las.   t-up                                                           Iuate   ef  dail  s.esre  i.neares  ese.paper. da....ed.s.periadbca
publictice dente  pri-rlly ii r-rdieggnea  isca                     It  -ssi'de-ed
PLOOD lee-Ts ITgWlta  be  'desic   if ft appears as le..i fea.                                                                                         tessek
predaoectu cPall ipd opseeiesa. Peaductet ealadas seed sod Teed sod                 iicer  sld daIeg the yae_  le isdttdeiasiee  adOrin-it  ices
Ieueaeea   y.s   ei. t-i_        edtriesuaceterpodjg. sagar...                                    stdehilstit..
Ist'ead of sgrt       iher e dblhes-d car -isc             -,et   jet. ct"fes sed
eeaares-rldedj.  Agg,reta  ta  rd_citofsuthar--eceertbabsedo -LAsPiPORE
nationl  -ee       rd-uce   _erraigt    1961-Pb. 1900, aid 1979 dat.-                           fetal k.ab- Fre (ethec...idap  -.t..s.eicalip  Itie leses.as dieg
-sery eqot_efis         f si  od eple   clsl              rdt par nsptta                        ror_rie  pealia  ni all ages.  ait.t..... lina ......  ea.s.t..            ar
oa  day.totbl   Istis    acs                ssi                   I.....ic . ispoe       -~sieep-rshia   In-, tOfu end 197  dat.-
eeot,adhsgsntt                k.   e-lsdrplies     ellateitad ecds                                                               f-aserce)Tslesetcess  pteratgecelt-iislttorurc
tsctesadin fond or-esie,  sod 1o--e tr Ostihut -.Psire                               e etr   rrer   -fIirtrs  nPrtp                          .ary  hpigsd
h      -isei   lol ldc-b,F 197,  rd197                                                                                                                      19a7ito  ndltf  dte
Petycpt  aeoo  oeenjns   a  deyd                 - Pcht-ieceetsrc  at pa..cap.t                ray .drti  ettrt    ctene_ 7 - icee, el.  et   fal -ratf .p..i...
sasece   a  all . cassris   siabilahad by flEA preide for eisa-                          p.r.set.pge uf 'ite  sal  and tfisle popalariohf c           1 .... ages  epe-ti-ly;
sl fssec   oPg-.as fott.tsie'o_eysp-rdyed.,        ftdRsas-otapss960l1970 ltlIl.adl197dsaa.  Tha.a.   baaedorth  LO,pa  etiarpsriosrata
ociac pr-iee.  of aith 10  -ras  eh-cd he  tisal proeic.  fTh. -s.sad-                          relste   tesaserur-fteppisie   s   ctteredg
Ird,saloecberos    7tOprs                -fsr            - ystiadl23aressf                     teeiasaefeotat ionisca.
acId Food St-es; 196l-65, 19f0 ard 19ff data                                                       theha  o IF   h   force.
Pertasias     -ttessspy_ f- -sesls   poise--   yretetaa-plnf freside-
r-d ero  s-icsi   an    Icsst.  pe-ae  d.y; iti1-6t.  1970 and i9f7 dets.                 Ltcfyptim~~o
tsedata d-ri-d  c-  tlef tables; 19t0, 1970 atd 1979 data                                      of heusefted h
pzsg.                                                                                             Ioleo T-iiO un -r
LifeEpcecallcf,nas      crp  tabe  of fear  at lIfe  -eatiep~                              ~       eosflsep           sas are-"    oar .aprelst   ecasa  uPpnau -tl
at birth;  .9.. 197  aid iPtdt,sdab9dt   neyrrdat   os9aalcol
Intf-tMt-rt9isre.si (e7otho....ed) - Ah ...lnmathso~ftetut               dece-oeyrar. n                   htaacdabslteycocer,ene lcstoijil .         e.tua-abiddcrl
of sac e-  itacased  IIe hite                                                                      haosprryacs   aa   see   onelplhlabicthipea
pplytgsfserssstoepp lsles.    .  .t ..e.sia   areas p.,               hilo,
boeapotadeeusaocaahofpatr   rshsasye                                                       praedlieafbeurr.lrhr  eolideiddr                                 -tcra
M.M.    L_dl_   1 t~~~~~~~~~~~d'   1Z                                   istatedPos-t-a tlanAtelIe roteect broad teei-je_rcee -1 ..b..
rssebeso         eacd   ol   ha   h    osetas   eaesi  tehaeol                                     n   aal-rtac   fpeiaae(rassdrra:acae  aals
tas-s h..er  at peep      --,-tu... t.ka        pad toosi   esendsO   by sa -ret   It thss  as                                           (b..d-.:h                     ..
if thir repectie reistl   he.  f-rt  diseas  sa   ileoladdIs~.   Dt
eraset  a rh...aIsae- r.opu-eun  ti..da ddbyehr o              f orti-icatyi-
aleaid feea1agS-d-aat...rsa practical nurassi,-



- 27 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million USi at                                           Annual Growth Rates (X)
Indicator                   current prices)                                  Actual                        c/               Projected d/
1978            1974       1975      1976       1977      1978       1979      1980       1981      1982     1983
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/        52,674            14.8       3.6        3.4       7.7        6.6       7.1        4.1       4.3       4.4       4.0
Agriculture                     6,595             5.6      -6.6        9.6       5.3        5.0       5.5        4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0
Industry                       22,415            17.5       6.8        3.9       9.5        8.7       8.6       4.5        4.8       5.1       5.1
Services                       18,019             3.0       4.3       0.2        6.1        9.2       5.2       3.7        3.7       3.7       3.7
Consumption                      41,531            20.7       0.9       -2.2      10.7        5.0       5.6        3.9       3.7        3.8      3.9
Gross investment                 17,561             8.6       8.8        6.0      12.4        9.7      15.7      -1.3        1.2        2.8      2.7
Exports of GNFS                   8,655             2.2      -8.3       10.6      -4.4       -1.0       8.0        7.9       7.9        7.9      7.9
Imports of GNFS                  12,247            12.7      -8.1       -5.0      12.5        0.0      18.5      -0.3        1.7        3.2      3.5
Iross national savings           14,977            -5.2       8.2       14.6      -0.6         -         -          -         -         -         -
PRICES
CDP deflator                        252.7         134.9     164.3      201.4     221.5      252.7     312.8         -         -         -         -
Fxchange rate                        18.6          15.9      17.4       18.2      18.3       18.6      19.0         -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                                       Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices) b/                                            (at constant 1972 prices)
1960     1970      1975      1980      1985       1990                1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85  1985-90
Gross Domestic Product         100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0      100.0     100.0                  5.9        6.5       5.6       4.5       6.5
Agriculture                   22.5     16.1       13.9     12.6       12.2      10.9                  3.3        2.9       3.9       4.0       4.0
Industry                      42.2     37.4      43.8      43.7      45.2       48.7                  6.3       8.3        6.4        5.2      8.1
Services                      29.0     38.1       33.6     34.2       33.1      30.9                  6.9       4.7        4.9       3.8       5.0
Conssmption                     67.2     72.8       74.3     78.4       75.7      72.3                  6.5        6.9       4.0        3.8      5.5
Gross investment                36.5     32.3       33.0     31.4       29.0      28.8                  4.7        5.5       7.0        2.8      6.3
Exporto CNFS                    13.9      18.5      20.4     18.7       22.0      23.6                 10.2        6.7       0.9        7.9      8.0
Imports GNFS                    17.5     23.5       27.7     28.3       26.2      24.6                  9.8       6.7        3.0       3.3       4.9
Gross national savings            32.6     29.6       29.9       -          -         -                   5.3        6.2        -          -        -
As % of GDP
1960     1970      1975
PUBLIC FINANCE
Total revenues                    -      33.1       36.8
Total expenditures                -      33.2       37.2
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)        -       0.1       -0.4
Foreign financing                 -       0.0       -0.4
1960-70  1970-75    1975-80  1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (2)              6.1       6.7       6.0      4.2        6.2
GNP per capita growth rate       5.0      6.6        5.0       3.3       5.3
ICOR                             5.4      4.6        5.8      6.8        4.6
Import elasticity                1.6      1.0        0.5      0.7        0.8
a/  At market priccs; compon-nts are expresned at factor costs and  ill not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/  Projected years at constant prices.
cj  Estimate.
d/ Projections do not reflect Yugoslav targets for the draft 1981-35 Plan; these will be evaluated by a Bank nission once the plan
has been finalized.
EMENA IC
June 4, 1980



-28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA -EXTERNAL TRADE
Amo nt                                                         Ansual Growth Rates (I)
(million 1US$ at                                                  (at constant 1972 pr ices)
Indicator                       --ren   prices)                                        Actual                             eiProje-cted  fi                     ~
1978               1974       1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982       1983
EXTERNAL TRADE
l4n-handise  -oport                    5,671               0.0         0.0        14.5        -5.3         1.0         0.0         7.9         7.8        7.9        7.9
Pri.ary .2/                         1,304             -10.8        -3.1        16.6         3.9         1.5         2.7         7.6         7.4         7.5       7.6
Ma-ofact.res b/                     4,637                3.5        0.4        13.9        -8.8         0.8        -3.0         8.0         8.0         8.0        8.0
Merhandise  imports                    9,988              16.9        -2.8        -6.5        18.5         3.8         8.0        0.0         1.9         3.5        4.0
Food                                   605             13.6       -40.9        45.8         4.3       -24.2        56.7         0.0         2.0        4.0         5.0
Petrole.m c/                        1,432             -11.4        -5.0        18.1        12.0        11.6        10.6         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Oachi-ey aod equipmen.t             3,634              16.4        22.3        -8.8        17.8         7.1        22.7         0.8         2.0         3.5       4.5
Others                              4,317              22.2       -11.9       -12.7        22.1         4.4        13.1         0.0         2.0         4.0       4.0
PRICES
Roport price  index                                      158         172         188        202         220         253         276.1       301.3       325.6     348.5
Isport price index                      1972    100     175         184         189         216         226         269         277.0       304.2      329.0      351.7
Tere-  of trade index                                     90.3        93.5       95.2        93.5        97.3        94.0        99.7        99.0        99.0       99.0
Composition of Merchandise  (1                                                   Averge Annual  Increse (2)
(at correot prices) d/                                                       lot cosotuot 1972 prices)
1960        1970       1975        1988        1985        1990                   1960-70    1970-75   1975-80   1980-85  1985-90
Exports                                        100.0       100.0       100.0       080.0       100.0       100.0                     8.1        5.7         3.6        7.9        8.0
Prim-y a!                                    49.6         29.4        19.5       24.6        24.3        24.3                      -         -1.3         5.0        7.6       8.0
Man.fact-res h/                               50.4        70.6        80.5        75.4       75.7        75.7                      -          8.1         2.9        8.0        8.0
Imports                                        100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0                     9.0         7.4        4.5        3.7        5.2
Food                                           9.1         7.2         5.5         5.6         5.7        6.0                      -          5.0        -0.2        4.3       6.4
Petr-le.n..                                    5.4         4.8        12.3         6.6         3.5        4.9                      -          8.2         6.5        0.0       3.0
Machiney aod equipment                        36.8        33.2        33.9       4 2.6       43.7        45.3                      -          9.4         9.2        4.2        6.0
Oth-r                                         48.7        54.8       48.3        45.3        45.1        43.8                      -          6.0         2.0        3.7       4.6
Share of Trade with                       Shore of Trade with
Industrial Countries (2            Developing Countries()             Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (2)   Centrally Plann.ed Economes(2
1965      1970       1975          1965       1970   1  1975             1965       1970       1975                 1965       1970       1976
DIRECTION OP TRADE
Exports                            40.1       53.3       34.0          17.4       13.6      16.8              0.4        0.7       2.1                 42.1       32.4       47.1
Primary                          61.0      70.2       54.0           9.1        8.2        8.9             0.2        0.2        1.9                 2 9. 7     21.4      35.2
Manufactures                     24.0      41.9       26.0           23.8      17.2       20.0              0.6        1.0       2.1                 51.6       39.9       51.9
Imports                            55.3       66.1      59.1           16.0      12.7       15,7              0.1       0.1        0.6                 28.6       21.1       24.6
a!  SITC 0-4
i6/ SITC 5-8
c S ITC 3; includes lubricat., cool and electricity.
d/Projected years at constant pri,e..
e/Estimates owing to changes in naIixig trade, componentu do not add up to totals, nor do aggregate  price and volume  indices equal value growth between
1078 and 1979 oh.o- mono.t table.
f/  Projections do sot reflect Yug..laO  targets  for the dr-ft 1981-85 Plan; thene will be evaluated by a Bask missio.n-oc   the plan has bees  finali.ed.
ENENA IC
June 4, 1980



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DENT
(uS$  illiwes)
Indicator                                                                    Actual                                                                    Projected
1970       1974        1975        1976        1977       1978       1979        1980        1981       1982        1983        1985        1990
hALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                   2,967       7,410      8,172       9,282      10,074      11,685     14,276    15,435       17,936      20,674     23,653      30,785      56,909
of which:  Merchondise f.o..b                 1,680      3,805       4,072       4,878       5,254       5,671      6,794      8,115       9,549     11,131      12,856      17,064      33,795
Imports of goods and sorvic.s                   3,368      8,600       9,175       9,112      11,656      12,702     17,937    18,827       21,306      24,069     26,944      33,589      58,059
of which:  Merchandise c.i.f,                 2,874      7,520       7,697       7,367       9,634      9,988      14,019    15,692       17,553     19,655      21,855      27,059     47,374
Bet transfera                                      61           -           -          -           -           -           -         -           -           -           -          -           -
Currnnt accoun balance a/                        -340     -1,190      -1,003         170      -1,582      -1,017     -3,661    -3,392       -3,370     -3,395      -3,290      -2,804      -1,150
Private direoctinvestmenet                          -           -          -           -           -           -                     -           -           -          -           -           -
MLT Iono loot)                                    210        482       1,076       1,093       1,402       1,158       1,009     3,955       4,061       4,223      4,416       4,059       3,245
Official                                         55        232         328         427         240         135          -         64          91         154        145         138          64
155        250         748         666       1,162       1,815          -      3,891       3,970      4,068       4,271       3,921       3,182
O)rhor capitol                                    -81         270         127        -47         -19         182         782      -178        -231        -290        -501       -613        -767
Ch-ge inresorves                                  186        438        -200      -1,211         199        -315      1,870       -386        -461        -538       -625        -642      -1,329
Oncoonariooa 1 reserves                             -      1,609       1,809       3,020       2,821      3,136       1,968      2,203       2,663       3,201      3,826       5,038      10,886
Of ahich:  Gold                                   -         62          62          62          64          69         73
Reser--s as months imports                                      2.2         2.4        4.0         2.9         3.0         1.3       1.4         1.5         1.6         1.7        1.8         2.3
EXTEREAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross dishbrsemerns                               640       1,426      2,171       2,096       2,665       2,700       2,438     5,367       5,793       6,519      7,300       8,662      11,679
Offictl   ras                                     -           -          -           -           -           -           -         -           -           -          -           -           -
cnce--c..I o   -loans                            67        170         134         134         159          29          13        12
DAC                                             0        135          71          62          66         11          11         11           -           -          -           -           -
OPEC                                            -          -           -           -           -           -          -          -           -           -          -           -           -
IDA                                             -          -           -           -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -           -
Other                                          67         35          63          72          93         18           2          1
No-conc-ssi.nal  coan,                          570      1,256       2,037       1,962       2,506      2,671       2,425      5,355       5,793      6,519       7,300       8,662      11,679
Officiol topcrt crcdits                        39        134         203         283          75         74           -         66          96         115        127         146         188
IORD                                          37          90         154         119         133        180         294        281         326        349         359         360         389
Ot6r molcilateral                              -          -           -           -           -           8         24         24          12           -          -           -           -
Private                                      497       1,032       1,680       1,560       2,298      2,409       2,107      4,983       5,359      6,055       6,814       8,157      11,102
Yugoslav e-port credit (ret)                     (-35)      (-130)       (-80)     (-100)      (-213)      (-130)      (-130)    (-177)      (-230)      (-290)      (-501)     (-613)      (-766)
Com-a.I debt
Deht outstanding and c/
dishursed                                   1,933      4,926       5,820       7,145       8,946     11,014      13,645    16,129       20,190     24,412      28,289      37,143      57,172
Official                                      885      1,647       1,934       2,395       2,712      2,960       3,326      3,023       3,115       3,269      3,414       3,739       4,278
Private                                    1,048       3,279       3,806       4,750      6.234       8,054      10,319    13,106      17,075      21,143      25,415      33,404     52,093
UOdcnb-rsed debc                                 na.    1,262        2,784       2,551       3,212        s.s.      1,056      1,268       1,281      1,303       1,355       1,455       1,151
DebL service
Total nervice p.y.n..t                          503      1,217       1,437       1,440       1.612      1,865       2,120      2,046       2,720      3,653       4,619       7,105      12,583
Interstr                                     128         285         343         364        381         455         816        634        988       1,358       1,735       2,502      4,149
Poymentsas 7.xpcrts                              16.9        16.4       17.6        15.5        16.0        15.9       14.9       13.3        15.2        17.7       19.5        23.1        22.1
A       interest rate                               ; no  loans (21  7.1  6.4  8.1     7.1         7.4         7.7         8.0       8.0         8.1         8.1         8.1        8.0         8.1
Oficial                                           7.0         6.0         8.3        7.0         7.3         7.7         -         -           _     -                -           -           -
Private                                           7.5        10.5         7.5        8.6         9.3        -           -          -           -           -          -
A-e-go nat-rcty of sow  coans I y-r-)              1I.5       I.O         15.2        18.3       15.4        15.1        10.8      10.4        10.1        10.1        10.1       10.0         9.8
Official                                         18.5        19.0        16.5       00.0        15.9        15.1         -         -
Pr,aote                                          10.9         8.1       10.9         5.7         7.5         -
a!  Onotd ---strnaten cf he -curront -ccoont defitit is $2,200 tn. for 1980.  Projections to 1985 do not refl-ct
Yugonlon targets fcr the draft 1981-85 Five Y..  Plow: the-e sill be cosloated by a Blok mission .onc  tho
plan has boee ficalized.
b/  Incladed esti-ated for-figw  otets of co-sercial bIhos.
c/  Etterca1 bo-rowig repcrted in the histori-al balance of payote  is not c-niteot with esters-1 debt date.                                                                EMENA IC
Debt shown at at end of period.                                                                                                                                      Jane 4, 1980



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of April 30, 1981)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-seven Loans fully disbursed                                 782.64
777    1971   SFRY                          Multipurpose Water   45.00    1.77
894    1973   Stopanska Bank Skopje         Agricultural
Industries           31.00    0.10
916    1973   Naftagas                      Gas Pipeline           59.40   19.85
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways               93.00    2.24
1060    1974   Port of Bar                   Harbor Expansion       44.00    4.20
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater            6.00    1.85
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka            Agricultural
Credit               50.00    0.74
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod        Pipeline               48.40    0.03
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.00    5.36
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage              45.00   13.12
1264    1976   barajevo Gas Enterprise       Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit          Control               38.00    7.62
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
itopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka   Second Industrial
Pristina                     Credit                50.00    3.80
1360    1977   Management Organization       Multipurpose
"Metohija"                   Water                 54.00   44.59
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka            Agriculture
Titograd                     Industries            26.00    8.18
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka bkopje        Agriculture
Industries           24.00   14.41
1377    1977   Road Organizations in
Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia, Macedonia, and
Kosovo                      Roads                  56.00    0.19
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in      Second Power
each Republic                Transmission          80.00   31.02



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose             Bank  Undisbursed
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka            Second Agricul-
tural Credit         75.00      57.34
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways              100.00     13.29
1535    1978   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia and
Serbia                      Roads                  80.00     15.52
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine         Hydro Power            73.00     40.0
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina       Third Industrial
Credit               40.00      15.26
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.00       5.75
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.00      13.16
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka            Fourth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit                20.00      4.47
1616    1978   btopanska Banka Skopje        Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.00     59.01
1621    1978   Privredna Banka               Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                     Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.00      52.17
1678    1979   Roads Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and Macedonia        Roads                148.00      79.51
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka              Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.00      51.00
1759    1979   Road Organization of          Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                    ilitation-
Highways             21.00      13.48
1768    1979   Port of Bar                   Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar               50.00      48.93
1769    1979   Railway Organization          Earthquake Rebab-
of Montenegro                ilitation-
Railways             14.00      12.45
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka            Third Agricultural
Credit               86.00     85.76
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
blovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina       Roads                125.00    125.00



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)           Purpose             Bank  Undisbursed
1909a/  1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Fifth Industrial
Credit               50.00      50.00
1910a/  1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit               30.00      30.00
1911a/  1980   Investiciona Banka             Fifth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit                20.00      20.00
1912a/  1980   btopanska Banka                Fifth Industrial
bkopje                        Credit                10.00     10.00
1951a/  1981   Investbanka                    Agriculture and
Agroindustries       87.00      87.00
1977a/  1981   Pristina Railway               Kosovo Railway
Transport Organization                              34.00      34.00
Total (less cancellation)                                2,843.30  1,082.18
of wbich has been repaid                                  364.21
Total now outstanding                                    2,479.09
Amount sold                              9.21
of which: Amount repaid                 8.53                 0.68
Total now held by Bank                                   2,478.41
Total undisbursed                                                   1,082.18
a/  Not yet effective.
Note:   A loan of $90 million to Kosovska Banka Pristina for a Kosovo
Agricultural Development Project was approved subsequent to the above
date of Statement A.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at April 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                         Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                      Business          Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment              Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia          Corporation         -      2.0      2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                         Industry         12.4      0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry             9.2      0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-           Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                            Industry         16.3      0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                         Tires             12.5      2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira           Pulp and Paper   71.5       -      71.5
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO              Special Steel    10.0       -      10.0
1974   salonit Anhovo                        Cement Plant      10.0      -      10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                            Steel             50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                      Processing        4.0      2.4      6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6     2.6    18.2
1978   boko-Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors       7.0     -        7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                     Tourism           21.0      -       21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                         Macbinery          18.7      -      18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial           Small-Scale
Banks                               Enterprises      30.8      -       30.8
Total Gross Commitments                               289.0    11.8   300.8
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                            149.5      5.2   154.7
Total commitments held by IFC                          139.5     6.6   146.1
Total Undisbursed                                       96.2     0.8    97.0



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The main dam is completed and the reservoir is filled. About
one-third of the irrigation network has been completed with the remainder
expected to be completed by end-1981. Project costs have been substantially
above appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by
the Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. After a delay of about
five years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which is
assisting in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
individual sector. In the absence of land consolidation, on farm
development and use of sprinkler irrigation have been slow. Recently,
organizational arrangements and revised schedule of implementation were
agreed upon, with irrigation of about 400 ha in 1981.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25
1973: Effective Date: November 28, 1973: Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The costs of equipment and civil works had increased by end 1975
by about 71% over the appraisal estimate. As a result of this and of a
reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the project was
redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116). Pbase I is a
reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a pipeline
extension to link up with the pipeline constructed under the Sarajevo Air
Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing was
obtained. Naftagas obtained additional local currency financing required
for Phases I and II. A delay of more than three years in project
implementaion has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. While two of the three sections have been
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
completed and gas deliveries have commenced, the third section has been
delayed due to the reorganization of the borrower and a consequent change in
project administration of the third section which is now scheduled for
completion by late 1982. This change in project administration for the
third section was approved by the Executive Directors in November 1980
(becond Amendment to Loan 916-YU, November 14, 1980, R80-324).
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974: Effective
Date; February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items had been expected by end 1979. However, the
earthquakes of April/May 1979 in Montenegro resulted in severe damage to
port installations, particularly in the older parts of the port, caused
further delays but works are now proceeding. Closing date has been extended
to December 31, 1981 to permit completion of works.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about two years behind schedule. Services to the Bank
financed Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in
time for its initial operation and remaining water supply component has now
been completed. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage
component.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975;
Effective Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
The regional development study undertaken under this project has
provided the basis for the preparation of the proposed Second Morava
Regional Development Project. The flood control and water quality studies
are progressing satisfactorily after initial delays in selecting
consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 2 years behind
schedule due to foundation, design and construction problems which, however,
are being overcome by intensified efforts of the borrower in the supervision
of the contractor and consultation with the panel of experts. Construction
is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak and Titovo Uzice
components, the remainder are well advanced. Feasibility studies on sewage
treatment plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice have been completed. The pilot
irrigation components which were delayed pending the establishment of
suitable monitoring arrangements, are underway. The creation of the
Republic Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer than
anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been
strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the
Republic Water Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June
8, 1976; Effective Date; November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
Construction of the water distribution system and sewage
collection is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed by mid
1981. Construction of the sewerage treatment plan is underway and expected
to be completed by early 1982.
Loan 1264 sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The gas transmission line has been completed and initital
deliveries of gas began in December 1979, one year later than originally
planned. Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the supply of gas were
the major cause of delay. Construction of the gas distribution network and
high presssure loop-line around the city of Sarajevo is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan 1277 second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed.
Disbursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal estimates. Closing
Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1981 to meet payments under
existing orders and letters of credit.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date; July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Construction of the dam, intake weir and feeder canal are
progressing satisfactorily and overall project progress is about one year
behind schedule. Awards of otber procurement contracts are underway and it
is expected that by mid-1981 all major contracts would have been awarded. A
demonstration irrigation farm of 32 ha involving 28 farmers has been bighly
successful.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Effective Date; July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Progress of all major works is satisfactory. The winery and the
cold store are completed. Plantations of vineyards and orchards are on
schedule. Irrigation works are nearly completed.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27,1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1982.
sub-loans for all seven agro-industrial sub-projects have been
approved by the Borrower and loan proceeds for the individual sector have
also been fully committed. Progress in project implementation is slower
than expected due primarily to slow processing of bids and contract
finalization.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway; US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date; December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 90% of the loan amount have been let and
physical execution is underway on the most critical sub-stations and lines.
The tariff study and most of the least cost development study have been
submitted to the Bank. Delays continue to be experienced regarding
management studies, revised interrepublc agreement on joint operations,
remaining portion of least cost development study and securing of foreign
financing for balance of items to be imported.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
All participating banks have identified the main investors. About
95% of loan proceeds have been committed and in the social sector, all
agroindustry investments are in the procurement or implementation phase;
however, the project is about one year behind appraisal estimates. Measures
to speed-up disbursements and overall project implementation are being
discussed with the participating banks. The project monitoring and
evaluation system is working satisfactorily.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bank financed investments are progressing well. The level of
compensation payments is however increasing and substantial tariff increases
have failed to keep pace with inflation. Disbursements are on schedule.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Croatia section opened to traffic ahead of schedule. Slovenia and
berbia sections expected to be completed by fall 1981. Disbursement rate is
satisfactory.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date; June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 75% of the loan amount
have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively problem
free. However, Part B of the project (Mostar power plant), which is not
Bank financed, has been delayed primarily due to additional studies needed
concerning site geology and additional time needed to complete financing.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Commitments to date are about $35.0 million of which about $10.0
million is for special projects. The remainder will be committed for a
turther single special project (lead smelter), which is now in final stages
of preparation. Disbursements are now in line with appraisal estimates.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourtb Industrial Credit: $20.0 million eacb
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1982.
Loans 1612 and 1614 are almost fully committed. Slower commitment
of Loan 1613 was due to the Borrower underestimating time for completion of
project preparation. Commitment process has now been accelerated.
Disbursements for Loans 1612 and 1614 are well abead of the disbursements
expected at appraisal, while Loan 1613 is substantially behind.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation; US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Construction of the dam, alimentation canal, main canal and
irrigation network are underway. Thermal pipeline, diversion tunnel and
coffer dam construction have been completed.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Sub-project approval and processing of tender documents have been
proceeding more slowly than expected at appraisal. About 40% of loan has
been committed. Substantial cost overruns may necessitate a reduction in
scope of the project.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date; August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The five participating Republics/Provinces have awarded 63
construction contracts, 40 of which have Bank financing. Disbursements are
somewhat ahead of schedule.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage; US$51 million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Contract documents for procurement of drainage works has been
prepared. Consultants have been appointed to study and monitor sub-surface
drainage. Progress, although somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory, but
disbursements are lagging behind appraisal estimates but are expected to
improve following recent strengthening of staff engaged in processing
withdrawal applications.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Highways: US$21 million
Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 19, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project on schedule, emergency works completed and contracting for
restoration works completed with some works in progress.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980;
Closing Date; December 31, 1982.
Project implementation about nine months behind schedule due to
delays in preparation of final designs and bidding documents.
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rebabilitation - Railways: US$14 million loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $1.5 million for urgent reconstruction
works have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been
slow and disbursements are behind schedule.
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: Ub$86 million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
About 35% of the loan has been committed.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Slovenia and Serbia have completed pre-qualification of
contractors, called for bids and completed analysis. Croatia and Vojvodina
contracts have been approved by Bank. Consultant for toll study bas been
selected. CRO and ITE co-sponsoring Highway Safety Conference in Yugoslavia
October, 1981. Co-financing was obtained for an amount of US$110 million in
October, 1980 (see Semi-Monthly Report to the Executive Directors, R80-299).
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit: $50.0, $30.0, $20.0
and $10.0 million, respectively, Loans of February 9, 1981;
Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Dates: October 31, 1984
Terminal date for declaring the loans effective is July 15, 1981.
sub-project identification and preparation is at an advanced stage.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan 1951 Morava Regional Development II: $87 million loan of April 13,
1981; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date; December
31, 1986
Terminal date for declaring the loan effective is August 14, 1981.
Out of 12 agroindustry sub-projects for wbich bids were invited, bids have
been opened for 11, and award of contract made for 6.
Loan 1977 Kosovo Railway: $34.0 Million loan of May 15, 1981; Effective
Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Terminal date for declaring loan effective is September 15, 1981.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA: MACEDONIA III AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare               13 months
the Project;                                       (January 1979 to January
1980)
(b)  Agencies whicb prepared Project:                  SBS with assistance from
Yugoslav consultants.
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:                  February 1980
(d)  First Bank mission to review Project:             April 1980
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                   September 1980
(t)  Completion of negotiations:                       May 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    November 1981
bection II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Retroactive financing of expenditures of up to US$2.0 million is
recommended to avoid delays in project implementation and to achieve one
earlier crop year (see para. 69).
bection III: Special Conditions
(a) As a condition of effectiveness, the agreement among SBS, its basic
banks and other relevant organizations related to their mutual
responsibilities (including the provision of funds) to the
individual sector to be concluded (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01,
paras. 52 and 78 of this Report);
(b) Terms of sub-loans to be related to cash flow projections of the
investments (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 3(C), para. 64 of
this Report); the interest rate for on-lending under the project
would vary by source: (i) on-lending rate for most of Bank funds
would be a minimum of 11%, (ii) on-lending rate for SBS' own
internal funds would be a minimum of 10%, and (iii) special
development funds on-lent by SBS would be at rates in accordance
with the prevailing rates set by the Macedonian authorities
(currently between 4 and 7%) (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para.
3(B), para. 65 of this Report);



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) bBb to institute a set of project evaluation procedures (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05 (b) and (c), para. 60 of this Report);
(d) bBS would engage qualified and experienced consultants to (i)
prepare by December 31, 1981, a feasibility study regarding a pilot
biogas plant (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (b) and (c), para. 58 of
this Report); (ii) prepare by December 31, 1982, a feasability study
regarding geothermal water development (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02, para. 58 of this Report); and (iii) prepare by June 30, 1983,
the first of the annual project evaluation reports (Loan Agreement,
bection 3.05 (b), para. 60 of this Report); and
(e) bBS to submit a training program for Bank review (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.02, para. 52 of this Report);






IBRD 15449
210                                   220                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~230  JANUARY 1981
S E R BIA   ~''    .p--                                                                                                             YUGOSLAVIA
C  ~~~~~~~. ~~~BULGARIA                                                             MACEDONIAEI[
K 0  S 0  V 0                                   XrN1  KM4TSt                                                                                      AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~T -f-k Suigbieareas
~8   24,4                                            2870h  Total irrigable net area
31 t                                                --%.                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,570h   Presently commanded net area
K""                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~14,00 ho Development potential with planning
22  ~     ~        ~       BEALIA                  Komenica       Npriority (Net area)
RSopka  Teto   -                                                                 60200 ho ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1.--d-420-
4e  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TBooord~.-Rivers
2747      SKOPJ                                                       706 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120  h                                             753   Spot elevations in meters
Paved roads
'~~~~~~~748     A                                                                                               - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Gravel roads
SKOPSKO  4  OtIOOQV           SvetWI Ni  le                                                                               Earth roads
P_____G                                                                                                         Kr- p..s    Autonomous province boundary
1348       -  .. -   Republic boundary
ho                                                                                                International boundary~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .Itentoalbudr
Beroevo
A               35,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~'~TRUMICA                                                        SUMMARY
Gra sk~~~~  11.700 ho  ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ,    8:4600 ha                       311,000 ha 100%   Total irrigable net area
a                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90,000 ha  29%   Presently commanded net area
A0                                   Aol116,000 ha  37%  Development potential with
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~evo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~planning priority (Net area)
D,                                                                   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~06,000 ha  34%  Development potential without
Kavadart~~~  h~~4,9         strymic                                                    planning priority (Net area)
L. ova ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~VLAOV                                                                         hhhot
6,0POLEj   '-.f  0K,,.1, Do                                             I  "'A'..      k,
~82z   ~  'N0,~J                           "-~ riI,ooobonno
410                                           APOII et~~~~,25  h
A~~~~~At
2,800p ha                                                              -ilonKekir
ALANA                                                                                                                    2023



