                                           CONFORMED COPY


                                       LOAN NUMBER 7988-GT




      Loan Agreement
  (Emergency Support to Social Services Project)



                     between



         REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA


                       and



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
           AND DEVELOPMENT




            Dated December 16, 2011
                                LOAN AGREEMENT

       Agreement dated December 16, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
(“Borrower?) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank?). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:


ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix 1 to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix 1 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars
        ($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
        Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement (“Loan?), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
        this Agreement (“Project?).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
        provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
        the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
        such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
        amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
        payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
        Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
        General Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
                of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
                (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
                amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
                Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
                portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
                from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
                Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
                Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
                all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
                outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
                Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion?, as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.

2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
        accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate
        basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the
        aggregate equal or exceed ten million Dollars ($10,000,000 ) shall be converted
        from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount
        in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the
        Conversion Guidelines.

                             ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
        end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through MINFIN, in accordance
        with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
        ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


                                           -2-
               ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
        the Operational Manual has been issued by the Borrower.

4.02.   Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
        Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
        case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan
        which expire on June 8, 2012.

                ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance.

5.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

        Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
        8a Avenida y 21 Calle
        Centro Cívico, Zona 1
        Guatemala, Guatemala, C.A.

        Telephone:                        Facsimile:

        (502) 23228888                    (502) 23228888 Ext. 11845

5.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:                 Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or         1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.         64145(MCI)




                                            -3-
           AGREED at San Salvador, El Salvador, as of the day and year first above
written.


                                REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA


                                By /s/ Alfredo del Cid Pinillos


                                                        Authorized Representative


                                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                                By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo

                                                        Authorized Representative




                                           -4-
                                      SCHEDULE 1

                                   Project Description

        The objective of the Project is to preserve health and education services
following severe flooding and other natural disasters that took place in the territory of the
Borrower between May and September 2010.

        The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A. Preserving Basic Education Services

        Supporting the Recovery Plan by preserving Basic Education services for
vulnerable children living in Selected Municipalities, through the financing of Salaries of
teachers and Facilitators.

Part B. Preserving Coverage of Health Care Services

        Supporting the Recovery Plan by preserving the three levels of health care and
emergency services (primary, secondary and tertiary) in Selected Municipalities, through
the financing of Salaries of Health Care Workers.

Part C. Project Management and Monitoring

        Supporting DCP in the coordination of the administrative and financial
management aspects of the Project, through the financing of consultants’ services,
including the financing of Project audits.




                                            -5-
                                     SCHEDULE 2

                                   Project Execution

Section I.     Implementation Arrangements

A.      Overall Project Implementation and Coordination

1.      The Borrower, through MINFIN, shall:

        (a)    maintain at all times during Project implementation the DCP as the
               Project coordination unit with staff with qualifications, experience,
               functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter
               alia, the responsibility to assist the Borrower in the coordination,
               implementation, monitoring and supervision of the Project.

        (b)    ensure, until the completion of the Project, the efficient coordination
               between: (i) the DCP and MINEDUC with respect to Part A of the
               Project, including, inter alia, the responsibility of MINEDUC to submit
               the financial information required for the Borrower to comply with its
               obligations under this Agreement; and (ii) the DCP and MSPAS with
               respect to Part B of the Project, including, inter alia, the responsibility of
               MSPAS to submit the financial information required for the Borrower to
               comply with its obligations under this Agreement.

B.      Operational Manual

1.      The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational
        manual, acceptable to the Bank (the “Operational Manual?), said manual to
        include, inter alia:

        (a)    Project implementation procedures and guidelines and other related
               documents required for the execution of the Project;

        (b)    disbursement arrangements and flow of Project funds;

        (c)    monitoring indicators, including the procedures for the monitoring and
               evaluation of the Project, including the provisions of Section II of
               Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

        (d)    the procedures to ensure, until the completion of the Project, efficient
               coordination among DCP and MINEDUC and MSPAS;


                                           -6-
        (e)     the procedures for the review and approval of Loan withdrawal
                applications by the Bank;

        (f)     measures to ensure that indigenous peoples will have access to health
                and education services in a culturally appropriate manner; and

        (g)     the environmental management framework referred in Section D.1. (b)
                below.
2.      Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the
        Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or otherwise fail
        to enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.

3.      In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of
        this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

C.      Anti-Corruption

        The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

D.      Safeguards

1.      The Borrower shall:

        (a)     by no later than December 31, 2010 include specific activities in the
                Operational Manual ensuring that indigenous peoples will have access to
                health and education services in a culturally appropriate manner.

        (b)     by no later than December 31, 2010 adapt the EMF, in a manner
                satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia: (i) the mechanisms to
                strengthen compliance with national standards for health care waste
                management; (ii) the development of action plans to ensure compliance
                with the Borrower’s regulations; and (iii) measures to address the gaps in
                implementation or quality of implementation of the EMF.

Section II.     Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
        Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
        Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
        Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to

                                           -7-
        the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such
        report.

2.      For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
        execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
        be furnished to the Bank not later than six months following the Closing Date.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Borrower, through MINFIN, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a
        financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09
        of the General Conditions.

2.      Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
        prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than one
        month after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
        for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
        Bank.

3.      The Borrower, through MINFIN, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
        accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
        Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
        the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
        furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
        be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
        the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
        Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

2.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
        contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
        Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.




                                           -8-
B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

1.      Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
        2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
        basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
        specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
        Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan
        shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

         Procurement Method
         (a) Least Cost Selection
         (b) Selection based on the Consultants’ Qualifications
         (c) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
         for the Selection of Individual Consultants (IC)
         (d) Single Source Selection (SSS)

C.      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

       The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV.     Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.      General

1.      The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
        provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
        additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
        (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May
        2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
        Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
        forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2.      The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category?), the allocation of the
        amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
        financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.




                                           -9-
                                                                 Percentage of
                                Amount of the Loan            Expenditures to be
                                    Allocated                       financed
         Category               (expressed in USD)            (inclusive of Taxes)

 (1) Salaries of teachers              70,000,000                    100%
 and Facilitators under Part
 A of the Project
 (2) Salaries of Health Care           29,650,000                    100%
 Workers under Part B of
 the Project
 (3) Consultants’ services                  100,000                  100%
 under Part C of the Project
 (4) Front-end Fee                          250,000        Amount payable pursuant
                                                           to Section 2.03 of this
                                                           Agreement in accordance
                                                           with Section 2.07 (b) of
                                                           the General Conditions
 TOTAL AMOUNT                         100,000,000

B.     Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.     Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
       made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
       withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000,000 equivalent
       may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after May 27, 2010
       (but in no case more than one year prior to the date of this Agreement), for
       Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (2).

2.     The Closing Date is June 30, 2012.




                                        -10-
                                    SCHEDULE 3

                               Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
       percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
       Payment Date (“Installment Share?). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
       withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
       Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
       determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
       first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
       Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
       amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
       Conversion applies.

                  Principal Payment Date                      Installment Share
                                                          (Expressed as a Percentage)
        On each February 15 and August 15
               Beginning August 15, 2019
               through August 15, 2036                                2.78%
        On February 15, 2037                                          2.70%

2.     If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
       Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
       each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

       (a)     To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
               the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
               Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
               of this Schedule.

       (b)     Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
               repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
               withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
               amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
               the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
               Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share?)
               and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
               Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
               date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
               amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
               Conversion applies.


                                          -11-
3.   (a)    Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
            Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
            principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
            withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
            following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
            Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
            Date following the date of withdrawal.

     (b)    Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
            at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
            invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
            provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
            withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
     Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
     Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
     repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
     Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
     currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
     exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
     payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
     Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
     Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

5.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
     the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
     in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
     each such amount.




                                      -12-
                                    APPENDIX 1

Section I. Definitions

1.     “Anti-Corruption Guidelines? means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
       Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
       Credits and Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in
       Section III of this Appendix 1.

2.     “Basic Education? means primary (i.e., grades 1 through 6) and lower-secondary
       (i.e., grades 7 through 9) education levels.

3.     “Budgetary Classifications for the Public Sector Manual? means Manual de
       Clasificaciones Presupuestarias para el Sector Público de Guatemala, dated
       January 2008 and published by MINFIN on the Borrower’s website
       (www.minfin.gob.gt), as amended by Ministerial Decree No. 85-2009 dated
       December 30, 2009.

4.     “Category? means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
       this Agreement.

5.     “Civil Service Law? means Ley de Servicio Civil, Decree No. 1748, dated May 2,
       1968 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on May 23, 1968, as
       amended through October 14, 1975.

6.     “Consultant Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
       Consultants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the Bank in May 2004 and
       revised in October 2006 and May 2010.

7.     “DCP? means Dirección de Crédito Público, the Borrower’s Public Credit
       Directorate, a unit within the Borrower’s MINFIN referred to in Section I.A.1 of
       Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

8.     “EMF? means the Environmental Management Framework prepared for the
       Maternal and Infant Health and Nutrition Project (7357-GU), disclosed to the
       public on November 28, 2005, as amended with the prior approval of the Bank.

9.     “Facilitators? means permanent civil servant staff of MINEDUC in charge of
       facilitating the implementation of flexible modalities for lower secondary
       education (Telesecundaria), as described in Part 2.2 of the Project financed under
       the Loan Agreement dated April 12, 2008 between the Borrower and the Bank in
       support of the Education Quality and Secondary Education Project (7430-GU), as
       amended.

                                         -13-
10.   “General Conditions? means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
      Development General Conditions for Loans?, dated July 31, 2010, with the
      modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix 1.

11.   “Health Care Workers? means the personnel providing public health care
      services in the Selected Municipalities.

12.   “MINEDUC? means Ministerio de Educación, the Borrower’s Ministry of
      Education.

13.   “MINFIN? means Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas, the Borrower’s Ministry of
      Public Finance.

14.   “MSPAS? means Ministerio de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social, the
      Borrower’s Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare.

15.   “Municipality? means Municipio, a political subdivision of the Borrower.

16.   “Operational Manual? means the Borrower’s manual referred to in Section I.B of
      Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time
      with the agreement of the Bank.

17.   “Procurement Plan? means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
      dated November 10, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant
      Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with
      the provisions of said paragraphs.

18.   “Recovery Plan? means Plan de Reconstrucción con Transformación, the
      Borrower’s plan for recovery and reconstruction in response to the severe
      flooding and other natural disasters that took place in the territory of the
      Borrower between May and September 2010, dated October 11, 2010 and
      published by SEGEPLAN on the Borrower’s website (www.segeplan.gob.gt).

19.   “Salaries? means a reasonable fixed monthly payment made in exchange for the
      services rendered by civil servants of the Borrower working as teachers,
      Facilitators and/or Health Care Workers which: (i) have not been financed or
      agreed to be financed by any national or international financing institution or
      agency other than the Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) have not been financed
      or agreed to be financed by the Bank or the Association under another loan,
      credit, or grant, all of this in accordance with the Civil Service Law, the Salaries
      for the Public Administration Law, and the Budgetary Classifications for the
      Public Sector Manual.


                                         -14-
20.   “Salaries for the Public Administration Law? means Ley de Salarios de la
      Administración Pública, Decree No. 11-73, dated March 2, 1973 and published
      in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on March 7, 1973, as amended through
      December 27, 1985.

21.   “SEGEPLAN? means Secretaría de Planificación y Programación de la
      Presidencia, the Borrower’s Secretary of Planning and Programming of the
      Presidency.

22.   “Selected Municipalities? means the Borrower’s poorest municipalities with high
      levels of extreme poverty listed in Appendix 2 to this Agreement, as said list may
      be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank.




                                        -15-
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 is modified to read as follows:
        “Section 2.05. Eligible Expenditures
                …       (a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of
        goods, works, services or Salaries required for the Project, to be financed out of
        the proceeds of the Loan and procured, all in accordance with the provisions of
        the Legal Agreements;?

The definition of the term “Conversion Date? in paragraph 20 of the Appendix to the
       General Conditions is modified to read as follows:

                 “‘Conversion Date’ means, for a Conversion, the Execution Date or such
        other date as the Bank shall determine on which the Conversion enters into
        effect, as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines; provided that for a
        Conversion into the Approved Currency under Section 2. [08] of the Loan
        Agreement, the Conversion Date shall be the date of withdrawal from the Loan
        Account of the amount in respect of which the Conversion has been requested.?

Section III. Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines

The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:

1.      Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read
        as follows:

        “… (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be
        imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all
        other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that
        the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as
        a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual
        or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
        connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.?

2.      Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:

        “… (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and
        procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an
        individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower,
        individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of
        time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-

                                            -16-
       financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and
       (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or
       any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the
       Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in
       corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection
       with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
       entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
       declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made
       by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation
       of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a
       determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has
       engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with
       the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.?

Footnotes:

       “13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed
       contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the Bank’s sanctions
       policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early
       temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a
       sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment
       agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has
       engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use
       of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.?

       “14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of
       any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and
       agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines
       or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.?

       “15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose
       of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full
       set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal
       protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other
       financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website
       and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.?




                                             -17-
                                           APPENDIX 2

                                 List of Selected Municipalities


#      Department             Municipality                  #      Department        Municipality


1    Sololá         Santa Cruz La Laguna               66       Alta Verapaz    Panzós


2    Sololá         Santiago Atitlán                   67       Huehuetenango   Santa Eulalia


3    Quiché         San Bartolomé Jocotenango          68       Huehuetenango   San Mateo Ixtatán


4    Totonicapán    Santa Lucía La Reforma             69       Huehuetenango   Barillas


5    Chiquimula     Olopa                              70       Alta Verapaz    Senahú


6    Chiquimula     San Juan Ermita                    71       Alta Verapaz    Chahal


7    Totonicapán    Santa María Chiquimula             72       Alta Verapaz    Lanquín


8    Chiquimula     Jocotán                            73       Huehuetenango   Todos Santos
                                                                                Cuchumatán

9    Chiquimula     Camotán                            74       Huehuetenango   San Miguel Acatán


10   Alta Verapaz   Chisec                             75       Alta Verapaz    Tamahú


11   Alta Verapaz   Raxruhá                            76       Alta Verapaz    Tucurú


12   Alta Verapaz   Fray Bartolomé de las Casas        77       Quiché          Chajul


13   Alta Verapaz   Cahabón                            78       Quiché          San Antonio Ilotenango


14   Totonicapán    Momostenango                       79       Quiché          Zacualpa




                                                -18-
#      Department               Municipality                #      Department         Municipality

15   San Marcos      San José Ojetenam                 80       San Marcos       La Reforma


16   Huehuetenango   Tectitán                          81       San Marcos       San Miguel Ixtahuacán


17   Sololá          Santa Clara La Laguna             82       Sololá           Santa Catarina
                                                                                 Ixtahuacán

18   Sololá          San Juan La Laguna                83       Quiché           Joyabaj


19   Sololá          San Pablo La Laguna               84       Jalapa           San Pedro Pinula


20   Sololá          San Marcos La Laguna              85       Zacapa           La Unión


21   Huehuetenango   Cuilco                            86       Alta Verapaz     Tactic


22   San Marcos      Tajumulco                         87       Izabal           El Estor


23   Huehuetenango   Aguacatán                         88       Izabal           Livingston


24   San Marcos      Sibinal                           89       Huehuetenango    Santiago
                                                                                 Chimaltenango
25   Huehuetenango   La Democracia                     90       Quiché           Patzité


26   Huehuetenango   La Libertad                       91       Quiché           Chinique


27   San Marcos      Tejutla                           92       Quiché           San Juan Cotzal


     Huehuetenango   San Idelfonso Ixtahuacán                   Quiché           Nebaj
28                                                     93
29   San Marcos      Concepción Tutuapa                94       Quetzaltenango   Cabricán


30   San Marcos      Comitancillo                      95       Alta Verapaz     Santa Catalina La Tinta



                                                -19-
#      Department              Municipality                   #      Department         Municipality

31   Huehuetenango   San Pedro Necta                    96        Alta Verapaz     Santa Cruz Verapaz


32   San Marcos      Ixchiguán                          97        Sololá           San Lucas Tolimán


33   Totonicapán     San Bartolo Aguas Calientes        98        Quiché           Chichicastenango


34   Totonicapán     San Andrés Xecul                   99        Quetzaltenango   Cajolá


35   Totonicapán     Totonicapán                        100       Quetzaltenango   Palestina de Los Altos


36   Baja Verapaz    Rabinal                            101       Quetzaltenango   San Martín
                                                                                   Sacatepéquez
37   Baja Verapaz    Cubulco                            102       Jutiapa          Yupiltepeque


38   Totonicapán     San Cristóbal Totonicapán          103       Jutiapa          Zapotitlán


39   Totonicapán     San Francisco El Alto              104       Jutiapa          El Adelanto


40   Petén           Sayaxché                           105       Sololá           San José Chacayá


41   Quiché          Ixcán                              106       Sololá           Sololá


42   Quiché          Sacapulas                          107       Jalapa           Mataquescuintla


43   Quiché          Cunén                              108       Baja Verapaz     San Miguel Chicaj


44   Quiché          San Pedro Jocopilas                109       Baja Verapaz     Purulhá


45   Quiché          San Andrés Sajcabajá               110       Huehuetenango    San Juan Ixcoy


46   Huehuetenango   San Sebastián Huehuetenango        111       Alta Verapaz     San Cristóbal Verapaz



                                                 -20-
#       Department              Municipality                #      Department        Municipality

47   Huehuetenango    San Rafael Pétzal               112                       Cobán
                                                                Alta Verapaz

48   Huehuetenango    San Juan Atitán                 113       Jalapa          Jalapa


49   Jalapa           San Carlos Alzatate             114       Retalhuleu      El Asintal


50   Jutiapa          Comapa                          115       Huehuetenango   Nentón


51   Quetzaltenango   Huitán                          116       Jutiapa         Moyuta


52   Jutiapa          Conguaco                        117       Sololá          Concepción


53   Huehuetenango    San Gaspar Ixchil               118       Jutiapa         Jutiapa


54   Quiché           Uspantán                        119       Petén           La Libertad


55   Huehuetenango    Santa Bárbara                   120       Suchitepéquez   San Miguel Panán


56   Huehuetenango    Colotenango                     121       Suchitepéquez   San Antonio
                                                                                Suchitepéquez
57   Sololá           San Antonio Palopó              122       Suchitepéquez   Chicacao


58   Quiché           Canillá                         123       Santa Rosa      San Rafael Las Flores


     Quiché           Chiché                          124       Santa Rosa      San Juan Tecuaco
59

60   Quiché           Chicamán                        125       Santa Rosa      Santa María Ixhuatán


61   Alta Verapaz     San Pedro Carchá                126       San Marcos      San Lorenzo


62   Huehuetenango    San Sebastián Coatán            127       San Marcos      Sipacapa



                                               -21-
#      Department              Municipality                 #      Department       Municipality

63   Huehuetenango   San Rafael La Independencia      128       San Marcos      Tacaná


64   Sololá          Nahualá                          129       San Marcos      El Quetzal


65   Alta Verapaz    San Juan Chamelco                130       San Marcos      Nuevo Progreso




                                               -22-
