                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR2651



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-79880)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 100 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA

                                   FOR AN

           EMERGENCY SUPPORT TO SOCIAL SERVICES PROJECT



                                June 14, 2013




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective May 8, 2013)

                  Currency Unit = Quetzal
                     Q.1.00 = US$0.13
                    US$1.00 = Q.7.78

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 – December 31


          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
DDO         Direct Drawdown Option
DPL         Development Policy Loan
ERL         Emergency Recovery Loan
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
HSW         Hospital Solid Waste
IPP         Indigenous People's Plan
LAC         Latin America and the Caribbean
MINEDUC     Ministry of Education
MOF         Ministry of Public Finance
MSPAS       Ministry of Public Health and Social Assistance
PDO         Project Development Objective
PEC         Programa de Extension de Cobertura
PER         Public Expenditure Review
            Sistema Integrado de Administracion Financiera
SIAF        (Integrate Financial Management System)
SOE         Statement of Expenses



                Vice President: Hasan A. Tuluy
              Country Director: Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
               Sector Director: Rodrigo A. Chaves
               Sector Manager: Auguste T. Kouame
          Project Team Leader: Jasmin Chakeri
             ICR Team Leader: Elaine Tinsley
                                 GUATEMALA
                     EMERGENCY SUPPORT FOR SOCIAL SERVICES



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 21
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 25
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 26
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 29

MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Emergency Support for
Country:                Guatemala                Project Name:
                                                                           Social Services
Project ID:             P122370                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-79880
ICR Date:               04/19/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                      Borrower:
                                                                           GUATEMALA
Original Total
                        USD 100.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 99.90M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 100.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Office of Public Credit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process               Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/04/2010      Effectiveness:                               12/20/2011
                                                                                  05/25/2012
Appraisal:            11/08/2010      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  12/04/2012
Approval:             12/09/2010      Mid-term Review:        03/01/2011          04/04/2011
                                      Closing:                06/30/2012          12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                              70                   80
Health                                                                30                   20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           100              100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Carlos Felipe Jaramillo              Laura Frigenti
Sector Manager:            Auguste Tano Kouame                  Rodrigo A. Chaves
Project Team Leader:       Jasmin Chakeri                       David Michael Gould
ICR Team Leader:           Jasmin Chakeri
ICR Primary Author:        Elaine A. Tinsley


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's development objective was to preserve health and education services
following severe flooding and other natural disasters that took place in Guatemala
between May and September 2010.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target         Completion or
                                               documents)        Values         Target Years
                Maintain basic education services (grades 1 through 9) in the 130 poorest
Indicator 1 :   municipalities as measured by the number of teachers and Telesecundaria
                facilitators providing education services.
Value
quantitative or 34057                      37980               34057            34334
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/2010                   12/31/2011          12/04/2012       11/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)
                Maintain the three levels of health care service in the 130 poorest municipalities,
Indicator 2 :
                as measured by the number of health workers providing medical services
Value
quantitative or 1623                       1910                1623             1650
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/2010                   12/31/2011          12/04/2012       09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)
                Total wages paid to teachers and telescundaria facilitators in the 130 poorest
Indicator 3 :
                municipalities
Value
quantitative or 115935                                         115935           139606
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/2010                                       12/04/2012       11/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Thousand Quetzales. Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Total wages paid to healthcare workers in the 130 poorest municipalities
Value
quantitative or 4790                                           4790             7492
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/2010                                       12/04/2012       09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Thousand Quetzales. Achieved.
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                           Values (from                     Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                             approval                      Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                           documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 : None identified
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                       IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1    02/26/2011          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
                                                    Moderately
  2    09/06/2011          Satisfactory                                             0.00
                                                  Unsatisfactory
  3    07/02/2012          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    74.58
  4    12/19/2012          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    99.65


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of Closing Date by 6
 05/25/2012               S     MU           40.00
                                                     months
                                                     Revision of baseline indicators
 12/04/2012               S       S          89.49
                                                     and reallocation of funds
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

Between May and September 2010 Guatemala was hit by a series of natural
disasters that caused severe humanitarian and economic costs. On May 27, 2010,
Guatemala's Pacaya Volcano erupted, forcing over 2,000 people to evacuate. Two days
later, Hurricane Agatha struck bringing torrential rain and widespread floods and
landslides across Guatemala, affecting over 500,000 people and causing over 200
fatalities and many unaccounted victims. After Hurricane Agatha, unusually strong
tropical storms reduced the country’s ability to initiate reconstruction efforts,
compounding flooding, and complicating already difficult humanitarian efforts. The
initial estimate of the financial cost of the damage alone was about 4 percent of GDP
(approximately US$1.6 billion). Economic damages and losses hit across a spectrum of
sectors. Infrastructure, particularly transport and water and sanitation, suffered damages
of over 2 percent of GDP. Agriculture was severely affected as rains and flooding either
destroyed crops, or prevented harvesting and delivery of products to markets. In total,
about 4 percent of the population, including 1.5 percent that had to be evacuated, was
affected by the disasters. Moreover, the departments that suffered the greatest losses to
life and productive capacity were home to more than 70 percent of the indigenous
population.

These natural disasters further aggravated a fiscal situation already rendered
precarious by the global crisis of 2008-2009. Tax revenues as a share of GDP in
Guatemala, already the lowest in the region, were severely affected by the global
economic downturn, and fell from over 12 percent in 2007 to around 10 percent in 2010,
leading to a doubling of the fiscal deficit between 2008 and 2010 to 3.1 percent of GDP.
This excluded the cost of the Government's reconstruction plans, which were
conservatively estimated at US$1 billion over three years, and which were expected to be
covered through budget reallocations, donor funds and additional deficit financing.

Increased humanitarian needs after the relentless flooding led to large unanticipated
gaps in the provision of social services. Two years of slow growth during the global
economic crisis increased the need for social assistance as jobs and remittances declined
sharply. The urgency of the fiscal crisis put social spending at risk and obliged the
Government to seek additional financing and donor support. As part of Guatemala's
appeal to the international community for support, the Government requested World
Bank assistance to preserve social spending in health and education. Without sufficient
resources to respond to the urgent needs caused by the disaster, critical social spending
would have been cut.

Recognizing the urgency of the fiscal situation in the wake of the natural disasters,
the Bank rapidly prepared the Emergency Support for Social Services Project. The
development objective was to preserve health and education services following severe
flooding and other natural disasters that took place in Guatemala between May and
September 2010. To achieve this objective, the project would reimburse the government
for expenditures on teachers and health care workers in the poorest 130 municipalities.
Though not all of the 130 poorest municipalities were directly impacted by the disaster,


                                            1
cuts to central government health and education spending would have been especially
detrimental for them. In the absence of disaggregated outcome indicators at the
municipal level, the payment of salaries to healthcare workers and teachers would serve
as a proxy for the continued provision of services. The government would provide
statements of expenditures supported by evidence of salary payment, on the basis of
which the Bank would disburse funds. The loan amount (US$100 million) was expected
to cover an estimated 3 months of teacher salaries and 15 months of healthcare worker
salaries.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Economic Context. The impact of the disasters was particularly severe on Guatemala
given its high levels of poverty and inequality and an already precarious economic
situation coming out of the global financial crisis. About 51 percent of Guatemala’s
population of 13.5 million lives in poverty. Reducing poverty and inequality was
stymied by the lack of consistent and broad-based growth as well as programs and
spending that specifically targeted the poor. Growth slowed down to 0.6 percent in 2009,
from 3.3 percent in 2008, reflecting a decline in export performance, tightening domestic
credit markets, lower domestic investment, and falling remittances. The decline in
remittances especially affected poorer households, which were the main beneficiaries. By
2010, while Guatemala had started showing some recovery from the crisis, the series of
natural disasters that struck between end-May and September set this recovery back
significantly.

Fiscal space was tight due to the fall in tax revenues, which implied fewer resources for
pro-poor spending even before the natural disasters struck. Guatemala had attempted to
implement a tax reform several times, but was impeded by the economic slowdown,
natural disasters, and political deadlock. In the aftermath of the disasters, managing
public policy formulation and implementation had become more difficult. Nonetheless,
the Government was committed to pushing forward on fiscal reform in order to support
the sustainability of much-needed development spending. Indeed, in requesting donor
assistance with the recovery and reconstruction efforts, the Government integrated fiscal
reform as a necessary part of its recovery plan.

The Government's Recovery Plan was designed to support recovery and reconstruction in
a manner that would allow the country to continue to pursue its medium-term
development objectives. The Plan had four pillars: (1) humanitarian assistance and
rehabilitation; (2) recovery of means of living and of the economy; (3) adaptation to and
mitigation of climate change; and (4) institutional strengthening. The plan was to be
implemented with the support of the international community and was fully consistent
with the medium and longer term objectives of achieving security, reliable livelihoods for
households, improved growth and productivity, and capabilities for mitigation of risks
posed by natural disasters. Altogether, the four components of the Government's “Plan
for Recovery and Reconstruction with Transformation,? were estimated to cost
approximately US$1.92 billion to implement. The Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL) was
to support activities under Pillar 2.



                                            2
Sector Context. Guatemala has low development outcomes for its income level. Within
the region it spends the least as a percentage of its GDP on the social sectors. As a result,
in areas of education, health and nutrition, Guatemala performs significantly worse than
other countries in Latin America. According to the 2010 UNDP Human Development
Report, Guatemala ranks among the bottom three positions in Latin America (along with
Nicaragua and Haiti) in the overall human development index, including infant mortality,
maternal mortality, adult literacy, and net secondary enrollment. The results are even
starker in the case of Guatemala’s indigenous population e.g. the prevalence of chronic
malnutrition reaches 66 percent for indigenous children, compared to 36 percent for non-
indigenous children.

Education. Education spending rose from                 Health. Public expenditure on health rose from
2.6% GDP in 2004 to 3% in 2010, with a                  2.2% of GDP in 2004 to 2.6% in 2010, but
particular emphasis on increasing primary               remains low by international and regional
education, which now accounts for 44% of                standards. Public spending in health is heavily
education spending. About 96% of education              centralized with the central government
spending takes place at the central level,              accounting for 96 percent of total public health
reflecting the highly centralized nature of             spending. Municipalities are involved in the
spending. Any spending taking place at the              management and execution of preventive
municipal level is to complement the                    health services, but are not responsible for the
deconcentrated services provided by the central         design or full financing. The Ministry of Public
government, eg. hiring of contract teachers,            Health and Social Assistance is charged with
improvements to school buildings, etc..                 providing free health services to the entire
Municipalities are involved in the management           population, so the poor receive care at public
of pre-primary and primary education, but are           health centers. However, many facilities lack
not responsible for the design or full financing        the required personnel, medicines, and other
of these services. Despite progress in                  inputs to provide free services, thus requiring
increasing      primary     school   enrollment,        users to seek care outside the public health
Guatemala lags the region in outcomes: the              system where payment is required. Hence the
average Guatemalan has 5 years of schooling,            ratio of public health spending to total health
(for indigenous non-native Spanish speakers,            spending is also low at 35%, compared to 60-
this level falls to 4 years), compared to Central       75% for most of the other Central American
American average of 7.1 years. Pre-primary              countries. Despite scarce resources, public
and secondary enrollment rates are also low,            spending remains skewed toward curative care
reaching only 30 to 40% of the school-aged              rather than preventive care, limiting progress
population. (PER 2012)                                  toward improving healthcare outcomes. (PER
                                                        2012)


Political Context. In the wake of the disasters, there appeared to be a sense of strong
consensus across political parties and groups about the importance of the recovery plan as
well as within the international community. However, with elections scheduled for
September 2011, the Government was facing increasing opposition to its reform agenda,
which undermined its ability to obtain congressional approval for new laws.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. Given the emergency situation, slow growth and weak
tax collections, the Government was faced with the difficult financial decision of whether
to fully fund the recovery and reconstruction at the cost of reducing key social services or
to push back reconstruction into the future to maintain services in the near term. The


                                                    3
Government's strategy was to devote over 1 percentage point of GDP of the Central
Government's budget for reconstruction and recovery related spending. The Government
requested the ERL to support the provision of social services in the near-term as
reconstruction began and fiscal resources were severely stretched. The Project was
prepared under OP/BP 8.0 to provide rapid response in support of preserving essential
social services.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project's development objective was to preserve health and education services
following severe flooding and other natural disasters that took place in Guatemala
between May and September 2010.

Key Indicators:
   1) Maintain basic education services (grades 1 through 9) in the 130 poorest
       municipalities as measured by the number of teachers and Telesecundaria 1
       facilitators providing education services.
   2) Maintain the three levels of health care service in the 130 poorest municipalities,
       as measured by the number of health workers providing medical services

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised. However, the baseline figures were determined to be
inaccurate and had to be adjusted to capture actual data available from the government
systems. Two additional indicators were added to support evidence on the progress of the
PDO.
    1) Total wages paid to teachers and Telesecundaria facilitators in the 130 poorest
       municipalities
    2) Total wages paid to healthcare workers in the 130 poorest municipalities.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The project supported the continued provision of basic services in health and education to
the poorest 130 municipalities of Guatemala. The main beneficiaries are the users of
these services and the teachers and primary health care workers that remained employed
due to the financial support given by the loan. More specifically, about 2.8 million
vulnerable children receive basic education in the poorest 130 municipalities and are
served by nearly 40,000 teachers and facilitators providing education services. In health,
almost 1,700 health care workers provide treatment for the poorest 130 municipalities.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1: Preserving Basic Education Services for Vulnerable Children (US$70
million): Supporting the Recovery Plan by preserving basic education services for


1
 Telescundaria is a distance education program to provide secondary education to young people in
communities that do not have educational access or where educational coverage is not sufficient.




                                                   4
vulnerable children living in selected municipalities, through the financing of salaries of
teachers and facilitators. This component would assist the Government in providing
ongoing public school services by funding qualified teachers’ salaries in the poorest 130
municipalities, where approximately 2.8 million vulnerable children receive basic
education and salaries of Telesecundaria facilitators in rural and isolated areas. Basic
education is defined as grades one through nine. This proposed component of the
Emergency Support for Social Services Project would allow the Ministry of Education to
sustain education coverage as other budgetary resources are devoted to infrastructure
rebuilding after the natural disasters of 2010.

Component 2: Preserving Coverage of Health Care Services for Vulnerable Groups
(US$29.65 mln): Supporting the Recovery Plan by preserving the three levels of health
care and emergency services (primary, secondary and tertiary) in selected municipalities,
through the financing of salaries of health care workers. This component would assist the
Government in preserving ongoing heath care and emergency services in the poorest 130
municipalities of the country by funding salaries of qualified health workers. Preserving
adequate resources to keep health facilities open supports health care services,
particularly maternal-infant health care for the most vulnerable groups.

Component 3: Project Management and Monitoring (US$100,000): Supporting the
Government in the coordination of the administrative and financial management aspects
of the projects, through the financing of consultants’ services, including the financing of
project audits. The project will have a component to support the Ministry of Finance in
the coordination of the administrative and financial management aspects of
implementation, through the financing of consultants for the management, monitoring
and review of the execution of the project.

1.6 Revised Components
The components remained the same, however toward the end of the project, $10 million
was shifted from Component 2 (Health) to Component 1 (Education) as the Ministry of
Health was not expending money as quickly as anticipated.

Revised Components:
Component 1: Preserving Basic Education Services for Vulnerable Children - US$80m.
Component 2: Preserving Coverage of Health Care Services for Vulnerable Groups-
US$19.65m.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

There were two Level 2 restructurings:

The first restructuring was for a Project Extension. Due to delays in Congressional
approval of the loan, the project only became effective on December 22, 2011, over a
year after Board approval on December 9, 2010. The delay in the start of the project led
the government to request a 6-month extension of the loan closing date to December 31,
2012. This first Level 2 restructuring was approved on May 25, 2012.



                                            5
The second restructuring was for a revision of the baseline figures and a change in
allocations. During supervision, it became clear that there was an inconsistency in the
baseline figures cited in the Program Document with what was available in the
government financial systems. The restructuring included the following changes to the
results indicators:
    (i)     revision of baseline and target values for the two existing outcome indicators
            (number of teachers and facilitators and health workers) based on official data
            received from the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Public Health and
            Social Assistance; and
    (ii)    the addition of two results indicators to a) measure the monthly wage bill for
            teachers, and Telesecundaria facilitators and b) measure the monthly wage bill
            for health workers in the 130 poorest municipalities. These indicators were
            added to provide additional evidence that the project development objective
            was being met.

Also under the second restructuring, US$10 million of the remaining loan amount was
reallocated from Component 2 (salaries of health workers) to Component 1 (salaries of
teachers and facilitators), to facilitate the full disbursement of the loan in the 2012
calendar year. This reallocation was requested by the government because the monthly
burn rate for health care worker salaries was lower than anticipated. The original
allocation of $29.65 million was meant to cover funding for 15 months, but in actuality it
would have covered close to 30 months. Moreover, the delay in effectiveness also
reduced the project time period from 18 months to 12 months, so that even with
retroactive reimbursement, there was not enough time to disburse the full allocation for
health worker salaries. The second Level 2 restructuring was approved on December 4,
2012.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Initially, a Development Policy Operation was planned for CY2010, but in the context of
the natural calamities and given the political context, it became clear that an ERL would
be the more appropriate instrument. Given the need for urgent financial support, the
emergency loan was prepared in approximately six weeks and designed to provide the
government quick access to funds while at the same time safeguarding expenditures in
social sectors for the poorest municipalities.

The choice of an ERL was the quickest response the Bank could offer to the
Government. As the loan portfolio in Guatemala was not very large, restructuring other
loans to allow for the emergency financing, as had been done in other countries, would
not have netted enough financing. By having a stand-alone project, the Bank was able to
offer US$100 million in financing, equivalent to one-third of the undisbursed lending
portfolio.

Given the emergency nature of the loan, the project design was kept relatively
simple to ensure fast disbursement. The project would reimburse the government for



                                            6
payments made to teachers and healthcare workers in the 130 poorest municipalities,
provided that the number of such workers was maintained. Disbursement was tied to the
amount of salary paid to teachers and healthcare workers and the submission of SOEs for
those payments against which reimbursements would take place. There were several key
appealing features about the loan. First, although technically an investment loan, the
project was similar to a budget support loan in terms of the speed at which it could be
disbursed. Second, as an emergency loan it allowed for up to 40 percent retroactive
financing. Third, reimbursement of salary expenditures meant that lengthy procurement
processes were unnecessary. And finally, as the loan was tied to the maintenance of
social services and did not constitute general budget support, the expectation was that
Congressional approval could be obtained more easily than with a DPL, given the
political context.

The project benefited from existing Bank projects on the ground. To facilitate project
coordination, all relevant agencies—the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health and the
Ministry of Education—participated in the preparation of the project. As projects were
ongoing with both sector ministries, there was an established Bank rapport with the
Ministries which facilitated coordination—especially given the short preparation time
frame. The ERL was also able to build on the existing projects to address coverage on
social and environmental safeguards, as there were substantial overlaps.

However, there were some challenges that emerged from the project design.

First, the short preparation time did not allow for the baseline figures for the results
indicators to be adequately vetted. The baseline figures were based on information
provided by the government under significant time pressure, and not backed up by data
that was adequately documented and could be easily replicated. This created problems
during implementation when the baseline figures could not be reconciled with figures the
government was providing, necessitating a restructuring of the project. Additionally,
government systems were not set up to provide the data as needed—e.g. capturing only
wage data of healthcare workers—as the systems were set up to capture expenses related
to clinics, including administrative expenses. Extracting wage data of just the healthcare
workers was a complicated and burdensome process, and in the end involved having to
reprogram government systems to provide the information needed for disbursement.

Second, as the baseline figures were flawed, so was the estimation of the monthly
wage bill. In particular, the monthly wage bill paid for health was vastly overestimated,
and therefore the allocation for reimbursement of healthcare workers was too high and
had to be readjusted later in the project. The program document had estimated that the
US$29.65 million allocation for the healthcare worker wage bill would cover 15 months
of healthcare, in reality that allocation would have covered at least double the number of
months. While the monthly budget for the whole Ministry of Health and Social
Assistance is about US$40 million, the monthly wage bill for healthcare workers for the
130 poorest municipalities (out of 334) was about US$900,000, less than 2.5 percent of
the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance’s monthly budget.




                                            7
Of note is the mismatch between the project design and the project development
objective “to preserve health and education services following severe flooding and
other natural disasters that took place in Guatemala between May and September
2010?. While the PDO is more broadly stated, the actual project design was more
targeted, specifically focusing on the 130 poorest municipalities. This should have been
stated more explicitly in the PDO. The project focused on the 130 poorest municipalities
because service provision in these locations was already vulnerable to changes in the
central government budget, and cuts would have been especially detrimental. Many of
these municipalities were also directly affected by the natural disasters. The focus on
basic services in the poorest parts of the country was more in the spirit of the Bank’s pro-
poor stance than the broadly stated PDO, and therefore achievement of the project
objective was assessed in this more restrictive sense.

The project design used input indicators as a proxy for service provision. The
number (and later wages) of health and education workers, were used as a proxy for
service provision. While there are shortcomings in defining service provision through
input indicators (and presumably medical and educational materials are also needed for
the effective provision of health and education services), there were, and still are, severe
data limitations at the municipal level, particularly on health and education outputs.
Moreover as the project period was originally for a year and a half, social outcome
indicators could not be as easily tracked with the same ease and frequency that input
indicators afforded. Given the data limitations on service provision at the municipal level,
information on the number of workers was deemed acceptable as a proxy for service
delivery.

2.2 Implementation
Even with a rather straightforward project design, implementation was impacted by the
following.

The difficult political situation led to delays in Congressional approval. The change
in the Minister of Finance in November 2010, coupled with the high sensitivity of budget
increases and additional loans, likely led to weaker political commitment in getting the
loan through Congress. Tensions between the ruling party and the opposition ahead of the
elections in September 2011 added to the political resistance to new legislation, including
approval of loans. However, as the fiscal situation continued to deteriorate in late 2011, a
compromise was reached with the opposition party, which had won the elections, to
approve the loan in November 2011 and ensure adequate financing for the budget. To the
team’s credit, Congressional delay risks were rightly identified as a key risk during
project preparation.

Improperly defined baseline figures and tools for monitoring them were inadequate
leading to a revision of indicators. During supervision, when working with the new
staff at MINEDUC and MSPAS that came in with the new administration, it was
discovered that the baseline figures provided in the program document could not be
replicated. While the program document had envisioned using the government’s
financial management (SIAF) and payroll (Guatenominas) systems to monitor health and


                                             8
education spending, in reality the systems were not capable of producing those reports. It
was only towards the end of the project that the government provided a consistent data
series that could be replicated and which also covered the baseline period. The revised
baseline figures were 10 and 15 percent lower than the original baseline figures for
education and healthcare workers, respectively. In order to demonstrate if the project
development objectives were being met, additional indicators on wages paid—as another
proxy for the provision of education and health services-- were also added.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Office of Public Credit was charged with coordinating with the Ministry of
Education (MINEDUC) and the Ministry of Health (MSPAS) to collect the data needed
for the monitoring indicators, as well as to submit the SOEs and show payment of teacher
and healthcare worker salaries.

The monitoring arrangements were meant to be simple, namely the tracking of the
number of teachers and healthcare workers being employed in the poorest 130
municipalities. This was expected to be done through the government’s financial
management (SIAF) and payroll (Guatenominas) systems, which would capture the
administrative data. However, complications arose because the data requirements for the
monitoring indicators were not easily satisfied by the government information systems.
As the project did not reimburse salaries of administrative staff, this information had to
be separated from payments made to the schools and health units. Because of the
complexity required to produce the reports, it was not an easy task to reproduce on a
monthly basis and only 4 months of data were produced. This was deemed sufficient by
the team to ascertain that health and education wages were being paid and maintained.
Ideally, monthly reports should have been produced that would have showed a
consistency in the number of workers and payments throughout the year.

Data collected is summarized in Table 1 in Section 3.2.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

No safeguard issues arose during implementation. Since the project was carried out
under OP 8.00 Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies, preparation, consultation and
disclosure of safeguard instruments were carried out after Board approval. The issuance
of an Operational Manual, the inclusion in the Operational Manual of activities ensuring
indigenous peoples’ access and the adaptation of the Environmental Management
Framework were made a condition of effectiveness. The Environmental Action Plan was
published on the government’s website in November 2011. The Operations Manual was
received by the Bank in July 2011. In addition, no safeguards issues have been raised in
either the Maternal Infant Health and Nutrition Project or the Education Quality and
Secondary Education Project, which to a large extent cover the same 150 poorest
municipalities and provided the basis for this Project’s safeguards framework.

Environment. Environmental Assessment was classified as Category C. The main
environmental issue arising was the disposal of hospital solid waste (HSW). During


                                            9
preparation of the on-going Guatemala Maternal Infant Health and Nutrition Project
(P077756), a Plan for Solid Waste Disposal of Hospitals was published and served as the
Plan for this project. Each hospital or health center in the public health network is
familiar with the national framework for regulatory standards and practices for the
adequate management of hospital solid waste. The Comptroller General of Guatemala
conducted an environmental audit in the 43 public hospitals, to promote compliance with
Hospital Solid Waste. As of January 2012, the Ministry of Health had implemented
capacity building activities for the handling of solid hospital waste in 110 municipalities.
These municipalities now have plans for the handling of solid waste. In 36 second-tier
health services, facilities have been created for the temporary storage of hospital solid
waste.

Indigenous Peoples. The poorest municipalities are predominantly indigenous, therefore
no separate Indigenous People’s Plan (IPP) was required. The project covers all of the
country’s departments with high ethnic diversity. According to information from the
Ministry of Education, by the end of 2011 there were 172 bilingual and 70 multicultural
primary schools. In November 2011, 2,543 teachers graduated with qualifications in
bilingual and multicultural teaching. In health, improvements in the maternal-infant
health services and interventions aimed at reducing chronic child malnutrition (supported
under the Bank’s Maternal-Infant Health and Nutrition Project) have benefited primarily
indigenous municipalities.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
There are no planned post-operations. Lessons learnt from this operation may be used to
guide the design of future emergency operations.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Given the tight fiscal position that the country was facing in the wake of the severe
natural disasters, the relevance of the objectives to maintain educational and health
expenditure was highly appropriate. Guatemala has some of the worst indicators for
health and education in the region, and it spends a lower percentage of its GDP on these
sectors—therefore preserving these expenditures, which were already low, in light of a
tighter budget was rightly and is still a high priority. The project design to focus on the
130 poorest municipalities was also highly relevant as these are the most underserved and
needy areas with high indigenous populations. The fast preparation time (6 weeks)
allowed the Bank to respond quickly to the Government’s needs. The project design
allowed for quick disbursement, which was also important given the emergency situation.
Assumptions regarding the baseline values of the results indicators should have been
noted, though it was unlikely that the team could have foreseen problems with the
consistency of data at the time of preparation. Implementation was successful in that the
loan was fully disbursed by the closing date and even under a reduced implementation
period.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives



                                            10
Throughout implementation of the project, progress toward achievement of the PDO was
ranked Satisfactory. There were no indications of cuts in teachers or healthcare workers,
or cuts in pay. Instead, there were increases in salary in both education and health care
workers. In the final analysis on achieving the PDO, based on the number of workers and
salary expenditures, health and education services were maintained for the poorest 130
municipalities.


Table 1. Health and Education Workers and Salaries for the 130 Poorest Municipalities
                                          Original    Revised
                                          Oct-10      Oct-10        Dec-11      Sep-12     Nov-12*
 Number of Education Worker                37982          34057         34990      34659      34334
 Number of Heathcare Workers                 1915          1623          1524       1650          na

 Educators Salary Bill (Thousand Qtz)                     115,935     138,737    139,347     139,606
 Healthcare Salary Bill (Thousand Qtz)                      4,790       6,694      7,492          na

 Average Educator Salary                                    3404        3965       4021        4066
 Average Healthcare Salary                                  2952        4393       4541          na

 Education Wage Bill (US$ thousands)                      14,638      18,183      17,865       17,921
 Healthcare Wage Bill (US$ thousands)                        605         877         960           na
 Exchange Rate                                              7.92         7.63       7.80         7.79
Source: MINEDUCC, MSPASS and own calculations
*As Nov-2012 data included the extra month pay, salary figures shown are 50% of the submitted amount.

Education. Based on the data provided, the number of education workers remained
above the revised baseline figure for the duration of the project. The salary bill also rose
over the same period. Average salaries actually rose substantially in 2011, as teachers
unions were able to negotiate a significant salary increase (through a 25 percent increase
in the initial base salary). Based on an extrapolation of the data provided, there was
evidence that the poorest municipalities received priority in the Ministry’s budget. The
educator wage bill for the 130 poorest municipalities grew from 15.2 percent of the
Ministry of Education budget in 2010 to 17.4 percent in 2012 (Table 2). During the same
time, the Ministry of Education’s budget declined from 18.9 percent of total spending in
2010 to 17.3 percent in 2012.

Health. The number of healthcare workers in the 130 poorest municipalities declined 6
percent in December 2011 compared to October 2010, but by September 2012 had
returned to baseline levels. Meanwhile, wage expenditures also rose significantly in
December 2011. As with education, the provision of healthcare workers remained flat but
wage spending increased. The combination of the two indicators suggests that provision
of services would have at least remained the same, or perhaps even increased if
healthcare workers were better motivated by salary increases. There is also evidence
from the Maternal and Infant Health project that service provision was maintained as
most of the service provision indicators identified have made progress and are considered
on track or have been achieved e.g percentage of children for whom change in weight is




                                                     11
measured in the areas of intervention was at 76 percent in 2011, up from 0 percent in
2006.2

The healthcare worker wage bill for the 130 poorest municipalities grew from 1.6 percent
of the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance budget in 2010 to 2.1 percent in 2012.
While this points to maintaining expenditure for the 130 poorest municipalities, it also
highlights the rather small portion of Ministerial expenditures reaching the poorest
municipalities. This reflects the concentration of healthcare spending in the main cities
(especially Guatemala City) that are home to large hospitals. In part, it could also be that
due to the centralized nature of the healthcare system there are no clear lines of reporting
and payment—healthcare workers based in one municipality may sometimes work in
other municipalities, and therefore it is difficult to fully capture those that are working
within a particular municipality in a particular month.

Table 2. Monthly National vs 130 Poorest Municipalities Spending on Education and Health
(Million Queztals unless otherwise indicated)
                                                              2010         2011       2012
     Averaged Monthly Spending
     Total Spending                                              4032.1      4459.3       4610.0
       Ministry of Education                                      763.5       829.9        799.4
       Ministry of Health and Social Assistance                   298.9       331.4        352.3
     Est Monthly Wage Spending for the 130 poorest
     municipalities
       Education                                                    115.9       138.7       139.3
       Health                                                          4.8        6.7         7.5
     Share of 130 poorest to Ministerial Budget
       Education                                                   15.2%       16.7%       17.4%
       Health                                                       1.6%        2.0%        2.1%
     Share of 130 poorest to National Budget
       Education                                                    2.9%        3.1%        3.0%
       Health                                                      0.12%       0.15%       0.16%
Source: www.minfin.gob.gt for national and Ministerial annual budgets; MINEDUC, MSPAS for teacher
wages and health care workers for the poorest 130 municipalities
Note: National and Ministerial figures are annual figures divided by 12. Expenditure for the 130
municipalities are based on data give for October 2010, November 2011, and September 2012.

Fiscal Developments. Part of the motivation for the ERL was to alleviate fiscal pressures
to protect social spending. In this respect, fiscal pressures have abated as the fiscal
deficit dropped from 3.3 percent of GDP in 2010 to 2.4 percent in 2012. After the global
crisis of 2008 and the natural disasters of 2010, fiscal space for unforeseen expenditures
was limited and led to the widening of the fiscal deficit from 1.6 percent of GDP in 2008
to 3.3 percent in 2010. However, by 2011, the deficit declined to 2.8 percent of GDP as a
result of higher tax collections and flat current expenditures. In 2012, as reconstruction


2
 For further indicators see ISR Guatemala Maternal and Infant Health and Nutrition (P077756), December
2012.



                                                  12
spending wrapped up, capital expenditures decreased to 3.3 percent of GDP, from 4
percent in 2011. As a result, the fiscal deficit decreased by US$100 million
(coincidentally equivalent to the ERL loan disbursements in 2012) to 2.4 percent of GDP
in 2012. Capital spending on reconstruction was 0.2 percent of GDP in 2010 and 0.6
percent in 2011. Social and education services were maintained at the same time that the
majority of the reconstruction spending was being undertaken – which was mainly
possible because of the increase in tax revenues. Because of the late effectiveness of the
loan, the ERL disbursements were more instrumental in restoring fiscal balance than
compensating for competing national needs.

3.3 Efficiency
The project does not lend itself to standard efficiency analysis as it reimbursed wage
expenditures for health and education. The recent Guatemala PER, which examined
health and education expenditures, found that a standard incidence analysis of individual
health and education programs and services show important returns to poor populations.
For example, primary education is pro-poor as well as services provided by the health
centers, health posts and community centers that are also pro-poor. The conclusion was
that Guatemala should sustain public services to improve human capital in the form of
health and education, particularly for the poor in order to reduce poverty and ensure
economic growth.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The relevance of the project in maintaining expenditures in areas poorly served remains a
priority and the PDO was achieved. While more work will be needed to maintain and
increase spending in the poorest municipalities, this project was only designed to address
the emergency aspect of the risk of reduction in education and healthcare spending. The
project also was a means to rapidly provide support to the government, even if the
government could not get it approved with the urgency that it sought. Although the
initial project design had flaws which inhibited a smooth monitoring of the PDO, it did
not detract from achieving the project development objectives.

For these reasons the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty and indigenous aspects. The project targeted the poorest municipalities, which
were also those that were predominantly indigenous. Poverty rates for indigenous
households are around 56 percent compared to 44 percent for non-indigenous. And while
Guatemala’s overall social indicators are generally relatively poor, those for the
indigenous are notably far worse. This situation is exacerbated by the regional
distribution of public expenditures which show central government expenditure
allocations tend to disproportionally benefit geographic areas that are not the neediest in
terms of poverty or social indicators. And while municipalities do have limited own
revenue assignments, their budgets tend to be small and cannot make up for these


                                              13
disparities. A 2005 study showed that the average Guatemalan needs at least 9 years of
education to earn above the poverty line, however some indigenous groups are averaging
6 years and others have less than two. Hence the importance of maintaining education is
critical to addressing poverty and inequality.

Gender. Within the indigenous population, there are large discrepancies in outcome
indicators between indigenous women and indigenous men: illiteracy rate for indigenous
women is 62 percent, compared to 43 percent for indigenous men and 24 percent for non-
indigenous women. Access to primary and secondary education of females to males in
Guatemala is 94.7 percent, one of the lowest ratios in Central America where most
countries have already moved to parity or above,3 hence the importance of providing
education services particularly for indigenous girls. Additionally, as women are the main
beneficiaries of health services, maintaining the provision of these services helps address
Guatemala’s high maternal and infant mortality rate. According to the Global Gender
Gap Report 2011, female teachers account for 65 percent of primary education and 44
percent of secondary education. The targeting of teacher’s salaries helped sustain
women’s livelihoods.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
In order for the MoF to provide the information needed, it had to make changes to their
public financial systems and work closely with the Ministry of Health and Education to
provide the needed data. In interviews, the Directorate of Public Credit commented that
this was the first time they had to work so closely with the Ministry of Health and
Ministry of Education and that this was a beneficial process for building ties between the
agencies. Moreover, the technical skills gained in adjusting the reporting system would
be beneficial for future requirements to produce customizable reports.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Delays in loan effectiveness and the extension of the project closing date actually meant
that the government had to keep up with maintaining payments to teachers and healthcare
workers for a longer period of time. Additionally, because of the delay in effectiveness,
it meant that when the fiscal situation reached its critical stage in late 2011, having access
to the loan greatly eased the fiscal constraints.

From interviews with the Ministry of Health during the ICR mission, one of the positive
aspects of the operation was that, by ensuring the payment of health worker salaries, it
alleviated pressures to cut other expenditures affecting service delivery (such as medical
supplies) in order to meet salary payments. In the absence of the operation, such
cutbacks may have taken place, which could have negatively affected healthcare services.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable



3
    http://datatopics.worldbank.org/gender/country/guatemala



                                                14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate Risk
Although Guatemalan governments have been committed to increasing social spending,
which expanded significantly from 4.4 percent in 1995 to 7.6 percent in 2011, and
represents 52 percent of total expenditures (one the highest in the region), there is limited
political will to increase funding resources. Maintaining and even increasing health and
education services to the poorest municipalities faces several obstacles. First,
Guatemala’s small tax intake means that overall public expenditures are limited. Efforts
to increase tax revenues and expand the fiscal envelope have been met with strong
resistance. Second, nearly 88 percent of the budget is earmarked by law, creating
significant budget rigidities and limited scope. Third, resource allocation tends to be
based on the previous year’s allocation, rather than on actual needs, which exacerbates
the historically unequal distribution of resources. Although efforts are underway to
address this issue, poor municipalities will likely continue be underserved and could be
placed at risk as they also lack political clout to demand more resources.

In the Program Document’s Operational Risk Assessment Framework, risk identification
and risk ratings to development objectives were mostly on target. Project Stakeholder
Risks were rated Medium—which in retrospect should probably have been higher given
the strong political opposition in Congress. Implementing Agency Risks were identified
as Medium, in part due to concerns about interagency coordination, however this worked
smoothly during implementation. Project Risks on social and environment, program and
donor, and delivery quality were rightly identified as Low as these were also not an issue
during implementation.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The emergency nature of the project made the design of the project appropriate and the
timeliness of the Bank’s response commendable—the operation was prepared in only 6
weeks. As a consequence, there were issues with the project’s outcome indicators which
would have been caught had there been additional preparation time and which would
have led to improved project implementation. Despite the Bank’s and the government’s
best effort to prepare the loan in a short period of time, ensuring Congressional approval
and effectiveness still took time given the political context. The Bank Performance
Rating is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The supervision team worked closely with the government to fully disburse the project
within the shortened project period, which due to delays in effectiveness meant a one
year time period rather than 18 months. The team was proactive in working with the
government to reconcile the baseline data from the Project Document with government


                                             15
systems. The Bank team made a request for updated data during the February 2012
supervision mission, and received a first set of data in June 2012. However, this data was
not consistent with the baseline provided by the government during project preparation.
The Bank team worked closely with the government to reconstruct the original baseline;
however, when this eventually turned out to be impossible, the team agreed with the
Government on a restructuring in November 2012 using the officially submitted data as
the new baseline figures. This would ensure that the data could be documented and
tracked over time. The team also introduced a new indicator to verify that expenditures
were being maintained on health care workers’ and educators’ salaries, which was to also
serve as a proxy for service provision given that monthly output data at the municipal
level was not readily available. During this time period, there were several leadership and
staff changes at the Ministry of Health, which led to new counterparts that were not
familiar with the loan and the associated reporting requirements.

The team also worked closely with the Bank’s Health and Education teams managing the
two investment projects. This collaboration helped with project implementation,
including use of the same safeguards and sector contacts. On the other hand, the
assurance of the payment of teacher and health worker salaries was beneficial for the
successful implementation of the sectoral investment projects.

The proactivity of the supervision team to resolve key design issues, conduct due
diligence in monitoring and lead the project to fully disburse supports a performance
rating of Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank was highly responsive to the Government’s request for assistance and designed
a loan that could be rapidly disbursed and was thought more politically feasible. However,
there were issues during implementation, discussed above, that, had there been better due
diligence and communication during the design phase, would have eased the burden on
the government. Given the emergency situation the country was facing, and the
perceived risk to educational and healthcare spending for the poor, the Bank’s rapid
response weighs more favorably than the trade-off in fully vetted baseline figures.
Moreover, these issues were later rectified during supervision, without impeding the
achievement of the development objectives and the project was fully disbursed on time.
Overall Bank performance is deemed Moderately Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The government satisfied the project development objectives by maintaining the number
of educator and healthcare workers in the 130 poorest municipalities. Salary expenditures
were also maintained, and even raised, though the number of educators and healthcare
workers remained flat. MINEDUC and MSPAS worked closely with the Office of Public
Credit to provide the data needed to monitor compliance. The loan was prepared under


                                            16
extreme time pressures to meet the government’s request, but then languished in
Congress for a year before being approved. For these reasons, Government Performance
is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The implementing agency, the Office of Public Credit within the Ministry of Finance,
was responsible for accountability, coordination and monitoring, notably preparing the
Operation Manual, ensuring safeguards compliance, overseeing monitoring arrangements,
and providing SOE and supporting documentation. The Office of Public Credit worked
closely with MINEDUC and MSPAS, especially on revising the SIAF system to produce
the reports. During implementation, the Implementing Agency had to contend with
changes in leadership and technical staff in the Ministry of Health, which had to be re-
engaged and socialized into the process.

However, during the preparation of the loan, adequate documentation for the baseline
indicators was not given. This oversight may also have been the fault of the team for not
conveying the importance of having a consistent series that could be tracked over time.
Moreover, it would have been easier if the data provided could have been replicated on a
monthly basis. Second, there was also a notable delay between the time the Bank first
requested a consistent series of indicators for monitoring purposes (February 2012) and
the provision of the correct data by MINEDUC and MSPAS towards the end of the
project (November 2011). This was despite intensive efforts on the part of the
implementing agency (the Office of Public Credit) to obtain the information from the two
ministries.

The Office of Public Credit also initiated a modification of the government information
systems to facilitate the provision of the data reports. For these reasons, implementation
agency performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

With both the Government and Implement Agency performance deemed Moderately
Satisfactory, the overall Rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

This ERL provides a means of designing a fast-disbursing project with the aim of
achieving medium-term objectives that the government and the Bank are in joint
agreement on. This type of loan could also be useful in the event of an emergency where
the government is trying to obtain funding quickly but might not have the lead time to
implement development policy reforms. A few pertinent lessons stand out.

Project design should take into account the country’s existing reporting systems.
During preparation, it would have greatly eased implementation if the country existing


                                           17
reporting systems were used to develop the monitoring indicators. These indicators could
then be easily tracked and updated, and remove any element of doubt to the veracity of
the indicators.

It is important to manage the administrative burdens that come with Emergency
Recovery Loans (as opposed to Development Policy Loans). These burdens include
compliance with safeguards and the preparation of operational manuals, even though the
loan did not finance any investments and only reimbursed teacher and health worker
salaries. The triggering of safeguards in particular created substantial work—including
environmental plans, operational manuals, discussions and follow-up, in order to deal
with an issue that seemed beyond the scope of the project. Such administrative
requirements need to be carefully considered upfront and explained to the client during
project preparation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The government provided comments to the ICR on May 31, 2013, these are attached and
summarized in Annex 5.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N/A




                                           18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (0) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
          Components                               Estimate (USD
                                (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                      millions)
Component 1: Preserving Basic
                                       70.00              80.00                  114%
Education
Component 2: Preserving Health
                                       29.65              19.65                   67%
Care
Component 3: Project
                                          .10                .10                 100%
Management and Monitoring
           Total Baseline Cost         99.75              99.75
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs              0.00                0.00
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.25                0.25            1.00
     Total Financing Required               100.00              100.00




(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                          millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                              0.00         0.00         .00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       100.00      99.90        .99
and Development




                                               19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                                               Baseline
                                                 Oct-10   Dec-11    Sep-12 Nov-12*

Component 1: Education ($80million)

Number of Education Workers                      34057     34990     34659     34334

Educators Salary Bill (Thousand Qtz)            115,935   138,737   139,347   279,212



Component 2: Health ($19.65 million)

Number of Heathcare Workers                       1623      1524      1650        na
Healthcare Worker Salary Bill (Thous
Qtz)                                              4,790     6,694     7,492       na

Component 3: Project Management and Audit ($100k)
Audit to be completed

*Includes additional bonus month salary




                                          20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

   A. Macroeconomic Developments and Debt Sustainability

Following the recovery from the international economic crisis and a series of natural
disasters, GDP growth is estimated at 3.0% in 2012, down from 4.0% in 2011. Most
notably, Guatemala’s export receipts declined‘, as international prices for its traditional
exports (coffee and bananas) decreased. Domestically, economic growth was driven by
private consumption, which accounts for 85% of GDP; this was in part due to the 9.2%
increase in remittances, bolstering household income. At the same time, inflationary
pressures decreased, driven by the decline in traditional commodity prices. As a result,
CPI inflation decreased to 3.8% in 2012, down from 6.2% in 2011. The current account
deficit widened on the back of higher import prices (especially oil) and the decline in
export prices (coffee and bananas). On the other hand, the growth in workers’ remittances
and FDI inflows partially compensated the trade deficit, and net international reserves
were maintained at adequate levels. The outlook for growth in the short term depends on
the evolution of oil, coffee and other commodity prices as well as that of remittances. The
recovery is also expected to be supported by an increase in investment, which after
bottoming out at 13.1 percent of GDP in 2007 is expected to gradually move towards its
pre-crisis level of 20.8 percent of GDP and is projected to reach 17.3 percent by 2016.
Over the medium and long term an increase in revenue mobilization is expected to help
expand investments in human capital that will help increase productivity and growth.

The current account deficit increased in 2012 but is expected to remain stable in the
medium term. Growth in imports and exports decelerate in 2012 in response to the slow
growth in the global economy. While Guatemala (a net oil importer) benefits from lower
oil prices, it depends significantly on agricultural exports, so a decrease in agricultural
commodity prices could result in a net deterioration of the trade balance during this
period. International capital flows should also remain broadly constant as a share of GDP.

Projections suggest a sustainable medium-term fiscal outlook. Guatemala’s fiscal
deficit improved from 2.8 percent of GDP in 2011 to 2.4 in 2012. The recently approved
tax reforms-- (i) the Anti-Evasion Law II, which introduced a number of measures
focused on strengthening tax and customs administrations; and (ii) the Law updating
Guatemala’s tax system, which made important changes to tax rates, tax bases and other
aspects of the existing system--- are expected to increase tax revenues through
improvements in tax administration, a reduction in deductions and a widening of the tax
base. Both laws represented the first comprehensive reform of Guatemala’s tax system in
20 years and followed many unsuccessful attempts under previous administrations. The
actual impact of the reforms crucially depends on the capacity of the Secretariat of Tax
Administration to implement the changes, and on the outcome of a number of appeals
submitted to the Constitutional Court by private sector groups. Following the expected
increase in revenues and a stable expenditure path, the overall fiscal deficit is expected to
improve from 2.4 percent of GDP in 2012 to 2.1 percent in 2013.

The Government’s issuance of US$700 million in Eurobonds was positively received
by the international market. Guatemala had not accessed international markets since


                                             21
2004. In May 2012, the Ministry of Finance issued US$700 million in bonds in the
international market at a rate of 5.75 percent. The global bond was given a BB+ rating
from Fitch (one notch below investment grade). In recent years, Guatemala had relied
heavily on the local bond market and multilateral and bilateral loans for financing but the
latest Eurobond issuance evidences confidence by market participants in the country.
However, improving debt management remains a high priority, especially in light of the
increasing burden of servicing existing debt. The Ministry of Finance is in the process of
strengthening the middle office of its debt management function and plans to develop a
medium-term debt management strategy with assistance from the World Bank and the
IMF.

Under conservative assumptions, Guatemala’s public debt will remain sustainable
in the medium term. A recent IMF debt sustainability analysis, conducted as part of the
Article IV consultations, shows that total public debt is projected to increase from 24.8
percent of GDP in 2012 to 25.6 percent in 2015; it is expected to stabilize around
26 percent thereafter. In the short run, debt dynamics are driven by the primary deficit,
which is expected to return to balance by 2016. Under a number of alternative scenarios,
debt sustainability shows the greatest sensitivity to a large depreciation in the Guatemalan
Quetzal, or to a shock stemming from contingent liabilities. Given the relatively low level
of public debt and the longstanding prudent fiscal stance the macroeconomic framework
is expected to remain adequate.

The Government does not currently have an IMF program in place. The last Stand-
By Arrangement (US$951 million) was treated as precautionary and was successfully
completed in October 2010. While the Government does not currently foresee the need
for a new IMF program, relations with the institution remain close. An Article IV mission
was successfully completed in April 2012. The staff report stressed the importance of
improving public expenditure management, especially with a view to preparing for a
potential new crisis. In the medium term, boosting economic growth and reducing
poverty remain the main challenges. Fiscal policy remains prudent and consistent with
medium-term sustainability. In addition, monetary policy and the flexible exchange rate
regime are expected to remain an adequate policy response tool to external shocks.

During 2011 and2012, the fiscal deficit improved by 1 percent of GDP. After the
global crisis of 2008 and the tropical storm that struck the region in 2010, fiscal space for
unforeseen expenditures was limited as fiscal deficit had widened from 1.4 percent of
GDP in 2007 to 3.3percent of GDP in 2010. However, the deficit improved by US$80
million in 2011 to 2.8 percent of GDP as revenues increased as a result of higher tax
collections and the level of expenditure was maintained. During 2012 capital
expenditures decreased from 4 percent of GDP in 2011 to 3.3 percent in 2012 and as a
result the fiscal deficit decreased by US$100 million to 2.4 percent of GDP.

Expenditure in wages and salaries were maintained during 2011 and 2012. As the
fiscal deficit improved in 2011 and 2012, nominal expenditure in wages increased by
US$200 million in 2011 and was maintained at a level of 3.9 percent of GDP. In 2012 the




                                             22
same level of expenditure in wages was maintained which is above pre-crisis levels (3.1
percent of GDP in 2011).

           Table A3.1: Guatemala: Medium Term Macroeconomic Outlook
                    (percent of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
                                                 2011     2012     2013     2014     2015    2016

Income and Prices
GDP growth (% change)                             4.0      3.0      3.2      3.3      3.4     3.5
Inflation (cpi end of period % change)            6.2      3.8      4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0
Investment and savings
Gross domestic investment                         14.6     14.8     14.9     15.5    16.0    17.3
Gross domestic savings                            11.3     12.7     11.3     11.8    12.3    13.5
Central Government
Total revenues and grants                         11.8     11.6     12.6     12.9    13.0    13.9
     Total tax revenues                           11.0     10.8     11.9     12.2    12.3    13.2
Total expenditures                                14.6     14.0     14.7     14.8    14.8    15.6
     Current expenditures                         10.6     10.7     11.2     11.2    11.3    11.1
     Capital expenditures                          4.0      3.3      3.6      3.6     3.5     4.5
Primary balance                                   -1.3     -0.9     -0.5     -0.2    -0.1     0.0
Overall balance                                   -2.8     -2.4     -2.1     -1.9    -1.8    -1.7
Non-Financial Public Sector Debt
Total debt                                        24.2     24.4     25.4     25.7    25.9    26.0
     O/w External                                 11.9     12.5     13.6     13.3    12.8    12.4
     O/w Domestic                                 12.3     11.9     12.0     12.7    13.3    13.8
Balance of Payments
Current account balance                           -3.4     -2.9     -3.6     -3.6     -3.6    -3.6
Trade balance                                    -10.6    -11.4    -11.2    -11.3    -11.3   -11.3
     Exports of goods (f.o.b)                    22.4     20.0     21.7     21.9     21.9    22.0
     Imports of goods (f.o.b.)                   33.0     31.4     32.9     33.2     33.2    33.3
Foreign direct investment                          2.1      2.3      2.2      2.3      2.3     2.4
Remittances                                        9.4      9.8      9.4      9.4      9.5     9.5
Memorandum Item
Nominal GDP (billions of quetzales)               365.7   395.5    424.1     456.6   491.1   528.8
Source: Ministry of Finance, Central Bank and IMF and World Bank staff estimates.




   B. Economic and Financial Analysis

Due to the nature of the support to salaries in education and health in this
operation, traditional financial analysis does not lend itself to this project. The
economic rationale for this project was based on the likely benefit of preserving health
and education services compared to the long-term developmental costs of an interruption
in these services.

Investment in health and education are two of the most important actions countries


                                                23
can take to reduce poverty, particularly among the younger population. As
economic research shows, the most cost-effective human capital interventions occur
among young children. Investing in health and education at early stages can enable
children to grow into healthy and more literate citizens who can have more positive
contribution to society. Unfortunately, lack of stable or uninterrupted health and
education services becomes an obstacle to future success even before a child is even
born. Since poor and rural women are more likely to depend from public health services,
lack of services can prevent them from receiving proper prenatal care and children from
getting critical vaccinations that can eventually lead to physical and developmental
delays that cause a child to lag behind other children with access to proper services.

Uninterrupted provision of educational services is critical to promoting
development. Schools located in rural and isolated areas depend more from student-
teacher interactions because parents tend to struggle more to provide assistance to their
children. In this context, uninterrupted provision of educational services among poor
populations in Guatemala can have a long-lasting effect in the advancement of people’s
careers, because now more than ever economic development is highly dependent on good
quality of education and educational attainment. Sustaining social expenditures in
Guatemala are critical to maintaining outcomes in basic education. From 2000 to 2011,
net enrollment rate has increased in primary education from 72 percent in 2000 to 97
percent in 2011. For this reason, it is critical to sustain educational services provided by
the Ministry of Education (MINEDUCC) that is the public institution concentrating most
of the programs that support the development of children and youth’s skills and nutrition.
MINEDUCC offers several incentives for families to enroll their children in school and
to promote their attendance, for example, scholarships, school supplies, text books and a
school meals-snack program.

In terms of coverage and incidence, a standard incidence analysis of individual
health and education programs and services in Guatemala show important returns
to poor populations. For example, primary education is pro-poor as well as services
provided by the health centers, health posts and community centers that are also pro-poor.
In summary, Guatemala must sustain public services to improve human capital in the
form of health and education particularly for the poor in order to reduce poverty and
ensure economic growth.




                                            24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Task Team members
         Names                                  Title
Lending
David Gould                   Co-TTL
Rashmi Shankar                Co-TTL
Antonio Blasco                Senior Financial Management Specialist
Carlos Perez-Brito            Social Specialist
Luisa Felino                  Research Analyst
Silvia Gulino                 Silvia Gulino
Ricardo Hernandez             Senior Environmental Specialist
Patricia De La Fuente Hoyes   Senior Finance Officer
Kristine Ivarsdotter          Senior Social Development Specialist
Alvaro Larrea                 Senior Procurement Specialist
Monica Lehnhoff               Procurement Specialist
Catalina Marulanda            Senior Environmental Specialist
Viviana Maya                  Legal Counsel
Fernando Paredes              Country Operations Officer
Christian Schuster            ETC Economist
Ricardo Tejada                Financial Officer

Supervision/ICR
Jasmin Chakeri                Task Team Leader
Mateo Clavejio                Research Analyst
Antonio Blasco                Senior Financial Management Specialist
Carlos Perez-Brito            Social Specialist
Monica Lehnhoff               Procurement Specialist
Mauricio Garita               Economist
Fernando Paredes              Country Operations Officer
Elaine Tinsley                ICR Author

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                               Staff                39.11               182,037
                              Travel                                     37,160
                              Other                                      19,491
                              Total:                                    238,687

Supervision/ICR
                               Staff                30.04               148,490
                              Travel                                     17,843
                              Other                                       2,227
                              Total:                                    168,560


                                               25
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

On behalf of the Government of Guatemala, the Vice Minister of Public Finance
expressed its agreement with the content of the Implementation Completion Report in a
letter to the Resident Representative in Guatemala dated May 31, 2013. The letter is
accompanied by comments and observations that are summarized below:


The Government of Guatemala thanks the Bank for the support that they gave in this
operation, which allowed them to protect health and education services in the wake of the
natural disasters that occurred during May to September 2010.

The following are comments and lessons learnt by this Ministry in its execution of its
first operation in the model of this Emergency Recovery Loan.

      The loan proceeds allowed the Government to preserve education services
       through financing teachers and telesecundaria facilitators, as well as the three
       levels of healthcare and emergency services, by paying the salaries of the
       healthcare workers in the prioritized municipalities.

      As required by the loan agreement, the Government provided documentation to
       justify the reimbursement of expenditures incurred in the health and education
       sectors, which then allowed for the disbursement of the loan proceeds.

      One of the satisfying results of the Project was the close coordination and
       cooperation of the financial teams of the beneficiary entities (Ministry of Public
       Health and Social Assistance and the Ministry of Education), with the World
       Bank team, which allowed the project to be successfully completed by the end of
       the close of the operation of December 31, 2012.

      It is also important to mention that project implementation relied on the active
       participation of the Directorate of Public Credit in the Ministry of Public Finance,
       to conduct the interagency coordination. It also counted on the Bank team leading
       the project, who facilitated the execution of the financing.

      It is recommended that for future operations, along this model, it should be made
       clear in the Project Document and the Loan Agreement, that the proceeds from
       the loan could be used by the Borrower as budget support, in order to avoid
       problems in the use of the funds.




                                           26
27
28
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents



      Guatemala Public Expenditure Review, June 2012
      ISRs Guatemala Education Quality and Secondary Education (P089898)
      ISRs Guatemala Maternal Infant Health and Nutrition (P077756)
      Ministry of Health and Social Assistance. “Informe de avances en la implementacion del
       plan de accion ambiental – Apoyo de Emergencia para Prouectos de Servicios Sociales?.
       January 2012
      Guatemala Country Profile - Global Gender Gap Report 2011
      IMF Staff Report for the 2012 Article IV Consultation, April 2012
      Guatemala Country Partnership Strategy FY 2013-2016, August 2012




                                             29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33413R1
                                                                                  91°W                                               90°W                                                      89°W                                         88°W

         G UATEMA LA
                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                  DEPARTMENT CAPITALS

                  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                        M E X I CO
                  RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                 GUATEMALA

                  PAN AMERICAN HIGHWAY

                  MAIN ROADS
                                                                                     18°N                                                                                                                                                       18°N
                  RAILROADS

                  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                           Paxbán
                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


                           92°W                                                                                            Carmelita


                                                                                                     n Pedro               P    E      T      É      N
                                                                                                  Sa
                                                                                                                                                                 Tikal
                                                                                                El Naranjo
                                                                                                                                                                                Melchor
                                                                                                                                           L. Petén Itzá
                                                                                                                                                                               de Mencos
                                                                                                                                                                                                           BELIZE
 17°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17°N
                                                                                                                                     Flores




                                                                                                                                                                              Mopán
                                                                                            Usum
                                                                                                ac                     La Libertad
                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                   nt




                                   M EXI C O
                                                                                                     a




          To
   Tuxtla Gutiérrez                                                                                                n
                                                                                                               sió
                                                                                                             Pa Sayaxché
                                                                                                                                                           lá
                                                                                                                                                    q ui
                                                                                                                                                  ha
                                                                                                                                             ac
                                                                                                                                            M



                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Gulf
                                                                                                             Salinas




                                                                                                                                                                San Luis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                                                                                   n                                                      Honduras
                                                                                                                                                               cué
 16°N                                                                                                                                                       Can                                                                                 16°N
                                                                            n                                                                                                              Sarstún
                                                                         Ixcá




                                                              Barillas                                                                                               iyú          Modesto            Lívingston
                                                                                                                                                                Ch                Méndez
                                                                                                                                                                              uz                                Puerto
                                       HUEHUETENANGO                                                                   A L TA   V E R A PA Z                            ta Cr
                                                                                                                                                                     San                                       Barrios
                                                                                                                 .                     Cahabón              Sierra de I Z A B A L
                                                                                QUICHÉ                     á Mts
                                            ele                                      Chajul       Cham                          Ca
                                                                                                                                   habón                                   El Estor
                                                                                                                                                                                        L. de
                                          S




                                               gu                                                                                                                                      Izabal                  Morales
                                                 a                                                                       Cob
                                                                                                                         Cobán
                                                          Huehuetenango
                                                                                                                                       Polochic
                                                             Sier                egro   N                                                                                         Los Amates
                             SAN                                    ra d
                                                                         e lo                                                                                                               Mot
                                                                                                                                                                                               agu
                                                                                                                                                                                                  a




                            MARCOS                                            s Ch
                                                                                    u              BAJA VERAPAZ
                                  Tajumulco TOTONICAPAN                         Santa Cruz a c ú s                                                              Z A C A PA
                                                                                                       Salam
                                                                                                       Salamá
 15°N                             (4220 m)                                   Quich
                                                                         Del Quiché                                                EL                                                                                                           15°N
                    San Marcos                                 Totonicap
                                                               Totonicapán     Motagua                                          PROGRESO                                    Zacapa                       To
  To
                            S                                                                                                                                                                   El Progresso
                                                O




Tonalá
                                                                                              O




                                  i e
                                               G




                                                                                                                                           El Progreso
                                               AN
                                                                                         NG
                Suchia




                                                 Quetzaltenango Sololá
                                                                Solol                              GUATEMALA                                                                Chiquimula
                                           EN
                                          Tr
                                                                                       NA




                                        LL
                                       AT     r          SOLOL?
                                                         SOLOL                              Chimaltenango
                                      Z               a                                                                                                               CHIQUIMULA
                                                                                    TE




                                   ET
                      te




                                                                                                                                            Jalapa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HO NDUR AS
                                                                                  AL




                                QU                    Mazatenango
                                                                      L.Atitlan
                                                                                                      GUATEMALA JALAPA
                                                                                        SACATE- Antigua
                                                                                                                                                                              Esquipulas
                                                                                 IM




                                 Retalhuleu                        M
                                                                                CH




         Ocós                                                               a d         PEQUEZ Guatemala
                                                               Z
                                                            UE




                             RETALHULEU                                         r e
                                                          Q
                                                        PE




                                                                                                                           Cuilapa Jutiapa
                                                      TE




                                                                                                  Escuintla
               Champerico
                                                        I
                                                     CH




                                                                                                                                           JUTIAPA
                                                SU




                                                                                                                        SANTA
                                                                   ESCUINTLA                                            ROSA
 14°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14°N

                                                                  Sipacate              San José

                                                                                                                   Las Lisas                                              SA LVA DO R
                                                                                                                                                                       EL SALVADO
           0          20          40        60 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              La Unión
           0       10        20        30     40       50 Miles                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          La Unión

         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                              PA CIFIC                                O CEA N
         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
 13°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13°N
                           92°W                                                  91°W                                                  90°W                                                      89°W                                         88°W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NOVEMBER 2006
